20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Monitor signs of surge: Centre||The Centre on Saturday asked all the States and the Union Territories to keep a close watch on signs of a surge in COVID-19 cases, and to ensure that there is no complacency in adhering to pandemic-appropriate behaviour while relaxing restrictions. It directed them to implement the test-track-treat-vaccinate strategy to contain the spread of COVID-19. In a letter to the Chief Secretaries of all the States and the Union Territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said vaccination was critical to breaking the chain of transmission and, therefore, the respective governments should step up the pace of the vaccination drive to cover the maximum number of people in an expeditious manner. “I would like to highlight that the decision to impose or ease the restriction has to be taken based on the assessment of the situation at the ground level. While the opening up of activities after decline in cases is essential, the States and UTs must ensure that the process is carefully calibrated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monitor-signs-of-surge-centre/article34862466.ece
20 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||A COVID-19 trigger for tuberculosis?||Is COVID-19 leading to a flare-up of tuberculosis in the State? While there is no conclusive evidence yet to establish that COVID-19 can directly trigger an increase in tuberculosis, TB cases have indeed been going up, especially in the post-COVID phase. Some clinicians feel that much of the new TB cases could be cases of delayed diagnosis during the pandemic. However, emerging evidence from various studies suggest that COVID and TB share a dysregulation of immune responses and the possibility of COVID activating dormant/latent TB infection or triggering reinfections in those recovering from COVID is indeed real. Pulmonologists are now reporting new TB infections amongst persons within four-six weeks of recovering from COVID. With 10 such cases already reported, the Health Department has issued an advisory that routine TB screening be made mandatory in all post-COVID clinics. Similar symptoms As both TB and COVID-19 are diseases which primarily attack the lungs, most of the symptoms that manifest — cough, fever, breathing difficulty — are similar for both. Thus, lingering or persistent respiratory symptoms in people who have recovered from COVID could well be mistaken as residual issues of COVID or secondary bacterial infections, missing TB diagnosis totally. “TB is a disease which progresses slowly and people may relate their symptoms such as cough and fever to be part of the seasonal illness and ignore it. When these people are hospitalised with COVID, the patches that show up in lung X-rays are assumed to be those due to COVID. Thus many of the TB cases which are now surfacing are cases which we failed to pick up earlier from the community,” says Ajith Bhasker, a pulmonologist in Kozhikode. Not everyone exposed to the bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis gets infected immediately. While the infection manifests as active TB disease in some, in a few others, the bacteria can live long in the body without ever causing active disease, a condition known as latent TB. Latent TB can get activated into active TB when the body’s immune system is weak. In Kerala, the prevalence of latent TB is estimated to be 20%. The 10 cases of TB, detected within four to six weeks after treatment for COVID-19, are just the tip of the iceberg. “Further studies are needed to ascertain if COVID actually precipitated TB in these patients. Some with COVID are treated with corticosteroids even when there is no proper indication, that too at inappropriately high doses. Such irrational use of steroids can lead to immunosuppression, which heightens the risk of reactivation of dormant infections such as latent TB or opportunistic secondary infections like mucormycosis,” says P.S. Rakesh, WHO consultant, National TB Elimination Programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-covid-19-trigger-for-tuberculosis/article34862653.ece
20 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||New vaccine certificate for those going abroad||People who are going abroad after having taken COVID-19 vaccination in the State will be issued a new vaccination certificate now, which includes the batch number of the vaccine administered and the date of vaccination. The government decided to issue new vaccination certificates to those going abroad after it was pointed out that some countries were insisting on the inclusion of the vaccine’s batch number and date of vaccination in the certificate, a statement issued by the office of the Health Minister on Saturday said. Update in portal The necessary update for enabling the same is being done in the eHealth portal. New certificates will be issued to those who have already received their vaccination certificates also, if they require it. Those who require certificates with the vaccine number and date of vaccination included should log in tohttps://covid19.kerala.gov.in /vaccine/portal and cancel the old certificate first, before applying for a new one. Those who have received vaccination certificates from CoWin earlier, with the batch number and date of vaccination, should upload it in the portal. Those who have not received the vaccination certificate from CoWin should upload the certificate received from the vaccination site. Applications Applications will be examined and new ones issued. Applicants can download the certificate later from the State government's portal. Those who are planning to take the vaccination for going abroad will get new vaccination certificates immediately. After receiving the vaccine, the beneficiary will receive an SMS with the certificate number on the registered mobile number. They can then download the certificate from the portal. For further clarifications, contact DISHA helpline, 1056, 104.  Health Ministry says some countries are insisting on the inclusion of the vaccine batch number and date of vaccination in the certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-vaccine-certificate-for-those-going-abroad/article34862654.ece
20 June 2021||Jaipur,||Rajasthan women vow to nurture ‘green family’||Taking a pledge to treat the plants as “green members” of their families, 100 women each in 33 village panchayats of Taranagar block in Rajasthan’s Churu district planted a total of 5,100 saplings earlier this week to mark the ‘World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought’. The initiative was part of a unique Harit Marubhumi (green desert land) drive. The campaign highlighted the crucial interconnection between humanity and nature, making the tree an inseparable part of the “family consciousness”, which in turn brings every issue related to plant, tree, leaves and the climate to the ecosystem for generating environmental sensitivity and empowerment. All the panchayats in Taranagar block joined the drive and identified the land where the plantation drive could be taken up. Block Development Officer Sant Kumar Meena said the inaugural programme at Gajuwas panchayat witnessed the plantation of 251 saplings of desert species such as khejri, rohida, neem, ber and sheesham . The women were also gifted with fruit-bearing saplings of lemon, guava, mulberry, jamun and pomegranate for planting them at home. At the plantation sites, which included government schools and panchayat land, the saplings were sown at a distance of 15 feet each to help them grow with enough space and sunlight. The sarpanches of the panchayats and the women residing in the nearby areas owned up the responsibility of keeping the plants safe until they grow into trees, shrubs and perennial herbs. UN award Shyam Sunder Jyani, the recipient of this year’s Land for Life Award of the UN, guided the volunteers in preparing the soil, selecting the saplings and planting them with care. The UN Convention to Combat Desertification conferred the award on Mr. Jyani, an associate professor at Government Dungar College, Bikaner, in recognition of his contribution to promote “familial forestry”, relating the tree with the family. The award has put the spotlight on land restoration and conservation through exemplary efforts for improving the relationship of communities with nature. More than 10 lakh families have joined the familial forestry campaign in 15,000 villages of western Rajasthan and over 25 lakh trees have been planted over the last 17 years. Mr. Jyani’s concept of institutional forest has executed sustainable forest management in educational institutions by involving students and local communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-women-vow-to-nurture-green-family/article34862896.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||Paras-led faction announces LJP’s new national executive||The LJP faction headed by Pashupati Kumar Paras on Saturday disbanded all bodies and State units affiliated with the party and announced a new national executive. The decision comes as a counter-move to the national executive meeting called by the group headed by Chirag Paswan in Delhi on Sunday. Chirag meets Speaker Mr. Paswan, along with a delegation, met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Saturday, urging him to review the decision to appoint Mr. Paras as the parliamentary party leader of the LJP. He claimed that according to the LJP constitution, Mr. Paras could not have laid claim to the post. Mr. Paras, the four MPs and a few party office-bearers who switched loyalty to him figure in the new executive. He said in a statement that all other party wings have been disbanded. Mr. Paswan has asserted that more than 90% of the national executive members are with him.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paras-led-faction-announces-ljps-new-national-executive/article34862885.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Two washed away, one rescued as rains continue to lash Belagavi district||Two persons were washed away as Malaprabha swelled in Belagavi district on Saturday following continued heavy rains, while the National Disaster Response Force team succeeded in rescuing a young man caught in the floods. Hussein Saab Attar, a 52-year-old fisherman, drowned in the Malaprabha in Yakkundi village near Saundatti. He had gone fishing along with his children in a coracle, which overturned. He succeeded in helping his children swim to the shore, but he could not make it. The police and an NDRF team searched the backwaters till Saturday evening, but could not find any trace of him. The search will resume on Sunday. Sidrayi Doddarama Sutagatti, a 65-year-old farmer, was washed away in the Markandeya near Kakati village on Friday. The NDRF’s efforts to trace him failed. His family members said that he may have slipped into the river while coming home from his field on Friday evening. However, 25-year-old Prajwal Kulkarni from Mattiwad village, who was caught in the floods of the Veda Ganga (a tributary of the Krishna) in Sidnal village, had a lucky escape. The youth, who had gone to the fields of a friend, was caught in the swirling waters while returning. He found the branch of a dead tree and sat on it and began crying out for help. Local police alerted the NDRF team, which managed to rescue him. He has been admitted to hospital and is recovering, according to Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi. In Belagavi, water release from Maharashtra dams crossed 39,500 cusecs. Rainfall in Belagavi and Khanapur taluks has led to increase in the Malaprabha water level. As many as 12 bridges were under water in Belagavi and Chikkodi sub-division. Irrigation Department officers said that the inflow into the Lal Bahadur Shastri reservoir over the Krishna in Almatti had increased to 1.2 lakh cusecs. Outflow was maintained at 451 cusecs. M.G. Hiremath, Deputy Commissioner said the district administration was taking all steps to face the heavy rains and the eventuality of floods. He said that four barrages in Chikkodi, and three each in Gokak and Mudalagi were under water. However, the villages connected by these structures were not cut off as commuters were using alternative routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-washed-away-one-rescued-as-rains-continue-to-lash-belagavi-district/article34862499.ece
20 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Union government notifies KCZMA||The Union government issued a gazette notification on June 17 constituting the Karnataka Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA). The 15-member body is meant to protect and improve the quality of the coastal environment. Its job is preventing, abating and controlling environmental pollution in the Coastal Regulation Zone in Karnataka. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change issued the gazette notification on June 17 under provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The authority is headed by the Additional Chief Secretary, State Department of Forest, Ecology and Environment, Bengaluru. The term of the present members is for three years. Referring to the measures to be taken by the authority the order said: “The authority shall, after receiving the application for approval of project proposal, examine the same if it is in accordance with the approved Coastal Zone Management Plan and within the requirements of the Coastal Regulation Zone notification issued by the Government of India in the erstwhile Ministry of Environment and Forests and published vide number S.O.19(E), January 6, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the said notification), and make recommendations for approval of such project to the concerned authority, as specified in the said notification, within a period of sixty days from the date of receipt of such application…”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/union-government-notifies-kczma/article34862590.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Unlock 2.0: Govt. allows public transport||The State government on Saturday announced unlock 2.0 allowing free movement of people and more leeway to carry out commercial activities from Monday, permitting operation of public transport, including KSRTC buses across the State and BMTC buses and metro rail in Bengaluru with 50% capacity. With COVID-19 positivity rate falling to less than 5% in 16 districts, including Bengaluru Urban, the government eased lockdown restrictions and permitted shops, hotels, restaurants, and clubs to open without air conditioners and liquor till 5 p.m. in these districts. New norms would continue till July 5. The new rules will be applicable in these 16 districts: Mandya, Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Koppal, Chickballapur, Tumakuru, Kolar, Bengaluru Urban, including BBMP, Gadag, Raichur, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi, Haveri, Ramanagaram, Yadgir, and Bidar. These have recorded positivity rate of less than 5%. In these districts, outdoor shooting and sports without spectators are permitted. The government and private offices would remain open with 50% staff, and lodges and resorts would be opened with 50% capacity. Gyms too would be allowed to provide services with 50% capacity. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, after a meeting with Ministers and senior officials, made the announcement. Mysuru still high Amog the districts, positively rate is more than 10% only in Mysuru, where the prevailing restrictions will not be eased. Thirteen other districts – Hassan, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Bengaluru Rural, Davangere, Kodagu, Dharwad, Ballari, Chitradurga, and Vijayapura — have more than 5% positivity rate. In these districts, the lockdown guidelines issued on June 11 would continue to be applicable. No polls, cinemas The Chief Minister said use of swimming pools is prohibited in all districts of the State. All cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes with air conditioners, amusement parks, will be shut till July 5. However, night curfew will be imposed from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. in all districts. The weekend curfew would also come into effect from 7 p.m. on Friday to 5 a.m. on Monday in all districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-allows-public-transport-shops-to-be-open-till-5-pm/article34862504.ece
20 June 2021||Srinagar,||Centre invites 14 J&K leaders to meet PM Modi next week||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday invited 14 leaders of Jammu and Kashmir political parties, including the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party and the CPI(M), for a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 24. This will be the first political engagement by the Prime Minister since the August 5, 2019, move by the Centre to end J&K’s special constitutional position. All the leaders have been asked to come along with a COVID-19 negative certificate, officials said. “We have received a formal invite. The alliance will sit together and discuss the proposed meeting,” CPI(M) leader and Gupkar alliance spokesman M.Y. Tarigami said. Earlier, National Conference president and chief of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration Farooq Abdullah said the amalgam would meet once a formal invitation came from Delhi. Dr. Abdullah, the MP from Srinagar who heads the alliance of five political parties, had recently showed willingness to engage with the Centre. Sources said that he was among the first regional leaders whom New Delhi got in touch with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-invites-14-jk-leaders-to-meet-pm-modi-next-week/article34862455.ece
20 June 2021||Kolkata,||HC directs NHRC to examine complaints of Bengal violence||The Calcutta High Court has directed the Chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to constitute a committee to examine complaints of post-poll violence in West Bengal. ‘Examine all cases’ A Bench of five judges directed that the committee “shall examine all the cases, and maybe by visiting the affected areas, and submit a comprehensive report to this court about the present situation”. The court asked the committee to suggest “steps to be taken to ensure confidence of the people that they can peacefully live in their houses and also carry on their occupation or business to earn their livelihood”. The order, issued on June 18, directed that “the persons prima facie responsible for crime and the officers who maintained calculated silence on the issue be pointed out”. The matter will come up for hearing on June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-directs-nhrc-to-examine-complaints-of-bengal-violence/article34862456.ece
20 June 2021||kolkata,||Left, Congress also demand withdrawal of W.B. Governor||The Left parties and the Congress may be drifting apart with regard to their electoral alliance, but they joined the Trinamool Congress in demanding the withdrawal of West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The Trinamool Congress has been officially demanding that Mr. Dhankhar be recalled by the Union government. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi three times on the issue. ‘Write to President’ Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday said the Trinamool Congress government should officially write to the President on the withdrawal of the Governor. Earlier this week, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and chairperson of the Left Front, Biman Bose, said the Governor was “identifying himself as a BJP man”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/left-congress-also-demand-withdrawal-of-wb-governor/article34862628.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports lowest death toll in 2 months||The State reported 45 deaths due to COVID and 5,674 new infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The daily death toll was lowest in nearly the past two months and the cumulative toll reached 12,269. The cumulative infection tally increased to 18,44,917, while the number of recoveries also increased to 17,67,404, including the 8,014 recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 95.80%. The number of active cases came down to 65,244 and East Godavari district alone has one fifth (21.67%) of the total active cases. Anantapur has the lowest number of active cases at 1,357. The daily positivity rate of 1,03,935 samples tested in the past day was 5.46% while the overall positivity rate of 2.10 crore samples was 8.76%. The last 10 lakh samples were tested in the last 10 days and their positivity rate was 6.44%, a significant decrease from 10.91%, the positivity rate of the previous ten lakh tests (1crore - 1.10 crore). Chittoor reported nine new deaths while East Godavari, Krishna and Guntur reported five new deaths each. West Godavari, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and Anantapur reported three new deaths and Prakasam, Kadapa, Vizianagaram and Kurnool reported two deaths each. Nellore reported one new death. East Godavari reported 1,068 new infections and was the only district with more than a thousand infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (854), West Godavari (758), Prakasam (451), Krishna (435), Kadapa (388), Guntur (360), Anantapur (326), Srikakulam (245), Nellore (235), Visakhapatnam (215), Kurnool (173) and Vizianagaram (166). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,54,253), Chittoor (2,13,298), Guntur (1,59,353), West Godavari (1,55,915), Anantapur (1,51,647), Visakhapatnam (1,46,679), Nellore (1,24,946), Kurnool (1,20,692), Prakasam (1,17,732), Srikakulam (1,16,411), Kadapa (1,03,975), Krishna (98,043) and Vizianagaram (79,078).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-lowest-death-toll-in-2-months/article34862459.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Medical experts recommend extension of lockdown in T.N.||A panel of medical experts has recommended that the Tamil Nadu government extend the lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19. In districts where the rate of infection remains high, the panel recommended continuation of the lockdown without any relaxation. On Sunday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is likely to decide whether or not to extend the lockdown beyond June 21 and offer more region-wise relaxations. Though the number of infections has come down to over 8,000 across the State, some districts are reporting more cases. Fewer curbs have been lifted in seven western districts and four central districts than in the rest of the State. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu has asked the Collectors to instruct hospitals to upload correct particulars of the deceased and issue death and legal heir certificates immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/medical-experts-recommend-extension-of-lockdown-in-tn/article34862543.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State seeks moratorium on loans||The State has approached the Centre on the need for moratorium on loan repayment till December 31, 2021 to overcome the economic crisis triggered by the second wave of COVID-19. The State is also seeking the support of non-BJP-ruled States to fight the Centre’s decision to go for strings-attached loans. While increasing the borrowing limit from 3% to 5% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), the State had been asked to privatise power distribution. Writes to Centre “The burden of repayment of loans taken by individuals, especially those in the unorganised sector, MSMEs and farmers, is particularly onerous at this time, and these sections need relief by way of moratorium,” Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal pointed out in a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The second wave of the pandemic has dealt a ‘ body blow’ on the economy that has been under considerable stress since 2018 due to successive natural disasters. The COVID-19 outbreak and second wave have further exacerbated the stress. Mr. Balagopal said the impact of the lockdown had adversely affected the economic and social well-being of all sectors, especially employees in the informal sector, agriculture, tourism, hospitality and MSMEs. “The State government took all possible steps to ameliorate the hardships faced by the people, especially the vulnerable sections,” Mr. Balagopal said. The Finance Minister, in another letter, made the State’s stance clear on the privatisation of power supply saying it was ‘not practical.’ The State had no objection to some of the proposals, including that of the loan amount being used for capital investment. However, the State cannot accept the proposal to take over the responsibility of the power supply companies, privatise supply companies and provide subsidies directly to the consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-seeks-moratorium-on-loans/article34862651.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Lack of internal assessment worries teachers||The State government’s decision to consider internal assessment scores while allocating marks to Class X SSLC students, has many schools in a fix. Teachers and management members pointed out that not all students were able to complete internal assessments this academic year as they were unable to attend physical classes during the brief window that they were held on campuses. The Department of Public Instruction had instructed schools to conduct two formative assessments as part of internal assessment instead of the four formative assessments, which is the norm. However, many schools were unable to hold that as not all students could attend physical classes. “In such cases, teachers are confused about how students should be evaluated,” said D. Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. According to H.K. Manjunath, president, High School Assistant Masters’ Association, students, particularly in government and aided schools, had not attended or submitted a single internal assessment. “We will be marking and indicating that such students were absent. The government can take a final call on what needs to be done,” he said. Students will have to appear for the SSLC examination next month and sit for two multiple choice question papers carrying 40 marks in each subject. In five subjects, marks will be adjusted to 80, while internal assessments will be given a weightage of 20 marks. The first language paper will be converted to 100 marks, with 25 marks allocated for internal assessment. This brings the total maximum marks to 625. However, a government school teacher said that schools are usually lenient when it comes to allocating internal assessment marks. “Even students who normally find it difficult to score 35% marks are given full marks for their internal assessments as their own teachers evaluate them,” she said. A senior official of the department said that all students will be given a minimum of 35% marks and be deemed as pass if they appear for the examination. “Schools should devise ways in which they can assess students in some form and add it under the internal assessment column,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lack-of-internal-assessment-worries-teachers/article34862503.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||EAPCET replaces EAMCET, to be held from August 19 to 25||Andhra Pradesh Engineering, Agriculture and Pharmacy Common Entrance Test (EAPCET)-2021, formerly called EAMCET, will be conducted online from August 19 to 25 in the State. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh announced that the notification for the test would be issued on June 24 and candidates could submit applications online between June 26 and July 25 without a late fee. There would be a late fee of Rs. 500 levied on those who apply between July 26 and August 5. Similarly, a late fee of Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 10,000 would be levied on applicants between August 6 and 18. All other Common Entrance Tests, including Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET) for lateral entry for diploma holders, Integrated CET (ICET), PG Engineering CET (PGECET), Law CET, Education CET, Physical Education CET would be conducted in the first and second weeks of September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eapcet-replaces-eamcet-to-be-held-from-august-19-to-25/article34862438.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nation bids farewell to Flying Sikh||At five in the evening on Saturday, Indian track and field bid a final adieu to its first post-Independence superstar. Padma Shri Milkha Singh succumbed to COVID-19 — after battling it for a month and five days after losing his wife Nirmal Kaur — in Chandigarh on Friday. Befitting his stature, he was accorded a State funeral with the Punjab government announcing a day of mourning in his honour. His family, led by golfer Jeev Milkha Singh, made sure Milkha and Nirmal weren’t separated in death, cremating the ‘Flying Sikh’ at the same place and with a photo of his wife in his hands during the final journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nation-bids-farewell-to-flying-sikh/article34862893.ece
20 June 2021||Pune,||Take warnings on third wave seriously: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday asked people not to lower their guard against COVID-19 in view of the possible third wave of the pandemic, and warned them against visiting tourist attractions in the present scenario just because restrictions have been eased. He said people need to take the warning about the third wave seriously. Mr. Pawar was talking to reporters in Pune after holding a meeting with officials to review the coronavirus situation in Pune district. He also said that if people continue to go out of the district for tourism purposes, the administration will have no other option but to impose a 15-day quarantine regime on such people after their return home. Pune city is under level-II of the State government’s unlock plan. The coronavirus numbers are coming down, but as a pre-emptive measure, it has been decided that all the shops under the non-essential category, malls, hotels, and restaurants will remain closed on weekends, Mr. Pawar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/take-warnings-on-third-wave-seriously-ajit-pawar/article34862976.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||State to lift lockdown from today||The Telangana government has decided to lift lockdown in the State from Sunday. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, while reviewing the future course on lockdown whose latest spell expired on Saturday. It was based on reports of the health department that the COVID cases and the positivity rate had dropped significantly and that the pandemic was fully under control in the State, a release of the CMO said. The Cabinet instructed all departments to lift lockdown related restrictions. The release added that the meeting noted the decline in COVID cases across the country. The pandemic was brought under control faster in Telangana than other States. Therefore, the Cabinet asked the education department to start all categories of educational institutions with full preparedness from July 1. The students could appear for classes physically. The department was asked to release at the earliest instructions and guidelines on compulsory attendance of students, online classes and related issues. The meeting appealed to the public to extend their cooperation to the decision as it was aimed at restoring normal life and not hamper the livelihood of common people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-lift-lockdown-from-today/article34862919.ece
20 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam to apply population norms to govt. schemes||Assam will apply “population norms” to all government schemes soon, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday. “Whether it is waiver of loans or government sche- mes, we are going to implement the population norms in the near future,” he said. The number of children per woman or family would be kept on the higher side but would gradually be brought down, the Chief Minister added. The condition would initially not apply to people from the tea garden community, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. The government has implemented the Population and Women Empowerment Policy of Assam that makes any person with more than two children ineligible for government jobs and election to panchayats and civic bodies. The policy came into effect on January 1. The Chief Minister last week appealed to migrant Muslims to adopt “decent family planning” measures, predicting conflicts over living space, if the population continued to explode. The Congress and its ally All India United Democratic Front cited the December 2020 National Family Health Survey data to pick holes in the Chief Minister’s view. They pointed out that the fertility rate across most States declined in the past five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-to-apply-population-norms-to-govt-schemes/article34862453.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Casting a spell||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/casting-a-spell/article34862849.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No rise in black money in Swiss banks’||The Finance Ministry has asserted that “there does not appear to be any significant possibility” of an increase in Swiss bank deposits from undeclared incomes of Indians, but has requested Swiss authorities to provide “relevant facts” and “possible reasons” for changes in deposit numbers. The Ministry, reacting to reports of Indians stashing away more funds in Swiss banks through 2020, claimed customer deposits had actually fallen from the end of 2019. However, it cited several factors that could “potentially explain the increase in deposits”, such as Indian firms holding more funds in Switzerland due to increased business transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-rise-in-black-money-in-swiss-banks/article34862894.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No rise in black money in Swiss banks’||The Finance Ministry has asserted that “there does not appear to be any significant possibility” of an increase in Swiss bank deposits from undeclared incomes of Indians, but has requested Swiss authorities to provide the “relevant facts” and “possible reasons” for changes in deposit numbers. The Ministry claimed customer deposits had actually fallen from the end of 2019. However, it cited several factors such as Indian companies holding more funds in Switzerland due to increased business transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-rise-in-black-money-in-swiss-banks/article34862973.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Salute to a legend||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/salute-to-a-legend/article34862977.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Act against those who assault doctors’||The Centre on Saturday asked the States and the Union Territories to register cases and invoke the stringent Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, if necessary, against those found involved in assault of doctors and healthcare professionals.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/act-against-those-who-assault-doctors/article34862457.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Symphony in the air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/symphony-in-the-air/article34862464.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Salute to a legend||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/salute-to-a-legend/article34862626.ece
20 June 2021||new delhi,||‘No rise in black money in Swiss banks’||The Finance Ministry has asserted that “there does not appear to be any significant possibility” of an increase in Swiss bank deposits from undeclared incomes of Indians, but has requested authorities for “relevant facts” and “possible reasons” for changes in deposit numbers. The Ministry, reacting to reports of Indians stashing away more funds in Swiss banks through 2020, claimed customer deposits had actually fallen from the end of 2019. However, it cited several factors that could “potentially explain the increase in deposits”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-rise-in-black-money-in-swiss-banks/article34862627.ece
20 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||More vaccines reach State||The State has received 9,85,490 more doses of COVID-19 vaccine, Health Minister Veena George has said. The Centre despatched six lakh doses of Covishield vaccine on Friday, which were received at the regional vaccine stores in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode. Apart from this, 1,32,340 doses of Covishield, purchased by the Kerala State Medical Services Corporation for the State, also arrived in Ernakulam. As much as 97,500 more doses of Covaxin and 1,55,650 more doses of Covishield would reach Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday night. For those who have been waiting for long to take the second dose of Covaxin, this is indeed a relief. Till date, Kerala has received 1,21,75,020 doses of COVID vaccine, of which 13,42,540 doses were purchased directly by the State, while 1,08,32,480 doses were provided by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-vaccines-reach-state/article34862656.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Sarang lights up sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sarang-lights-up-sky/article34862952.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Regulate rent for lockdown months’||In the face of bleak prospects, traders want the State government to step in, broker a formula between tenants and landlords, and regulate rent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/regulate-rent-for-lockdown-months/article34862501.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka, Maharashtra to share data on water||At a meeting of the inter-State flood monitoring committee, Karnataka and Maharashtra agreed to share real-time data on rainfall and water release from reservoirs in Krishna and Bhima basins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-maharashtra-to-share-data-on-water/article34862502.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘14-day Covishield stock for 18 to 44 age group’||AAP leader Atishi on Saturday said Delhi received 1.67 lakh doses of Covishield for the 18 to 44 age group.“Two days of Covaxin and 14 days of Covishield stock are available for the youth,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-day-covishield-stock-for-18-to-44-age-group/article34862892.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Medha seeks release of elderly prisoners||Activist Medha Patkar has approached the Supreme Court, saying its intervention to release prisoners to avoid spread of COVID-19 was hardly helping elderly people, especially those aged above 70, who lived in anxious isolation behind bars. The court had ordered States to form committees to release prisoners on interim bail or parole to decongest prisons on a war footing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/medha-seeks-release-of-elderly-prisoners/article34862978.ece
20 June 2021||MANGALURU,||18 deaths, 1,006 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 16 deaths and 832 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With 552 patients being discharged the active cases stood at 7,195. Udupi saw 174 new cases and two deaths. With 454 patients being discharged the active cases stood at 1,885.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-deaths-1006-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34862591.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Medha seeks release of elderly prisoners||Activist Medha Patkar has approached the Supreme Court, saying its intervention to release prisoners to avoid spread of COVID-19 was hardly helping elderly people, especially those aged above 70, who lived in anxious isolation behind bars. The court had ordered States to form committees to release prisoners on interim bail or parole to decongest prisons on a war footing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/medha-seeks-release-of-elderly-prisoners/article34862630.ece
20 June 2021||Chennai,||T.N. records 8,183 new cases of COVID-19||Tamil Nadu recorded 8,183 new cases of COVID-19 and 180 deaths on Saturday. In Chennai, 468 persons tested positive for the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-8183-new-cases-of-covid-19/article34862541.ece
20 June 2021||Chennai,||State has 5.56 lakh vaccine doses: Minister||Tamil Nadu has 5.56 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-has-556-lakh-vaccine-doses-minister/article34862542.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A Cold War relic that’s seeking a new purpose||In a communiqué issued following the June 14 summit of its member-states in Brussels, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), for the first time, explicitly described China as a security risk. China has never figured in NATO summit declarations before, except for a minor reference in 2019 to the “opportunities and challenges” it presented. But this year’s communiqué bluntly states: “China’s stated ambitions and assertive behaviour present systemic challenges to the rules-based international order and to areas relevant to Alliance security.” China has reacted sharply, calling the statement a “slander”. It has urged NATO to “view China’s development rationally, stop exaggerating various forms of ‘China threat theory’ and not to use China’s legitimate interests and legal rights as excuses for manipulating group politics [while] artificially creating confrontations”. The other two threats identified by the NATO communiqué are on predictable lines: Russia and terrorism. Tensions with Russia are an inevitable outcome of NATO’s bid to expand eastward into what Russia considers its sphere of influence. Trying to bring countries such as Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova under the NATO umbrella was bound to cause a confrontation with Russia, and so it has. As Russia sought to protect its interests by “annexing” Crimea and stationing troops in Georgia and Moldova, NATO accused it of acting irresponsibly and breaking the “rules-based international order”. There is a significant difference, however, between a strategic focus on countering Russia and casting China as a “systemic challenge”, and this goes back to NATO’s founding mandate and subsequent history. NATO, the planet’s largest — and largest ever — military alliance, was formed in 1949 by 12 Allied powers to counter the massive Soviet armies stationed in Eastern and Central Europe after Second World War. According to Paul-Henri Spaak, the second Secretary-General of NATO, it was, ironically enough, Joseph Stalin who is the true father of NATO. It was Stalin’s overreach — especially with the Berlin blockade of 1948-49 and the orchestrated coup in Czechoslovakia in 1948 — that convinced a diverse set of war-ravaged European nations to come together under an American security blanket. The collective defence principle enshrined in NATO’s Article V states that “an attack against one ally is considered as an attack against all allies”. The formation of NATO, and its Soviet counterpart, the Warsaw Pact, in 1955, inaugurated the Cold War era. NATO was completely successful in its mission of protecting the “Euro-Atlantic area” from Soviet expansion and preventing war between the two superpowers. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, questions were raised about NATO’s relevance and future. After all, if the Non-aligned Movement (NAM) became irrelevant when the Communist bloc disappeared, how does one justify the continuation of a military alliance formed to protect Europe from Communist expansion? Wouldn’t Europe’s security be better served by a collective force managed by the Europeans themselves? While some in Europe did think so, they underestimated the resilience of the powerful NATO bureaucracy, which remains an integral element of what U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower described as “the military-industrial complex”. Post-Cold war era This bureaucracy succeeded in refashioning NATO for the post-Cold war era. The refashioning rested on a paradigm shift — from collective defence, which implied a known adversary, to collective security, which is open-ended, and might require action against any number of threats, including unknown ones and non-state actors. Another factor in the persistence of NATO is that, like all successful alliances, it has been a mutually beneficial arrangement. For Europe, it was an attractive bargain where, in exchange for a marginal loss in autonomy, it enjoyed absolute security at a cheap price. For the U.S. on the other hand, NATO has been an ideal vehicle for power-projection around the world — in places beyond the Euro-Atlantic area, such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. It views NATO as a tool to ensure the primacy of American interests across the globe. Unsurprisingly, NATO’s post-Cold War role has evolved in tandem with U.S. foreign policy priorities. The NATO doctrine of “enlargement”, which Russia calls “expansion”, is essentially about extending the American military footprint by bringing in new members. That is how NATO’s membership today stands at 30, having added 14 members between 1999 and 2020. Member-states, of course, have some leeway in terms of the degree to which they commit themselves — not all of them send troops to every conflict outside Europe, and most contribute less than their share of financial resources. This has been an area of friction between the U.S. and the European states, as the former foots nearly 70% of NATO’s bills. While the cost of ‘protection’ is likely to go up for Europe, they are also wary of being dragged into confrontations that, while perhaps necessary from an American viewpoint, may not serve Europe’s interests. Soon after the NATO communiqué was issued, both France and Germany sought to put some distance between NATO’s official position and their own perception of China. French President Emmanual Macron said, “NATO is a military organisation, the issue of our relationship with China isn’t just a military issue. NATO is an organisation that concerns the North Atlantic, China has little to do with the North Atlantic. It’s very important that we don’t scatter ourselves and that we don’t bias our relationship with China.” Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also underscored the danger of overreacting to China. The picture that emerges post the G-7 and NATO summits is of the U.S.’s growing conviction that China is a threat to its global supremacy and must be contained. If one were agreeable to a bipolar or a multi-polar world, it is difficult to see how China alone presents a “systemic challenge” to the world order. U.S. foreign policy, however, remains rooted in American exceptionalism. It is plausible that today the strongest challenge to the doctrine of American supremacy comes from China, the world’s second largest economy. Containing China The Biden administration, therefore, wants to mobilise NATO member-states behind its larger objective of containing China. NATO’s European member states may view China as an economic rival and adversary, but they are unconvinced by the American line that it is an outright security threat. This line also, in a way, points to the underlying logic behind NATO’s persistence in the post-Soviet world. Unlike the Soviet Union, China offers no alternative vision of society that could make Western capitalism insecure. In fact, its own economy is already deeply integrated into Western markets. China, nonetheless, is perceived as posing a ‘threat’. It remains to be seen how far an ageing Europe would be willing to commit itself to a strategic path that prefers confrontation to collaboration, given that NATO is essentially a military alliance, and for all the talk of hybrid and cyberwar, there is zero risk of China invading the Euro-Atlantic area.  In Focus  NATO, the planet’s largest military alliance, was formed in 1949 by 12 Allied powers to counter the massive Soviet armies stationed in Eastern and Central Europe after the Second World War  After the Cold War, the refashioning of NATO rested on a paradigm shift — from collective defence to collective security  The alliance offers security to Europe, while for the U.S., it has been an ideal vehicle for power-projection around the world   The picture that emerges post the G-7 and NATO summits in Europe is of the U.S.’s growing conviction that China is a threat to its global supremacy and must be contained||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-cold-war-relic-thats-seeking-a-new-purpose/article34862420.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No rise in black money in Swiss banks’||The Finance Ministry has asserted that “there does not appear to be any significant possibility” of an increase in Swiss bank deposits from undeclared incomes of Indians, but has requested Swiss authorities to provide the “relevant facts” and “possible reasons” for changes in deposit numbers. The Ministry, reacting to reports of Indians stashing away more funds in Swiss banks through 2020, claimed customer deposits had actually fallen from the end of 2019.  Other factors However, it cited several factors that could “potentially explain the increase in deposits”, such as Indian companies holding more funds in Switzerland due to increased business transactions. “The Swiss authorities have been requested to provide the relevant facts along with their view on possible reasons for increase/decrease in the light of media reports,” the statement said, referring to reports that funds of Indians in Swiss banks rose from Rs. 6,625 crore at the end of 2019 to Rs. 20,700 crore at the end of 2020. The reported surge in deposits has been reported as the highest in 13 years, it added. The Ministry said that reports about the spurt in Swiss bank deposits “allude” to official figures reported by banks to Swiss National Bank (SNB) and do not indicate the quantum of the much-debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland. “Further, these statistics do not include the money that Indians, NRIs or others might have in Swiss banks in the names of third-country entities,” the statement added. The increase in deposits, the Ministry argued, could also be due to the business of Swiss bank branches located in India, increasing inter-bank transactions between Swiss and Indian banks or a capital increase for a subsidiary of a Swiss company in India. Derivatives issues Another factor could be an increase in the “liabilities connected with the outstanding derivative financial instruments”. “The funds held through fiduciaries have also more than halved from end of 2019. The biggest increase is in “Other amounts due from customers. These are in the form of bonds, securities and various other financial instruments,” it said in a statement on Saturday. “In view of the existing legal arrangement for exchange of information of financial accounts (which has a significant deterrent effect on tax evasion through undisclosed assets abroad), there does not appear to be any significant possibility of the increase of deposits in the Swiss banks, out of undeclared incomes of Indian residents,” the Ministry said. India and Switzerland have been sharing such information since 2018 and both are signatories to multilateral treaties relating to mutual administrative assistance in tax matters. Bringing back black money held by Indians abroad was a key plank in the 2014 Lok Sabha election for the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-rise-in-black-money-in-swiss-banks/article34862389.ece
20 June 2021||Kolkata,||Left, Congress also demand withdrawal of W.B. Governor||The Left parties and the Congress may be drifting apart with regard to their electoral alliance, but they have joined the Trinamool Congress in demanding the withdrawal of West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The Trinamool Congress has been officially demanding that Mr. Dhankhar be recalled by the Union government. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi three times on the issue. ‘Write to President’ Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday said the Trinamool Congress government should officially write to the President on the withdrawal of the Governor. Earlier this week, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and chairperson of the Left Front, Biman Bose, said the Governor was “identifying himself as a BJP man”. “The way the Centre is intervening in affairs of the State and the State government isn’t right. This includes the role of the Governor... What he is doing isn’t right either,” he observed. On their ties with the Left, Mr. Chowdhury said, “At this moment, we cannot say we are in alliance with the Left parties or not”. The understanding with the Indian Secular Front (ISF) had tarnished the image of the alliance and its acceptability among the public, he stated. The Congress had never allied with the ISF and the alliance was with the Left parties. “If we had an alliance with the ISF, then why they would put candidates against the Congress in Murshidabad district?” the Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha asked. Ever since the bad performance in the Assembly election in the State, when the Left and the Congress failed to win a single seat, differences in the alliance started appearing. The Congress and the Left were also divided over fielding a candidate against Ms. Banerjee in the Bhawanipur bypoll. New Delhi visit Meanwhile, Mr. Dhankhar has completed his visit to New Delhi. In fact, he met the Congress leader there. During the day, he met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the second time in the past few days of his visit to the national capital. Speaking to presspersons in New Delhi, he said the rule of law must be restored in West Bengal. Before his visit to New Delhi, he had written a strongly-worded letter to the Chief Minister on the post-poll violence in the State. “Your studied silence, coupled with absence of any steps to engage in rehabilitation and compensation to alleviate the unimaginable suffering of people, force an inevitable conclusion that all this is State-driven,” he said. In response, the State Home Department said the Governor making the letter public was “violative of all established norms and disrupts sanctity of such communications” and the contents of the communication were “not consistent with real facts”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-congress-also-demand-withdrawal-of-wb-governor/article34862401.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Act against those who assault health workers’||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday advised the States and the Union Territories to register cases against those involved in assaulting doctors and healthcare professionals. “In the present circumstances, it has become imperative that strict action be taken against those who assault healthcare professionals,” he said in a letter to the States and the Union Territories. He said institutional first information reports (FIRs) should be registered against the offenders and such cases should be fast tracked. “You may also like to invoke provisions of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, where applicable,” he said. Mr. Bhalla said a close watch should be kept on any objectionable content in social media that might exacerbate such situations. “Concerted efforts should be made through posters in hospitals, social media, etc. to emphasise the valuable contribution being made by doctors and other healthcare personnel in the fight against COVID-19,” he said. He urged the States and the Union Territories to take all necessary measures on a priority basis and proactively engage with members of the medical fraternity to assuage their concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/act-against-those-who-assault-health-workers/article34862407.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||In the line of fire||Apple Daily vows to carry on and publish as usual,” read a headline in Friday’s edition of Apple Daily , the outspoken tabloid newspaper that is at the centre of attention in Hong Kong. On Thursday morning, some 200 Hong Kong police officers raided the newspaper’s headquarters and arrested five of its top editors and management, in what is being seen by many journalists in China’s Special Administration Region (SAR) as the most significant action targeting a Hong Kong media outlet since the 1997 handover, and one that may well herald a darker future for the once free-wheeling Hong Kong press.  Apple Daily has occupied a curious position on the spectrum of Hong Kong’s vibrant media. The tabloid was founded in 1995 by businessman Jimmy Lai, who came to then British-ruled Hong Kong in 1959, aged 12, started out as a child labourer in textile factories, and rose to found the clothing brand Giordano when he was 22. He entered the media business and set up Next Media (later renamed Next Digital ), publishing a daily newspaper and a weekly magazine. Both were hardly the standard-bearers of good journalism, popular for their tabloid-style coverage. One of Mr. Lai’s magazines in 2006 caused an uproar for using a hidden camera and publishing photos of popular singer Gillian Chung when she was undressing backstage at a concert. The newspaper’s coverage wasn’t only on matters salacious. It also garnered a following for its strong political stand. Mr. Lai was a firm supporter of the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong and an outspoken critic of Beijing. In 2019, when millions of Hongkongers took to the streets over many months to protest a new extradition Bill that would allow suspects to be repatriated to the mainland to stand trial, seen by many as the latest and most significant dilution of the “one country, two systems” model that had ensured freedoms in Hong Kong, including that of the press, Mr. Lai and his newspaper became among the strongest backers of the protest movement. The newspaper’s popularity and reputation grew with the protest movement. An annual survey on “public evaluation on media credibility”, conducted in 2019 by the City University of Hong Kong, ranked it as the third most credible newspaper, after the South China Morning Post and Ming Pao . It ranked far higher than two most prominent pro-Beijing papers, Ta Kung Pao and Wen Wei Po . Security law The paper was also critical of the new national security law passed by Beijing in June 2020 for its broad definitions of what constituted secession and collusion with the “foreign forces” blamed by Beijing for the 2019 protests. The law paved the way for tightening the noose on a newspaper that had grown to become a thorn in the side of both the HKSAR government and Beijing, and was cited to justify a raid on Apple Daily in August last year when Mr. Lai was arrested. After the five arrests and the raid on Thursday, the paper’s fate is now “hanging in the balance”, reported the South China Morning Post , noting that beyond the arrests of its top leadership, a freeze on its assets “could send it over the edge financially”. Hong Kong's Secretary for Security John Lee Ka-chiu insisted the operation “was not targeting the press at large but only going after a publication that had used ‘news coverage as a tool’ to harm national security,” the Post reported. That is not, however, the view of most Hong Kong journalists. The national security law, with its broad definitions of crimes, has in their view led to a wider chilling effect. “Journalists are more cautious than ever when they criticise the HKSAR Government and the Central Government, and managements have put more pressure on them,” said the Hong Kong Journalists Association’s 2020 press freedom report. Of 367 responding journalists, 91% said press freedom in Hong Kong had worsened compared to the previous year. The paper, however, said it is undeterred, even live-streaming the raid. It said it would print 500,000 copies on Friday, five times more than its usual circulation. Some news stands, reported the Hong Kong Free Press , said copies of Friday’s edition were sold out within two hours after going up on the stands at midnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-the-line-of-fire/article34862418.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The man who rebuilt Microsoft||In his book Hit Refresh , Satya Nadella, the Microsoft CEO, reminisces about his first day in that role, way back in early 2014. “If there was any one theme I wanted to emphasize that day,” he writes, “it was that we must discover what would be lost in the world if Microsoft just disappeared.” The man who is just the third CEO in Microsoft’s history then writes, “We had to answer for ourselves, what is the company about? Why do we exist? I told them it was time for us to rediscover our soul — what makes us unique.” More than seven years later, Mr. Nadella has now been given the opportunity to shape Microsoft’s vision as its chairman as well. He will be only the third chairman in the company’s 46-year history, and will be only the second, after its iconic co-founder Bill Gates, to hold the positions of chairman and CEO at the same time. When Mr. Nadella took over as CEO in 2014, Microsoft was seen as a company whose best years were behind it. Toward the end of his predecessor Steve Ballmer’s term, pressure was mounting on the company to come up with a roadmap that would place it among the most dominant technology companies once again. This was a time when Microsoft was struggling to shape a future that moved away from its dependence on the Windows operating system, which served it well during the years of the personal computer boom. Times had, however, changed. In the years leading up to 2014, as the world adopted mobile devices in a big way, Microsoft struggled to make a success of its new ideas and ventures. Its forays into mobile devices, for instance, were a failure. The stock price reflected its state and was largely stagnant for a long time. In the seven years since taking over, Mr. Nadella has been widely acknowledged for the revival of Microsoft’s fortunes. It is once again one of the most valuable companies in the world today. According to current prices, it is in fact No. 2 in terms of market capitalisation just behind Apple and just ahead of Amazon. Its market capitalisation is in striking distance of $2 trillion. What Mr. Nadella did was not just move away from the Windows past but also build and fund future business such as cloud computing. Two years ago, a Bloomberg Businessweek article, with the title ‘The Most Valuable Company (for Now) Is Having a Nadellaissance’, wrote: “Under Nadella, it cut funding to Windows and built an enormous cloud computing business — with about $34 billion in revenue over the past year — putting it ahead of Google and making progress in key areas against the dominant player, Amazon Web Services”. In fact, the article says, “His first email to employees ran more than 1,000 words — and made no mention of Windows.” A marathon The Hyderabad-born Mr. Nadella once said in a Stanford GSB event, “My father was a Marxist economist and civil servant... He looked at my grades and was amazed someone could be so bad! But he said, ‘It’s a marathon. You’ll catch up.’ My mother’s only question to me was ‘Are you happy?’” He got his bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from Mangalore University, and then did his MS in computer science from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. He also has an MBA degree from the University of Chicago. Mr. Nadella, who grew up wanting to be a professional cricketer, now uses analogies from the sport he loves liberally to make sense of real-life situations. He also also spoken quite a bit in recent years about how the disability of his son profoundly impacted his ideas of leadership. As CEO, Mr. Nadella had to take tough decisions, one of which was the writing off of the over $7 billion acquisition of Nokia’s handset business, leading to thousands of job cuts. He also put more money in growing businesses such as cloud computing, and also led big-ticket acquisitions such as those of LinkedIn, Nuance and GitHub. He reorganised the company and made sure its products were compatible with products and devices from other stables. This was in line with what he had put in a memo to the board, before he was picked as CEO. He had bet on a plan toward a “renewal of Microsoft”. This was to a cater to a world where “humans will interact with experiences that span a multitude of devices and senses.” The success of the plan has put Mr. Nadella at the top-most position of a company he joined 29 years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-man-who-rebuilt-microsoft/article34862422.ece
20 June 2021||Hyderabad,||‘IAF ready for China challenge’||India’s security preparedness was in full swing in view of China’s posturing in the Galwan region and the changing geopolitical situation in neighbouring countries such as Afghanistan, Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria said here on Saturday. The deployment of forces would be based on the ground level need, which was being monitored closely. Continuation of deployment of forces post Galwan would depend on the varying situation. Basic deployment would continue to maintain security. As far as the IAF was concerned, it had the deployment capability at a short notice as per requirement, he told presspersons. On the current situation on the Ladakh front, he noted that disengagement plans on the friction points were on through 11 rounds of talks. MiG-21 accidents On the series of accidents involving the MiG-21, he said they were not due to age factor alone and stopping the flights was not the answer. The aircraft were upgraded between 2005 and 2010 and the current accident rate had remained more or less the same. The MiG-21s would be replaced with new aircraft in the next few years in a phased manner, he pointed out. The Indian Air Force (IAF) chief, who was in Hyderabad to review the Combined Graduation Parade held at the Air Force Academy at Dundigal here, said the induction of Rafale jets into the IAF was on as per plan and would be done by 2022. COVID-19 did not have much impact on the plan. Earlier, addressing the parade, he said the IAF was focussing on rapid infusion of technologies due to the evolving security challenges on all fronts and also beyond. Niche technologies The infusion of niche technologies and combat power had never been as intense as now to meet the security challenges. The role of air power was crucial in any conflict and the IAF was preparing to meet those challenges. He also referred to the crucial role played by the IAF in the fight against COVID-19. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria reviewed the Combined Graduation Parade, in which 161 flight cadets of flying and ground duty branches were commissioned as IAF officers. He presented ‘wings’ and ‘brevets’ to the cadets who successfully completed the flying and navigation training. He also awarded ‘wings’ to officers of the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard on successful completion of their flying training at the academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-ready-for-china-challenge/article34862387.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||J&K delimitation panel begins work||The Delimitation Commission for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has kicked off the exercise by writing to all 20 District Commissioners (DC), seeking basic demographic, topographic information as well as the local administration’s impressions of political aspirations of the district. According to government sources, the letter went out to all DCs in the first week of June. While the Commission asked for a response within two days, it was sent off, by all DCs, at the end of the week. The Commission was set up in February-March 2020 to delineate Assembly and parliamentary constituencies, and was given a year’s extension last March. It is only after the completion of the delimitation exercise that elections for the Assembly can be held, although District Development Council (DDC) polls were held last year on earlier patterns and based on the 2011 Census.  The then State of Jammu and Kashmir was kept out of the delimitation exercise when it was carried out in the rest of country (between 2002-2008), as delimitation of Assembly seats was under the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution and its separate Representation of People Act. After becoming a Union Territory, the Delimitation Commission was constituted and asked to mark out Assembly and Parliament seats. The Commission, headed by Justice (retired) Ranjana Prakash Desai and comprising two other members, had called for a meeting in February 2021, where only two of its five associate members — Union Minister Jitendra Singh and Jugal Kishore Singh, MP — attended. National Conference leaders Dr. Farooq Abdullah and Hasnain Masoodi, MP, and Mohammad Akbar Lone did not attend. The renewed push by the Centre for talks has raised hopes not only of early Assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir but also of an eventual restoration of statehood, which was taken away under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, a reading down of Article 370 of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-delimitation-panel-begins-work/article34862395.ece
20 June 2021||Chennai,||3.6% of population fully vaccinated||India recorded 56,687 new COVID-19 cases and 1,527 new deaths till 9.15 p.m. on Saturday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,98,79,477 cases and 3,86,694 deaths. Kerala reported 12,443 new infections, followed by Maharashtra (8,912) and Tamil Nadu (8,183). Maharashtra recorded 682 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (180) and Karnataka (161). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 19.02 lakh samples were tested in the country on Friday (the results for which were made available on Saturday). 30 lakh jabs Over 30 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Saturday, which is around 41,000 doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 1.34 lakh doses fewer than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 31.05 lakh on June 18, which is slightly more than the 29.96 lakh recorded a week before (June 11). However, it is significantly higher than the average daily doses recorded a month before (May 18) which stood at 14.68 lakh. About 23.8% of adults in India, 43.8% of those aged above 45, and 47.2% of people aged above 60, have been administered at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8.45 p.m. on Saturday. While 16.3% of the country’s population has received at least one dose, only 3.6% are fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. The share of people who are fully vaccinated in comparable economies such as Brazil and Russia is 11.35% and 10.21% respectively. Among neighbouring countries, about 2.58% of Bangladesh’s population is fully vaccinated while the figure for Pakistan and Sri Lanka stood at 1.5% and 3.5% respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/36-of-population-fully-vaccinated/article34862405.ece
20 June 2021||Kolkata,||Poetry comes to the rescue during the pandemic||To respond to the pandemic with poetry — the idea came to Kolkata poet Kiriti Sengupta in April 2020 when, during the COVID-19-forced nationwide lockdown, he chanced upon a piece in the Irish Times. Chris Fitzpatrick, the author of the article, had said: “In time, we will need poets and writers of the imagination to look through the looking glass — and tell us the stories of this strange, upside-down world. We will need more than a vaccine and a rebooted economy to heal us.” In a matter of just one month, Hibiscus was ready, brought out by Hawakal Publishers, the publishing house Mr. Sengupta is associated with. As many as 104 poets across the world — including some of India’s biggest names such as Keki N. Daruwalla, Sudeep Sen, Mamang Dai, Sanjeev Sethi — contributed to the collection, which rolled off the press in the midst of the lockdown. “Our contributors couldn’t believe we got the book out so quickly. The Okhla unit of Thomson Press [in Delhi] was operational, and I remember Bitan [Chakraborty, owner of Hawakal] and I going to the DTDC office [in Kolkata] one afternoon to collect the books,” said Mr. Sengupta, a dentist-turned-poet who has edited seven anthologies by now apart from publishing 11 books of his own poetry and prose. “I, along with my co-editors [Anu Majumdar and Dustin Pickering], chose a therapeutic way to alleviate our suffering induced by the pandemic. Hibiscus addressed the hardships. It didn’t only communicate the plight, it also mitigated our struggle back to normalcy — the anthology aimed at curating poems that sought to provide us relief from existential hazards,” he said. Best-selling title in 2020  Hibiscus turned out to be Hawakal’s best-selling title in 2020. Amid the pandemic gloom, it sold close to 400 copies — a big number for a book of poems — and the first reprint appeared in July 2020. Its success encouraged Mr. Sengupta to seek submissions for a subsequent collection, titled Shimmer Spring . It came out in November 2020, when India was emerging from the first wave of COVID-19, and showcased works of 39 poets (including those from India, USA, UK, Norway, Pakistan and Peru). “Hawakal published Shimmer Spring as a stunning, all-colour, hardcover coffee-table book. They even offered the contributors an honorarium. Tagore’s words — ‘light that emanates from the core of gloom is your glow. Goodness, wide-awake among all discord, is your truth’ — were the most significant motivation as I conceived this book. I was curious to explore how contemporary writers derive and disperse light,” he said. For many years the light Mr. Sengupta, 46, was himself most familiar with was the one he shone into his patients’ mouths. After graduating from the North Bengal Dental College in 1998, he worked as a dental surgeon in government institutions and also in private capacity before giving it all up in 2011. “I was never happy with what I was doing all those years, and although quitting my job was a conscious choice, it subjected my family to extreme financial hardship. My wife and son had to cope with several issues that stemmed from my sudden unemployment. We often didn’t know where the next meal was coming from. But now when I look back, I find the journey intensely rewarding,” Mr. Sengupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poetry-comes-to-the-rescue-during-the-pandemic/article34862415.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Doval, Pak. NSA to attend SCO meet in Dushanbe next week||National Security Adviser Ajit Doval is expected to attend a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation in Dushanbe, Tajikistan next week, which Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf will attend as well, officials in Delhi and Islamabad confirmed. While the officials said no meeting had been scheduled between the two NSAs, the SCO meeting, of the “Secretaries of the Security Council”, comes months after India and Pakistan embarked on a series of decisions to defuse tensions, with a back-channel dialogue led by Mr. Doval and military officials in Pakistan, according to several reports, that have not been denied, beginning with the announcement of a ceasefire agreement at the Line of Control. The NSA level meeting will be held on June 23, preceded by a Senior Officials Meeting (SOM) on June 22. In addition to other security concerns to be discussed, the security officials will set the course for the annual “Regional Anti-Terror Structure” mechanism joint exercises by SCO member troops, to be held in Pakistan this year, where Indian troops are due to attend. The participation of the Indian and Pakistani NSAs in person comes several months after a stormy encounter at last year’s SCO meeting in September 2020. Mr. Doval had walked out of the meeting after Mr. Yusuf, who was then the Special Assistant to Prime Minister Imran Khan on Security Affairs, had appeared with a map in the background that showed many parts of Indian territory, including Junagadh and J&K, as a part of Pakistani territory. Since then, however, both sides have attended the SCO meetings, which include Russia, China, Central Asian States, India and Pakistan. The presence of senior security officials from India and China will also be watched closely, given the continuing standoff at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh between the Indian Army and the PLA troops. Afghanistan and Iran, which are observer States, are not expected to attend this meeting. The SCO conference in Dushanbe comes just ahead of the Prime Minister’s all-party meeting of leaders of J&K, the first such outreach to mainstream politicians in the Union Territory, most of whom had been arrested and held in custody after the decision to amend Article 370 in August 2019. According to a ‘blueprint’ reportedly discussed by Indian and Pakistani officials during the back-channel steps towards political normalisation in J&K, restoring its Statehood status was included in talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doval-pak-nsa-to-attend-sco-meet-in-dushanbe-next-week/article34862382.ece
20 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Former IAS officer A.K. Sharma made BJP vice-president in U.P.||Arvind Kumar Sharma, the IAS officer who took voluntary retirement and joined the BJP, was on Saturday appointed a vice-president of the party’s Uttar Pradesh unit. The announcement puts an end to months of speculation that Mr. Sharma could be handed a plum post in Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s Cabinet ahead of the 2022 Assembly election. Mr. Sharma, who was elected an MLC after joining the party, was given the new responsibility by BJP State president Swatantra Dev Singh. An 1988-batch IAS officer of the Gujarat cadre, Mr. Sharma had closely worked with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, both in the Chief Minister’s Office (Gujarat) and the Prime Minister’s Office in New Delhi for almost two decades. Mr. Sharma hails from Mau in Purvanchal. Mr. Sharma thanked the national and State leadership of the BJP for his appointment. “With the guidance of seniors and support of my karyakarta friends, I will be involved in the service of the society, the State and the nation,” Mr. Sharma said on Twitter. Archana Mishra of Lucknow and Amit Valmiki of Bulandshahr were also appointed as State secretaries by the BJP. In preparation for the State election, the BJP has also announced the heads of its various morchas (organisations)  in the State. Former MP Narendra Kashyap was appointed the head of the Backward Morcha, while Kaushal Kishor, MP from Mohanlalganj, retains the BJP’s Dalit wing. Geeta Shakya, Rajya Sabha MP from Auraiya, is the head of the women’s wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-ias-officer-ak-sharma-made-bjp-vice-president-in-up/article34862393.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||As Rahul turns 51, birthday wishes pour in from allies||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi turned 51 on Saturday and with talks of a larger coalition to counter the BJP, his birthday in a way became a roll call for the Opposition parties who are on the same platform. At the last count, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, former Prime Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Deve Gowda, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah wished him on the occasion. One of the more interesting comments came from Mr. Gowda who wrote on Twitter, “Rahul Gandhi has always come across as a fine person, deeply committed to a humane and inclusive society. It is his birthday today. I wish him well, and sincerely pray that his view of the world and his compassion defeats the narrowness that surrounds us.” Mr. Stalin, who met both Mr. Gandhi and his mother on his first trip to Delhi after winning the Tamil Nadu Assembly election, tweeted: “Wishing my beloved brother Rahul Gandhi on his birthday and I join others in praising his selfless, untiring work to establish an egalitarian India in every aspect. His commitment to the ethos of the Congress Party has been exemplary.” Even Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who faces the Congress in Delhi and Punjab and has kept his distance from the Opposition bloc, wished Mr. Gandhi. Mr. Gandhi decided not to celebrate his birthday in view of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-rahul-turns-51-birthday-wishes-pour-in-from-allies/article34862398.ece
20 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJP demands White Paper on COVID-19 toll in Odisha||The Odisha unit of BJP on Saturday demanded that the Naveen Patnaik government present a White Paper on the actual number of lives lost in the State during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The rising number of deaths has made people of the State distraught. The daily death figures put out by the government does not match with reports appearing in media and cremations being conducted as per COVID-19 guidelines,” said Mohan Charan Majhi, BJP chief whip in the State Assembly, addressing a press conference in the capital Bhubaneswar. The government’s hesitance to reject media reports about COVID-19 deaths indirectly proved the authenticity of media reports, Mr. Majhi alleged. The government should present a White Paper taking into account the cremations being conducted in accordance with COVID-19 guidelines. Letter to CM In a letter addressed to Mr. Patnaik, all BJP MLAs wrote that the State government should announce ex-gratia for the people who succumbed to virus as the COVID-19 pandemic. They alleged the State government was not implementing Ayushman Yojana due to political reasons. “The State government should take advantages of all Central schemes by keeping itself above any party affiliation. Though the State claims to be implementing Biju Swasthya Yojana, the scheme only helps those who live in Odisha whereas Odias outside State are not able to access healthcare in the best medical facilities,” the MLAs wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-demands-white-paper-on-covid-19-toll-in-odisha/article34862402.ece
20 June 2021||KOCHI,||Tribal guards of tiger reserves in distress||R. Rajith, a protection guard at the Periyar Tiger Reserve, Thekkady, is having sleepless nights worrying about his burgeoning debt. Rajith has defaulted on a group loan, which he and a few others of the Paliyakudi tribal hamlet in Thekkady had raised a few months ago. He now owes the money-lending firm Rs. 30,000. Like Rajith, the nearly 300 tribespeople engaged as guards and watchers in the reserve are finding the going tough with their monthly wage days being reduced to half. The thinning of tourist inflow since the COVID-19 outbreak, the subsequent lockdown, and the dwindling cash reserves have forced the reserve authorities to cut wage days. “We utilised the reserve funds to pay at least half the wages to the workers. Since the lockdown, there is no income from no ecotourism activities as there are no visitors to the park,” said K.R. Anoop, field director of the reserve. Severe cash crunch With tourist inflow drying up, the service of tribespeople, who were employed in ecotourism programmes, is utilised for protection activities to provide them sustenance. With no income, the reserve is facing a severe cash crunch, said A. P. Sunil Babu, deputy director of the reserve. In Parambikulam, the second tiger reserve in the State, the same story is being played out. Though the wage days of the workers were increased at times, they had to be brought down to 15 in the past few months because of the financial position of the park, said Vishak Sasikumar, deputy director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tribal-guards-of-tiger-reserves-in-distress/article34862657.ece
20 June 2021||Pune,||Women mount spirited offensive against pandemic||With the second wave of COVID-19 hitting the country’s rural hinterland hard, city-based NGO Swayam Shikshan Prayog (SSP) — which helps women from rural India play a decisive role in sustainable farming — has reached out to nearly four lakh families across 15 districts in Maharashtra, Bihar, Odisha and Kerala to help stem the tide of the pandemic by rural capacity building measures. SSP activists at the gram panchayat level organised themselves into Women Task Force members (Sakhi) in over 500 villages in these four States and helped local government authorities speed up COVID-19 recovery and resilience by arranging quarantine of patients to delivering food for afflicted families. “Both waves of the pandemic saw spirited grassroots women leaders seize the initiative and aid local health authorities by reaching out to nearly four lakh families in four States. Over 3,000 women in Maharashtra and Bihar leveraged the economic lockdown to create local food economies and markets where once there were none. Defying convention they took on new roles as negotiators in mandis and organised farmers into marketing collectives to sell essentials,” Prema Gopalan, executive director, SSP, said. “Our three key strategies to contain the spread of the contagion involved capacity-building by forming ‘village action groups’ headed by women with knowledge on prevention and quarantine measures. Secondly, we helped equip local authorities and frontline workers to coordinate mass awareness programmes, and help out with food, medical relief and emergency services. Our women activists worked along with the extant health systems to ensure readiness for vaccination and access to health services, especially for women and children in backwater villages and hamlets,” Ms. Gopalan said. In order to deal with the more lethal second wave of the pandemic, SSP activists focused on empowering grassroots institutions, namely gram panchayats and women leaders in villages to adopt a holistic approach which involved building community resilience by improving food security, livelihoods and access to social protection for the most vulnerable groups. Till date, SSP activists have distributed more than 4,000 food and grocery kits to needy families in Latur, Osmanabad, Solapur, Nanded and Ahmednagar districts in Maharashtra among others, besides Gaya and Nalanda districts in Bihar and Kottayam and Wayanad districts in Kerala. “In Wayanad, SSP activists in conjunction with local women leaders and farmers have identified the most vulnerable communities from tribal and disadvantaged families. Women groups mobilised resources from the general public and distributed food kits to 65 tribal families at Edavaka while ‘Sakhi’ farmers have cultivated 300 kg of tapioca and distributed it to vulnerable families,” Ms. Gopalan said. ‘Sakhi’ leaders moved door to door, identified symptoms, delivered masks, soaps and sanitisers while mobilising women from vulnerable groups to be part of the decision-making process. Jayashree Kadam from Osmanabad’s Jalkot village said that these leaders were part of the COVID ‘Sahayata Samiti’ (aid committee) of the panchayat to bring down the case numbers and provide financial aid as well, if needed. “Awareness of social distancing, distribution of masks and sanitisers are some of the initial steps taken by women leaders. It is unprecedented and we never expected that the second wave would hit our villages in such numbers,” Ms. Kadam said. Apart from ration and medicine distribution drives, these village level leaders organised health campaigns at the village level as well to increase the pace of vaccination while urging families to follow COVID-19 protocols. When Zinnar, a small village in Osmanabad in Maharashtra, saw an alarming spurt in new positive cases, Jayshree Kale, a woman leader from the village, took the initiative in isolating these patients and making sure that safety measures were followed to break the chain of infection as fast as possible. “Women leaders have been tirelessly working to creating greater awareness of safety norms to be followed, helping people with contact tracing and getting fumigation done. Now, that we have the requisite experience in dealing with two successive waves, we are much better prepared to tackle any further crisis in the future,” Godavari Dange, a grassroots leader from Marathwada, said.  Over 3,000 women in Maharashtra and Bihar leveraged the economic lockdown to create local food economies and markets where once there were none Prema Gopalan Executive Director, Swayam Shikshan Prayog||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-mount-spirited-offensive-against-pandemic/article34862632.ece
20 June 2021||United Nations,||WHO hoping for more doses from SII||The World Health Organization (WHO) is “urgently” trying to work with AstraZeneca, the Serum Institute of India (SII) as well as the Indian government to restart shipments of COVID-19 vaccines to countries that had to suspend the roll-out of the second dose amid a disruption in supplies, a senior official at the UN health agency said. “We have a huge number of countries that had to suspend the roll-out of their second doses of vaccines,” Bruce Aylward, Senior Adviser to WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said on Friday at a press briefing. “We are now urgently trying to work with AstraZeneca, as well as SII and the India government, to restart these shipments so that we can get those second doses into the populations... We are running into a longer interval than we would have liked,” he said. Mr. Aylward added that several countries, particularly those in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, West Asia and South Asia, have been hit hard by the disruption. He noted that donation of vaccines was a “short-term” solution in the face of a very imperfect market and those countries that had financial resources and were producing the products had access to vaccines. “That is what we are trying to change, particularly in this period from June through September,” he said. He said WHO expected SII volumes to open up again in the fourth quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-hoping-for-more-doses-from-sii/article34862411.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Medha seeks release of elderly prisoners||Activist Medha Patkar has approached the Supreme Court, saying its intervention to release prisoners to avoid spread of COVID-19 was hardly helping elderly people, especially those aged above 70, who lived in anxious isolation behind bars. The court had, in suo motu hearings, ordered the States to form high-power committees (HPCs) to consider and release prisoners on interim bail or parole to decongest prisons on a war footing. Prisoners who were more susceptible to the infection should get priority and be released on an urgent basis. “The most susceptible ones are the aged/elderly prisoners, who have a higher chance of getting infected, specifically septuagenarian prisoners,” Ms. Patkar noted in a petition filed through advocate Vipin Nair. State action Only the HPCs in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Haryana had taken steps to release the aged prisoners. “Most of the remaining States have not even discussed the issue of releasing the aged prisoners nor seem to do so in future meetings of their HPCs,” the petition said. The “conditions in some of the States like Gujarat and Rajasthan are the worst”. The petition said the aged may form only a minuscule part of the prison population but were the most vulnerable to the virus. Many elderly inmates, after decades behind prison walls, were prone to cognitive decline and dementia. There may be others who needed care due to anxiety, anger issues, stress and agitation caused by isolation during the pandemic. “Chances of law and order situation on account of release of elderly prisoners are less, as the tendency to indulge in repeated offences reduces at such an age,” she argued. Uniform method Ms. Patkar asked the Supreme Court to direct the Centre and the States to “adopt a uniform method for release, either on interim bail or emergency parole, to safeguard the interests of the elderly prisoners who have been incarcerated for years together”. Ms. Patkar contended, “Unless the aged prisoners are given special treatment and considered for release either on interim bail or emergency/special parole, the possibility of their exposure to infection and ultimately succumbing to the virus is very high”. A prisoner too had the right to life and dignity. Living in congested prisons during a pandemic was a threat to their lives. The Health Ministry had issued a ‘Health Advisory for Elderly Population of India’ during COVID-19, highlighting the essentiality of maintaining social distancing so as to reduce the mortality rate within prisons, she pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/medha-seeks-release-of-elderly-prisoners/article34862416.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||SC ‘shocked’ by delay in bail hearing||A “shocked” Supreme Court found that a bail application had not even been listed for hearing for more than a year before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, that too at a time when judiciary is going the extra distance to hear cases virtually. A Vacation Bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V. Ramasubramanian noted that “denial of hearing is an infringement of right and liberty assured to an accused”. The top court said it normally did not intervene with the operations of the High Courts, but in this case, it was “constrained” to take note of the delay in hearing the bail plea. “Even during the pandemic, when all courts are making attempts to hear and decide all matter, non-listing of such an application for bail defeats the administration of justice,” the Bench recorded in a recent order. The court was hearing a special leave petition filed in an Enforcement Directorate case. “Under the prevailing pandemic, at least half of the judges should sit on alternate days so that hearing is accorded to the person in distress. Non-listing of application for regular bail, irrespective of seriousness or lack thereof, of the offences attributed to the accused, impinges upon the liberty of the person in custody,” the Supreme Court observed. The Bench said it hoped the High Court would be “able to take up the application for bail at an early date so that the right of the accused of hearing of application for bail is not taken away”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-shocked-by-delay-in-bail-hearing/article34862377.ece
20 June 2021||Islamabad,||‘India misrepresenting ICJ verdict in Jadhav case’||Pakistan on Saturday accused India of “misrepresenting” the verdict of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case and asserted that it was ready to fulfil all obligations under international law. India on Thursday asked Pakistan to address the “shortcomings” in a Bill brought out to facilitate the reviewing of the case, adding that the proposed law did not create a mechanism to reconsider it as mandated by the ICJ. Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi in New Delhi said the Review and Reconsideration Bill, 2020, did not create a mechanism to facilitate the effective review and reconsideration of Mr. Jadhav’s case as mandated by the ICJ judgment. He added that municipal courts could not be the arbiter of whether a state had fulfilled its obligations under international law. Mr. Jadhav, a retired Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani court on the charges of espionage and terrorism in 2017. The ICJ ruled in 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of Mr. Jadhav’s conviction. Pakistan’s Foreign Office (FO) on Saturday said Islamabad abides by all its international obligations, and this applied to the ICJ judgment in Mr. Jadhav’s case. “It is regrettable that the Government of India has chosen to misrepresent the ICJ judgment, which clearly states in Paragraph 147 that Pakistan is under an obligation to provide, by means of its own choosing, effective review and reconsideration of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav,” the FO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-misrepresenting-icj-verdict-in-jadhav-case/article34862399.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Walking with pride remains only motto’||Attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Mr. Thackeray said some were of the view that the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi would “make us lose Hindutva”. “Nobody has a patent on Hindutva. Our Hindutva is our nationality. It remains in our hearts.” While Mr. Thackeray did not comment on the allegations of corruption in the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya, he did praise the party workers involved in a scuffle with those from the BJP. “But that shouldn’t be our only identity. We are known for donating blood too, when needed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/walking-with-pride-remains-only-motto/article34862979.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Population norms in all govt. schemes: Assam||The government has already implemented the Population and Women Empowerment Policy of Assam that makes any person with more than two children ineligible for government jobs and election to panchayats and civic bodies. The policy came into effect on January 1. The Chief Minister had last week appealed to migrant Muslims in the State to adopt “decent family planning” measures, predicting conflicts over living space, if the population continued to explode. The Opposition Congress and its ally All India United Democratic Front cited the December 2020 National Family Health Survey data released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to pick holes in the Chief Minister’s view. They pointed out that the fertility rate across most States declined in the past five years. “According to the survey, the fertility rate in Assam declined from 2.2 in 2015-16 to 1.9 in 2020-21, indicating the population is showing a decreasing trend,” the Congress said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/population-norms-in-all-govt-schemes-assam/article34862374.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea to drop exams for private, repeat students||Over 1,100 CBSE students have moved the Supreme Court for cancellation of compartment, private and repeat exams for Class 12 in the physical mode amidst the pandemic. The students, represented by advocate Abhishek Choudhary, said their performance should be evaluated through an assessment formula in line with the regular CBSE students. The government, nudged by the Supreme Court, has cancelled the Class 12 Board exams this year. The court has also given in-principle clearance to an assessment formula devised by the CBSE for the regular students. Clause 29 of the ‘Policy for Tabulation of Marks for Class XII Board Examinations 2021’, proposed and placed on record by the CBSE before the apex court on June 17, had specified the examination would be conducted for private, patrachar, second chance compartment candidates, etc., by the Board as and when the conditions become conducive.  “Owing to the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the country, it cannot be conclusively said as to when exactly we will be able to have such conducive environment necessary for the conduct of physical mode examinations,” the students said in their plea. “If the examinations are delayed beyond a reasonable time, till a conducive environment is achieved, we will not only loose opportunity to apply and seek admission in these universities/ colleges, but will also be denied our fundamental right to education,” the students voiced their apprehension. They said a decision to conduct private/compartment/ repeat examination for Class 12 CBSE Board candidates would endanger the lives of students. They would be “forced to appear in this physical-mode-board examination, which would clearly violate their right to life and health as guaranteed by Article 21”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-to-drop-exams-for-private-repeat-students/article34862379.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre invites 14 J&K leaders to meet PM||The octogenarian NC leader, along with hundreds of mainstream leaders and workers, was arrested in 2019 in the wake of the Centre’s move to abrogate J&K’s special status. The Gupkar alliance, which is scheduled to hold a meeting in the next few days, is likely to put up a joint front and a common narrative when they meet the Prime Minister. The alliance has demanded the restoration of the pre-August 5 position of J&K. The invitation has been extended to NC’s Dr Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah; Congress’ Ghulam Nabi Azad, Tara Chand and G.A.Mir; PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti; Peoples Conference’s Sajad Gani Lone and Muzaffar Hussian Baigh; Apni Party’s Altaf Bukhari; BJP’s Ravinder Raina, Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta; CPI(M)’s M. Y. Tarigami, and National Panthers Party’s Prof. Bheem Singh. Spell out agenda: Mufti However, sources close to Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti, a strong critic of the Centre’s 2019 decision, said she is reluctant to be a part of the meeting with the Prime Minister “unless the Centre spells out its agenda” and “takes concrete initiatives”. Ms. Mufti has already been spoken to on the phone about the meeting by officials from New Delhi, according to PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari. “Ms. Mufti has called a meeting of the party’s Political Affairs Committee (PAC) on Sunday to take a final call on the proposed meeting,” Mr. Bukhari said. Meanwhile, Sartaj Madani, uncle of Ms. Mufti, was released after a six-month preventive detention from a Srinagar sub-jail on Saturday. Officials said Mr. Madani’s detention period under sections 107 and 151 of the CrPC was coming to an end. Leaders from the Jammu region also expressed their willingness to join the dialogue. National Panthers Party leader Harsh Dev Singh said the party would participate if invited. J&K Apni Party chief Altaf Bukhari welcomed the Centre’s outreach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-invites-14-jk-leaders-to-meet-pm/article34862380.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Monitor signs of surge, Centre urges States||It would be extremely important to follow the five-fold strategy of pandemic-appropriate behaviour, test, track, treat and vaccinate, he stressed. “However, easing of restrictions in some States has led to resumption of crowding of people in markets etc. without adherence to the norms of COVID-appropriate behaviour. It is, therefore, essential to ensure that complacency does not set in and there is no let up in adhering to COVID-appropriate behaviour while opening up activities,” the letter stated. “As the situation is dynamic, a close watch needs to be kept on early signs of a surge in active cases or high positivity rates. A system should be in place at the micro level to ensure that whenever cases rise in a smaller place, it gets checked there itself,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monitor-signs-of-surge-centre-urges-states/article34862384.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||HC tells NHRC to submit report on Bengal violence||In the 12-page order, the Bench, comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen, and Subrata Talukdar, said the State had been denying allegations of political violence from the very beginning but the facts as had been placed on record were different. “In our view, this exercise of filing of affidavit and counter-affidavit will continue. It may not lead us anywhere because State, from the very beginning, had been denying everything, but the facts as have been placed on record by the petitioners and also as is evident little bit from the report dated June 3, 2021, filed by the Member Secretary of the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority, are different,” the order read. The court observed that against some of the complaints compiled by the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority (WBSLSA), the remarks were that no response had been received from the authority concerned. The State could not be allowed to proceed in the manner it liked. “In a case like where the allegation is that life and property of the residents of the State is in danger on account of alleged post-poll violence, the State cannot be allowed to proceed in the manner it likes. The complaints required immediate action. But somehow from the facts as are available on record and are sought to be projected by the petitioners, such an action is missing. It is the duty of the State to maintain law and order in the State and inspire confidence in the residents of the State,” the order said. The WBSLSA member-secretary, as well as a member and representative of the State Human Rights Commission, would be part of the NHRC committee. The court directed the State to provide all logistic support to the committee wherever and whenever they wished to visit any place. “The State shall ensure there is no obstruction of any kind in this process. Such obstruction shall be viewed seriously, which may entail action under the Contempt of Courts Act besides others,” the order read. The court pointed out that the WBSLSA, in its report to the court, had mentioned that the number of persons who had reported suffering was 3,243 till 12 noon of June 10, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-tells-nhrc-to-submit-report-on-bengal-violence/article34862385.ece
20 June 2021||Kolkata,||Youth held for murder of his family in Malda||The West Bengal police on Saturday arrested a 19-year-old youth at Kaliachak in the State’s Malda district for allegedly killing four family members and burying them in a room of their house four months ago. Four bodies, which could be of the father, mother, sister and grandmother of the accused, were exhumed from the house and sent for post-mortem examination, Superintendent of Police, Malda, Alok Rajoria told journalists.  Drugged his family The police officer said the accused, on February 28, 2021, had spiked the drinks of the family members with sleeping pills and after they fell unconscious, tied their hands and gagged them with duct tape before the murder. According to the police, the accused then pushed the drugged family members into a reservoir in the house and buried the bodies in the floor of a room. The incident came to light after the elder brother of the accused informed the police. The elder brother had fled to Kolkata after the incident. The police said they were also investigating the role of the elder brother, who claimed that he had fled in February when other members of the family were killed. The police said that an investigation was on to find the motive behind the murders. Neighbours said that the youth kept to himself and did not allow any one to enter the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youth-held-for-murder-of-his-family-in-malda/article34862403.ece
20 June 2021||bhubaneswar,||BJP for white paper on COVID-19 toll in Odisha||The Odisha unit of BJP on Saturday demanded that the Naveen Patnaik government present a white paper on the actual number of lives lost in the State during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The rising number of deaths has made people of the State distraught. The daily death figures put out by the government does not match with reports appearing in media and cremations being conducted,” said Mohan Charan Majhi, BJP chief whip in the Assembly, at a press conference in Bhubaneswar. The government’s hesitance to reject media reports about the deaths indirectly proved authenticity of the reports, Mr. Majhi alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-for-white-paper-on-covid-19-toll-in-odisha/article34862980.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||Transgender portal in more languages||The Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry’s portal for application of certificates of identity for transgender persons was made available in 10 languages this week, an official said. The portal, which is available at transgender.dosje.gov.in, was launched on November 25, 2020 for facilitating ID cards for trans persons. However, it was available only in English.    The Hindu had reported on Thursday that the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment would soon be making the portal available in regional languages. As on Saturday, the portal was available in Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Hindi, apart from English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/transgender-portal-in-more-languages/article34862375.ece
20 June 2021||United Nations,||India abstains on resolution on Myanmar||India has abstained on a U.N. General Assembly resolution on Myanmar, saying its views have not been reflected in the draft and New Delhi does not believe the resolution, tabled hastily, is conducive to “aiding our joint efforts towards strengthening democratic process” in the country. The General Assembly adopted the draft resolution “The situation in Myanmar” on Friday with 119 Member States voting in favour, including Myanmar while 36 nations abstained, including Myanmar’s neighbours India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Laos, Nepal and Thailand. Russia also abstained. Belarus was the sole country voting against it. “This resolution was tabled in the U.N. General Assembly in a hasty manner without adequate consultations with countries. This is not only unhelpful but may also prove counter-productive to efforts of the ASEAN to find a solution,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T.S. Tirumurti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-abstains-on-resolution-on-myanmar/article34862383.ece
20 June 2021||Mumbai,||‘Walking with pride remains only motto’||In a scathing attack without naming the Congress, its ally in the Maharashtra government, which has repeatedly spoken of going solo in future elections, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said his party would “neither act feeble nor carry one’s weight for the sake of power and walking with pride remains the only motto”. In an online address to its workers on the party’s 55th foundation day, Mr. Thackeray highlighted the importance of a federal structure by congratulating the voters of West Bengal, and reiterated that “no political party has a patent on Hindutva as Sena still maintains it [Hindutva] in its heart”. ‘Self-strength?’ “Some people are giving the slogans of self strength. We can do the same. But what exactly you mean by self strength? Of course it is important and much-needed. It is not limited to elections but required to seek justice as well, as Shiv Sena did for the Marathi speaking population in Mumbai and Maharashtra,” Mr. Thackeray said. State Congress president Nana Patole had said last week that his party would go solo in the next polls. At a party programme on Saturday, too, Mr. Patole talked about making the Congress “the number one in Maharashtra” while few others sought approval to go solo in future elections. Mr. Thackeray, without naming the Congress, said while people were battling COVID-19 and facing financial problems, slogans of going solo in polls or on self-strength meant no good. “People will beat us. What’s the use of this self-strength if people are being forced to beg on the roads? What are we going to use this power for? We must fight this calamity by giving up our election-to-election mindset,” Mr. Thackeray said. He maintained that he was “not a palanquin bearer” and wouldn’t “act feeble for the sake of power”. “We will walk on our feet with pride. This is our motto,” he said. Mr. Thackeray also congratulated the voters of West Bengal. “They upheld regional pride,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/walking-with-pride-remains-only-motto/article34862390.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||Review move to appoint Paras: Chirag||Chirag Paswan, along with a delegation, met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, urging him to review the decision to appoint Pashupati Nath Paras as the parliamentary party leader of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). Mr. Paras had met the Speaker on June 13, along with four other MPs, claiming the post for himself. Within a day, the Speaker had issued official orders finalising the appointment. The former LJP leader claimed that as per the the party’s constitution, Mr. Paras could not lay claim to the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/review-move-to-appoint-paras-chirag/article34862391.ece
20 June 2021||Srinagar,||Mehbooba’s uncle released after 6 months||Sartaj Madani, uncle of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, was released on Saturday after six months in preventive detention in Srinagar. An official said Mr. Madani’s detention period under Section 107 and 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was coming to an end. His release, however, comes amid a buzz that the Union government was formally inviting the political parties from Jammu and Kashmir to New Delhi for a dialogue in the last week of June. Mr. Madani was earlier arrested on August 5, 2019, when the Centre ended J&K’s special constitutional position, and was released in 2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mehboobas-uncle-released-after-6-months/article34862396.ece
20 June 2021||Guwahati,||Drugs seized in Assam, Arunachal||The drive against drugs in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam has led the security forces to a few women-run operations. The anti-drug squad of the police in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tirap district on June 18 arrested a woman identified as P. Gangsa for carrying 5.69 gm of brown sugar concealed in seven plastic containers. The driver of an Assam-registered vehicle she was travelling in was also arrested. Tirap’s Superintendent of Police Kardak Riba said the woman, on the radar for quite some time, led to the arrest of the kingpin of the drug racket from the Tissa area in the district. On June 17, the Assam Police arrested two persons, including a woman, at Khatkhati in Karbi Anglong district. They seized from the duo’s possession 164 packets of high-grade heroin weighing 2.12 kg and worth Rs. 7 crore in the grey market. Khatkati is close to Nagaland’s Dimapur, seen as the hub of illegal drug, arms and wildlife body parts trade. Kevin Movi, who was arrested with Didi, is from Dimapur. The woman turned out to be Th. Paone, referred to as Didi by drug buyers. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma referred to her arrest as a major breakthrough, praising the police for busting a “big supply chain network with narco-terror angle” in Karbi Anglong. The district police said the trap to nab Didi was laid after the seizure of 723 grams of heroin at Barpathar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drugs-seized-in-assam-arunachal/article34862408.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||All is quiet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-is-quiet/article34862413.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||Notices to IMA over Ayurveda comments||A Delhi court sought response from the Indian Medical Association, its president, secretary and others seeking an apology for alleged derogatory remarks against Ayurvedic treatment and medicines. Civil judge Deeksha Rao issued the notices to IMA, Dr. J.A. Jayalal, Dr. Jayesh Lele, National Medical Commission and Bureau of Indian Standards on a suit filed by Rajender Singh Rajput and sought their reply by July 9. The suit sought a direction from the court to IMA to desist from making derogatory statements and hurting the sentiments of Ayurvedic believers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/notices-to-ima-over-ayurveda-comments/article34862897.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||DPIIT Secretary G. Mohapatra passes away||Guruprasad Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), died of COVID-19 related complications at AIIMS on Saturday. Mohapatra, 59, was admitted to AIIMS in mid-April. He is the first serving Secretary to the government of India to have succumbed to COVID-19. Prior to his role as DPIIT Secretary, Mohapatra served as chairman of the Airports Authority of India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolences to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dpiit-secretary-g-mohapatra-passes-away/article34862410.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments are back along the Cooum in Chetpet||A group of people claiming to be tribals have put up huts, encroaching the banks of Cooum river along Spurtank Road in Chetpet. They claimed that they belonged to the Kurru tribe, which depended on hunting and gathering from forests on the outskirts of the city. At least 50 members of the community have constructed huts, claiming that they were rendered homeless after being evicted by the Greater Chennai Corporation officials a few years ago. The officials, who enumerated the affected families, refused to allot houses in the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements as they were Telugu-speaking people, they charged. Badanapuri Venkat, one of the encroachers, said the community, which speaks Kurrubasha, a tribal language, had been residing in the city for many generations but they were not able to vote during the recent Assembly election as they were removed from the electoral rolls. “We have been requesting officials for houses but they refused. We have no other alternative during the lockdown,” he said. Officials had refused to give them Scheduled Tribe certificates, denying benefits of government welfare schemes, they claimed. Badanapuri Ramu, another member, said they had requested the State government to help them get homes and shops to sell bamboo products. Residents complained about the encroachments and demanded they be evicted immediately. Officials said they would remove the encroachments and construct a compound wall along the river after the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-are-back-along-the-cooum-in-chetpet/article34862545.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deaths due to COVID-19 fall below 200||Tamil Nadu recorded 8,183 new cases of COVID-19 and 180 deaths on Saturday, taking its tally to 24,14,680 and toll to 31,015. As the number of deaths dropped below 200 after several weeks, the State, for the second day in a row, continued to record a number of deaths that took place in homes last month. Saturday’s bulletin recorded 15 such deaths — 11 of the deceased had co-morbidities. A number of these patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died while in home isolation. Coimbatore logged 1,014 fresh cases, followed by Erode with 933. There were 533 cases in Salem and 489 in Tiruppur. In Chennai, 468 people tested positive for the infection. There were 361 cases in Thanjavur, 334 in Chengalpattu and 328 in Namakkal. Of the 180 fatalities, Chennai registered 31. Active cases continued to fall in the State. As of date, 78,780 people are under treatment for COVID-19. These include 11,191 people in Coimbatore, 8,928 in Erode, 6,506 in Tiruppur and 4,795 in Salem. In Chennai, the number of active cases fell further to 2,262. As many as 18,232 people were discharged after treatment. In the last 24 hours, 1,71,179 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 3,09,96,798. A total of 3,61,565 people were vaccinated on Saturday. Of these, 2,32,596 people were in the 18-44 age group. Vaccination was held in 2,540 sessions. With this, the State’s coverage rose to 1,18,24053.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deaths-due-to-covid-19-fall-below-200/article34862567.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal reaches out to MNM cadre||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan is holding discussions with his party’s defeated candidates (Assembly poll) and office-bearers at the lower level, reassuring them that they would have more access to party “leadership” and powers to take decisions. Mr. Haasan has faced a tough post-election scenario as most of the immediate second-line office-bearers, including the vice-president and several general secretaries, left the party. They accused him of authoritarianism and raised doubts over transparency, including in matters of finances lending credence to speculation that he was merely trying to split votes. The party, which made a decent start in 2019 Lok Sabha election garnering close to 4% of the votes, could get only 3% voteshare while not winning any seat. A younger candidate fielded in Chennai told The Hindu that Mr. Haasan reached out personally to discuss the future of the party and to understand what internal reforms were needed. “In a way, we are happy that he has taken charge of the party. It was his party and we joined him. Many of us felt that the access to the leader, which was available when the party was formed, was gradually cut off by senior office-bearers. So, the party leader directly reaching out is exactly what was needed,” said the candidate. The candidate added that Mr. Haasan has been advised by many to appoint more people at lower levels and empower them. Another candidate with a corporate background said Mr. Haasan had begun reaching out to candidates immediately after the election results were announced. An office-bearer, who worked in a Chennai constituency, said that this was an effort to reassure the party cadre that the leader was still in charge and keep the flock together. “There was uncertainty over the future of the party. Leader directly reaching out to us and reassuring us that a new party structure is getting ready gives us hope,” he said. A senior office-bearer said there had been wide-ranging discussions about how the party, which had refrained from organising public protests, could get involved in public issues actively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-reaches-out-to-mnm-cadre/article34862581.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With digital payments on the rise, experts suggest precautions||The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the adoption of digital payments in India and at the same time there has been a significant surge in financial frauds. Experts have urged users to take precautionary measures to ensure safety of their financial transactions. Recent surveys released by independent research firms have also pointed to the trend of increase in the number of financial frauds in digital payments. The financial frauds were mostly through phishing, followed by QR code/ UPI scams but consumers were also victims of card scams and skimming, according to a report by financial technology firm FIS. V. Rajendran, chairman of Digital Security Association of India and a cyber advocate, said that the customers should not keep large balances in online payment apps and also should not have higher limits for credit card and net banking transactions. He also said customers should avoid having unnecessary apps on their mobile phones and must not blindly agree to the terms and conditions stated by the apps. Internet banking fraud in which callers say KYC needs to be done immediately or your bank account will be blocked, credit card frauds, phishing and vishing are some of the categories which digital payment modes are vulnerable to. ‘PIN must’ Nelesh Kripalani, Chief Technology Officer, Clover Infotech, an IT services and consulting company, pointed out credit cards could be prone to attacks due to the facility to not use a PIN for transactions below a minimum limit. “It would be ideal for credit card users to not enable automated transactions or transactions without an OTP validation on their credit card. Every swipe should be accompanied by a PIN to validate and then authenticate the transaction and the online transactions should only go through with an OTP-based validation that is received on the user’s mobile phone,” Mr. Kripalani also suggested. Exercise prudence “Customers need to ensure that e-mails are from the right entity. Phishers would create identical URLs and design the pages almost identical to the entity they are trying to copy. The customer must be immensely prudent and observant. They must check if the link has an https prefix and if the URL is correct before sharing any information or making a transaction,” he pointed out. Vishing, another type of fraud, involves calling users by claiming to be from a bank or a reputed company and then making the users share personal information such as card numbers and inducing them to do a transaction. A user must also ensure that most of his transactions go through at least a two-factor authentication process — the second factor could be an OTP received on their mobile or a secret question to which only they know the answer, Mr. Kripalani said. Users must also refrain from using public networks or public Wi-Fi to make a transaction. They must use their Wi-Fi at home or office that is protected and secured, he added.  Customers should avoid having unnecessary apps on their mobile phones and must not blindly agree to the terms and conditions stated by the apps  V. Rajendran, Chairman of Digital Security Association of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-digital-payments-on-the-rise-experts-suggest-precautions/article34862572.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Cement will be made available at a reasonable price’||The South Indian Cement Manufacturers’ Association has said that cement would be made available at a reasonable and acceptable price. In a statement on Saturday, the association said based on an appeal by the Minister for Industries, the cement industry had said that it would ensure that cement was available at a reasonable and acceptable price to help the public at large during the pandemic. However, the association did not give any details about amount to that would be slashed. “The cement industry is working very closely with the government of Tamil Nadu, making cement available at a hugely concessional price to the weaker sections of the society. We want to assure the State government and the people that the cement industry will remain fully supportive of every single development initiative of the government,” it said. It also noted that cement prices were only a small component of the total construction cost. “The cement industry, like all other industries, has been going through trying times during the second wave of COVID-19, operating at just 30%-40% capacity utilisation. To sustain ourselves, and because of an increase in all-round costs, the price increase of cement was inevitable,” it said. Real-estate developers and builders in Tamil Nadu have been complaining about escalating cement prices in the last few months. They had said that retail prices of cement had shot up to Rs. 520 for a 50-kg bag, from Rs. 460 in May. Cement manufacturers had then pointed out that their input costs had gone up, citing it as the reason for the price rise. Members of the Construction and Real Estate Industry coalition protest against steep rise in cement cost Earlier this week, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said the State government held a meeting with stakeholders in the industry on reducing cement prices. Protest held Members of the Construction and Real Estate Industry Coalition staged a protest against the steep rise in cement prices in Chennai on Saturday. They said cement was being sold at an exorbitant price in Tamil Nadu, compared to other States. They resorted to a protest, where some members sat on cement bags stacked in a vehicle outside industrialist and South India Cement Manufacturers’ Association president N. Srinivasan’s house. S. Yuvaraj, the coalition’s secretary, said a bag of cement was being sold at Rs. 350-Rs. 370 in Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. This sudden price hike will affect the construction industry, and the labourers dependent on it, he said. Though there had been no increase in the cost of raw materials or taxes, cement prices had soared. Similarly, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has urged the State government to appoint a monitoring committee to control the spiralling cost of cement and other construction materials and streamline the trade for the benefit of the unorganised workers dependent on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cement-will-be-made-available-at-a-reasonable-price/article34862555.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panneerselvam accuses DMK of changing tack on NEET||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam said on Saturday that but for the 7.5% horizontal reservation law enacted by the AIADMK government last year for NEET-qualified government school students, the number of such students joining medical courses would have been hardly eight. In a statement, he recalled that in 2019-20, only six government school students had joined the courses. Driven by the difficulties faced by rural and poor students, the AIADMK government framed the law, which helped to increase the number of government school students joining the courses to over 400. Mr. Panneerselvam said Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian’s statement that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) would be held this year exposed the DMK that had promised to get the test withdrawn if it was voted in. He asked how it was fair for the DMK to blame his party for facilitating the conduct of the coaching classes, while it was the DMK that had paved the way for the introduction of the test. He stressed that the DMK, while being part of the Congress-led government at the Centre, should have taken steps to stall the introduction of the NEET or, at least, withdrawn its support to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panneerselvam-accuses-dmk-of-changing-tack-on-neet/article34862557.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has 5.56 lakh vaccine doses||Tamil Nadu now has 5.56 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and is expecting three lakh more doses on Saturday evening, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Saturday. So far, the State had received around 1.22 crore doses, and had vaccinated nearly 1.14 crore people, he told reporters at the Government Hospital, Saidapet, where an oxygen generation plant was opened by Chepauk-Triplicane MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin. Three days ago, the State vaccinated the highest number of people — 3,68,806, he added. “In the Greater Chennai Corporation, traders of the Koyambedu market, the Kasimedu fishing harbour and the Chintadripet market have been vaccinated. Chennai ranks high among the metros in the country in vaccination,” he said. Mr. Subramanian pointed out that vaccination camps were also being held in rural areas, while private hospitals had taken up new methods, such as drive-in vaccination to take forward the programme. “When the DMK entered office on May 7, the daily COVID-19 case count was 26,465. On May 21, the number peaked at 36,184. The cases are fast declining, and they reached 8,633 on Friday. We have achieved this decline in nearly 40 days,” he said. A number of States still accounted for 8%-9% positivity rate, while Tamil Nadu’s rate had come down to nearly 5%. Mr. Subramanian said that earlier, a 1,000-litre plant was opened at the Government Royapettah Hospital at a cost of nearly Rs. 1.5 crore. A total of 10 plants were being established with the corporate social responsibility funds of industries at hospitals in Kolathur, Villupuram and Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-has-556-lakh-vaccine-doses/article34862560.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mekedatu project comes under spotlight again||Despite being a non-starter, the Mekedatu dam project across the Cauvery, being pursued by Karnataka since the early 1960s, remains a source of friction between the upper riparian State and Tamil Nadu. At different points of time, the project has made the headlines only to get relegated to the background. This time, the closure of the suo  motu proceedings, by the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal, on the alleged violation of environmental norms in the implementation has brought Mekedatu to the fore. The project, originally mooted in 1948, came up for investigation after the States were re-organised in 1956. It was talked about prominently in the early 1960s. Around the same time, Tamil Nadu came up with the Hogenakkal project. Subsequently, Mekedatu was almost forgotten after the two States were locked in an acrimonious dispute on the basic issue of sharing the Cauvery water. It came back to life when the two States held five rounds of negotiations in 1996-97. A few years later, the Centre evinced interest in reviving it and formulated a package of four projects — two each in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu encompassing Mekedatu and Hogenakkal. So long as the Centre was in the picture, Tamil Nadu participated in the discussions that went on intermittently for 10 years because it favoured the National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC) or any other Central government agency executing the projects without harming the orders of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) on water-sharing. Karnataka, which also took part in the talks held by the Centre, has for the last seven-eight years reverted to its earlier stand of implementing Mekedatu on its own. Taking note of the deliberations between the States and the NHPC, the CWDT, in its final order of February 2007, emphasised that “whenever any such hydro-power project is constructed and Cauvery waters are stored in the reservoir, the pattern of downstream releases should be consistent with our order so that the irrigation requirements are not jeopardised”. In February 2018, the Supreme Court, while modifying the CWDT’s final order, did not disturb this position. In June 2019, Karnataka prepared a “pre-feasibility report”, seeking to meet three broad objectives. The proposed “balancing reservoir” at Mekedatu (between Krishnaraja Sagar-Kabini and Mettur), with a capacity of 67 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft), will regulate the release of the required quantum to Tamil Nadu on a monthly basis, as stipulated by the CWDT and the Supreme Court. It will also address the drinking water needs of the Bengaluru Metropolitan Region and the adjoining areas, besides generating 400 megawatt of electricity. Tamil Nadu’s concerns are essentially over the basic features, says an official. As the site will be downstream of Krishnaraja Sagar and Kabini, Tamil Nadu will be deprived of the benefits of rainfall in the intermediate catchments of the two dams in Karnataka and the Mettur dam. In fact, in the last 25 years or so, water realisation in October and November was primarily owing to this factor rather than Karnataka releasing water on its own. Tamil Nadu has received around 80 tmc ft annually, thanks to the run-off from the intermediate catchments. The official says the State’s suit, filed in 2018, is pending in the Supreme Court. For all these reasons, the Expert Appraisal Committee for River Valley and Hydroelectric Projects of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change said the proposal for environmental clearance could be reconsidered after the States reached an “amicable solution”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mekedatu-project-comes-under-spotlight-again/article34862563.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Readying for a third wave, State ramps up infrastructure in paediatric wards||As a preparedness measure to counter a third wave of COVID-19, Tamil Nadu is ramping up infrastructure in paediatric wards and sensitising paediatricians to COVID-19 treatment protocols and management. While whether the third wave of infections will largely affect children is still being debated, health officials and experts in the State are of the view that Tamil Nadu needs to be prepared, keeping in mind the experiences from the last two waves. “All medical colleges and district headquarters hospitals are creating additional bed capacity over and above the existing paediatric capacity along with intensive care units,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. During a presentation to the Chief Minister, health officials had said that for paediatric preparedness during the third wave, regular screening and steps to vaccinate those under 18 were of utmost importance. High-risk children could be prioritised and given inactivated vaccines such as Covaxin, though this depended on the outcome of clinical trials and approval for the paediatric population. Sensitising paediatricians in all districts, ensuring adequate supply of steroids, intravenous immunoglobulin and other drugs needed for paediatric care, and increasing infrastructure and human resources in paediatric and NICU units as per district-wise projects were the other measures suggested. With experiences from the two waves, it was important to be prepared, pointed out J. Kumutha, expert adviser-child health, National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu. “We really do not know how severe the infection could be among the paediatric population, but we should not be caught unawares. We should be prepared, and this is exactly why the government is gearing up all paediatric units to see how many beds can be spared,” she explained. She added that children were now the most vulnerable population as they were not vaccinated. “People already affected will have antibodies, and those vaccinated will have a certain degree of immunity. Having said that, babies who tested positive for COVID-19 during this wave did not have very severe disease, except for those with multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). We are seeing slightly more cases of MIS-C this time than during the first wave,” she said. Taking care of paediatric patients was also critical, as an attendant too should be allowed, she said. Hence, it was important for parents to get vaccinated, she stressed. In the second wave, children accounted for less than 4% of the cases — around 54,800 children were affected, S. Srinivasan, State nodal officer-child health, stated. “As long as schools do not reopen and we achieve good vaccination coverage, these will act as indirect ways of protecting children from the infection. On the preparedness side, we do not want to take risks,” he said. He said during both the waves, well-nourished children did not experience problems. Children have innate immune responses, and the rejuvenating capacity of the alveolar epithelium too is better among children than adults. “We have many points in favour of children. In case of MIS-C, it is 100% treatable if diagnosed early. We had less than 1% of children with MIS-C in the second wave,” he said. The government is now preparing paediatricians in the management of COVID-19 and MIS-C, he said, adding that paediatricians in many districts were being sensitised to treatment protocols and management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readying-for-a-third-wave-state-ramps-up-infrastructure-in-paediatric-wards/article34862565.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lorry strike on June 28||Members of the Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Federation will take part in the nationwide protest called by All India Motor Transport Congress on June 28 against escalating fuel prices. Federation president Murugan Venkatachalam said, “We plan to put up black flag on heavy vehicles, including water tankers, and operate till July-end as a mark of protest against the unmindful fuel price hike.” Some of the demands ofi the Federation nclude decrease in excise duty by the central government and monthly instalment moratorium must be announced for six months. The diesel and petrol must be brought under the Goods and Services Tax ambit to ensure uniform rate across the country, the Federation president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-strike-on-june-28/article34862578.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Those with cardiovascular diseases should get vaccines’||It is important for persons with cardiovascular diseases to get vaccinated, and there need not be any apprehension in taking the vaccines, said doctors at a panel discussion organised by The Hindu in partnership with Kauvery Hospitals. Addressing the online discussion on the topic ‘COVID-19 and Cardiovascular Diseases’ as part of the The Hindu ’s Wellness Series webinar on Saturday, T. Senthil Kumar, chief cardiovascular and thoracic surgeon and executive director, Kauvery Heartcity, Tiruchi, said all patients could take any of the available vaccines for COVID-19. He said if a person had any concerns, they could always discuss with their doctor, but taking the vaccine was important. K.P. Suresh Kumar, chief cardiologist, Kauvery Hospitals, Chennai, said the important role of COVID-19 vaccines was not to completely prevent the infection, but to prevent severe complications, hospitalisation and deaths. S. Mullasri Ajit, director - cardiology, The Madras Medical Mission, said while there was a very remote chance of may be one in a lakh cases of a person developing a small complication after taking the vaccine, the risk of catching COVID-19 and becoming seriously ill or dying were far higher. Stressing on the need for not having any hesitancy towards vaccines, he said it was important to listen to scientists and medical professionals instead of blindly believing information from social media that could be false. Highlighting that thrombosis or clotting of blood was a commonly observed risk for patients who recovered from COVID-19, Dr. Suresh Kumar said it was important for people who had moderate to severe case of COVID-19 and required hospitalisation to be on blood thinners for a few weeks. “Unless and until there are any contraindications to blood thinners, it is better to take them as per doctor’s advice in such cases,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-with-cardiovascular-diseases-should-get-covid-19-vaccines/article34862549.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kalvi TV lessons for new academic year kick off||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin opened the telecast of new programmes on Kalvi TV for Classes I-XII and distributed free textbooks to a few students from government and government-aided schools at an event held at the Anna Centenary Library here on Saturday. Ever since schools were shut owing to the COVID-19 lockdown last year, video lessons for State Board students of all classes have been telecast on Kalvi TV. New academic year For the 2021-22 academic year, the School Education Department has begun the telecast of video lessons since the schools remain shut. Admissions to Class XI and other classes began last week, and free textbooks will soon be distributed to all students of government and government-aided schools. These schemes, which have been planned at a budget of Rs. 292 crore, will benefit nearly 62 lakh students of government and aided schools across the State, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kalvi-tv-lessons-for-new-academic-year-kick-off/article34862553.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMD to post monthly weather reports||The India Meteorological Department will begin to update details about monthly weather performance in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on its website from this month end. This month’s bulletin will be a summary on the southwest monsoon’s performance in the State and Puducherry. Plans are on to compile and post such monthly bulletins on the last day of the month on the website, imdchennai.gov.in, said officials.  Thunderstorms Thunderstorms with light to moderate rain may occur at one or two places in coastal and nearby interior districts like Chennai and Puducherry, apart from Coimbatore and Theni. From Monday, there are chances of heavy rain over the Western Ghats and interior parts of the State. A few other places in the State and Puducherry may experience light to moderate rain, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imd-to-post-monthly-weather-reports/article34862574.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cash strapped, but still helping the needy||Residents of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements in Perumbakkam have been pooling in money and resources and feeding over 300 elderly residents, including differently abled persons, who are struggling without food during the lockdown. Siragugal (wings) is a resident welfare association of Block C of the Perumbakkam TNSCB tenements. There are over 25 members, and some of them are office attendants, plumbers and cab drivers, while many are daily wage earners. “From June 1, the owner of a farmhouse supplied some food for those struggling in the tenements. However, due to logistical issues, this was discontinued. But every day, around noon the elderly and differently abled used to come and wait. We felt very bad and decided to serve them food by pooling money,” said Alamelu Bhaskar, a member of the association. Each member contributed toward groceries. “Since June 6, we have been feeding 300 people,” she added. However, the group is running out of funds. “It will be helpful if people help us with groceries,” Ms. Alamelu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-strapped-but-still-helping-the-needy/article34862570.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber to be in custody till July 3||YouTuber and PUBG player Madan has been remanded in judicial custody until July 3, after being produced before a metropolitan magistrate in Saidapet on Saturday. On Saturday, the cyber crime cell of the Central Crime Branch arrested him in Dharmapuri, after several complaints were lodged against him for having obscene conversations with minors and women while live streaming games. Madan was brought to the city on Friday. Mobile phones, laptops, a dongle and two luxury cars were seized from him. His bank accounts were frozen. He was interrogated till Saturday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber-to-be-in-custody-till-july-3/article34862550.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teacher arrested in Siva Shankar Baba case||The Crime Branch CID (CB CID) arrested a woman teacher for allegedly abetting Siva Shankar Baba, who was arrested two days ago on charges of sexually abusing girl students at an international school, which he founded. He was arrested in Delhi on Wednesday. Three cases were registered against Siva Shankar Baba after several alumni of the school complained of sexual abuse. Seizures On Friday, the police sealed his chamber in the school and also seized hard disks and pen drives from the premises. Police said Sushmitha, 30, a teacher had been arrested for allegedly abetting the crime. One of complainants alleged that she was an alumni and a teacher in the school. Even when she was employed elsewhere, she used to visit Baba frequently. The complainant said she had seen Sushmitha escorting girls to the Baba’s chamber, and that she was also forcibly taken to his chamber once by the woman. He touched her inappropriately and then threatened her not to disclose anything to others. The teacher also warned her, the complainant alleged. Sushmitha was produced before the Mahila Court in Chengalpattu and remanded in judicial custody on Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-arrested-in-siva-shankar-baba-case/article34862547.ece
20 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leprosy patients to be vaccinated||A special camp to vaccinate leprosy patients against COVID-19 will be held across the State. “About 3,000 leprosy patients are undergoing treatment under the Health Department. We are starting a special camp in Sholinganallur on Sunday. In 10 days, we will cover all patients across the State by taking the vaccination drive to their doorsteps,” Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian told reporters on Saturday. Officials said the vaccination of leprosy patients in rehabilitation homes and hospitals across the State was being taken up. Those who are in their houses, following treatment, will also be covered, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leprosy-patients-to-be-vaccinated/article34862561.ece
20 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water level inches up in Siruvani Reservoir||Water level in the Siruvani Reservoir has gone up by around 12 feet, thanks to the rains in the recent past. Data available with the city’s water managers showed that in the last 10 days, the reservoir had received good rainfall in the last five days: 52 mm on June 13, 53 mm on June 15, 127 mm on June 16, 98 mm on June 17 and 83 mm on June 18. On June 19, too, there was good rain – 27 mm. This had helped the water level go up by 12.04 feet to 26.18 feet in the reservoir, the full reservoir level of which is 49.50 feet. The city’s water managers said the rainfall recorded in the reservoir indicated the level of precipitation in the catchment. In the coming days, the water level would keep inching up as the water from the catchment flowed into the reservoir. The increase in water level would ease the pressure on the Coimbatore Corporation, which had a few days ago started diverting water from the Pilloor drinking water supply scheme to make good the shortfall in supply to the wards fed by Siruvani water. Meanwhile in the city, there had been only negligible rainfall. Since the start of the South-West Monsoon season on June 1, the city had received only 12.5 mm in four rainy days. A 24-hour period with over 2.5 mm precipitation is considered as rainy day. With almost three weeks into the monsoon season, the rainfall received was not even half of the long-term average for the first month of the season, said Prof. S.P. Ramanathan of the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The average for June is 42.8 mm. Quoting the revised prediction from weather watchers, he said the city was unlikely to see significant rainfall for the remaining days of June. Only in July, the city could witness good rainfall. The city would continue to experience wind at the top speed of around 20 km per hour. It would also have good cloud cover, he added. In Pilloor, the Tangedco was releasing only around 6,000 cusecs into the River Bhavani and the Revenue Department there had withdrawn the flood warning, said sources from the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-inches-up-in-siruvani-reservoir/article34862606.ece
20 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Less than 4% of Coimbatore’s population fully vaccinated||Only 1.40 lakh people were fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in Coimbatore district as per Government of India’s CoWIN portal as of Saturday. Going by the district population as 38 lakh as per the rough estimation of the Revenue Department, only 3.7 % of it has been vaccinated fully. A total of 8,34,637 doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered to people through 49 government centres and 22 private centres in district as of data figured in CoWIN portal up to 8 p.m. on Saturday. Out of these, 6,93,899 doses were administered as first jab and remaining 1,40,738 doses were administered as second jabs. As per the portal, Covishiled doses were administered more in the district and men outnumbered women in taking vaccines. It showed that the highest number of doses were administered to people in the 45-60 age group – 2,55,503. Those in the 18-44 age group stood at the second position by receiving 2,45,741 doses. The vaccination trend showed the administration of second dose of COVID-19 vaccines saw its peak in the district from April 24 to 30 when 25,346 people received their shots. Inoculation of second dose saw a decline from May 1. The highest number of first doses were administered in the seven-day period between June 12 and 18 when 94,850 people took their shot. The highest number of doses, both first and second, were also administered in the district during the same period - 1,03,459 doses. A senior official involved in the vaccination drive said that increase in the availability of vaccines in private centres was reflected in the steady increase in the administration of vaccines after June 12. The district was expecting to get increased allocation of vaccines from the State government to conduct free vaccination drives through government-run centres in the coming days, added the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-than-4-of-coimbatores-population-fully-vaccinated/article34862871.ece
20 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||People forced to try their luck at camps||K. Thenmozhi was among hundreds of people who waited in front of the government-run COVID-19 vaccination centre at Periyanaickenpalayam on Saturday. The district administration on Friday informed that a camp would be held on Saturday. The centre, however, did not receive the 120 doses of vaccine, 100 doses of Covishield and 20 doses of Covaxin, as announced by the district administration. Those assembled in front of the vaccination centre including those who came before 6 a.m. were forced to leave the place after waiting till 1 p.m. By the time the Health Department diverted nearly 100 doses of vaccine from another government hospital, most of the people including Ms. Thenmozhi had left. “I would not have come if they announced in advance that the camp would not be held,” she said. Though the hospital staff tried to explain people that it did not receive the stock, many did not believe it. Some people went to a camp held in a government school at Narasimhanaickenpalayam where hundreds of people were waiting from as early as 4.30 a.m. The centre was allotted 600 doses. Government schools at Narasimhanaickenpalayam, Madukkarai, Kalampalayam and Government Hospital, Sulur, were the only places where vaccination camps were held for the general public in Coimbatore district on Saturday. A total of 2,270 doses were allocated for the general public through these camps while centres in Coimbatore Corporation limits did not receive any dose. “If camps are conducted in the same manner, with limited allocation of doses, it will take more than a year to vaccinate the whole people in the district,” said an official involved in the vaccination programme who did not want to be named. The official pointed out that the State was not getting enough vaccine to conduct regular camps through government-run vaccination centres from the Centre. Message does not reach public Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon blamed that the district administration and the Health Department utterly failed in taking the message on vaccination camps to the public properly. “The district administration and the Health Department thinks that information on vaccination camps reaches the public if press releases are sent to the media, which is also done very late every day. They do not check whether the information reaches the public. I came across many people who had come to camps without knowing about the type of vaccine being administered and the age category permitted. Authorities should ensure that details about vaccination camps reaches the public in advance,” he said. He added that WhatsApp groups in local level could be used to disseminate information. The Deputy Director of Health Services, whom the The Hindu tried to reach, was not available for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-forced-to-try-their-luck-at-camps/article34862862.ece
20 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Early tracking reduces COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore city||The number of persons, who had tested positive for COVID-19 in the city on Friday, stood at 159. On June 11, the number was 627. Of the many reasons for the more than one-fourth reduction in daily positive case one was the Coimbatore Corporation keeping tab on persons who bought without prescription the medicines used to treat COVID-19, said sources. Drug stores The Corporation keeping track of such persons started a few days ago with the civic body issuing a release asking drug stores to not give over the counter the drugs prescribed for treating the infection and note down the details of persons who bought medicines to treat fever, cough or other influenza like infection (ILI). Scan centres The sources said the Corporation had also liaised with scan centres for details of persons going for scan to check their COVID-19 status. Since the initiative began, the Corporation had tracked down more than 150 such persons asking them if they showed ILI symptoms or sending teams to collect their swab samples. This helped in early detection and reflected in the reduced COVID-19 case count in the city. One of the issues the Corporation faced in tracking such persons was that many were from outside the city limits and the shops they bought the tablets were from within the city. The second was that when contacted, the medicine buyers had told the Corporation that they had taken their first or second dose of vaccine and to control the fever, they bought paracetamol. Without taking chances, the Corporation was doing all it could to verify such claims as well. Positivity rate The Corporation sources said in addition to the case count, the positivity rate had also come down – the number of people testing COVID-19 positive for every 100 samples collected. From 12.20% on June 11, the rate had come down to 5.66% on June 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-tracking-reduces-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore-city/article34862858.ece
20 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps today||A total of 21,500 doses of Covishield and 100 doses of Covaxin will be available to the general public at different vaccination centres in Coimbatore district on Sunday. Each of the 13 Upgraded Primary Health Centres (UPHC) in Coimbatore rural will have 200 doses each of Covishield on Sunday. The 41 PHCs have been allotted 4,100 doses of Covishield, 100 each for every PHC. Mettupalayam urban health centre, PHCs at Vadugapalayam and Kamatchi Nagar in Pollachi Municipality will have 100 doses each of Covishield. The government school at Alandurai has been given 500 doses of Covishield and 100 doses of Covaxin. In Coimbatore Corporation limits, 14,000 doses of Covishield will be administered to people aged above 45 through the 36 vaccination centres functioning in the Corporation and government schools in the five zones from 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-today/article34862865.ece
20 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Session for doctors today||VGM Hospital in association with online medical platform Omnicuris will conduct a session for the medical fraternity on the situation after COVID-19 on June 20. The online session, titled ‘Post COVID-19 Doctors Toolkit for Gastroenterology, Hepatology, Pulmonology, and Cardiology’, will begin at 7 p.m. Founder and Chairman of VGM Gastro Centre V.G. Mohan Prasad along with experts would be a part of the panel, the release said. MP’s appeal Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan has appealed to the Centre to set up an AIIMS hospital in Coimbatore. It would benefits patients across the region, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/session-for-doctors-today/article34862870.ece
20 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Electricity charges||Electricity consumers coming under Thudiyalur east, Saravanampatti, Pannimadai, Chinna Thadagam, Urumandampalayam, Periyanaikenpalayam, and Naikenpalayam feeders should pay the electricity consumption charges of April for June too, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electricity-charges/article34862859.ece
20 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Prison inmates take to yoga, meditation||Mata Amritanandamayi Math has reached out to 5,500 prisoners across the State to teach yoga and meditation. A release from the organisation said trained Amrita volunteers taught breathing techniques, self-analysis, emotion control and meditation to men and women prisoners in central prisons in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Pudukottai and a few other places. As many as 50 trainers taught those to prisoners irrespective of their race, religion, caste, creed or gender, the release said and added that the training was for two-and-half hours each for three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prison-inmates-take-to-yoga-meditation/article34862607.ece
20 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Fire at mattress making unit||A fire broke out at a mattress and pillow manufacturing unit near Karimangalam here on Saturday. According to police, fire-fighters from Palacode rushed to the spot and doused the fire. Products worth over Rs. 1 lakh were damaged in the fire. Karimangalam police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-mattress-making-unit/article34862611.ece
20 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Young mothers can take vaccine’||City Health Officer R Latchiya Varna on Saturday appealed to the young women, especially those who have delivered babies in the recent times, to get COVID-19 vaccination without fear. Speaking to reporters, she said that there were rumours and misconceptions among the womenfolk who had delivered newborn babies over the last 30 days or so not to get the vaccine shots. Only those pregnant mothers, who had tested positive for COVID-19, were advised not to take the vaccine for three months, while for all others, the vaccine can be administered, she clarified. After the Central government had said that there would be no harm in any manner, about 200 womenfolk had registered for getting the vaccine shots at a special camp held at the Little Flower School here. So far, 2.50 lakh persons had taken the vaccine across the district, she responded to a query. Presently, the vaccine was administered to people registering at the Kamala Nehru Hospital, Poochinayakanpatti, Marianathapuram, PHC at Palani Road Muruga Bhavanam, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/young-mothers-can-take-vaccine/article34862962.ece
20 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘DPCs to be opened based on demand’||Based on demand from farmers, Direct Purchase Centres (DPC) would be opened within 24 hours anywhere in the State, said Food and Civil Supplies Corporation Minister R. Sakkarapani here on Friday. The Minister, who distributed COVID-19 cash assistance of Rs. 2,000 and a kit containing 14 grocery items to ration card holders at a function in Sanarpatti, said that with water released on time, more areas could be brought under cultivation. With a view to protecting the farm produce procured from farmers, which were kept in the open at the DPCs, a Punjab model had been submitted to the Chief Minister for approval. Soon paddy stored in open warehouses in the State would be covered and safe, he said. Collector S Visagan was present. At another function held in Vedasandur, he presented free house site patta to a beneficiary, Selvaraj of Velayuthampalayam, in the presence of Karur MP Jothimani. Mr. Selvaraj, father of two daughters, submitted a petition to him about three years ago seeking a house from the government saying he could not afford to build one. However, sitting in the Opposition, the party (DMK) could not do much. Now the Chief Minister had directed to accord top priority to such grievances, the Minister said and appealed to the Collector to expedite the construction of the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpcs-to-be-opened-based-on-demand/article34862970.ece
20 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination to continue in Erode today: officials||A total of 3,05,254 people in the district were administered vaccines, so far, and the figure is expected to increase in the coming weeks as vaccine doses have started to arrive regularly here. A total of 2,15,663 persons received Central-allocated vaccine, while 89,591 persons received State-allocated vaccine as on Saturday. Currently, vaccination is done at 66 Primary Health Centres in rural areas and 10 Urban Primary Health Centres in the corporation limits. Officials at the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said that 13,000 doses of Covishield were sent to all the centres in rural and urban areas on Saturday after which vaccination resumed. “Vaccination will continue on Sunday as vials will arrive any time”, they added. A total of 4,449 persons are in home isolation. While the number of containment zones in rural areas is 346, it is 17 in urban areas. A total of 8,78,020 swab samples were tested in the district and the number of positive cases in a day had dropped to less than 1,000 cases after a month on Friday, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-to-continue-in-erode-today-officials/article34862868.ece
20 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek water release in LBP canal on August 1||Keel Bhavani Vivasaigal Nala Sangam has urged the State government to release water in the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal for irrigation on August 1. Its president C. Nallasamy said that usually water is released in the canal for irrigation on August 15 every year. But currently, even before the release, water storage in Bhavani Sagar Dam is sufficient and with heavy rain in its catchment areas, the dam is receiving over 10,000 cusecs everyday. “Since rainfall continues, the dam is expected to reach its maximum storage capacity very soon”, he said. Mr. Nallasamy said that considering the drought situation in ayacut areas, water should be released on August 1 and urged the Public Works Department to complete the maintenance works at the earliest. Also, prior information should be given to the farmers on the date of release of water so that farmers get prepared for cultivation. Last year, water was released from the dam on August 14 to irrigate 1.03 lakh acres in the districts of Erode, Tiruppur and Karur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-water-release-in-lbp-canal-on-august-1/article34862610.ece
20 June 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Karur Collector stumbles upon Karunanidhi’s inspection note||Former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, who was among the first 15 members of the DMK to enter the Legislative Assembly in 1957, had earnestly performed his duty as an elected representative from Kulithalai constituency back then. A note penned by him as an MLA in the visitors’ book at the Panchayat Union Primary School at Vengampatti near Krishnarayapuram, was shared on social media by the Karur district's new Collector T. Prabhu Shankar, who visited the school for an inspection on Friday. For Dr. Shankar, it was the first inspection after assuming office as Karur Collector. On being informed that the former Chief Minister had visited the school in 1959, Dr. Shankar, who was on a surprise visit to the village to check the COVID-19 preventive measures, checked with the school authorities on whether there was any record about his visit. They then showed him the visitors’ book, which is being preserved for more than seven decades. In his entry on the visitor's book on June 26, 1959, Karunanidhi had appreciated some positive aspects of the school even while making subtle observations on the importance of improving sanitation. The Collector's tweet with photos of the note attracted the attention of many, including Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who is also Karunanidhi's son. “I was amazed to read the content of the note, which is truly impeccable for its clarity, style and language. Even in those days, he had visited the remote village in the erstwhile Tiruchi district and performed his duties as any elected representative is required to do,” observed Dr. Shankar. Appreciating the school teachers for preserving the visitors book, Dr.Shankar said that the school had good infrastructure including smart classrooms. There was a demand to reopen a library, which was closed down a few years ago, in the village. It would be reopened soon with additional facilities.  I was amazed to read the content of the note, which is truly impeccable for its clarity, style and language||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karur-collector-stumbles-on-karunanidhis-inspection-note/article34862569.ece
20 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman retracts complaint||Inquiry into a case of robbery of 26 sovereigns of gold jewellery from an octogenarian woman under Anna Nagar police station limits turned out to be bogus complaint, lodged by the woman to favour one of her legal heirs. Police sources said that the 85-year-old woman, who had four children, wanted to give 26 sovereigns of jewellery to one of her granddaughters. To ‘manage’ her other legal heirs, the woman, along with those who would stand to benefit, staged the drama of robbery. The woman had complained that someone had robbed her gold chains and bangles when she was standing outside her house on Friday morning. Upon inquiry on Saturday, the woman admitted to have given false complaint and withdrew it, the police said. Aruppukottai Virudhunagar district administration has come to the help of an elderly couple of Kuchchampatti village who were badly in need of a proper roof over their heads. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy handed over an order for construction of a green house to 76-year-old Subash Chandra Bose and his wife. Some 25 families who were living in this hamlet under Tiruchuli panchayat union had deserted the village over the years seeking greener pastures. After Mr. Bose, who was living in a dilapidated house, had sought State government’s assistance, the District Rural Development Agency allotted him a green house for Rs. 2.10 lakh and Rs. 24,570 as wages for 90 days of work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and Rs. 12,000 towards subsidy for construction of individual household toilet. DRDA Project Officer V. Jayakumar and Tahsildar Muthukrishnan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-retracts-complaint/article34862969.ece
20 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Smart City works gather pace after a lull||Smart City projects, being implemented on an outlay of Rs. 974 crore in the city, have picked up momentum after a lull during the COVID-19 complete lockdown. Madurai Corporation officials said that a majority of the projects are nearing completion and will be inaugurated in the next few months. Out of the 14 projects taken up under the Smart Cities Mission programme in Madurai, only two projects - providing infrastructure and basic amenities at the fruit market in Mattuthavani and smart LED street lights - have been completed. Some of the remaining projects such as reconstruction of Periyar bus stand and shopping complex; laying a heritage pathway; laying ‘smart roads’ on four Masi streets; Vaigai riverfront development; multi-level car parking; water supply distribution in area-based development (ABD) area; construction of a convention centre at Tamukkam; and construction of underground drainage system in 15 wards on the north of Vaigai river are yet to be completed. A senior Corporation official said that in most of the projects around 80% to 90% of the works have been completed. “For instance, the multi-level car parking and tourism plaza projects are almost over. But they are yet to be inaugurated because of minor pending works,” he said. Earlier, there were criticisms that smart city projects in the city were going at a tardy pace. City Engineer S. Arasu said that during the COVID-19 complete lockdown, many of the migrant labourers went back to their native States, thus disrupting the completion of the projects. “But work is slowly picking up now as local labourers have also been hired to expedite the projects,” he said. Mr. Arasu said that many components of the heritage package had been completed. “We hope that the convention centre at Tamukkam grounds will be completed by this year-end. The construction of underground drainage in the 15 wards will take two more years,” he added. Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan said that he and other Corporation officials are inspecting all the Smart City projects. A plan will be prepared to expedite the projects, he said.   How things stand Tamukkam convention centre work will be over by year-end UGD system for 15 wards north of the Vaigai will take another two years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-works-gather-pace-after-a-lull/article34862671.ece
20 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Do not shift DPCs for political reasons: HC||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court took a serious note of the fact that at least three petitions had been filed before the court seeking a direction to the authorities not to shift existing direct purchase centres to procure paddy. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that no direct purchase centres should be shifted for political reasons. “We do not appreciate such a move”, the judges said. The court was hearing a petition filed by C. Prabhakar of Pudukottai district. He sought a direction to restrain the authorities from shifting the DPC in Kidarampatti village in Pudukottai district. The DPC was established last year. The authorities had proposed to shift the DPC to a private land, he said. The court took note of the State’s submission that the shifting of the centre was necessitated due to certain inconvenience. But, the authorities have not stated the inconvenience, the judges observed. It must be ensured that such disputes don’t occur, the court said. The court said that the DPCs should not be shifted unless there were serious problems to the public and the vendors. The court directed the Pudukkottai Collector to take a conscious and fair decision in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-shift-dpcs-for-political-reasons-hc/article34862665.ece
20 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||145 new cases in Madurai||Madurai recorded 145 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 71,142. Three deaths were recorded, raising the district’s toll to 1,063. A total of 635 persons were discharged from hospitals and the number of active cases stands at 1,233. Virudhunagar district recorded four more deaths, taking the fatalities to 510. Two women and two men, including one aged 49 years, succumbed to the infection. Meanwhile, the district recorded 119 positive cases with a discharge of 82 patients. Consequently, the number of active cases marginally increased to 1,472.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/145-new-cases-in-madurai/article34862672.ece
20 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Maintain status quo, says HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered status quo to be maintained after a public interest litigation petition sought a direction to restrain the construction of a marriage hall on a playground at K. Puliyankulam near Tirumangalam. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi were hearing the petition filed by A. Mayandi of Tirumangalam. The judges directed that no construction should be put up and adjourned the case till July 7. The petitioner said that the open space in the area was used for common celebrations and festivals. Under these circumstances, a marriage hall was coming up on the open space. The residents said that the area would become congested if the marriage hall was built there, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maintain-status-quo-says-hc/article34862666.ece
20 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tour forum thanks CM||The Forum of Tour Organisers, Madurai, has thanked Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for including the demand to notify Madurai airport as an international airport in the memorandum submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently. Forum president A. Satheesh Kumar said that notifying or upgrading the status of Madurai airport would be a boon to the southern districts of the State. He hoped that the airport would soon be notified as an international airport. He had filed a PIL petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to notify / upgrade the status of Madurai airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tour-forum-thanks-cm/article34863028.ece
20 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be power shutdown in the following areas between 9 a.m. and 12 noon on Monday, June 21, as TANGEDCO plans to undertake maintenance at its substations: Karadikkal, Kunnampatti, Perumalpatti, Chettikulam, Venkatasamudhiram, Maikudi, Nedungulam, Aalampatti, Melakottai, Keelakottai, Lakshmipuram, Kilangulam, Thambipatti, Kondureddipatti, Andipatti and Ammapatti. Samayanallur Similarly, there will be power shutdown in the following areas between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. in the following areas the same day as TANGEDCO plans to undertake maintenance at Samayanallur substation: Samayanallur, Oormetchikulam, Thenur, Theatre Road, Valarnagar, Semminipatti, Angappankottam, Samathuvapuram, Ellaiyur, and T. Ramarajapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34862667.ece
20 June 2021||Madurai/Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 134.45 feet (permissible level is 142 feet), with an inflow of 2,730 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 66.47 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,546 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,659 mcft. The level in Papanasam dam was 137.65 feet (143 ft.) with an inflow of 1,724.44 cusecs and discharge of 1,807.08 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 83.30 ft (118 ft) with an inflow of 718 cusecs and discharge of 600 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34862674.ece
20 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. Cabinet formation delayed||More than a month after the All India N.R. Congress-led National Democratic Alliance formed the government in Puducherry, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy has been unable to form the Cabinet because of a multitude of factors. If in the initial stages, the delay was owing to AINRC’s ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party insisting on having the Deputy Chief Minister’s post and insistence on more than two Cabinet berths, the issue now has more or less narrowed down to the internal dynamics within the AINRC and the BJP. After the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) decided to settle for the Speaker’s post and two berths with the Home portfolio being one of them, the Chief Minister had asked for the names of BJP nominees. According to senior AINRC functionaries, the national party is yet to give the names. As far as the BJP is concerned, although A. Namassivayam is certain to get the Cabinet berth, choosing the second candidate has become difficult with a strong lobby within the party pitching for an old hand instead of giving the berth to another new entrant. “We are yet to decide on the second name as two views have emerged. While one view is for giving the berth to a new entrant, the other view is to recognise the work of a long-term loyalist. The party high command has been briefed and a decision will be taken in a day or two,” said a senior BJP functionary.  MLA’s supporters protest Supporters of A. John Kumar, Kamaraj Nagar MLA, staged a protest on Saturday in front of the BJP office demanding a ministerial berth for him. The protesters tried to enter the party office demanding a Cabinet berth for Mr. Kumar, who quit the Congress and joined the BJP, ahead of the Assembly election. They were later pacified by the leadership.  The AINRC too is confronted with a problem of plenty with several claimants for three Cabinet berths. “Our composition will depend on the second name the BJP proposes for the Cabinet berth. Although we have many probables, our list will be ready within minutes after the BJP submits the names. The issues within the AINRC are minor and they will be sorted out,” said an AINRC leader. Both the parties have failed to arrive at a decision on sharing the portfolios except for Home. “The BJP is insisting on arriving at an agreement on the portfolios before the swearing-in of Ministers. They wanted an assurance on certain key portfolios,” said the party functionary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-cabinet-formation-delayed/article34862576.ece
20 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||295 new cases in Puducherry||Puducherry on Saturday recorded six COVID-19 deaths and 295 new cases from screening 9,015 persons. As per data released by the Health Department, 245 tested positive for the virus in Puducherry region, 38 in Karaikal and the remaining 12 in the enclaves of Yanam and Mahe. With this the toll touched 1,720 deaths and the tally rose to 1,14,596.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/295-new-cases-in-puducherry/article34862577.ece
20 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Women power to the fore||With Collector Kavitha Ramu andSP Nisha Parthiban assuming office in the district, most senior officials in the administration here are now women. While the officials say that it is a coincidence, they believe that working together will help further development of the district. Ms. Kavitha Ramu, Ms. Nisha Parthiban, DSP T.K. Lily Grace, Pudukottai Government Medical College Dean M. Poovathi, Deputy Director of Health Services, Pudukottai, B. Kalaivani, and Pudukottai Chief Educational Officer, T. Vijayalakshmi, are among some of the women who have taken up senior positions. here The Collector said that it was the fruit of years of social reforms in the State. ‘The 30% reservation for women in the State has helped many take up positions of responsibility and power,’ she said. Issues pertaining to women and children can be dealt with in a more sensitive manner. ‘This does not mean that men are any lesser. We have many hardworking and sensitive men, and together we can work towards a better Pudukottai,’ she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-power-to-the-fore/article34863017.ece
20 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||23 places identified as vulnerable in Salem dist.||District Collector S. Karmegham reviewed precautionary measures to be taken for Southwest monsoon and asked officials to take necessary steps at vulnerable places here. In a release, he said that 23 places have been identified as vulnerable in the district and disaster management teams headed by Deputy Collectors, including officials from various departments have been formed to take precautionary measures at these places. According to a release, disaster management teams have also been formed at taluk level under thasildhars. Athorities have also been advised to desilt water channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-places-identified-as-vulnerable-in-salem-dist/article34862612.ece
20 June 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Officials retrieve temple land||Officials from the HR&CE, revenue and police departments stopped construction activities on a land which reportedly belonged to Sri Gowri Vinayagar Temple and retrieved the property here on Saturday. They examined a petition following a complaint to the Chief Minister’s Cell and the HR&CE Minister. The Joint Commissioner (HR&CE) Dhanapal said that the land measured 9 acres and 58 cents on Sivaganga-Melur Road. However, the petition claimed the property was allegedly acquired by some people close to a former minister in the AIADMK government and that they had started constructing buildings in a big way with the connivance of some officials. When the officers at the Chief Minister sent the petition to the HR&CE department seeking details, the officials sealed the premises. A notice stated that the land belonged to Sri Gowri Vinayagar Temple and trespassers would be taken to task as per the laws. Both civil and criminal offences would be initiated against the people cited as accused, it mentioned. A senior official in the Revenue department said that the market value may be anywhere around Rs. 10 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-retrieve-temple-land/article34862955.ece
20 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Proactive steps by Theni police to end usury menace||The Bodinayakkanur sub-division police who opened an anti-usury cell early this year are showing the desired results. Though there are laws to tackle the usury menace, poor people fall prey to this practice. Over the last five months, 52 petitions were received at the DSP’s office from persons who had borrowed loans for higher rates of interest. Out of the nine police stations in the sub-division, Bodi Taluk, Bodi Town and Chinnamanur stations had higher number of complaints, said DSP Parthiban. A team of officers in his jurisdiction was given the task of conducting enquiries and take action. “Today there are no complaints,” he said. The police said that the borrowings were between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 20 lakh. The irony was that many borrowers did not even know the rates of interest. For instance, a roadside fruit vendor had taken a Rs. 10,000 loan for which the lender had given Rs. 9,000 in cash after taking Rs. 1,000 as interest. Every day, the borrower had to pay Rs. 100 for 100 days. In another complaint, a borrower had registered his immovable property in the name of the lender as if he had sold it. The understanding was that the property would be returned after full repayment. But this never happened. When the complaint was examined, the police were convinced that the borrower had settled in full. In many complaints, borrowers could not repay due to the pandemic. The lenders had demanded penal interest. They came to the police, who summoned both the petitioner and the borrower. When the lender agreed to waive the interest and penal interest, the borrower accepted to pay the principal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proactive-steps-by-theni-police-to-end-usury-menace/article34862971.ece
20 June 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||‘Enquire into girl’s death’||The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has sought a report into the suicide of a girl, who had delivered a baby a few months back near Bodi. According to officials, the 17-year-old girl was married off to one Rajkumar 18 months back. However, the husband was arrested under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Meanwhile, the girl, who had delivered a baby six months back, ended her life on June 7. Uthamapalayam Revenue Divisional Officer, P. Kousalya, said that enquiry will be held by District Child Protection Officer, District Probation Officer, Inspector of Police, Palanichettipatti and Revenue officials. The report would be sent to the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enquire-into-girls-death/article34862953.ece
20 June 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Enquiry into death of minor girl||The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has sought a report into the suicide of a girl, who had delivered a baby a few months back near Bodi. Officials said the 17-year-old girl was married off to one Rajkumar 18 months back. However, the husband was arrested under the provisions of POCSO Act. Meanwhile, the girl, who had delivered a baby six months back, ended her life on June 7. The report would be sent to the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enquiry-into-death-of-minor-girl/article34863037.ece
20 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Give quality food: Collector||There should not be any compromise on the quality of food, Collector K.V. Muralidharan said after tasting the food prepared for the COVID-19 patients, attendants and doctors at the centralised kitchen at Vadaveeranaickenpatti here. He went around the covid care centre functioning here, interacted with the duty doctors and the attendants. He cautioned the people not to lower their masks. The government had issued covid assistance fund of Rs. 2,000 each to the cardholders last month and was distributing another Rs. 2,000 now. In Theni district, 4.09 lakh cardholders would benefit from the assistance. There was no need for panic as all the eligible rice cardholders would get the money. He urged people to avoid crowdin. The relaxation was done with the objective of giving some comfort to the public and it should not be misused, he said at Aranmanaipudur Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-quality-food-collector/article34862963.ece
20 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner takes charge||Charusree assumed office as the new Commissioner of Thoothukudi Corporation here on Saturday. She told reporters that priority would be accorded to fight the COVID-19 with the support of the residents. The Corporation would strive hard to give basic amenities and steps would be taken to check waterlogging. She had served in Villupuram district as Sub-Collector, Thirukovilur, and Joint Commissioner (Commercial Taxes), Chennai. An engineering graduate from Guindy College of Engineering, she was the topper at all-India level in her batch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-takes-charge/article34862965.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Prices of groceries go up in Tiruchi market||Sharp rise in prices of groceries in Tiruchi market has caused concern among the people. Red chilli, urad dhal, dhoor dhal, cardamom, pepper, poppy seeds and clove are among the prices of items that have gone up. According to traders, the prices have increased due to the impact of intense lockdown that forced both retail and wholesale traders to shut their businesses for a few weeks. While the rate of red chilli went up from Rs. 150 to Rs. 160 a kg, the price of clove was quoted at Rs. 800 a kg in Tiruchi on Saturday, which was Rs. 100 more than in May. The rate of a kg of pepper rose to Rs. 500 from Rs. 400. Cardamom registered an increase from Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 2100. The rate of annasi poo went up to Rs. 1,850 to Rs. 1,400 a kg. In the retail market too, the prices of grocery items went up by 10% to 25% depending up the customers. Supply chain restrictions during the lockdown period, fuel prices hike and demand for spices in overseas markets were said to have caused rise in prices. The sudden rush for buying grocery items, after the announcement of lockdown by the State government, also played a key role in rise in prices of essential items. “We can manage if the rise in prices is 2% to 3%. But we have seen an abnormal rise in several items. It really troubles the people of middle and lower classes,” said A. Karuppaiah, a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-groceries-go-up-in-tiruchi-market/article34863021.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||ASI to remove ‘accretion wall’ in Main Guard Gate||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has started removing an ‘accretion wall’ in the Main Guard Gate, a protected monument under its control in the city, to look for possible ancient deposits inside and also examine the stability of the structure. With the work, taken up over the past four days, triggering apprehensions among a section of people, the ASI has clarified that the works are part of its annual maintenance and conservation programme. The Main Guard Gate is believed to be part of the fortifications around the Rock Fort established in the Nayak period and modified by subsequent rulers including the British. In 2005, ASI renovated the structure and also established an Intrepretation Centre, highlighting the ancient history of Tiruchi, on the rear side of the structure. The office of the Tiruchi Circle of ASI, created recently, is situated in Main Guard Gate complex. “We have taken up minor repairs on the nearly 500-year old structure over the past six months. White washing is also being done. The removal of a small wall, a recent structure, covering a window-like opening is intended to study the contents inside and also to check the stability of the foundation as cracks have appeared on the superstructure,” said T. Arun Raj, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, Tiruchi Circle. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Raj pointed out that there were two small “arch-like” designs immediately after the massive door of the Main Guard Gate. On the left side, a window-like structure with grill is found beneath the arch and on the right side the structure is covered with a wall, which was apparently been built a few decades ago. “We are removing the accretion wall, under the supervision of our officers, so as to find out what is inside and also conserve the original structure. Besides, we also want to examine the stability of the foundation of the structure,” he said. A team of geologists from the Department of Remote Sensing of Bharathidasan University had already made a GPR (Ground Penetrating Radar) survey of the cracks, but were not able to arrive at a definite conclusion as to the exact cause. “We needed to do a thorough inspection. As some ancient structure or deposits could possibly be buried inside, we decided to remove the accretion wall beneath the arch-like design. We have informed civic and police authorities that, if necessary, the walls of the Main Guard Gate will be closed during the conservation work,” he said. The work, which would go on for some time, was intended to preserve the majestic monument, Mr. Raj added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asi-to-remove-accretion-wall-in-main-guard-gate/article34863034.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Admission to government schools increases in Manikandam||Manikandam block seems to have an increasing number of students enrolling in the government schools there. The admission process, which began on June 15, has attracted many parents to the schools, thanks to the work done by some of the Block Education Officers and the schools in the blocks, the teachers said. K. Marudhanayagam, Manikandam Block Education Officer said that of the 23 schools in the block, Edamalaipatti Pudur Panchayat Union Primary School and Pirattiyur Panchayat Union Middle School have performed exceptionally. “Students from the school take part in international level extempore competitions organised by NRI Tamils in Singapore and the US among other countries. Parents see kid's skills being honed and want to enrol their kids here,” he said. In the last four days alone, 200 children have enrolled to Class 1. “Of the 200, 120 have enrolled at the Edamalaipattipudur Panchayat Union Primary School,” he said. This is a testament to the amazing work done by H. Pushpalatha, Assistant Headmistress, the Headmistress of the school, and all other teachers. “They teach the children life skills and not just rote learning. There are skating classes, martial arts and other skills taught too. In private schools, these cost a lot of money, but here, it is free,” Mr. Marudhanayagam said proudly. Mr. Marudhanayagam, along with some volunteers, makes announcements at vantage points in the block, where they inform the public that admissions are open and classes would be conducted online. “It's not just people from an economically poor background, children from more affluent families too, study at our schools,” he said. The BEO has also set up 100 street libraries for children who are unable to attend online classes due to want of mobile phones and internet access. The libraries are set up at street corners and in some cases, at the residences of students from where students can take any book, read and return it. “While they cannot attend classes, books provide a world of knowledge far beyond the classroom.” Another 50 are being planned and Mr. Marudhanayagam is looking for donors to provide books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admission-to-government-schools-increases-in-manikandam/article34863025.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU faculty’s book brought out by Springer||A book authored by S. Sivaramakrishnan, Professor and Head, Department of Biotechnology, Bharathidasan University has been published by Springer, a German-based multinational publishing firm reputed for publishing e-books and peer-reviewed journals in science, humanities, technology and medicine. Mr. Sivaramakrishnan’s book, Entomopathogenic Nematodes and Their Symbiotic Bacteria – a Laboratory Manual, was published by Springer’s New York office in April. BDU Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam has commended the faculty’s feat after receiving a copy of the book on Friday. The book sums up his independent/joint works spanning over 15 years in the university with international/national collaborations including that of scholars, he said in a release. The focus of the book is mainly on the potential of symbiotic bacteria of entomo-pathogenic nematodes (EPN) as biocontrol agents. The techniques for culturing and maintenance of EPNs and their symbiotic bacteria and their use in insect pest control are consolidated and presented in a simple, clear, and understandable manner. The book is of great practical utility for both current and future researchers/scientists in different inter-disciplinary subjects like nematologists, entomologists, microbiologists, and for relevant research institutions and industries. Those into farming and environmental sustenance will benefit from the book that provides insights into evolving crop protection techniques that are safe for people, land, soil, atmosphere, bio-resources. The book elaborates on eco-friendly, bio-efficacious EPNs that are applied as biocontrol agents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdu-facultys-book-brought-out-by-springer/article34863015.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||1,230 fresh cases, 33 deaths in central region||The central districts reported 1,230 fresh cases for COVID-19 on Saturday. Thirty-three more deaths due to the viral infection were also recorded in the region. Ten patients succumbed to the viral infection in Tiruvarur district, while Tiruchi reported eight and Thanjavur reported seven. The other districts in the region reported less three than deaths. Perambalur and Nagapattinam recorded two deaths each, while Ariyalur, Karur and Pudukottai reported one death each for COVID-19 on Saturday. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 361 patients reporting positive. However, the district has continued to report a marked dip in the number of fresh cases over the last week. In Tiruchi district, 242 patients tested positive, while Nagapattinam reported a marked dip with 157 fresh cases. Tiruvarur reported 127, while Karur 113. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had only 15 ICU beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had increased its ICU- bed vacancy to 76. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 205 and 139 ICU beds vacant, respectively. Ariyalur district reported 91 fresh cases, while Pudukottai recorded 80. Meanwhile, Perambalur district reported 59 fresh cases. Pudukottai had only five vacant ICU beds, while Perambalur had 33. Ariyalur district had 12 vacant beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1230-fresh-cases-33-deaths-in-central-region/article34863023.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Anna University spells out rules for open book examination||In the light of the difficulties a large section of students had to undergo while undertaking online proctored exam for the odd semester, affiliated colleges of Anna University are hopeful that the open book exam in descriptive mode for even semester that begins on June 21 will be free of hassles. A large number of students have been detected to have indulged in malpractice under the online proctored exam for the odd semester, which was conducted under a system that used artificial intelligence to record face emotions, eye movements and all activities. All through the 60-minute duration of the exam comprising multiple-choice questions, students sat in a closed room facing the light ensuring enough brightness for the camera on the desktop, laptop, smart phone or tablet. The software treated movement out of the camera’s view as deviation of rules. Remote proctors/invigilators/squad kept continuous watch and monitored the candidates for the entire duration of the examination in addition to auto-proctoring. Since the open book exam will be of descriptive type in pen and paper mode, managements of affiliated engineering colleges are considerably relieved, a functionary of a self-financing engineering college here said. The questions are to be sent 30 minutes in advance and students are required to upload scanned answer sheets and original answer sheets to the websites of their colleges. The office of the Controller of Examinations, Anna University, has made it clear that students must not visit the institution to hand over the hard copy of the answer script in person. “However, in the absence of real-time monitoring, it remains to be seen if students do real justice to the open book exam,” a senior professor said. For examinations of fore-noon session, the answer script should be dispatched by registered post/speed post/courier service on the same day. For those in the afternoon session, the answer script should be dispatched either on the same day or the very next working day. Failure to do so will be treated as being absent, the university has said. After the three-hour exam, students are given an hour to uploading the soft copy in PDF format.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-university-spells-out-rules-for-open-book-examination/article34863029.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects govt. schools in Tiruchi||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi has conducted surprise inspections at a few government and aided schools in the city to determine the progress of Plus One admission. Accompanied by senior officials, Mr. Mahesh on Friday visited Bishop Heber Boys’ Higher Secondary School, Syed Murtuza Boys' Higher Secondary School and Abbot Marcel RC Higher Secondary School and interacted with the head masters about allotment of subject groups for students seeking Plus One admission, building infrastructure and adequacy of toilets. Mr. Mahesh also determined the extent of fee collected by the schools from students for self-financed courses. The Minister advised the school heads to make sure that all teachers got themselves vaccinated against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-govt-schools-in-tiruchi/article34863030.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Builders on pause mode||Builders in the region seem to have hit pause mode in view of the escalating cost of cement, steel and other construction materials. Medium-scale builders say that in the absence of cost-escalation clause with buyers, they find themselves forced to operate with squeezed profit margins. On an average, the cost per construction for no-frills buildings in the city and surroundings now hovers around Rs. 2,000 per square foot for ground floor, and Rs. 200 lesser for upper floors. There has been an increase by at least Rs. 500 over a year in per-foot construction cost, due to the price rise, Babu, a building contractor, said. While the cost of first-quality cement has risen to upwards of Rs. 450 per 50-kg bag, the price of steel has also gone up to over Rs. 70 per kg. According to the contractors, the labour cost has also gone up to Rs. 850 per day for masons and Rs. 500 per day for helpers. very less number of prospective house-owners accept the rationale behind cost-escalation clause, they say. Earlier this month, the Federation of All Civil Engineers Associations of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry made a representation to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to bring down the cost of cement and other construction materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/builders-on-pause-mode/article34863016.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sub-Registrar offices to have token system soon||Token system in all the 525 Sub-Registrar offices across Tamil Nadu for registration of documents by the public would be introduced in about 10 to 15 days, said Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy here on Saturday. He was here to preside over a review meeting and interact with trade association representatives of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari, Tenkasi and Virudhunagar districts on the GST among other issues. He told reporters that the procedure in the Registration Department had been modified. “We hope the token system will be people-friendly. The persons concerned can be present and complete the process at the appointed time and date. It will not only avoid crowding but also prevent middlemen in the offices,’ he added. The Central government owed Rs. 15,000 crore to Tamil Nadu by way of GST. Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan had raised it in a meeting convened by the Union Finance Minister recently. In view of the COVID-19, many concessions had been given by the government. On the suppression and evasion complaints by some merchants or assessees on selling goods without proper invoice/receipt, he said that such issues would be dealt with an iron hand by the officials. He said that instructions had been given to the authorities to issue patta books to applicants without delay. If there were no issues, the applicant will get the patta pass book the same day, Mr Moorthy said, and added that the government would step up its activities in these areas after the COVID-19 subsided. Ministers Geetha Jeevan, Anitha Radhakrishnan, Mano Thangaraj, MLAs, senior officials from the Commercial Taxes and Registration Departments, and Collector Vishnu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/token-system-in-sub-registrar-offices/article34862959.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Warning given||Legal action will be taken against violators of the biomedical waste management guidelines, Collector V. Vishnu has warned. In a statement, Mr. Vishnu said hospitals generating biomedical waste should scrupulously follow Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change’s notification. The biomedical waste should be handed over for common incineration or other modes of management within 48 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/warning-given/article34862960.ece
20 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 3.3 lakh vaccinated in Tiruppur district||The district administration said that over 3.3 lakh beneficiaries have received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in the district. According to the data released by the district administration, 3,30,598 beneficiaries out of the target population of 22,20,520 were vaccinated as of June 17, yielding a coverage of 14.89%. For Covishield vaccine, 2,42,323 have taken the first dose and 36,838 have taken both the doses. On the other hand, 39,983 have taken the first dose of Covaxin and 11,454 have taken two doses in the district. Age-wise, the coverage of 18-44 age group remains low in the district with only 7.96% having taken at least one dose. The category of 45 years and above, however, has a better coverage with 26.43% as of June 17. Out of the district’s target population, 13,87,436 were in the 18-44 age group while 8,33,084 were in the 45 years and above category. For differently abled With the Tiruppur Corporation announcing special vaccination camps for the differently abled, the authorities are mulling to roll out door-to-door vaccination for such beneficiaries to ensure quicker coverage. Corporation sources said that only 100 differently abled beneficiaries had been vaccinated through the camp held at the Corporation headquarters on Mangalam Road as of Saturday, while around 2,000 differently abled persons aged 18 years and above had been identified within the Corporation limits. A plan for this would likely be finalised by next week, the sources said. The Corporation has also started vaccinating postnatal mothers through special camps, under which 798 women were vaccinated as of Saturday. While no vaccination drives for the general public were held on Saturday due to shortage of vaccine doses, the special camps for differently abled and postnatal mothers continued as the Corporation had earmarked a portion of the doses, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-33-lakh-vaccinated-in-tiruppur-district/article34862860.ece
20 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||642 priests, temple workers in Tiruppur to receive assistance||A total of 642 beneficiaries comprising priests and temple workers in Tiruppur district have been chosen by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department to receive the State government’s COVID-19 cash assistance and provisions. Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan inaugurated the distribution of Rs. 4,000 cash assistance, 10 kg rice and the provision kit comprising 15 items to each of the beneficiaries at a private hall in Kangeyam. A press release said that 132 out of the 642 beneficiaries received the cash assistance and provisions from the Minister in the presence of District Collector S. Vineeth. This initiative would cover those priests and other workers who did not draw a monthly salary from the temples that were under the HR&CE Department. Of the nine HR&CE inspector divisions in the district namely Tiruppur, Avinashi, Kangeyam, Dharapuram, Palladam, Udumalpet, Madathukulam, Mulanur and Uthukuli, the Kangeyam division had the maximum number of beneficiaries (160) and Palladam division saw the lowest number of beneficiaries (46), according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/642-priests-temple-workers-in-tiruppur-to-receive-assistance/article34862608.ece
20 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Water to be released from Amaravathi dam today||The Public Works Department has said the release of water from Amaravathi dam from Sunday for drinking and irrigation purposes. According to a government order, 21,867 acres of agricultural land in the old ayacut for Tiruppur and Karur districts will receive water not exceeding 1,072 mcft for a period of 10 days from Sunday till June 29. Standing crops For the 25,250 acres in the new ayacut in Tiruppur district, water not exceeding 571 mcft will be released for a period of 15 days from Sunday till July 4. The water will be released considering the drinking water need for the residents and their livestock along with irrigation of the standing crops, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-to-be-released-from-amaravathi-dam-today/article34862609.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Safai Karmacharis panel chief conducts inquiry||The National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) took suo motu cognisance of a case of harassment of panchayat president in Tiruvannamalai district and the commission’s chairperson M. Venkatesan conducted an inquiry on Saturday. Ten days ago, Kalaraipetti Panchayat president Ezhumalai and his family staged a protest accusing panchayat secretary Velmurugan of insulting him. Mr. Velmurugan was suspended after being booked under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safai-karmacharis-panel-chief-conducts-inquiry/article34862579.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Resolution passed against Sasikala||A resolution condemning former interim general secretary of AIADMK V.K. Sasikala for trying to create confusion among party cadre was passed at a meeting of AIADMK office-bearers of Tiruvarur district on Saturday. The resolution adopted at the meeting accused Ms. Sasikala of enacting a drama by releasing audio clips of purported telephone conversation she had with the party cadre and, thereby, trying to create confusion among AIADMK members. It was also decided that stern action would be initiated against those found to act against the by-laws and the principles of the party. They would be suspended from the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resolution-passed-against-sasikala/article34863036.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers burn Karnataka CM’s effigy||Members of Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam on Saturday burnt the effigy of Karnataka Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa at Kottur irked over his statement welcoming the decision of National Green Tribunal, Southern Region, not to form any committee to inspect the proposed Mekedatu Dam site in the neighbouring site. The demonstrators, led by association general secretary P.R. Pandian, raised slogans condemning the Chief Minister and his government for initiating steps to ‘stifle the lifeline’ of Cauvery delta farmers in Tamil Nadu. Kottur police rushed to the spot and doused the fire. Later, Mr. Pandian in a press release condemned Mr.Yediyurappa for his remarks that the dam project could not be stalled by anyone as the NGT had given its consent for it. The Chief Minister’s statement belittled the meeting between the Prime Minister and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin held in New Delhi on July 17. Also, Mr.Yediyurappa was trying to drive a wedge in the smooth relationship between the two States and acting against the unity of the nation, he said. The remarks were all set to disturb the harmony between the people of the two States and the Supreme Court should take a serious note of the issue and initiate legal proceedings against Mr. Yediyurappa. Urging the Prime Minister’s Office to find out at whose instance Mr.Yediyurappa made the statement immediately after the meeting of the Prime Minister with Mr. Stalin, he called upon the Tamil Nadu government to approach the Supreme Court seeking ban on the Mekedatu dam project. Mr. Pandian also called upon Cauvery Water Management Authority to prevent the implementation of the project, failing which the Sangam would file a case against the Authority in the apex court and also seek to stall the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-burn-karnataka-cms-effigy/article34863018.ece
20 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver returns lost valuables||A woman from Keeranur who lost her handbag with valuables got it back within a few hours on Friday from an autorickshaw driver who spotted the bag and kept it in his custody before handing over it to her. According to Ravichandran of Nannilam, a farmer who had hired the autorickshaw driven by Sami of the same area to go to Tiruvarur on Friday afternoon to complete some agriculture-related works at the district headquarters, a woman driving a two-wheeler near Kuvalaikal moved ahead without noticing that her handbag had fallen on the road. Sami who noticed the handbag slipping from the two-wheeler stopped the autorickshaw and picked it up. His efforts to get in touch with ther over mobile phone found in the bag turned futile as the handset had been locked. Subsequently, Sami and Ravichandran decided to wait so that the woman might give a call to her phone after realising that she had missed it. As they expected the woman made a call to her mobile through another number and Sami informed her that her handbag containing mobile and other valuable items was in safe custody with him. The handbag was handed over to the woman by Sami after ascertaining the identity of the woman, according to Ravichandran, who had posted the incident on his Facebook page which went viral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-driver-returns-lost-valuables/article34863019.ece
20 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Textbooks reach schools||Textbooks for all classes – from Classes I to XII – have reached the Government and Government-aided schools in the district. All the textbooks, which would be distributed free of cost to students, have reached the 1,486 government and aided schools. “We are waiting for instructions from the government to begin distribution. We are yet to receive the details of modalities on distributing the books taking all COVID precautions,” Chief Educational Officer K. Balathandayuthapani said. Matriculation schools would collect the textbooks from the nodal points. Stating that government schools in several places were getting overwhelming number of applications seeking admission to various classes, he said that the Government had instructed the officials not to reject any student. “Many students from private schools were also seeking admission in government schools,” he added. The parents who could not afford high school fees in private schools were shifting their children to government schools as it was offering free education with free textbooks, uniform, bag, stationery goods, laptop and bicycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textbooks-reach-schools/article34862957.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five train services to resume from today||Southern Railway will resume services of five pairs of special trains due to increase in passenger patronage for rail services following relaxations of lockdown norms. Earlier, it was announced that these services would remain suspended till June 30. “We had to cancel these services due to lack of last mile connectivity for passengers due to stringent lockdown rules,” said a senior railway official. Though train services were available, passengers from far off places such as Sholavandan, Melur and Usilampatti could not get transport to reach the nearest railway station. Now that autorickshaw and taxi services are available, more people have started travelling in the available train services. “The patronage of trains that are already running has increased to 90%, an indication that people are willing to travel. As of now, we are resuming services of five pairs of trains,” the official said. The following special train services will resume from Sunday: Train No. 06101 Chennai Egmore - Kollam; Train No. 06851 Chennai Egmore - Rameswaram; Train No. 02668 Coimbatore - Nagercoil; Train No. 06343 Trivandrum - Madurai Amirta special; and Train No. 06729 Madurai - Punalur. In the return direction, Train No. 06102 Kollam - Chennai Egmore; Train No. 06852 Rameswaram - Chennai Egmore; Train No. 02667 Nagercoil - Coimbatore; Train No. 06344 Madurai - Trivandrum Amirta special; and Train No. 06730 Punalur - Madurai will run from Monday. Reservation for these trains has started.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-train-services-to-resume-from-today/article34862668.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Karunanidhi’s handwritten note in school captures attention in social media||Former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, who was among the first 15 members of the DMK to enter the State Legislative Assembly in 1957, had earnestly performed his duty as an elected representative from Kulithalai constituency. A note penned by him as an MLA in the visitors’ book at Panchayat Union Primary School at Vengampatti near Krishnarayapuram, was shared on social media by Karur’s new Collector T. Prabhu Shankar, who visited the school for inspection on Friday. For Dr. Shankar, it was the first inspection after assuming office as Collector of the district. On being informed that the former Chief Minister had visited the school in 1959, Dr. Shankar, who was on a surprise visit to the village to check COVID-19 preventive measures, checked with the school authorities on whether there was any record of his visit. They then showed him the visitors’ book, which was being preserved for more than seven decades. In his entry on the visitor's book on June 26, 1959, Karunanidhi expressed his appreciation of positive aspects of the school even while making subtle observations on the importance of improving sanitation. The Collector'’s tweet with photos of the note attracted the attention of many including Karunanidhi's son. and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. “I was amazed to read the content of the note, which is truly impeccable for its clarity, style and language. Even in those days, he had visited the remote village in erstwhile Tiruchi district and performed his duties as any elected representative is required to do,” said Dr. Shankar. Appreciating the school teachers for preserving the visitors’ book, Dr. Shankar said the school had good infrastructure including smart classrooms. There was a demand to reopen a library in the village. It would be reopened soon with additional facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karunanidhis-handwritten-note-in-school-captures-attention-in-social-media/article34863027.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 1,014 new cases,||A total of 1,014 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The district had 11,191 active cases of the disease. The Health Department said that 1,451 persons recovered on Saturday. The district’s toll increased to 1,871 after 17 more persons died in the last several days. Tiruppur district reported its lowest daily caseload in 43 days on Saturday with 489 new cases, taking the overall tally to 78,243. The Health Department reported four new deaths, taking the overall toll to 688. Following the recovery of 2,896 patients on Saturday, the active case tally came down to 6,506, which was the lowest in a month. Palladam Municipal officials sealed seven outlets, including vehicle showrooms, private finance companies and garment stores that were functioning illegally on Saturday. Tiruppur Corporation officials levied a fine of Rs. 5,000 each on two private garment showrooms that operated in violation of the lockdown, sources said. Erode district reported 933 new cases, taking the tally to 82,794. While 1,363 persons were discharged, 8,928 continue to be under treatment. Seven persons died, raising the toll to 531. As many as 533 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 416 cases were indigenous. As per bulletin, 11 deaths were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 328 cases and one death were reported. In Krishnagiri, 178 indigenous cases and four deaths were reported. A total of 122 cases and two deaths were reported in Dharmapuri. In the Nilgiris, 140 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 26,983. The toll increased from 142 to 143 on Saturday while 2,157 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-1014-new-cases/article34862864.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH launches tele-rehabilitation services||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital has launched tele-rehabilitation services to ensure continuing treatment for patients who could not visit the hospital during the pandemic. The hospital has been providing rehabilitation services to patients, including children, affected with cerebral palsy, development delay, stroke, spinal cord injuries and other conditions. Doctors have been offering physiotherapy exercises and other rehabilitation treatment for patients. Besides Salem, the centre at the hospital has been catering to patients from Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Kalakuruchi and a few other places. K. Nithya Manoj, Head, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation said, “doctors conduct video call sessions with patients and their relatives and they are shown exercises which they would be able to do from their homes during the pandemic. We conduct one-hour sessions twice a week for a patient and at times, we conduct group consultations as well for patients with similar conditions.” K. Senthilnathan, Physiotherapist in the department, said that the progress of the patients are also periodically evaluated and they are advised to practice the exercises in their homes. The team includes two doctors, four physiotherapists, a prosthetic technician and an occupational therapist. Dr. Manoj said that 13 children aged up to five years are also undergoing treatment through these services. She added that there is a period of neuroplasticity and delays or any discontinuity in treatment could affect patient’s recovery. Doctors said that therapists are currently contacting patients through their personal mobile devices and are working on arranging desktop computer systems and internet services. Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of the hospital, said “ several patients are getting benefited through this and they are planning to continue the tele-rehabilitation services post the pandemic as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-launches-tele-rehabilitation-services/article34862614.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two booked under POCSO Act||One Kalaiyarasan, 34, of Pudukottai district was booked under POCSO Act on charges of having sexually harassing a minor girl when she was alone at her house at Keelaiyur on Friday. In another case, the police are on the lookout for D. Mahalingam of Alampatti near Tirumangalam on a similar charge. The police said that the accused tried to misbehave with a minor girl who was sleeping with her grandmother in their house on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-booked-under-pocso-act/article34862966.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Extend lockdown, say experts||He said the relatives of patients had complained that the particulars of those who died of COVID-19 were not uploaded by hospitals, and they were facing difficulties in getting certificates. “Though repeated instructions have been given by the government, they are not followed properly,” he said. Mr. Stalin launched a scheme to extend the pandemic relief to Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living outside camps. Under it, 13,553 families will get Rs. 4,000 and essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-lockdown-say-experts/article34862558.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madurai airport: forum thanks CM||The Forum of Tour Organisers, Madurai, has thanked Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for including the demand to notify Madurai airport as an international airport in the memorandum submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently. Its president A. Satheesh Kumar said that notifying or upgrading the status of Madurai airport would be a boon to the southern districts. He hoped that the airport would soon be notified as an international airport. He had filed a public interest litigation petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to notify / upgrade the status of Madurai airport. He said that facilities at Madurai airport matched or even superior to some of the international airports. Despite having the required infrastructure, the airport had not been notified as an international airport, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-airport-forum-thanks-cm/article34862968.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||COIMBATORE   Anaikatti sub-station- June 20 (10 a.m. to 1 p.m.): Anaikatti, Kopanari, Seenkuzhi, Arunaatukaadu, Dhuvaipathi, Thekkalur, Vadakalur, Jambukandi, Kandanoor, Panapalli.  Kadirnaikenpalayam sub-station- June 21 (10 a.m. to a 1 p.m.): Rakiapalayam, Kumarapuram, Narasimhanaikenpalayam, Bombay Nagar, Teachers Colony, Ganesh Nagar, Sri Ram Nagar.  Peelamedu sub-station- June 21 (11 a.m. to 2 p.m.): Avinashi Road, Thirumagal Nagar, Jeganathan Colony, PSG Tech, Rangavillas Mill, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Institute, HUDCO Colony, Peelamedu Pudur, Housing Unit, Ramalakshman Nagar, CTS Colony, Kalloori Nagar, Meena Estate, Vellankani Nagar, Sowripalayam and Udayampalayam.  Peedampalli sub-station- June 21:   10 a.m. to noon: Peedampalli 1 part, Pasumbon nagar, Adithya Garden, Krishnacolony  10 a.m. to 1 p.m.: NT Nagar, Pallapalayam, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Viswasapuram, part of Kannampalayam, Bogan villa nagar, KVR Nagar, Paruvamatha Colony, Sriram Nagar  2 p.m. to 4 p.m.: part of Kannampalayam, Kalangal, part of Peedampally, VIP Nagar, Ganganayer Housing unit, VOC colony  2 p.m. to 5 p.m.: part of Peedampalli, Nadupalayam  ERODE  Due to maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas on    June 21 :  Kasipalayam sub-station, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. : Kasipalayam, Anicut areas,  Sudanandan Nagar, Surampatti Valasu, Jeganathapuram Colony, NGGO Colony, Uzhavan Nagar, Marappa Street 1st and 2nd, K.K. Nagar, Muthampalayam Housing Unit Phases 1,2 and 3, Anna Nagar, Rail Nagar, Balaji Garden, Ambigai Nagar, Annai Nagar, Nallipalayam, Chennimalai Road, Diesel Shed, Periya Thottam, Kalyasundaram Street, Vivekanandar Nagar, Aavin Feeds godown, Old Railway Station Road, Shastri Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Moolapalayam, Nadarmedu, Lakshmi Garden, Lakshmi Nagar, Ramani Garden, Cheran Nagar, Rangampalayam, Ring Road, Sadayampalayam, Ganapathi Nagar and Krishna Nagar.  Suriyampalayam sub-station: Chithode, Rayapalayam, Sunnambu Odai Amaravathi Nagar, Thanneerpandal Palayam, R.N. Pudur, Konavaikal, Lakshmi Nagar, Kalingarayanpalayam, Perumal Malai, IRTT, Kumilanparapu, Chellapampalayam, Bye Pass Road, Ramanathan Nagar, Karumbukadu, Mamarathupalayam, Mettupalayam, Nochipalayam, Tayirpalayam, Semur, Soolai, Naripallam, Ellapalayam, Sottaiyampalayam, K.R. Palayam, Rasampalayam, B.P. Agraharam, Maravapalayam, C.S. Nagar, K.R. Kulam, Cauvery Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Manickampalayam, E.P.B. Nagar, S.S.T. Nagar, Velaan Nagar and Uthukadu.  Karavaikal line, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Thottipalayam, Rayapalayam, Nasiyanur, Kandampalayam, Gangapuram and Vavikadai.  Veeranampalayam line: Veeranampalayam, Thalaiyampalayam, Crane Nagar, Pappampalayam, Polanaickenpalayam, Kasukaranpalayam, Sellappampalayam and Mamutti Thoppu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34862866.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traders want govt. to regulate rent for lockdown months||In the two months since most commercial establishments shut shop due to lockdown restrictions imposed by the State government, business came to a standstill, but not rent. Faced by huge losses and insistence by landlords on payment of rent in full even during the lockdown months, many proprietors had no choice but to wind up their businesses and vacate the premises. Even as the city prepares for further easing of restrictions from Monday, many establishments may not re-open for business. In the face of bleak prospects, traders want the State government to step in, broker a formula between tenants and landlords, and regulate rent. Many have called for intervention on the lines of what the government did to keep a check on private school fees last year during the first wave of COVID-19. Suhail Yusuff, secretary, Brigade Shops and Establishments’ Association, said: “At least 30 shops on Brigade Road, including showrooms of leading multinational clothing and lifestyle brands, have shut down over the last two months. Similar is the case on M.G. Road, Church Street, and Commercial Street. One of the main drivers is the demand by landlords for payment of full rent for even the months when the city was in lockdown.” The pattern is replicated in other commercial hubs as well. “Most of us haven’t paid rent for March. Some landlords are offering to accept rent for lockdown months in instalments. But this doesn’t help us,” said Sajjan Raj Mehta, a senior trader from the wholesale hub of Chickpet in Old Pete. “In the last 15 months, there has been a lockdown for five months. Even during the remaining 10 months, business has been very dull. We are not in a position to absorb the rent for these months.” Traders feel that the best solution is some form of regulation in rent collection. “The law is heavily loaded in favour of landlords. Tenants and landlords do not have an equal relationship. Hence, it is important that the government step in and broker a formula for rent, like it did for private school fees,” said Mr. Yusuff. ‘Offer tax breaks’ Arun Kumar A.R., secretary, Malleswaram Commercial Forum, warned that landlords will not accept this option unless the government has something to offer them. “They must be provided relief in property tax, electricity bills and other payables to the government,” he explained. Uday Garudachar, Chickpet MLA, who owns the chain of Garuda Malls, said none of the tenants had paid rent for the past two months, and there were reports that 30% of businesses would close down. “We too have costs. Last year, we brokered a formula where both we and the tenants absorbed the losses. We cannot bear maintenance bills and payables to the government, including taxes, on our own,” he said. Jagannath Reddy, who owns a commercial complex in north Bengaluru, said rent was the sole income for many landlords. He opposed the very idea of government intervention. “Technically, education is a not-for-profit sector in the country. Hence, government intervention can be defended. But the government cannot and must not intervene in business,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traders-want-govt-to-regulate-rent-for-lockdown-months/article34862510.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||The admission dilemma||With the second pre-university and Class 12 examinations cancelled, universities are in a fix as to how to conduct admissions for undergraduate courses, with some saying that colleges affiliated to them can conduct their own entrance tests. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor of Bangalore University, said colleges that have received more applicationsthan there are seats available can conduct their own entrance test and admit students based on the scores. “The colleges can also admit students based on entrance test as well as the Class 12 marks allotted by their respective boards. However, colleges which have a low demand for seats need not conduct an entrance test and can just use the marks allotted by the boards to create a shortlist of students.” He said that of the 300 colleges affiliated to the university, only 20 were in high demand from students. The Vice-Chancellor of another State-run university, who did not wish to be named, said officials of different universities were deliberating and wanted to conduct a common admission test, the scores of which could be used to admit students in all universities. “If we leave it to the college management, each college will conduct one entrance test and that will make it extremely difficult for the students as they have to appear for multiple tests. Therefore, we want to conduct one entrance test that the students can appear for either offline or online.” However, the varsities are waiting for the government to take a call on this issue. An official working in the Higher Education Department said that while they were considering asking students who wanted to pursue B.Sc. courses to appear for the Common Entrance Test (CET), there was no deliberation on how students who wanted to pursue Commerce and Arts courses would be admitted. “The demand for Arts courses is low, so students can be admitted based on the marks given by the respective boards. But the demand for Commerce is very high and there is a need to devise a screening method for these courses,” the official said. C.B. Annapurnamma, principal of National College, Basavanagudi, said the college was waiting for the government’s direction and would follow the norms prescribed. Opposition Many students, however, do not want the colleges and universities to conduct an entrance test and simply want them to use the scores that will be allotted by the boards. Amaresh Kadaga, State president of the Students’ Federation of India, said, “When the State government has cancelled the examinations because of the COVID-19 situation, colleges and universities should not be allowed to conduct their own entrance tests. Private colleges and universities will only take advantage of this situation and exploit students by charging a hefty fee to conduct the exam.”  ... Colleges and universities should not be allowed to conduct their own entrance tests. They will only take advantage of this situation and exploit students by charging a hefty fee to conduct the exam Amaresh Kadaga, State president, SFI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-admission-dilemma/article34862516.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State, Maharashtra to share water release, rainfall data in real time||Karnataka and Maharashtra have agreed to share real-time data on rainfall and water release from reservoirs both in the Krishna and Bhima basins in order to manage floods effectively. This was decided at an inter-State flood monitoring committee meeting on Saturday chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and attended by Water Resources Minister of Maharashtra Jayant Patil, among others. The meeting decided to have better coordination and communication between the two States at ministerial level, secretaries’ level and at the field level. It was decided that a technical team would work towards getting 4 tmcft water from Maharashtra to Karnataka and reciprocating with a similar share for the drought-hit areas of Maharashtra. Both the States decided to speed up the Doodhganga project, a joint venture of both Karnataka and Maharashtra, and complete it in the next two years to ensure irrigation facility in the region. Floods, pandemic In another meeting with the Deputy Commissioners of various districts of Karnataka, Mr. Yediyurappa instructed them to initiate measures to handle the twin challenges of the COVID-19 and floods. Mr. Yediyurappa held a videoconference with the Deputy Commissioners of 20 flood-prone districts and said people and livestock should be protected on priority but simultaneously precautions should also be taken for containing the pandemic. Four NDRF teams have been deployed for rescue operations in Raichur, Kodagu, Belagavi, and Dakshina Kannada districts while SDRF teams consisting of more than 200 personnel have been deployed with necessary equipment for undertaking rescue operations in areas prone to floods, the Chief Minister said. A sum of Rs. 1,000 crore was available with the Deputy Commissioners for disaster management. A total of 1,710 villages have been identified as flood prone, he said. ‘Set up helplines’  Instructing the district officials to identify flood-prone villages and make necessary arrangements to tackle the situation, he said setting up of helplines, telephone and other communication tools should be kept in order. In case of emergencies, the Chief Minister permitted the district authorities to purchase necessary materials as per requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-maharashtra-to-share-water-release-rainfall-data-in-real-time/article34862529.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stop projecting party’s CM faces: Shivakumar||With the next State Assembly election to be held in 2023, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday warned his party colleagues to refrain from projecting chief ministerial faces of the party. Responding to MLA for Chamarajpet B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan’s attempts to project the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah as the next Chief Minister, Mr. Shivakumar said the Congress would go to elections under the collective leadership and all leaders had been instructed to follow the party’s discipline. “Some people may express personal opinions, but all that won’t be allowed,” Mr. Shivakumar said at a press meet. “Me, leaders such as Siddaramaiah, M. Mallikarjun Kharge, and G. Parameshwara will have aspirations and expectations. But our duty is to bring the Congress to power,” Mr. Shivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stop-projecting-partys-cm-faces-shivakumar/article34862538.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Namma Metro to resume tomorrow||For the first time in nearly two months, citizens will be able to use public transport which had ceased operations when the lockdown came into effect in April. The State government, on Saturday, permitted operation of buses by the Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) and Namma Metro by Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) at 50% capacity from Monday. In a press release, BMRCL said Namma Metro services will resume on weekdays, though they will not be available on Saturdays and Sundays in view of the weekend curfew. Services will resume on both purple and green lines with the trains operating between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. and 6 p.m., with a frequency of five minutes. Frequency of trains will be revisited depending on passenger traffic. Travel on the metro will be allowed only with the use of Metro Smart Cards. Though cash transactions are permitted for purchase of smart cards and top-up at stations, BMRCL has encouraged commuters to opt for cashless transactions. All passengers have to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour strictly. Thermal scanning of all commuters will be done at the entry of the stations, while hand sanitizers will also be made available. Only four persons can use the lifts at the station at a time, one step should be kept vacant while using escalators, said the release. BMTC to resume services Speaking to media personnel BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha said the transport corporation hopes to resume services with around 2,000 buses that will be operated in two shifts. BMTC will run Volvo buses to Kempegowda International Airport. She added that the final decision will be taken only after the government notification. Around 90% of BMTC’s crew had been vaccinated and 5% have received both doses. The transport corporation, which had incurred a loss of around Rs. 150 crore, will continue to accept cash from commuters for tickets in the beginning, though QR code for payment through online payment gateways will also be in place, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/namma-metro-to-resume-tomorrow/article34862514.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Study points to overdiagnosis of anaemia||The National Family Health Survey-5 data has shown that India’s anaemia situation has remained unchanged from the high prevalence of nearly 60% reported in the NFHS-4 survey of 2015. The NFHS-5 has indicated that there is a high anaemic population of Indian women and children who have not responded to the various iron supplementation and food fortification programmes implemented in the past five years. However, a team of researchers from Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research, New Delhi, St. John’s Medical College, Bengaluru, and the Indian Institute of Population Sciences, New Delhi, said it is possible that anaemia is being over-diagnosed in India because of a wrong (higher than appropriate) haemoglobin diagnostic cut-off. In a paper published in The Lancet Global Health , these researchers asserted the need for re-examination of the World Health Organisation (WHO) haemoglobin cut-offs to define anaemia. Prof. Harshpal Singh Sachdev and Prof. Anura V. Kurpad, authors of the paper, told The Hindu that if the haemoglobin diagnostic cut-off is inappropriately high, then a falsely high proportion of anaemia will be detected in the population. WHO standard The cut-off currently set by the WHO is 12 gm/decilitre for women, and between 11 gm and 12 gm/decilitre at different ages for boys and girls. The researchers used data from the Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey (CNNS) carried out in 2016-18 (under the aegis of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in collaboration with UNICEF and the Population Council) with a statistical approach. “The CNNS is an exhaustive and quality-controlled survey, measuring a number of biomarkers of health and nutrition with great precision in venous blood sampled from a very large number of children across India. The prevalence of anaemia in these children was 35% when using the WHO cut-off, which is lower than what the NFHS surveys have found,” said the researchers. Prof. Kurpad said the extreme low value in a representative healthy population of children (surveyed in the CNNS), or the 2.5th centile of the distribution of Hb values, was chosen as the Hb cut-off to diagnose anaemia. “This method is the standard way in which the current cut-off was defined by the WHO with one caveat: in that definition, a population of predominantly white people was used. It is now thought that normal haemoglobin levels vary across different parts of the world and diagnostic cut-offs need to be defined in more region-specific ways,” he asserted. “The Indian cut-offs based on the CNNS were lower than the current WHO cut-off, across all ages from 1-19 years in boys and girls. If the proposed new anaemia cut-offs are used, it would reduce the anaemia prevalence in Indian children to one-third of the present value. That is, the burden of anaemia would fall from 35% using the current WHO cut-off to nearly 11%,” he explained. The authors also pointed out that this might be a reason why the response to various interventions is small and stagnant. “If the prevalence is truly low, then the corrective response will also be low,” they said. Sampling method The study also pointed to differences in the way blood is drawn for sampling in CNNS and NFHS. Prof. Sachdev said that the NFHS survey measures haemoglobin in a drop of capillary blood that oozes from a finger prick. “This can dilute the blood and give a falsely lower value, and consequently it will appear that there is a higher prevalence of anaemia in the population. The CNNS survey used the recommended method of venous blood sampling and gave accurate values,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-points-to-overdiagnosis-of-anaemia/article34862518.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. looks to administer 7 lakh jabs on International Day of Yoga||The State government has set itself an ambitious target of inoculating seven lakh people on Monday, on the occasion of International Day of Yoga. Speaking at a press conference after a consultation meeting with officials from the department as well as the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said ‘Lasika Mela’ would be launched on Monday as a special drive to cover all eligible groups: 18-44 age group, the over 45 age group, health workers, frontline workers, and vulnerable groups. “We have a stock of 14 lakh doses of vaccine and we have set a target to inoculate a minimum of five lakh and a maximum of seven lakh on Monday. Having administered more than 1.8 crore doses, Karnataka accounts for one in every 15 jabs administered in India, covering more than 6.6% of the total doses administered in India,” he added. Before the meeting with the Chief Minister on the impending unlock measures in the next phase, he said during discussions with senior officials to review the positivity rate and bed occupancy in districts, it was learnt that for the one-week average, 16 districts have a positivity rate of less than 5% and 13 between 5% and 10%. Only Mysuru has a positivity rate above 10%, he added. “The Delta variant has been concluded to be the most infectious and that is what caused devastation in the country. The Dr. Devi Shetty committee has given a preliminary report and preparedness for the third wave will be completed within 45 days of receiving the final report.” Along with the TAC at the State level, district-level expert technical committees will also be formed with experts ranging from physicians to epidemiologists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-looks-to-administer-7-lakh-jabs-on-international-day-of-yoga/article34862520.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State proposes 1% reservation for transgender community||The State government proposes to reserve for transgender persons 1% of the vacancies in any service or post in all categories of employment to be filled through direct recruitment process. This proposal applies to government jobs. The reservation will be available in each category of general merit, Schedule Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and in each of the categories of among the Other Backward Classes, stated a draft notification issued on May 13 to amend Rule 9 of the Karnataka Civil Services (General Recruitment) Rules, 1977. The government submitted a copy of the draft notification to a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj of the High Court of Karnataka on Friday during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by Sangama, a society working for the welfare of the transgender community, and Nisha Gulur. In its statement to the court, the government said no objection has been received for the draft notification proposing 1% reservation for the transgender community though 15 days were given to the public to submit them. However, the government clarified to the court that the final notification by inserting Rule (1D) under Rule 9 would not be issued till the finalisation of the objections received for amending Rule 16, which was also proposed in the same draft notification. Rule 16 proposes to bar transfer, deputation or posting of any government officer belonging to any other service or post to the posts of Tahsildar Grade I and Tahsildar Grade II. The petition included a complaint that the Karnataka government had failed to reserve posts for transgender persons during last year’s recruitment to fill 2,672 posts of special reserve police constables, and other posts despite the apex court’s 2014 verdict directing governmentsto reserve posts for the third gender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-proposes-1-reservation-for-transgender-community/article34862522.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress launches video contest for children on COVID-19 vaccination||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday launched ‘Vaccinate Karnataka’ campaign, which is a social media video contest for children to make videos urging adults to get vaccinated. The “first-of-its-kind” competition invites students from schools across Karnataka to make a social media video about COVID-19 vaccination. Students who come up with the 100 best videos shall receive an Android tablet each as reward. To participate in the contest, children have to post a two-minute video on social media platforms with the hashtag #VaccinateKarnataka, and then submit a form at www.vaccinatekarnataka.in. “Nobody can persuades adults like children. When children tell parents to get vaccinated, they won’t say no. That is why we have launched this campaign to spread awareness in society about COVID-19 vaccination,” said Mr. Shivakumar. To prevent damage from the imminent third wave of COVID-19, at least 80% of people above the age of 18 need to get vaccinated. All the participants in the campaign will get a ‘Covid Hero’ certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-launches-video-contest-for-children-on-covid-19-vaccination/article34862531.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committees set up to implement NEP from this academic year||The State government has constituted committees of subject experts to roll out the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) from the current academic year (2020-21). Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Saturday said committees have been set up for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Three committees each have been set up under the faculty of arts (social sciences, humanities, fine arts, and visual arts) and faculty of sciences (physical, mathematical sciences, chemical andbiological sciences, earth sciences). One has been constituted under the faculty ofcommerce and management and another under the faculty of engineering. Several members who are part of the committees told The Hindu that revamping the curriculum before October when the new academic year begins would be a challenge. “We do not want to do a cursory reading of the NEP and implement it quickly. Revamping the curriculum in just three months is a difficult task,” the Vice-Chancellor of a State-run university and a member of one of the committees said. However, Karisiddappa, Vice-Chancellor of Visvesvaraya Technological University, who will head the committee for engineering, said the university had formed two task forces, an advisory committee, and board of studies for each of the faculties about six months ago. “As these committees have already had deliberations, it will help us revamp the curriculum quickly.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committees-set-up-to-implement-nep-from-this-academic-year/article34862526.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 5,815 new cases and 161 deaths||Positivity rate stood at 3.38% and case fatality rate at 2.76% as Karnataka reported 5,815 new COVID-19 cases and 161 deaths, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare bulletin on Saturday. The number of active cases was 1.3 lakh. The overall number of positive cases was 28.01 lakh, while the total number of fatalities so far is 33,763. With 11,832 recoveries, the total overall was 26.37 lakh. The number of tests for the day was over 1.71 lakh. There was good news for some districts as they recorded fewer than 100 new cases, with Bidar and Yadgir reporting fewer than 10, and Bagalkote, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Raichur, Ramanagaram, and Vijayapura recording double-digit numbers. Bengaluru Urban, on the other hand, reported 1,263 new cases and 23 new deaths, while Mysuru had 594 new cases along with 17 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-5815-new-cases-and-161-deaths/article34862505.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sexual assault case: Headmaster booked||The Dabaspet police have registered an FIR against the headmaster of a residential school for special students for allegedly sexually assaulting a 21-year old male student. Though the incident occurred a month ago, it came to light recently when the residential manager of the school visited the premises for an inspection and met the victim. During their interaction, the student narrated the ordeal. Based on a report submitted by a psychologist, the school’s management committee took the consent of the victim’s parents before filing a complaint with the police on Wednesday. The police have charged the headmaster under Sections 377 and 506 of Indian Penal Code. His name has been withheld to protect the identity of the victim. The school, located on the outskirts of the city, is run by a trust and focuses on the needs and education of differently-abled students. “There are around 49 children of various age groups studying in the school headed by the accused principal, who has been serving there for nine years,” said a police officer. During the lockdown, many students returned to their homes. “However, seven students remained at the school after seeking permission from authorities concerned. The headmaster also stayed behind as he had accommodation on the school premises arranged by the trust,” said a police officer. The victim said the headmaster invited him to his apartment, forced him to watch a pornographic film, and assaulted him between May 6 and May 7. According to the complaint, the accused went on vacation on May 20 and the residential manager was called in to check on the students. When the manager learned of the incident, he alerted members of the trust who called in a psychologist to counsel the victim. The psychologist video recorded the conversation and submitted the report to the committee. “The youth is back with his parents and is undergoing counselling,” the police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sexual-assault-case-headmaster-booked/article34862508.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kisan Rail carrying mangoes from Kolar flagged off||The State’s first Kisan Rail train carrying 250 tonnes of mangoes grown in Kolar district was flagged off from Doddanatha Halt , Kolar district, on Saturday. The train is bound for Adarsh Nagar station, Delhi. At the flagging-off event, which was attended by S. Muniswamy, MP for Kolar, and MLA M. Krishna Reddy, Divisional Railway Manager (Bengaluru Division) Ashok Kumar Verma said the transport of farm produce by train through Kisan Rail was cheaper and faster than by road. “The road transport cost is about Rs. 7-Rs. 8 per kg whereas (with subsidy applied) the transport cost per kg by Kisan Rail is Rs. 2.82 a kg, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kisan-rail-carrying-mangoes-from-kolar-flagged-off/article34862539.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS gets new director||Pratima Murthy, professor and HoD (Psychiatry), has been appointed director of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS). An official memorandum said that Dr. Murthy would be the director with effect from June 18 till she attained the age of 65, or until further orders, whichever came earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nimhans-gets-new-director/article34862523.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two employees held for theft||Two contract employees with Amazon India have been booked for allegedly stealing laptops and mobile phones from the inventory section of the company’s warehouse on the outskirts of the city. Acting on a complaint filed by the warehouse coordinator, the Thirumalashettyhalli police on Wednesday registered a case of theft against Darshan Ramappa and Chethan Muniraju. According to the police, they had been working in the IT department for the last eight months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-employees-held-for-theft/article34862512.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Be with yoga, be at home’||For the second successive year, International Day of Yoga will be celebrated indoors. As the theme of the 2021 event is “be with yoga, be at home” because of the persisting pandemic situation and the lockdown, yoga enthusiasts have been asked to celebrate the day at their homes. At Mysuru, a centre for yoga, unlike last year when a small group of organisers was allowed to hold a symbolic event, Yoga Day 2021 will be strictly indoors, said the Yoga Federation of Mysuru Trust. Those willing to take part in IYD-2021 have to register themselves and are requested to participate with their family members using the terrace area or space available in their home, the federation said. They can register on https://forms.gle/A4RJ5XQCMuW2xj8QA and later send pictures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/be-with-yoga-be-at-home/article34862524.ece
20 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Techies take up MGNREGA project to help their village||Five young techies from Bengaluru, who went back to their village during lockdown, decided to get their hands dirty to set an example to others. The youngsters, all from Melina Kuruvalli in Tirthahalli taluk, took up works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme that benefited their village. Naveen K.S., Manu, Madhu, Mahesh S. and Nagaraj are neighbours at Vittal Nagar in Melina Kuruvalli gram panchayat limits. They are from agricultural families, but now settled in Bengaluru. To manage rainwater Back in the village during lockdown, they pitched in with plantation work along with their parents and other members of the family. They soon realised the need to take up civil works to manage rainwater. Mr. Naveen, a 29-year-old BE graduate who works for a tech company, said, “We came to know that under the MGNREGA, we could take up works that would help the community. With the help of gram panchayat members and officers, we raised a demand for work that involved clearing the path of a stream. The work was approved. We enrolled our names for the scheme and got job cards.” He and his friends worked for 30 man-days and earned Rs. 299 per day. “It was a good experience. Initially, it was a bit difficult to get adjusted to physical labour. Every day, we worked between 9.30 a.m. and 3.30 p.m. Many women and aged people also got jobs because of our efforts to get this work approved,” he said. Mahesh S., a 32-year-old software engineer, said his family members and people in the village were all happy with the work. “I am planning to return to Bengaluru next week. We all are happy to have done some good work for our village,” he said. Poor response Malnad region is known for poor response to MGNREGA. However, during lockdown, people hardly had job opportunities. Manjunath H.L., Panchayat Development Officer, said, “We are happy that these youths came forward to take up the work and motivated others to join them. They did a good job, and completed a project that was helpful for the village.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/techies-take-up-mgnrega-project-to-help-their-village/article34862533.ece
20 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Floods: Officials take preventive steps in NK||With several districts in north Karnataka receiving more than the average rainfall in the last one week, the respective administrations have begun preparatory and preventive measures considering the possibility flood-like situation in the event of continued rains. The administrations of Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Belagavi, Vijayapura, and Bagalkot have already begun preparations by identifying flood-prone villages in the respective districts and nodal officers have been appointed to keep vigil over the situation. Dharwad received 39 mm rainfall in last 24 hours against the normal rainfall of 3.8 mm. From June 1 to 19, the district has received 140.5 mm rainfall against the normal rainfall of 79.1 mm. The district has received an excess of 78% rainfall. As per the estimate of agriculture officials, the crop loss is expected to be between 5,000 to 8,000 hectares, out of the 50,000 hectares where sowing has been completed. The farmers have sown soya, groundnut, potato, and green gram anticipating good rains. But now with excess rains, even before germination, the seeds were getting rotten, an official said. Meanwhile following incessant rainfall there are reports of inundation of smaller bridges at various villages. Following submergence of small bridge connecting Kambarganavi village in Alnavar taluk, movement of two-wheelers and light motor vehicles has been stopped. In the twin cities of Hubballi and Dharwad, ongoing road works and choked drains have added to the problems of the residents. With rains pounding the twin cities, the residents of low lying areas are facing threat of inundation. In Haveri district where 53.07% more rainfall over and above the average was recorded during the pre-monsoon period (March to May), 22.05% more rainfall was recorded in the first 18 days of June and 28 houses have been partially damaged. The Haveri district administration has already kept several teams, comprising volunteers from non-government organisations, snake catchers and 76 expert swimmers, ready as a precautionary measure. In Gadag, where more rainfall than the average was recorded in the last two days, 53 flood-prone villages have been identified that are on the banks of the Benni Halla and the Malaprabha. The Gadag administration has already identified 43 places for setting up care centres in these villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/floods-officials-take-preventive-steps-in-nk/article34862600.ece
20 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||DC: 78 villages identified as flood-prone in Dharwad||With 78 villages in Dharwad district identified as flood-prone if the rains continued, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has directed the officials not to leave the headquarters. Chairing a review meeting on rain situation in the district on Saturday, Mr. Patil said that the district was likely to receive more rains in the next week and it was necessary that the officials stayed in the headquarters and responded immediately to any flood-like situation. Mr. Patil said that already 78 villages in eight taluks of the district had been identified as flood-prone and to monitor the rain situation and take immediate remedial measures nodal officers had been appointed to each village. “The officials along with the tahsildar and executive officer of taluk panchayats should visit the flood prone village to assess the ground situation. If required the officials can set up care centres in the villages either in government schools or community halls,” he said. Referring to the 2,200 cots and beds purchased for COVID Care Centres, he said that many had not been used till date and the same could be used for the care centres to be set up in flood prone villages. On the issue of waterlogging in various localities of the twin cities, the Deputy Commissioner asked the municipal corporation to immediately clean the drains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-78-villages-identified-as-flood-prone-in-dharwad/article34862599.ece
20 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Vaccination for 18-plus age group from tomorrow||As part of efforts to maximise COVID-19 vaccination coverage before the third wave of the pandemic, the Ballari district administration has planned to launch the vaccination for all above 18 years. Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati, at a virtual meeting from his office on Saturday, directed the officers concerned to make preparations for the vaccination programme to be launched on Monday. “Select major locations across the district and vaccinate around 40,000 people on the first day. We can gradually expand the vaccination centres to every gram panchayat in the days to come. We need to put those waiting for the second dose on top priority,” Mr. Malapati told officers. Addressing concerns over misconceptions about the vaccine, Mr. Malapati directed the gram panchayat and urban local bodies to take up an extensive awareness campaign in their jurisdictions. “Employ all possible publicity methods and tools to inculcate awareness. You have to illustrate how the infection and the death rate among those who have taken two doses of vaccination is almost nil. We have to make them understand that vaccination is the only way to get protection from the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-for-18-plus-age-group-from-tomorrow/article34862603.ece
20 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Sullia TP president drives vehicle collecting garbage||The president of the Sullia Town Panchayat in Dakshina Kannada, Vinay Kumar Kandadkka, drove a vehicle collecting solid waste in select wards of the town on Saturday and Friday, because the regular driver could not attend duty owing to home quarantine. Mr. Kandadkka told The Hindu that the panchayat has three vehicles for collecting garbage on three routes. One of their drivers was in home quarantine as he was the primary contact owing to COVID-19 cases at his home. The other two drivers managed to drive the third vehicle for two days. But there was a delay in collecting the solid waste on the third route as the third vehicle could be operated only after one of the other two drivers completed the collection in their respective routes. “Hence I pitched in as the driver for the third vehicle,” the president said, adding that he also personally wanted to see how people are cooperating in segregating waste at source. “I also wanted to create awareness among people on segregating waste at homes,” he said. The president drove the vehicle for three to four hours from 6.30 a.m. The president said that the panchayat collected 1,200 kg to 1,500 kg of waste daily from its 20 wards. While many are segregating the waste at source, some are not. He made those without segregated waste, separate it on the spot and then hand it over. “While some did it without any objection, a few others said that it was the duty of the panchayat to segregate it as they paid tax to the civic body,” Mr. Kandadkka said. The president said that he tried to make non-segregators understand that it was their duty to separate the waste at source. “Many people were not listening to our drivers when they asked for segregated waste. I also experienced it personally,” the civic chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sullia-tp-president-drives-vehicle-collecting-garbage/article34862528.ece
20 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Petrol price crosses Rs. 100 mark in coastal areas||The price of petrol crossed the Rs. 100 mark in Dakshina Kannada district on Friday even as it had breached the century mark in many parts of the State already. Fuel used to be cheaper as Dakshina Kannada hosts State’s only refinery, Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. Petrol was sold at Rs. 100.18 at Rajesh Services, a dealer of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., (IOCL) in Sullia town, about 70 km from Mangaluru. It was sold at Rs. 99.5 at Puttur, about 40 km from Mangaluru, and Rs. 99.43 in Mangaluru. Similarly, it was sold at Rs. 99.69 a litre in Byndoor in Udupi district bordering Uttara Kannada district and Rs. 101.99 in Karwar, the headquarter of Uttara Kannada district. A year ago, petrol was sold at Rs. 73.41 in Mangaluru o June 7 and for Rs. 82.67 on December 7. It rose to Rs. 95.2 this May 19 and within a month, the price has increased by nearly Rs. 5. It is not just the consumers who were affected by the steep hike; the petroleum dealers too were facing the brunt. The major impact will be on the working capital where dealers have to pay to OMCs in advance for the fuel being supplied. It increased from about Rs. 8 lakh a year to over Rs. 12 lakh these days for average dealers, said Vishwas Shenoy, vice-president of Karnataka Federation of Petroleum Dealers’ Associations from Puttur. On the other hand, there was minimal or no increase in the margins or earnings of dealers, he said. The worst has been steep reduction in the dealer commission following drastic fall in business, rued Gopal Shetty, manager with Bejai Service Station, an IOC dealer. “We are unable to do even 25% of the regular business these whereas all the fixed expenditure have remained as they were,” he said. Increase in fuel prices has only added to the burden of the dealers who have to spend more on the working capital, he regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/petrol-price-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-coastal-areas/article34862593.ece
20 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mobile vaccination facility launched in Dakshina Kannada||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Saturday launched a mobile vaccination facility for persons with disabilities, senior citizens, and others who found it difficult to come to vaccination sites. Flagging off the facility, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), Rotary Club, Mangaluru, and Bank of Baroda have joined with the district administration in the initiative. Those who would to like to avail the service will have to register on the website of the district administration,www.dk.nic.in. Yatish Baikampady, chairman, disaster management committee, Dakshina Kannada unit of IRCS, said that the van will have doctors and other health staff. About 300 persons had registered in the website by noon. The van will go to the identified areas based on the registration. Those who have registered will be intimated in advance. Those who have taken the jab will be observed on the spot for half-an-hour. It will be useful if an area had a minimum of 10 registrations. Chairman of the Dakshina Kannada unit of the IRCS Shantharama Shetty said that the van will tour the district in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mobile-vaccination-facility-launched-in-dakshina-kannada/article34862595.ece
20 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Places of worship will not be reopened in DK for another two weeks’||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said on Saturday that places of worship in the district will not be reopened for devotees at least for another two weeks. If anybody drove vehicles for visiting temples like Dharmasthala Manjunatha, Kukke Subrahmanya, and other places, such vehicles will be seized and cases will be booked against them. The managements should also ask devotees to return if they are from faraway places. Additional check posts will be set up in places like Charmadi on the Chikkamagaluru-Mangaluru national highway and Periyashanthi on the Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway to curb the movement of such vehicles. Addressing presspersons virtually, Dr. Rajendra said that the district administration will take a call on relaxing the lockdown conditions on Monday based on the directions from the government. If the government agrees, the conditions can be relaxed in a phased manner. He said that the positivity rate in all taluks in Dakshina Kannada, except in Belthangady, stood at 6 %. In Belthnagady taluk it was at 12 %. Dr. Rajendra said that the positivity rate in the entire district has dropped from 18 % a week ago to below 9 % now. The administration has increased the sample tests. For example, 59,818 samples had been tested in a week from June 12 to June 18. The Deputy Commissioner said that of 6,931 active cases in the district as of Friday, 836 patients (12 %) were in hosptials and 5,646 patients (81%) were under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/places-of-worship-will-not-be-reopened-in-dk-for-another-two-weeks/article34862594.ece
20 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||2,868 families in flood-risk zones in Kodagu to be evacuated||Even as the monsoon has turned active in Kodagu district, 2,868 families living in areas identified as vulnerable to flooding and landslips are expected to be evacuated to relief centres by July 15. Officers in charge of evacuation are in touch with the families who are being persuaded to leave their houses. Seventy-seven places in towns and villages have been identified as sensitive and prone to landslips and flooding based on experts’ advice and also previous years’ data. Accordingly, steps are being taken to ensure the safety of dwellers. “The families will be shifted out from the sensitive zones by July 15. Nodal officers have been instructed to ensure their safe relocation at the earliest,” said Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal on Saturday. A 20-member NDRF team is camping in Kodagu. The highway connecting Mangaluru to Madikeri has been identified as a “sensitive” road based on previous years’ data (the road was damaged by landslips). The Kodagu administration has banned movement of heavy goods transport vehicles, barring those supplying essentials in view of the rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2868-families-in-flood-risk-zones-in-kodagu-to-be-evacuated/article34862535.ece
20 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath continues to lambast BJP govt.||Despite warnings of action, BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath on Saturday continued to lambast the BJP government in the State. He said the Chief Minister, the Council of Ministers as well as the chairpersons and members of various boards and corporations in the State should remember that they were occupying office because of his “sacrifice”. Coming under attack from partymen for his outbursts against the government and demanding replacement of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa a day earlier in Bengaluru, Mr. Vishwanath sought to remind his detractors that the BJP government did not come to power on its own.  ‘Sacrifices’ “The Chief Minister, Ministers, and chairpersons and members of boards and corporations had all come power because of our sacrifices. What authority do they have to talk?” he sought to know while speaking to reporters at Periyapatna near here. Mr. Vishwanath shot back when he was told about BJP leaders reminding him of his nomination to the Legislative Council by the BJP government. Mr. Vishwanath reiterated that the BJP government and the Chief Minister were in office because of him and others who joined the BJP and not vice versa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-continues-to-lambast-bjp-govt/article34862536.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Union government notifies KCZMA||The authority should regulate all development activities in the CRZ areas as specified in the 2011 notification, and is responsible for enforcing and monitoring provisions of the notification. It should examine the proposals received from the Karnataka government for changes or modifications in classification of CRZ areas and in the Coastal Zone Management Plan, and make specific recommendations thereon to the National Coastal Zone Management Authority. The authority should inquire into cases of alleged violation of provisions of the Act or the rules made thereunder; and review the cases involving violations or contraventions of provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder, the order said. It should inquire or review cases of violations or contraventions of the notification suo moto , or on the basis of a complaint made by any individual or body or organisation. It is authorised to file complaints under Section 19 of the Act. A. Senthil Vel, Professor and Dean, College of Fisheries, Mangaluru; Shivakumar B. Haragi, Assistant Professor, Karnataka University Post Graduate Centre, Karwar; M.D. Subash Chandran, Consulting Scientist, (Ecology and Environment), Centre for Ecological Sciences,IISc., Bengaluru; Ramesh H., Associate Professor, Department of Applied Mechanics and Hydraulics, NITK, Mangaluru are expert members. Ramachandra Bhatta of Kasarakod, Honnavar is the member representing NGOs in the authority. Others are ex-officio members. Prof. Vel told The Hindu on Saturday that one of the major concerns of the Karnataka coast is that the shore line is experiencing serious erosion resulting in loss of land, property and livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-government-notifies-kczma/article34862602.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccination||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination/article34862507.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for murder of private firm employee||The Rajgopal Nagar police have arrested two people for allegedly murdering a 42-year-old private firm employee in GKW Layout on June 16. The accused, real estate agent Mohan Kumar and his business partner H. Nagaraj, lived in GKW Layout where the victim, Karthik, also resided. According to the police, the motive was a property row. “Investigations revealed that Kumar had helped the victim buy two flats in a multi-storied residential complex. However, Karthik paid him commission for only one flat and refused to pay for the other. He renovated both the flats and converted them into one,” said a police officer. The two men clashed repeatedly over the commission but Karthik allegedly refused to budge from this stand. When Mohan started constructing a building near Karthik’s residence, the latter started lodging complaints with civic officials and the police over reported violations. He also started a smear campaign against him. In retaliation, Mohan and Nagaraj confronted Karthik while he was riding his bike in the neighbourhood and bludgeoned him to death. The duo, on questioning, allegedly confessed to the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-murder-of-private-firm-employee/article34862511.ece
20 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Umbrella-makers find the going tough||Every year, the demand for umbrellas shoots up ahead of the southwest monsoon in June, which coincides with the reopening of schools in the State. Salija N.S. (37) of Muhamma in Alappuzha district used to get bulk orders for stitching umbrella canopies in April and May from Marari Marketing Ltd, a company owned by Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups, which sells umbrellas under the brand name Maari. This year, Salija received orders for stitching 600 umbrella canopies, which, she says, is only a tiny fraction compared to the previous years. "I used to stitch 240 umbrellas a day, earning Rs. 600. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, I made Rs. 45,000 between April and July in 2020. This year, however, the situation is different. I have been stitching umbrellas for the past 10 years and have never gone through such an ordeal. Financially, it has been a difficult couple of months for my family due to the lack of work," says Ms. Salija, a mother of two. Her husband, a coir worker, became unemployed after the imposition of pandemic-induced lockdown and the family is finding it hard to make ends meet. “Although the government has eased lockdown restrictions, I am not expecting fresh orders any time soon,” she says. With hardly any orders for canopy stitching, Salija has turned to stitching carry bags for Supplyco for distributing food kits. Unavailability of required materials coupled with a lack of demand has hit manufacturing units, especially small-scale units and individuals involved in umbrella-making, hard. Uncertain future Ramadevi V. (60) of Kalavoor, who works in the finishing unit of an umbrella-making company, says her salary has become irregular. “It is my only source of livelihood. There is not much work and people like me are facing an uncertain future,” she says. Sajimon, in-charge of marketing and production at Marari Marketing, says the sales have nosedived this season. “We used to sell around 50,000 umbrellas during the school reopening period. This year, the sale is yet to touch even 5,000,” he says.  Sajimon, in-charge of marketing and production at a firm, says sales have nosedived this season||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/umbrella-makers-find-the-going-tough/article34862986.ece
20 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Hartal against Thottappally mineral sand-mining||A dawn-to-dusk hartal will be observed in Purakkad grama panchayat on June 21 by the Karimanal Ghanana Virudha Ekopana Samithi against mineral sand-mining at Thottappally in Alappuzha district. Suresh Kumar S., chairman of the Samithi, said that apart from the hartal, protests would be held in the coastal areas of the district on Monday. Local residents have recently intensified their protest against sand-mining. The indefinite relay satyagraha being staged under the aegis of the samithi entered the 10th day on Saturday. Protests are also being carried out by Janakeeya Samara Samithi. After a period of lull, removal and transportation of mineral-rich sand from Thottappally ‘pozhi’ (sandbar at sea mouth) was resumed last month. According to officials, the sand is removed to ensure smooth flow of floodwaters from Kuttanad into the sea. The sand is being transported to Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) and Indian Rare Earths Ltd. (IREL). Flood mitigation Although the local residents, especially the fishermen community, is not against sand removal from the pozhi , which is an annual process, it is up in arms against the transportation of the mineral-rich sand. KMML and IREL started to transport mineral-rich sand from the pozhi last year after the government accorded permission to extract two lakh cubic metres of sand. Prior to that, the sand removed from the estuary was kept nearby. Residents alleged that the government was engaged in large-scale mineral sand-mining in the guise of flood mitigation. The coastline is prone to severe sea attack. A large number of people in Thottappally and nearby areas were displaced when their houses were destroyed in recent years. Residents fear that the sand-mining would prove detrimental to those living along the shorelines from Valiazheekal to Punnapra. They demanded an immediate halt to mining activities in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hartal-against-thottappally-mineral-sand-mining/article34862988.ece
20 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||MSF leader says Janu has paid Rs. 4.5 lakh to CPI(M) ex-MLA||Muslim Student Federation (MSF) State president P.K. Navas on Saturday alleged that tribal leader and chairperson of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP) C.K. Janu had paid Rs. 4.5 lakh to CPI(M) leader and former Kalpetta MLA C.K. Saseendran. Speaking to media at Sulthan Bathery on Saturday, Mr. Navas said BJP State president K. Surendran had bribed Ms. Janu Rs. 50 lakh on two occasions to contest in the recent Assembly election as an NDA candidate in the Sulthan Bathery Assembly segment and she paid Rs. 4.5 lakh to Mr. Saseendran from it through the Kalpetta branch of Kerala Bank, where Mr. Saseendran’s wife is working, on March 9. Mr. Navas said he had handed over the digital evidence of the transaction to police on the day. The Sulthan Bathery police had registered a case against Mr. Surendran and Ms. Janu on a complaint filed Mr. Navas. However, Mr. Saseedran said the allegation was fabricated. He had paid Rs. 3 lakh to Ms. Janu two years ago, while Ms. Janu had alliance with the LDF, through her bank account as financial assistance and Mr. Janu paid it back in two instalments through his bank account, Mr. Saseendran said. Ms. Janu said the allegation was baseless as she had borrowed the amount from Mr. Saseendran as loan and she paid it back. There was nothing in the allegation as the transaction was quite transparent, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/msf-leader-says-janu-has-paid-rs-45-lakh-to-cpim-ex-mla/article34862709.ece
20 June 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Luck runs out for lottery vendors||The relaxation of the COVID-19-induced lockdown has come as a relief for T. Ramdas, 58, a lottery ticket vendor in Kannur. The lockdown restrictions had made life difficult for people like him, with many struggling to make ends meet. A native of Salem in Tamil Nadu, he came to Kannur to work as labourer in 2003. After he suffered a serious leg injury in an accident in 2013, he started selling lottery tickets to make a living. “I used to earn Rs. 200 a day selling lottery. It was never sufficient but that too stopped during the pandemic,” he says. It was then a shop owner offered him the job of a watchman. “A lot of money has been spent on the leg surgery and for conducting the accident case, which is still pending in court,” says Ramdas. The little money he saved from selling lottery and working as watchman helped him manage his expenses during the lockdown. He fears he may not be able to hold on in case of another lockdown. The hotel he used to stay downed shutters following the outbreak of COVID-19. Now he stays in the shop, where he works as the watchman. “I search for places where food is served free and depend on hotels whenever I have money,” he says.  People’s help The case of Ramkumar, 35, another lottery ticket vendor, is no different. A native of Kannur, he says he survived with the support of people, who gave him money and food during the lockdown. Ramkumar, who is differently abled, says though the government has relaxed the lockdown, people are not purchasing tickets. “People complain they have no money to spare. I will lose money if there are no takers for tickets. It will take some more time for things to be back to normal,” he says. Ramkumar says the government should take the initiative for providing relief to poor people like him who have borne the brunt of the restrictions imposed to check the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/luck-runs-out-for-lottery-vendors/article34862699.ece
20 June 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Jayarajan flays Sudhakaran||Communist Party of India (Marxist) central committee member E.P. Jayarajan on Saturday said Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran was behaving like an insane person. Mr. Jayarajan said Mr. Sudhakaran should never have been made KPCC president. The CPI(M) leader claimed that Mr. Sudhakaran had been protecting a person who had spent 17 years in prison for making a bid on his life. Mr. Jayarajan accused Mr. Sudhakaran of hiring assassins to kill him. But Pinarayi Vijayan was the real target. The assailant was hired from the RSS, he said. He asked how could such a person be made the KPCC president. Nalpadi Vasu was shot while Mr. Sudhakaran was in the protection of the police. Mr. Sudhakaran escaped from the case because K. Karunakaran was the Chief Minister, Mr. Jayarajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jayarajan-flays-sudhakaran/article34862703.ece
20 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Wives of Periye case accused given jobs against rules: Youth Congress||Youth Congress workers staged a protest in front of the Kanhangad District Hospital on Saturday, alleging that temporary jobs were provided at the hospital to the wives of the three accused in the Periye twin murder case. Youth Congress leader Pradeep Kumar said the hospital, which was under the district panchayat, had temporarily appointed the wives of three persons allegedly involved in the murder of Youth Congress activists Kripesh and Sarath Lal at Periye in 2019. He added that the appointments, for a period of six months, were made to the post of sweeper. “The back-door appointments of Manju, wife of the first accused Peethambaran, Shruthi, wife of second accused Surendran, and Baby, wife of another accused Suresh, were made last month in total violation of rules and regulations,” he alleged. Mr. Kumar demanded an immediate inquiry into the matter. “The government should have supported the families of the victims and provided them jobs,” said Sathyanarayanan, father of Sarath Lal. Kasaragod district panchayat president Baby Balakrishnan and the hospital authorities were unavailable for comment. Meanwhile, K. Babu, MLA, termed the appointments as cruel and deplorable. He accused the LDF government of attempting to sabotage the Periya case from the very beginning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wives-of-periye-case-accused-given-jobs-against-rules-youth-congress/article34862696.ece
20 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Inoculation drives to be intensified in Ernakulam||Special vaccination drives will be intensified for homeless persons, residents of Laksham Veedu colonies, and Scheduled Caste persons living in colonies in Ernakulam district. The drive for people living in colonies began with 102 persons taking the shot at Valanthakad island on Friday. This will be expanded to the Kochi Corporation area and other municipalities from Monday. The drive to vaccinate homeless persons, which began on Wednesday with those in the Kochi Corporation limits, will also be extended to other areas. Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for immunisation, said the district administration hopes to administer the vaccine to all people in priority groups by the end of June. Those above the age of 60, differently abled persons, bedridden patients, people due for the second dose, migrant workers, those going abroad, and residents of various colonies fall in the priority category, he said. While migrant workers at two camps have taken a dose of the vaccine so far, the Labour Department is identifying more camps in the Perumbavoor area where the drive can be organised, Dr. Sivadas informed. The administration is also in the process of identifying local bodies where vaccination coverage is low. “In some panchayats, several people over the age of 60 are yet to be vaccinated. Since some local bodies remained containment zones for a while, the drive appears to have taken a hit in certain areas. These places will be identified soon, and the number of centres will be increased here from next week onwards,” Dr. Sivadas said. 1 lakh doses to arrive A total of 1 lakh doses of the two vaccines, including 10,000 doses of Covaxin, are expected to arrive in the district over the next two days, he added. A total of 14,16,670 doses have been administered in the district as of Saturday morning, the highest in the State. Of the 11,76,315 people over the age of 45 in the district, 1,68,920 are fully vaccinated (14% of the population in the age group). Out of 14,70,864 people in the 18 to 44 years category, a total of 2,16,350 have taken the first shot. This is around 15% of the population in that age bracket. As many as 2,660 people in the 18 to 44 age category have taken the second shot as well. Going by data on the CoWIN portal, 21,528 doses were administered on Saturday. A total of 15 private hospitals have procured the vaccine in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inoculation-drives-to-be-intensified-in-ernakulam/article34862692.ece
20 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,557 new COVID-19 cases in district||A total of 1,557 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday, and a test positivity rate of 10.58% was recorded. Pallipuram registered 59 new cases, Thrikkakara and Palluruthy 51 each, Kalamassery 42, Alangad 41, Njarakkal and Fort Kochi 35 each, Karumaloor and Elamkunnapuzha 31 each, and Kumbalangi 30. Chellanam and Kadungalloor recorded 29 new cases each. Six health workers have tested positive. The source of infection was not clear in 18 cases. For testing, 14,710 samples were sent. As many as 1,010 recoveries were recorded. The active caseload is 13,839. While 8,966 people are recovering from the infection at home, 1,530 patients are recuperating at government and private hospitals. At first-line and second-line treatment centres and domiciliary care centres, 1,768 people are under treatment. As many as 302 people are recovering in intensive care units. The number of new daily admissions to treatment centres has fallen below 100, with 91 people being admitted to treatment facilities on Saturday. A total of 215 people were discharged. As many as 38,736 people remain in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1557-new-covid-19-cases-in-district/article34862691.ece
20 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CM has set a bad example: Satheesan||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said that if Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s accusations against KPCC president K. Sudhakaran are aimed at diverting attention from tree-felling scandal, the Opposition will not fall in that trap. Mr. Satheesan, interacting with mediapersons in Ernakulam on Saturday, said the Opposition was seized of the extent and depth of the allegations in the tree-felling case. The case would be meticulously followed up. Mr. Satheesan said the Chief Minister had set a bad example by using the prime-time slot on television to recount events of his college days that occurred more than 50 years ago. This is not what the State wanted, he said. “People are waiting to hear if the government is doing them any good in this crisis period. They do not want the Chief Minister to give an account of his college days. They are eager to have a fact-based understanding of the situation, including things such as test positivity rate, concessions on bank loans, and measures to help MSMEs,” said the Leader of the Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-has-set-a-bad-example-satheesan/article34862702.ece
20 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Son’s game addiction costs parent dear||The mother of a Standard 9 student recently petitioned the Ernakulam Rural Police about a fraud that usurped Rs. 3 lakh from her bank account. But the probe did not lead to any fraudster but to her own son who, while accessing the smartphone for online classes, got hooked on an online game, and the addiction cost his mother dear. “The money was spent over a mobile wallet in over 225 transactions of Rs. 40 to Rs. 4,000 over the game in just over a month. There were days when even 10 payments were made in a single day to keep on playing the game,” said police sources. It is suspected that the woman’s mobile wallet was linked to the mobile number, and the password was known to her son. Rahul Sasi, an international cyber security expert, said parents should keep their credit cards and passwords of mobile wallets safe from the reach of children. “The credit card number and the three-digit CVV number are enough for transactions in many international sites that do not need OTP. One of the best practices is to memorise the CVV number and erase it,” he said. “In wake of the incident, we are planning an awareness campaign on cyber security. Parents should be more careful about the use of smart gadgets by children,” said District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. Parents have also been advised to frequently vet gadgets to verify usage by children and to be cautious about setting and sharing user IDs and passwords. Smartphones should be frequently checked for banned apps and games. “Tech-savvy youngsters have been found using some popular games, which remain banned in the country,” police sources said. They asked parents to create separate email IDs with parental control for online sessions. They should be alert against late-night and excessive usage of smart gadgets by children. Care should be taken to ensure that smartphones used by students are not linked to parents’ bank accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sons-game-addiction-costs-parent-dear/article34862660.ece
20 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,132 cases in Kollam, 796 in Alappuzha||Kollam district reported 1,132 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,398 recoveries on Saturday. While 1,123 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include one NRI, one person from another State and seven health workers. Kollam district currently has 32,518 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 15,43,696. While 2,985 people completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 2,68,048 primary and 16,991 secondary contacts of the cases. Alappuzha The district reported 796 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. It also recorded 10 COVID-19- related deaths. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 8.98%. Of the fresh cases, 791 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of five others remains unidentified. The 796 cases include 66 logged from Alappuzha, 54 from Krishnapuram, 34 from Ramankary, 30 from Cherthala South, 27 from Ezhupunna, 25 from Kayamkulam, 24 from Arookutty, and 21 from Mavelikara. Meanwhile, 1,376 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload fell to 9,475. Kottayam As many as 640 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Saturday Of the fresh cases, 638 people, including two health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. The daily test positivity rate of Kottayam district stood at 8.35%. With 47 cases, Panachikkad reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases, followed by Pambady and Kottayam, which recorded 43 cases each. 32,143 in quarantine As many as 552 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 4,218. Meanwhile, 32,143 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Pathanamthitta As many as 433 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 429 people contracted the virus through local transmission. The daily Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the district reported a further declined to 11.4%. With 37 cases, Vallikode panchayat reported the highest number of cases, followed by Puramattomwith 29 cases . The disease, meanwhile, claimed two more lives in the district. With 550 recoveries on the day, Pathanamathitta currently has 4,752 active cases. ( With contributions from bureaus in Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1132-cases-in-kollam-796-in-alappuzha/article34862990.ece
20 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Work on boat-building yard to take off soon||The construction of a boat building yard at Sakthikulangara, one major project announced in connection with the upgradation of harbours in Kollam, is expected to take off shortly. “The work will start within 1.5 months,” Fisheries Minister Saji Cheiyan said after visiting the Sakthikulangara, Neendakara and Azheekkal harbours in the district recently. After assessing the progress of various works and interacting with officials from Fisheries and Harbour Engineering Departments, Mr. Cherian said all harbours in the State would be given a facelift on par with global standards. “Apart from the boat building yard, a new initiative will be launched at the space adjacent to it under the Fisheries Department. It will provide employment to nearly 100 persons,” he said. A fishnet manufacturing unit at Neendakara and a modern auction hall offering all varieties of fish are also part of the project. Modern makeover At the Neendakara harbour, a major fish landing centre in the district, the wharf will be renovated. Laying of geo bags to prevent sedimentation, a new shopping area, CCTV installation, and a string of new constructions, are expected to give the harbour a modern makeover. A number of new facilities will come up in Sakthikulangara. The finger jetty and net mending shed are the new additions along with the entrance gate and gate house. The Azheekkal harbour, which has minimal landing facilities, will be renovated with a 100-metre wharf and new auction hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-boat-building-yard-to-take-off-soon/article34862991.ece
20 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vegetable cultivation project inaugurated||Minister J. Chinchu Rani inaugurated the ‘Onathinu Oru Muram Pachakkari’ project at Chadayamangalam block here on Saturday. Two lakh saplings and 40,000 vegetable seed sachets will be distributed to farmers in eight grama panchayats coming under the block as part of the project launched by the Agriculture Department. Block panchayt president Lathika Vidyadharan presided over the function while vice president Hari V. Nair and Agriculture Department Assistant Director Rajalakshmi were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vegetable-cultivation-project-inaugurated/article34863002.ece
20 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Essay writing contest for students||The District Information Office is organising an essay writing competition for upper primary, high school, and higher secondary students in the district as part of Reading Week observance. Students in the first two categories can write about their favourite character from a book while the subject for higher secondary students is ‘Reading in modern times’. Entries should reach vayanavaaram2021 @gmail.com by June 22. Contact 0474 2794911 for more information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/essay-writing-contest-for-students/article34863003.ece
20 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Focus on mental health of COVID-19 survivors||As the lingering effects of COVID-19 on physical health are emerging, so too are its impact on mental health of the survivors. To ensure long-term support to those who survived the infection but are suffering from its crippling impact on mental health, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in Kottayam has rolled out a scheme titled Ottaykkalla, Koodeyund Kottayam (Not alone, Kottayam is with you). The project, being implemented in association with the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) and other agencies aims at bringing mental health experts to the front line role against the pandemic. According to M. Anjana, District Collector and chairperson of the DDMA, the project is being rolled out after taking into account the mental impact of the prolonged stasis imposed by lockdown, pandemic-related deaths, and hospitalisation. Initial approach “To begin with, we will approach through ward-level committees people who have lost their family members, those who underwent treatment, those facing social and psychological isolation, those who have lost their jobs, and those facing family problems. Among them, people who are experiencing severe post-traumatic stress disorders will be identified through interactions with their family members,” the official said. The authorities have also roped in professional social workers and about 500 P-G students of social work from eight colleges. The volunteers have already been given special training under the leadership of KILA. “While those with mild mental health issues will be counselled, experts will provide counselling directly to those experiencing severe emotional problems. Those found in need of the services of mental health professionals will be referred to doctors at the general and taluk hospitals and the Government Medical College Hospital here,” added Ms. Anjana.  Health Minister Veena George inaugurated the project here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-mental-health-of-covid-19-survivors/article34862995.ece
20 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||First countrywide census of rubber holdings this month||As soon as the ongoing Statewide lockdown eases, enumerators will be knocking on the doors of natural rubber growers in Kottayam to count the trees in their holdings. The exercise, according to Rubber Board officials, marks the pilot phase of a countrywide census to prepare a comprehensive data base on rubber plantations. The details, to be collected with the help of rubber producing societies, will be updated and collated via a mobile app, developed in association with the Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management, Kerala. According to K.N. Raghavan, executive director, Rubber Board, the census aims at ascertaining the actual area under rubber, size and age profile of holdings and rubber trees, level of adoption of new clones, and details of tappers, among other things. The exercise will help overcome the shortcomings on periodical updating and is crucial in understanding the distribution pattern of holdings, especially in northeastern States. Mission mode schemes “The exercise will be carried out in different phases and it will take just over a year to process the whole data. As well as routine planning, it will help formulate mission mode schemes for improving production,” he said. While the Rubber Act of 1947 stipulates mandatory registration of rubber plantations, the discontinuation of the practice has forced the board to base its calculations on structured statistical random sampling. As per the available estimates, the overall size of rubber plantations in the country is around 8.20 lakh hectares with a tappable area of 6.98 lakh hectares. The number of trees per hectare of land varies between 450 to 500. Natural rubber production in the country recorded an upward momentum despite lockdowns and a resultant fall in consumption. The net result of increased production and fall in consumption was a reduction in imports, which fell from 4.57 lakh tonnes in 2019-20 to 4.10 lakh tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-countrywide-census-of-rubber-holdings-this-month/article34862983.ece
20 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Police officer attacked by father of accused||A Grade Sub-Inspector (Grade SI) at the Manimala police station in Kottayam has sustained grievous injuries after being attacked by the father of a criminal case accused. The incident took place at 6.30 a.m. on Saturday when a police team, including Grade SI Vidyadharan, reached Vellavur to arrest Ajin, alias Ramu, 26, a native of Chuvattadippara, who had gone into hiding since February this year following an attempt-to-murder case against him. Acting on a tip-off, the police team searched his house and chased down the youth who attempted to flee. As the police began to retreat with the youth, the accused’s father, identified as Prasad, unleashed a violent attack on the police team using a sharp-edged weapon. Mr. Vidyadharan, who attempted to intervene, suffered major injuries on his head. Accused overpowered The accused was soon overpowered by the remaining policemen at the spot and shifted to the police station along with his son. Prasad was booked under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code, including attempt to murder, and was produced before a magistrate. The injured officer, meanwhile, was rushed to the taluk hospital at Kanjirappally and then to the Government Medical College in Kottayam. His condition was stated to be out of danger. Cooperation Minister V.N. Vasavan visited the injured officer at the hospital and announced that the State government would meet the expenses of the injured official’s treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-officer-attacked-by-father-of-accused/article34862992.ece
20 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Seminar on intelligent automation for hospitals||A webinar on intelligent automation for hospitals, organised by the Department of Hospital Administration in the School of Medical Education, Kottayam, will be held from 3 p.m. to 4.15 a.m. on June 21. U.K. Ananthpadmanabhan, Director of Tenxhealth Tchnologies Private Limited, will lead the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seminar-on-intelligent-automation-for-hospitals/article34863004.ece
20 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vaccination moving at slow pace in Kozhikode||Despite the district administration announcing its plans to vaccinate over 40,000 persons a day against COVID-19 by the month-end, data provided by the Health Department show that the figure has not crossed 20,000 in the past few days. Meanwhile, 806 fresh cases of the infection were reported in the district on Saturday. According to sources, 10,71,856 people have got the jab so far in the district. Of them, 8,68,970 have got the first dose and 2,02,886 have got both the doses. Kozhikode has an estimated population of around 25 lakh aged above 18. Only 6,774 were vaccinated on Saturday and 13,645 on Friday. As per the date made available by the Health Department, 18,141 were vaccinated on Thursday. Lack of availability of vaccines is reported to be the main reason behind the slow pace. It is learnt that the government has got fresh doses of vaccines and the drive is expected to pick up speed in the coming days. The District Medical Officer said in a release that there were 796 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of 10 others was not known. As many as 9,547 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 8.6%. Kozhikode Corporation reported 237 locally acquired infections and Puthuppady 55. As many as 1,232 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload dropped to 10,884.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-moving-at-slow-pace-in-kozhikode/article34862689.ece
20 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Now, brigade to ‘safeguard’ private hospitals in State||Relatives or friends of patients who vent their anger on private hospital staff in the State for alleged medical lapses need to be careful from now. An association of doctors and private hospitals here is planning to form an ‘all-men protection brigade’ involving their staff to ensure safety of health workers who, the forum claimed, are frequently facing physical attacks. At least two well-trained security guards will be appointed in each institution. Closed-circuit television cameras will be installed at the labour ward, intensive care unit, casualty ward, the triage for admitting COVID-19 patients and at the hospital entrance. The brigade members will be trained in self-defence too. Regular drills will also be conducted. Alarm to be installed C.M. Aboobacker, president, Qualified Private Medical Practitioners’ Association (QPMPA), said a special alarm bell would be installed at the labour ward, ICU, casualty ward, and the COVID-19 triage. In the event of alarm bell going off, all the male staff, including doctors, nurses, nursing assistants, and the staff in the security, paramedical wing and office would reach the spot. Staff attending to emergency and critically ill patients would be spared from this. They would try to resist the unruly people and try to pacify them. They would also stop anyone from ransacking the furniture and other equipment. Police would be informed about the incident without losing time and members of the association as well as friends would be tipped off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-brigade-to-safeguard-private-hospitals-in-state/article34862984.ece
20 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||From art director to construction worker||Shaji Puthiyara has been working as an assistant art director in Malayalam cinema for the last 25 years. He is one of the thousands from the film industry badly affected by the lockdown. So much so, he is earning a living by doing manual labour at construction sites. These days he cannot even do that, as he is forced to rest after developing an allergy to cement. On daily wages “Things are really bad for people like me who are working on daily wages in cinema,” says Shaji, who has a diploma in art. “Even before COVID-19 we used to get only work for half the year. But whatever we earned for the five or six months would have seen it through the year.” He has not had any work for the last several months. “Sibi Malayil’s Kot h th is the last film I worked for,” says Shaji. “I was also part of the crew of Blessy’s Aadujeevitham. I have worked in cinema as assistant as well as associate art director. I have also been an independent art director in ad films.” He was also planning to go back to his first love of painting and had thought of conducting an exhibition. “At the moment, all I am concerned is about looking after my four-member family,” he said. “It is very, very difficult with no help coming from any quarters.”  Things are really bad for people like me who are working on daily wages in cinema||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-art-director-to-construction-worker/article34862701.ece
20 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Agri Ministry comes up with new short-term credit scheme for farmers||The Ministry of Agriculture has come up with a short-term credit scheme for farmers who require funds to complete pending agricultural activities. All primary cooperative credit societies and the Kerala Gramin Bank will extend the loan support. The scheme is likely to be introduced next week. Officials of the department say the scheme will be available only for agricultural purpose for one year. The interest rate has been fixed at 6.4%, which is lower than that of such schemes in public and private sector banks. Farmers may contact Krishi Bhavans for aid. Crop insurance schemes will be promoted among more farmers to deal with crop loss during the monsoon season. The comprehensive risk insurance policy will cover yield losses due to flood, pests, landslips, lightning, storm, hailstorm, and cyclone. Post-harvest losses within the specified period are also covered under the scheme, officials say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agri-ministry-comes-up-with-new-short-term-credit-scheme-for-farmers/article34862658.ece
20 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beypore port will be developed: Devarkovil||Minister for Ports and Museums Ahammad Devarkovil has proposed to develop the Beypore port in Kozhikode to international standards. At a ‘Meet the press’ event organised at the Calicut Press Club here on Saturday, the Minister said dredging to increase the depth of the port channel would be taken up so that big ships, including those from abroad, could land there. Discussions were on with an Oman-based firm and another company based in the United Arab Emirates. Crew changing for international ships, the facility to replace one ship’s crew members with another one, would be introduced. “Right now, there is only one wharf here. The Lakshadweep administration has some land where they had planned to set up a wharf. We will hold parleys with their authorities to see if they are utilising it. If they are not, we may think of building another wharf there,” said the Minister. Steps would be taken to increase cargo movement between Kochi and Beypore ports. The port had been used mainly for passenger transport to Lakshadweep islands. Because of certain political developments involving the Administrator, there had been a reluctance on the part of cargo vessels to come to Beypore. Discussions would be held with the authorities there to sort out if they had any grievances, he said. Mr. Devarkovil said heritage museums would be developed in all districts. In Kozhikode, focus would be given to the development of the Kozhikode beach and Kallai, which had a thriving timber industry for long. Steps would be taken to build a tourism circuit connecting Tali Temple and pond and the Mishkal Mosque and pond at Kuttichira in Kozhikode city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beypore-port-will-be-developed-devarkovil/article34862695.ece
20 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Victims reluctant to move legally against virtual scams||Apparently afraid of social humiliation, many who have lost money to the trickery of cyber scammers on Facebook are reluctant to take legal measures. Instead of proceeding with cases, the complainants choose to leave the scene after getting the fake social media accounts of their friends deleted from the virtual space with the cyber cell’s support. Officials with the Kozhikode cyber police station said they were yet to register a First Information Report (FIR) on Facebook frauds thanks to reluctance on the part of the victims. Some do not even approach the cyber cell after closing fake accounts using the personal reporting option, they added. “A major reason for the trend is that many of those who have reported such incidents have not lost huge amounts. They also fear that any follow-up legal proceedings may spoil their peace,” said a senior officer with the cyber police station. Meanwhile, a few who recently reported fake profiles claimed that cyber crime investigators too were finding it hard to track the invisible offenders. It was also evident in some suo motu cases that were registered after tracking phone numbers and bank accounts of suspected persons, the officials said, adding that the police were mostly focusing on online awareness campaigns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/victims-reluctant-to-move-legally-against-virtual-scams/article34862659.ece
20 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Special camp for IT staff, kin at Cyberpark||A special vaccination drive for IT employees at the Government Cyberpark in Kozhikode and their family members will be held on the Cyberpark campus on Monday as part of a State-wide campaign to bring the IT sector back to normality. Around 2,000 people will be vaccinated during the two-day camp. The camp is organised in collaboration with Technopark Employees Cooperative (TEC) Hospital, Technopark, Thiruvananthapuram. The hospital has procured two lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine directly from Serum Institute, Pune, for the project. The first batch of 25,000 doses reached Thiruvananthapuram last week. Cyberpark CEO John M. Thomas said the camp would help the IT sector in the State bounce back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-camp-for-it-staff-kin-at-cyberpark/article34862686.ece
20 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Research centre tag for law college||Government Law College, Kozhikode, has been recognised as a research centre. A release quoting the Principal said on Saturday that it would prove to be a milestone for the college celebrating its golden jubilee. The State Budget for 2021 had declared it as a centre of excellence, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/research-centre-tag-for-law-college/article34862687.ece
20 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Meeting on barracks issue||Kozhikode District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao has convened a meeting on Monday to discuss the row related to restrictions on construction and other activities around the Army barracks at West Hill in Kozhikode city. M.K. Raghavan, MP, on Saturday visited the area and spoke to residents who have formed a Defence NoC Action Committee against the curbs. People are apprehensive if the curbs will be intensified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meeting-on-barracks-issue/article34862690.ece
20 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Facelift for General Hospital soon||The Pathanamthitta General Hospital is all set to get a major facelift with a meeting of the Hospital Management Committee (HMC) here on Saturday deciding to prepare a master plan for comprehensive development of the healthcare facility. Addressing the meeting, Health Minister Veena George said the preparation of the master plan with the help of the National Health Mission would begin next week after preliminary discussions by a subcommittee led by the municipal chairman of Pathanamthitta. It envisages taking up a host of development works with financial assistance from the State government and using the MLA funds. The draft prepared by the subcommittee will be finalised after approval by the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facelift-for-general-hospital-soon/article34862993.ece
20 June 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Search on for missing youth||Fire and Rescue Services personnel on Saturday intensified the search for a 22-year-old youth, Aby Sajan, who went missing in the Perumthenaruvii waterfalls the other day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-on-for-missing-youth/article34862994.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Colour code for KSRTC buses||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is set to introduce route numbers in its city services operating in the capital on a trial basis. The numbers are being assigned to the KSRTC fleet on the basis of a study carried out by the management wing of the Kannur University in association with the district administration and the Thiruvananthapuram district promotion council (TDTPC) in 2016. The KSRTC services in Thiruvananthapuram city will bear a blue colour code, Neyyattinkara and Kattakada taluks yellow, Nedumangad taluk green and Chirayinkeezhu and Varkala taluks red. For easy identification, the services in the capital city have been assigned numbers starting with 1, 2 and 3, Neyyattinkara and Kattakada taluks 4 and 5, Nedumangad taluk 6 and 7 and Varkala and Chirayinkeezhu taluks 8 and 9. The route number with colour coding will be displayed on the left side of the destination board. The abbreviation whether the service is City Ordinary (CTY) and City Fast Passenger (CFP) with colour coding will be displayed on the right side. Colour coding will also be adopted in designing the destination boards. Destinations will be written in black and blue in the City Ordinary services. In the City Fast services, black and red will be used. Beneficial system Biju Prabhakar, Chairman and Managing Director, KSRTC, said on Saturday that the route numbering system has been implemented to benefit even migrant workers, tourists and senior citizens. Numbering for routes within city services has been completed. Based on the feedback from commuters, the KSRTC will extend the route numbering system in other places in the capital district and later the entire State, said Mr. Prabhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colour-code-for-ksrtc-buses/article34863006.ece
20 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,443 fresh cases, TPR remains at 10.22%||Kerala reported reported 12,443 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,21,743 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) continued to remain steady at 10.22%. With 13,145 people reported to have recovered from the disease on Saturday, the active case pool in the State now has 1,06,861 patients. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 11,948 with the State adding 115 deaths to the official list of deaths. On Saturday, 2,282 new patients with moderate or serious disease were admitted to hospitals across the State. The number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals has dipped slightly to 27,867. In all districts, except five, total hospitalised patients are fewer than 10,000. ICU admissions of critically ill patients declined significantly from 2,736 on Friday to 2,572 on Saturday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support also went down from 1,119 (Friday) to 1,088 on Saturday. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 27,97,747 cases. Curbs to continue In 16 local bodies , the TPR remains over 30%, where lockdown-like restrictions will continue. These local bodies are Athiyannur, Aazhoor, Kadhinamkulam, Karode, Manamboor, Mangalapuram, Panavoor, and Pothencode in Thiruvananthapuram; Chittattukara in Ernakulam; Nagalasseri, Nenmara, and Vallapuzha in Palakkad; Thirunavaya in Malappuram; Mooppainadu in Wayanad, and Bedadukka and Madhur in Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12443-fresh-cases-tpr-remains-at-1022/article34862712.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mascot readies a rooftop with a view||Mascot Hotel, the flagship property of the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC), is renovating its high-end rooftop restaurant so as to offer customers a grand view of the city. One can take in the changing urban landscape, complete with high-rises amid the green cover, at the restaurant housed atop the Tower Block. It can accommodate 90 diners at a time. The view extends from the adjacent Assembly complex to Mukkunimala in the east, spanning around 10 km. Breakfast Initially, the restaurant will offer breakfast to guests staying in the hotel, and later to walk-in diners. A separate kitchen will be set up for the restaurant on the seventh floor, away from the main kitchen. The authorities promise a different menu. Tourism and Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas will inaugurate the restaurant, yet to be named, later this month. Originally set up an accommodation unit for the officers of the British Army during the First World War, Mascot Hotel has a colourful history and has now emerged as a premium brand in Kerala’s hospitality sector. The hotel, which now enjoys five-star status, has hosted top national leaders, diplomats, foreign dignitaries, writers, and captains of industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mascot-readies-a-rooftop-with-a-view/article34863000.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU releases timetable for UG, PG examinations||The University of Kerala has finalised its timetables for undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) examinations that will get under way on June 28. The sixth-semester examinations of UG courses (CBCSS/Career Related) will commence on June 28 and conclude within July 9. The fourth-semester examinations of PG programmes (Regular/CSS) will begin on June 29. The results will be declared by August 10. Other centres In addition to its 130-odd affiliated colleges, the university has identified 11 examination centres outside its jurisdiction that extends up to Alappuzha. While at least one centre had been finalised in each district, there would be two centres in Idukki, said Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar on Saturday. As had been the case during examinations held during the last year, students have been permitted to opt for centres close to their home towns. This will prevent the examinees from travelling long distances to reach their colleges or returning to hostels in or near their campuses. The timetables have been charted in a staggered manner to prevent crowding at the examination centres. The examinations of BCom, BSc, and BBA courses will be held from 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. on various days from June 28 to July 7. The BA examinations will be held from 1.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on all days except Fridays, while they will be conducted from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Fridays. The examinations of sixth-semester Unitary LLB will be held from 1.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on June 28, 30 and July 6, while one on July 2 (Friday) will be conducted from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Five-year integrated BA LLB/B.Com LLB/BBA LLB 10th-semester examinations will be conducted from July 29 to July 5 during the 1.30 p.m.-4.30 p.m. slot. The University College of Engineering, Karyavattom, will conduct third-semester BTech exams from June 28 to July 5. Offline Dr. Ajayakumar said the examinations of lower semesters would be conducted offline subsequently. While all such examinations would be held in the offline mode, the university would conduct fourth-semester regular and supplementary BEd examinations online on June 24 and June 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-releases-timetable-for-ug-pg-examinations/article34863008.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital’s tally up by 1,777, TPR at 9.91%||The COVID-19 test positivity rate in Thiruvananthapuram district fell below 10% after several weeks as it stood at 9.91% on Saturday. As many as 1,777 more fresh cases have been reported, while 1,659 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. The active caseload stood at 12,766 in the district. Eight health workers were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. While most cases were attributed to contact transmission of the infection, the source of infection in 145 cases remained unknown. The district administration placed 3,020 people in quarantine, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 46,616. A total of 4,060 people were permitted to conclude self-isolation during the last 24 hours. The City police initiated legal action against 320 people until 4 p.m. on Saturday. These included 55 people who were booked under Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. A cumulative fine of Rs. 74,000 was levied from 143 people who failed to wear masks and five others who flouted social distancing norms. Besides, cases were also registered against 114 motorists and three traders for violating COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capitals-tally-up-by-1777-tpr-at-991/article34863011.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Training for local bodies on use of soil, water||With the preparatory work for the 14th Five Year Plan to begin soon, the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) and the Centre for Water Resources Development and Management (CWRDM) are organising a one-month programme to nudge local bodies towards planning watershed-based sustainable development activities. The Neerarivu webinar series envisages knowledge exchange between local self-governments and soil and water management practitioners. It will serve as a platform for showcasing successful models in water recharging and harvesting by local bodies. Since a new set of people’s representatives have assumed charge at the local bodies, the series, which began on June 1, aims at providing them an orientation towards practices in formulating projects at the local level. According to Joy Elamon, Director General of KILA, Kerala requires a scientific approach in soil and water management in the years ahead in view of the increasing instances and severity of natural disasters. “The key area of activities for the local bodies involve soil and water. The works under the employment guarantee schemes also centre on them. We need to use the scientific expertise of various agencies to evolve nature-based solutions for disaster risk reduction. The preparatory works for the 14th Five Year Plan are set to begin in August. Before that, KILA is planning programmes to provide some orientation to the local representatives and officials in such subjects. Though quite a few are listening to the sessions live and later on YouTube, we are building these as course materials for future,” says Mr. Elamon. Sessions’ themes Eight sessions have been conducted so far with seven more to go. Some sessions touched on traditional water conservation practices, the loss of which has affected water availability and caused other disasters, including flooding. There were sessions on good practices relating to septage treatment, and water harvesting structures. The topics in the upcoming sessions include waste water management and recycling, local-level planning on climate change, coastal protection measures, management of invasive species, rainwater harvesting, efficient irrigation practices and carbon-neutral panchayats. The discussions are available on the official YouTube pages of KILA and the CWRDM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-local-bodies-on-use-of-soil-water/article34863014.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protest against fuel prices tomorrow||A joint committee of 21 trade unions has called for a Statewide protest on Monday against the rise in fuel prices which reached record highs in the past few weeks. Bus and lorry operators will halt their vehicles for 15 minutes from 11 a.m. on June 21 as part of the protest. The public have also been urged to participate in the agitation. Addressing mediapersons here on Friday, CITU State president Anathalavattom Anandan, INTUC State general secretary V.J. Joseph, AITUC State secretary M.G. Rahul, and STU State vice president G. Mahin Abubacker accused the Centre of being hand-in-glove with oil companies in looting the people. The committee said the excise duty on petrol and diesel increased by 248% and 794% respectively since the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in 2014. The duty on petrol rose from Rs. 9.48 to Rs. 32.90 and that on diesel from Rs. 3.56 to Rs. 31.80. “The Central government has been generating huge revenue by the sale of petroleum products. While the revenue gained during 2014-15 was Rs. 42,881 crore for diesel and Rs. 29,279 crore for petrol respectively, the government gained Rs. 2.94 lakh crore by petroleum sale between April 1 and December 31 last year. Sadly, only a negligible portion from such profit has gone to ensure the welfare of the public during COVID-19,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-fuel-prices-tomorrow/article34862705.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘In-Car Dining’ facility to be rolled out||In a bid to allay health risks of eating in public spaces amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) is launching a novel facility that serves travellers food inside their vehicles. ‘In-Car Dining’ will help diners remain in their parked vehicles and place and receive food orders from KTDC’s Aahaar Restaurants, said Tourism Minister P. A. Mohamed Riyas on Saturday. Breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks will be served under the ‘In-Car Dining’ scheme adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Initially, select KTDC restaurants in the State will carry out the scheme. “The scheme seeks to provide customers with a new experience,” Mr. Riyas said after reviewing a set of ongoing tourism projects and the activities of KTDC. “We plan to reach out to the people with safe and tasty food,” he added. The scheme is being implemented considering public safety hazards even as a slide in the second wave of the pandemic is expected to help the tourism industry pick up, the Minister said. KTDC hotel chains will be renovated under the project ‘Mission Facelift’ after classifying them on a priority basis. “Moreover, floating restaurants will be set up in select destinations across the State on the lines of the one at Veli in Thiruvananthapuram. The first one will come up in Kadalundi in Kozhikode district,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-car-dining-facility-to-be-rolled-out/article34863001.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Start-up to set up 250 charging stations||Battery-operated vehicles have not taken off as anticipated by the government though Kerala has hopped onto the electric vehicle (EV) bandwagon to embrace environment-friendly mobility. The need to frequently charge battery and lack of adequate charging facilities on the go have made e-vehicles a non-starter. To address this, four youngsters, who passed out from Government Engineering College, Kozhikode, in 2018 have set up a start-up ‘chargeMOD’, which will be setting up 250 EV community charging stations. M. Ramanunni, Chris Thomas, Anoop V., and Advaith C., started with developing control and ecosystem software for EV charging stations. The EV chargers were type-tested and certified by Automotive Research Association of India. Eight charging stations were set up in Kozhikode, one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Angamaly. The start-up is gearing up to set up 250 charging stations by 2021, enabling people to charge their EVs anywhere, any time. “Charging stations with autonomous stations can be set up at shops, restaurants, cafes or wherever it is possible. So, they can charge their vehicle while shopping,” says Mr. Ramanunni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/start-up-to-set-up-250-charging-stations/article34862998.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Parcel to be permitted||State Police Chief Loknath Behera has said that parcels will be permitted from restaurants during the weekend lockdown in areas where home delivery is unfeasible. The government had earlier prohibited parcel and takeaway facilities from restaurants on Saturdays and Sundays. In a statement, Mr. Behera said COVID-19 protocol would have to be complied with in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parcel-to-be-permitted/article34863007.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain likely in north Kerala till Monday||Several northern districts in the State are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall till Monday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has indicated. The weather agency has put Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod on yellow alert on Sunday for isolated heavy rainfall. Malappuram, Kannur, and Kasaragod are on yellow alert on Monday. An extended range forecast by the IMD issued on June 17 indicated that Kerala, Mahe, and Lakshadweep could expect, cumulatively, below normal rainfall till June 23. There is also a likelihood of ‘short-lived’ low pressure areas taking shape over the north and northwest Bay of Bengal. Deficit rainfall Kerala recorded a deficit of 15% in the southwest monsoon rainfall between June 1 and June 19. Still, monsoon rainfall for the period is considered ‘normal’ as a percentage departure between -19% and +19% is deemed so in IMD parlance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-likely-in-north-kerala-till-monday/article34862706.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reading can ease mental tension: CM||Touching upon the importance of taking books to households with children during the COVID-19 period, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that reading can help reduce the mental tension created by the pandemic. He was speaking after inaugurating the Reading Week Celebrations organised by the State government, Kerala State Library Council and the P.N.Panicker Foundation through videoconferencing on Saturday. “Children are one of the most affected by the COVID crisis. They are facing a lot of physical and mental difficulties during this period. If we can make books accessible to them during this period, it can ease a lot of their pressures,” said Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reading-can-ease-mental-tension-cm/article34863012.ece
20 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Additional special trains||Railways will operate fully reserved special trains for the convenience of long-distance passengers. Train 05303 Gorakhpur Junction–Ernakulam Special on (Saturdays) June 26 will leave Gorakhpur at 8.30 a.m. to reach Ernakulam at 2.30 p.m. on the third day. The first service commenced on June 19. In the return direction, 05304 special will leave Ernakulam at 11.55 p.m. on Mondays - June 21 and 28 - to reach Gorakhpur at 6.30 a.m. on the fourth day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/additional-special-trains/article34862704.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Family given shelter||Ernakulam District Collector S. Suhas has asked the Social Welfare Department to provide a safe haven at the Shelter Home in Aluva to a family comprising a three-month-old child. The family of four from Karnataka was provided with free food kits by Assistant Labour Officer E.G. Rakhi and District Labour Officer P.M. Firoz after they were found living in difficult conditions in the rain under a tarpaulin shelter. The family had been living on income from selling waste materials. They did not have Aadhaar cards or any documents. The family will be issued ration cards and other documents for identification, said a communication from the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/family-given-shelter/article34862693.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Jabs for bedridden patients in Thrissur||Bedridden patients in Thrissur district will get COVID-19 vaccine. Under a special drive Arike, patients will be given vaccines at their homes. Around 500 patients were administered vaccines on the first day of the drive. All patients in the district will be given vaccines by the end of the month, the District Medical Officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jabs-for-bedridden-patients-in-thrissur/article34862694.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Water world||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-world/article34862997.ece
20 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) writes to CM on Nandyal RARS lands||The Rayalaseema sub-committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), led by Obul Konda Reddy, on Saturday wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to immediately cancel the G.O. Ms. No.34 alienating 50 acres of land belonging to 115-year-old Regional Agriculture Research Station, Nandyal to the Director of Medical Education for the establishment of a new government medical college at Nandyal. At a press conference here, CPI(M) district secretary V. Rambhupal and Mr. Obul Konda Reddy said the G.O. was in violation of the High Court orders, and the government instead of taking away the well-established research organisation’s land, could buy some other land nearby for a small sum. They said the Nandyal facility had developed the Narasimha, HYPS 152 cottonseed, and Nandyal Sona paddy seed varieties at this research station that had 300 employees and was worth more than Rs. 500 crore. It would take another 10 years and a lot of investment for establishing another facility like this, which could be avoided, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-writes-to-cm-on-nandyal-rars-lands/article34863041.ece
20 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 killed allegedly over land row in Anantapur||Two persons were killed allegedly over a land dispute on at Atchutapuram in the district on Saturday. According to police, Narayanappa, 40, and his Rajagopal, 45, were returning to their village Aravedu from the Yellanur police station when a car knocked down their vehicle. After they fell from the vehicle, four to five occupants of the car allegedly killed them with boulders. Denying political vendetta in the incident, Deputy Superintendent of Police V.N.K. Chaitanya, said there was a running feud between two parties on the rights over a piece of common village land (Devudu Manyam). Eight days ago the accused had sunk a borewell in the land, which the two deceased claimed was their own land and the other party had sunk borewell without their permission. Narayanappa and Rajagopal allegedly closed the borewell as they claimed it was on their land. A complaint was lodged with the Yellanur police. “We have written to the Tahsildar to determine the actual status of the land in question,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-killed-allegedly-over-land-row-in-anantapur/article34863042.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka, Maharashtra to share data on rainfall, release of water||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday chaired a meeting of the inter-State flood monitoring committee of Karnataka and Maharashtra. The two States agreed to share real-time data on rainfall and water release from reservoirs in Krishna and Bhima basins in order to manage floods effectively. The meeting decided to have better coordination and communication between the two States at the Ministerial level, secretaries’ level and at the field level for effective flood management in Krishna and Bhima basins. It was decided that a technical team would work on getting four tmcft of water from Maharashtra and reciprocating for the drought-hit areas of the neighbouring State. Both States have decided to speed up the Doodhganga project, their joint venture, and complete the work in the next two years to ensure irrigation facilities in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-maharashtra-to-share-data-on-rainfall-release-of-water/article34862441.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stop T.N.’s river linking project: panel||The Chairman of the Karnataka Border and Rivers Protection Commission has advised the State government to approach the Union government to restrain Tamil Nadu from taking up its project of inter-linking the Cauvery with the Gundar and the Vaigai till Karnataka’s legitimate share of surplus water is determined. K.L. Manjunath, chairman of the commission and former judge of the High Court of Karnataka, in his letter dated June 18 addressed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, said Karnataka also had to approach the the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) to settle equitable distribution of the Cauvery waters between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu by way of an amicable settlement. Need to adjudicate If Tamil Nadu is not agreeable for amicable settlement, then the issue of surplus water would have to be adjudicated in terms of Inter-State Water Disputes Act, 1956, he suggested to the Chief Minister. The proposed Mekedatu project, Mr. Manjunath said, would not come in the way of Tamil Nadu receiving its due share of 177.25 tmcft water from Karnataka as Tamil Nadu government had recently admitted before the Madras High Court that it is getting “excess water” released from reservoirs in Karnataka, which could not store “excess water”.  Analysing the data of water released from Karnataka to Tamil Nadu since 1974–75, Mr. Manjunath said that on an average Karnataka had released 396.201 tmcft of water at Biligundlu gauge point every year. The water released data discloses that out of 46 years only in 2016–17 there was a shortfall of 50 tmcft of water released to Tamil Nadu, and for the remaining 45 years, Tamil Nadu had received surplus water, he said. Of the 45 years, only in eight years surplus water released was in the range of more than 177 tmcft and less than 300 tmcft, and for the remaining years always more than double the water allocated to Tamil Nadu was released, said Mr. Manjunath while pointing out that average flow of water into Mettur dam was 377.1 tmcft for 38 years since 1934–35. Pointing out that neither the tribunal nor the Supreme Court considered how surplus water in a year has to be utilised by the riparian States, he said water released from Karnataka at Biligundlu gauge point is the water generated from Karnataka and that surplus water has to be allocated and distributed between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, in which event Karnataka can mitigate its problem of drinking water and agricultural purposes. Stating that as per the Supreme Court judgment, a riparian State cannot use surplus water, he contended that “State of Tamil Nadu is enjoying surplus water received by it and is also trying to divert the water from Mettur dam to other basins”. “Tamil Nadu has notright to take up the project of inter-linking of rivers unless and until the equitable share of surplus water is determined by the competent authority,” he said in the letter.  Into sea “Otherwise, the [surplus] water flown has to be discharged into the sea and the same cannot be made use of by Tamil Nadu unless and until its due share is allocated by way of equitable distribution,” Mr. Manjunath said while pointing out that Tamil Nadu is enjoying surplus water for the past 45 years without giving its due share to Karnataka. “State of Tamil Nadu, in order to enjoy surplus water alone, is unnecessarily objecting for construction of Mekedatu project by the State of Karnataka,” said Mr. Manjunath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-tns-river-linking-project-panel/article34862439.ece
20 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 15 lakh seized, 5 held, including 4 women||The police on Saturday seized about 70 kg of ganja worth over Rs. 15 lakh and nabbed five persons, including four women, near Nagari, 65 km from here, when the contraband was being transported to Chennai from Nellore. Acting on a tip-off, Additional Superintendent of Police (Special Enforcement Bureau) Y. Rishant Reddy and Deputy SP (Puttur) T.D. Yashwant formed a special team, which took a woman into custody while moving suspiciously on the national highway between Puttur and Nagari. Based on information provided by her, the police intercepted an SUV with four passengers in Nagari. When the four tried to flee abandoning the vehicle, they were nabbed. The vehicle with ganja packed in gunny sacks was seized and shifted to the Nagari urban police station. Inspector Maddaiah Achari said that the police surveillance was intensified on the highway towards Chennai to check ganja smuggling across the border. Of the five accused, three women and the vehicle driver hailed from Kota in Nellore district, while one woman was from Nagari mandal. It was for the first time that the police had arrested four women in a ganja smuggling case. The police said taking advantage of the COVID lockdown, the gangs involved in ganja peddling had turned active transporting the stocks from the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district to the southern states of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-worth-rs-15-lakh-seized-5-held-including-4-women/article34863044.ece
20 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth held for opening fire at neighbours||The police on Saturday arrested a 24-year-old tailor at Kadapa Nattam village of Baireddipalle mandal, 100 km from here, on charges of opening fire at his neighbours with a country weapon on Friday night, suspecting them to be behind the break-up of his alliance with a girl of the village. According to information, Chand Basha’s (25) marriage was fixed with a girl in the village. However, after the betrothal, the girl’s family backed out from the marriage with Basha and he was not convinced by the reasons cited for the rejection. He reportedly learnt that Mudeena, the girl’s aunt, was behind the break-up of the alliance. The two frequently accosted and blamed each other for the development, sources said. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Palamaner) C.M. Gangaiah said that on Friday evening, Ms. Mudeena and Mr. Basha had a quarrel at a public place, when the former allegedly humiliated the youth. Enraged at this, Mr. Basha picked up a country-made rifle from his house and reached Ms. Mudeena’s house around 10.30 p.m. of Friday. In a bid to warn the woman and her family members to not interfere in his affairs, he allegedly fired at the door. Fearing that the family might inform the police, Mr. Basha ran away from the village along with the weapon and hid in a forest nearby all night. Acting on a complaint from Ms. Mudeena on Saturday, the Baireddipalle police arrested him and seized the firearm while he was coming out of the forest. Cases have been booked against him under various Sections of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-youth-opens-fire-on-neighbours/article34862442.ece
20 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cane farmers seek dues||Sugarcane growers of Pichatur and Nagalapuram mandals on Saturday sought the administration to prompt the factories at Nindra and BN Kandriga to immediately clear the arrears due to them to the tune of Rs. 70 crores, pending for two years. At a press meet in Tirupati, they said in spite of the repeated representations with the factory managements and the district authorities, there was no response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cane-farmers-seek-dues/article34863045.ece
20 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Locals turn up in large numbers on 550th day of protests in Amaravati||On the 550th day of protests in the Amaravati region, locals residents, including women, gathered in large numbers at Mandadam, Uddandarayunivaripalem and Thullur areas and various villages to voice their demand for a single Capital of Amaravati. The protests have crossed 500 days and are continuing amid the raging pandemic. The men and women reached the camps set up some two years back, for the first time, ever since the pandemic broke out last year. In Nekkali, they formed a human chain and in Thullur, the protesters recited the Gita in a novel form of protest. The Joint Action Committee had given a call to march to the Chief Minister’s Camp Office. Meanwhile, a large number of police personnel were deployed at the camps and check-posts were set up. The police stopped the locals at Uddandarayunivaripalem, and the protesters at Mandadam. Police forces were also deployed on all routes en route and all attempts of the Joint Action Committee to take a march to the CM’s Camp Office were foiled. The villagers later left in a rally, but were stopped by the police, who said that the mass gatherings were not allowed since COVID restrictions were in place. In Guntur, a large number of JAC leaders, including Rayapati Sailaja and Ravipati Sai Krishna, were placed under house arrest by the police, who had issued notices to them citing COVID restrictions. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, K. Arif Hafeez said the police had ensured that the protests went on in a peaceful manner and added that no arrests were made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/locals-turn-up-in-large-numbers-on-550th-day-of-protests-in-amaravati/article34863058.ece
20 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No truth in Naidu’s allegations on paddy procurement dues, says Kodali||Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao on Saturday alleged that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu was falsely claiming that payments to farmers for paddy procurement had been made within 48 hours when he was the Chief Minister. Addressing the media, Mr. Venkateswara Rao said the YSRCP government had cleared more than Rs. 960 crore towards paddy procurement that was kept pending by the TDP government. Within three months of assuming power, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had ensured payment of Rs. 4,000-crore dues to the farmers, the Minister asserted. By the time Mr. Naidu wrote a letter to the Chief Minister on pending payments, the Central and State governments had already procured 28 lakh tonnes of paddy and disbursed Rs. 1,637 crore to the farmers, the Minister said. As per the instructions of the Chief Minister, payments were being made to the farmers within 21 days of procuring the crop, he said, adding that Rs. 1,619 crore was pending disbursal as on date. “Despite delay in the release of Rs. 3,229 crore arrears by the Centre, the State government has been clearing the dues of the farmers from the treasury,” the Minister said. Mr. Naidu had betrayed the farmers by not fulfilling the promise he had made in the run-up to the 2014 elections that he would waive Rs. 85,000 crore farm loans, he alleged. “Mr. Naidu did not clear even 20% of the promised amount during his five-year stint,” the Minister alleged. Referring to N. Lokesh’s allegation that the Chief Minister was vindictive towards the opposition leaders, Mr. Venkateswara Rao warned him against criticising the Chief Minister. Stating that many YSRCP leaders had been killed during the TDP term, the Minister said it was not proper to attribute such incidents to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-truth-in-naidus-allegations-on-paddy-procurement-dues-says-kodali/article34863059.ece
20 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI donates PPE kits to GGH||State Bank of India, Administrative Branch at Kannavari Thota, has donated 1,500 PPE kits worth Rs. 7 lakh to the Government General Hospital, Guntur. Regional Manager, SBI, Guntur, A. Tarakeswara Rao donated the PPE kits to GGH in the presence of Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar. The SBI had donated PPE kits and other medical equipment to the Indian Red Cross Society, Guntur, on May 20. Mr. Tarakeswara Rao asked customers to utilise banking applications while staying at home by downloading YONO application in their mobiles or lap tops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sbi-donates-ppe-kits-to-ggh/article34862469.ece
20 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||283 families living near CM’s camp office get house sites||District Collector Vivek Yadav on Saturday handed over house sites to 283 beneficiaries at Atmakuru village in Mangalagiri. The families have been living on an encroached land belonging to the Irrigation Department (flood bank) near the Chief Minister’s camp office. Mr. Vivek Yadav said that house pattas, for two cents each, had been provided to the beneficiaries following the directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy said that the beneficiaries should thank the Chief Minister for taking such an initiative. While all others in urban areas were given one cent of land, the beneficiaries had been provided with two cents each. Joint Collector, Housing, Anupama Anjali was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/283-families-living-near-cms-camp-office-get-house-sites/article34862470.ece
20 June 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Old colony parks to get a facelift||Officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) are planning to take up a study on sprucing up of colony parks. There are around 180 parks in the city, with many undergoing beautification in the past couple of years. Several parks have also been developed with the cooperation of Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), while a few were developed by the corporation. Now, the civic body is planning to give a facelift to the old colony parks in the city. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana recently visited Shivaji Park, one of the oldest parks in MVP Colony. Interacting with the officials, she said that most of the colony parks in the city were developed about 20 years ago. Stressing on the need to modernise them, the Commissioner instructed officials to take up a detailed survey on the parks and develop them with modern infrastructure so that they can cater to people of all age groups. “Parks should have a wide range of facilities for visitors. They should also create awareness on various aspects among children. If required, officials will visit parks in other States and study the facilities offered there and will try to provide them here,” she said. A senior official from the GVMC said that the plan is to provide facilities keeping in view the needs of people from various age groups. Children's playing arena, an open gym, seating, lighting, walking tracks, food courts, shelter area for walkers/visitors, excellent landscaping works and different types of plantations and so on are likely to be taken up according to the area of the park. “We are also encouraging installing sculptures made from recycled materials,” the official said “Many parks lack several amenities for the visitors and those works will be taken up. The study will also help to improve standards of the parks and attract more visitors,” said a senior officer from the GVMC. Several major parks are undergoing renovation works in the city. NTR VMRDA Park, also known as VUDA Park, at Beach Road is now in the final stages of renovation under the Smart City initiative. Officials have also initiated steps to develop the Mudasarlova park. Lumbini Park near Appughar, which was given a completely new look, has become a major attraction in the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/old-colony-parks-to-get-a-facelift/article34863075.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana to lift lockdown from today||The Telangana government decided to lift the lockdown in the State from Sunday, based on reports of the Health Department that COVID-19 cases and the test positivity rate (TPR) had dropped significantly in the State. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The State government at the meeting noted the decline in COVID-19 cases across the country. The pandemic was brought under control faster in Telangana. The Cabinet asked the Education Department to reopen all categories of educational institutions with full preparedness from July 1. The students could attend classes physically. The department was asked to release instructions and guidelines on compulsory attendance and online classes. The meeting appealed to the public to extend their cooperation to the decision as it was aimed at restoring normal life and not hamper the livelihood of common people. The meeting cautioned the public against negligence on safety protocols. A total of 1,362 coronavirus cases and 10 deaths were reported in Telangana on Saturday. The day’s TPR stood at 1.11% as 1,23,005 samples were tested. With 1,813 infected persons declared recovered during the day, the total number of recoveries has gone up to 5,90,072 so far. Telangana’s case fatality rate is 0.58% against 1.3% at the national level. Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu recorded 8,183 new cases of COVID-19 and 180 deaths on Saturday, taking its tally to 24,14,680 and toll to 31,015. As the number of deaths dropped below 200 after several weeks, the State, for the second day in a row, continued to record a number of deaths that took place in homes last month. Saturday’s bulletin recorded 15 such deaths — 11 of the deceased had co-morbidities. A number of these patients who had tested positive for COVID-19 died while in home isolation. Coimbatore logged 1,014 fresh cases, followed by Erode with 933. There were 533 cases in Salem and 489 in Tiruppur. In Chennai, 468 people tested positive for the infection. Of the 180 fatalities, Chennai registered 31. Active cases continued to fall in the State. As of date, 78,780 people are under treatment for COVID-19. As many as 18,232 people were discharged after treatment . In the last 24 hours, 1,71,179 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 3,09,96,798. Karnataka In Karnataka, the government on Saturday permitted public transport to run across the State and BMTC buses and metro rail in Bengaluru with 50% capacity, from June 21. COVID-19 TPR fell to less than 5% in 16 districts prompting the government to ease lockdown restrictions. The new lockdown norms would continue till July 5. The government and private offices would remain open with 50% staff, and lodges and resorts could host 50% of capacity, as could gyms. Karnataka on Saturday recorded 5,815 fresh cases and 161 deaths. The State had 1,30,872 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district reported 1,263 fresh infections and 23 fatalities on Saturday. The positivity rate for the day was 3.38% per cent and Case Fatality Rate was 2.76%. Kerala reported 12,443 new cases on Saturday with a TPR of 10.22%. The State added 115 recent deaths to the official list of fatalities.   Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh reported 45 deaths and 5,674 new infections on Saturday. The daily TPR of 1,03,935 samples was 5.46%.  (With inputs from Chennai, Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and Vijayawada bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-to-lift-lockdown-from-today/article34862452.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bodybuilder defeats the odds to make a miraculous recovery||From the brink of a collapsing respiratory system, Susheel Kumar Gaikwad, a 32-year-old bodybuilder, has scripted an inspiring recovery from severe COVID-19 infection. With symptoms of fever and cough, the Malkajgiri resident was diagnosed with COVID and admitted to a local hospital in the last week of April. However, his infection did not subside and instead, worsened even after treatment. As his condition deteriorated steadily, his oxygen saturation levels kept fluctuating despite non-invasive ventilation and he was shifted to a corporate hospital in Malakpet on May 19 in a critical condition. His acute computed tomography (CT) severity score was 25/25. According to a press release, intubation, mechanical ventilation and advanced modes of proning, early tracheostomy and other measures were initiated. Newer strategy of minimal sedation for patient consciousness was also followed. As he also developed septic shock, antibiotics, antifungals, vasopressors and optimised fluid management were also used. Underlying fitness Perhaps, because of his underlying fitness and willpower, Mr. Gaikwad made an amazing recovery, not requiring ECMO support. With his active sessions of physiotherapy and personalised nutrition, he was progressively shifted from ICU to Stepdown to room, and his tracheostomy was also de-canulated requiring minimal oxygen support. After a prolonged treatment course of more than a month, he was finally discharged this week. “He is somewhat de-conditioned due to prolonged illness but otherwise, almost getting back to his baseline,” said Pavan Gorukanti, director of Yashoda Hospitals Group. The body builder’s story is an inspiration to all the treating doctors and staff to see such an improvement despite the CT findings of almost complete lung involvement. “In fact, he has become a role model for critically-ill patients as well as to a lot of budding body-builders and proved dramatic results are possible with a positive attitude,” said senior pulmonologist Vishveshwaran Balasubramanian, adding that hundreds of other patients in similar or worse condition were treated successfully back to health by the hospital. Considering the severity of illness and his sports background, noted film personality and philanthropist Sonu Sood had personally reached out to help Mr. Gaikwad. The actor also followed up the case on a daily basis and made video calls to the body builder almost every day to boost his morale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bodybuilder-defeats-the-odds-to-make-a-miraculous-recovery/article34862926.ece
20 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||161 IAF cadets commissioned||Rooted to the ground, yet their aspirations soared into the skies just like the machines they are ready to fly from now on. Humble and rich backgrounds apart, the cadets who attained their Indian Air Force (IAF) colours had one big ambition – serving the motherland. And they include girl cadets, who in equal measure showed their talent proving a match to their male counterparts. The Combined Graduation Parade at the Air Force Academy at Dundigal on the outskirts of Hyderabad saw 161 flight cadets of flying and ground duty branches commissioned as officers in the Indian Air Force. Among these were 31 women candidates. Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria reviewed the parade and conferred the President's Commission upon the graduating flight cadets. He also presented ‘wings’ and ‘brevets’ to the cadets who successfully completed the flying and navigation training, including six officers from the Indian Navy, and five officers from the Indian Coast Guard. The IAF chief was received by Air Marshal RD Mathur, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Training Command and Air Marshal IP Vipin, Commandant, Air Force Academy. The Chief of the Air Staff was presented with a general salute by the parade on his arrival followed by an impressive march past. Flying Officer Prajwal Anil Kulkarni from the Flying branch was awarded the President's Plaque as well as the Chief of the Air Staff Sword of Honour for standing first in overall order of merit in the Pilots' Course. Flying Officer Kritika Kulhari was awarded the President's Plaque for being first in overall order of merit in Ground Duty branches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/161-iaf-cadets-commissioned/article34862935.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Metro rail services rescheduled||The Hyderabad Metro Rail has rescheduled its services from Monday in view of total lifting of lock down in the State. The trains will start from their respective terminal stations from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. with the last train returning back to the stations at 10 p.m., a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/metro-rail-services-rescheduled/article34863054.ece
20 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sudhakaran-Pinarayi war of words escalates||The spat between Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K.Sudhakaran escalated on Saturday with the latter accusing his arch-rival of being the fountainhead of political violence in Kannur. At a press conference characterised by combative language and stormy rhetoric, Mr. Sudhakaran said Mr. Vijayan had orchestrated the murder of scores of political opponents in the State. The Congress lost 28 workers to Communist Party of India (Marxist) violence in Kannur. The Congress had resisted the violence but its Gandhian ethos prevented the party from retaliating in kind. Mr. Sudhakaran said he was the prime victim of CPI(M) violence in Kannur. “They ambushed my car thrice. I never take the same route. Congress workers guarded my house. I travel in a cavalcade for protection. The CPI(M) foisted false cases on me, including two murders. The court threw both out,” he said. He said he had no blood on his hands. In contrast, Mr. Vijayan was the first accused in the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party activist Vadikkal Ramakrishnan. He reasserted that he had physically confronted Mr. Vijayan in the heat of a Brennan College campus brawl between Left and Congress student unions in 1967. Mr. Sudhakaran's claim, which appeared in a news magazine, had provoked Mr. Vijayan to lambast Mr. Sudhakaran at a press briefing on the COVID situation on Friday. He said the Chief Minister had stooped too low to make allegations against him and the Congress and that he did not want to do what Mr. Vijayan had done. He claimed that part of an interview that appeared in the magazine was disclosed to the reporter “off the record”. It was not his intention to demean the Chief Minister or air a tall claim about his martial prowess. “Nevertheless, I stand by what appeared in the magazine though it was without my consent.” Mr. Sudhakaran denied Mr. Vijayan’s insinuation that Left student activists had stripped him of his clothes and chased him in Brennan College and added that he was ready to produce any number of the then students and teachers at the college to disprove the allegations made by the Chief Minister. The Congress leader said the allegations like plans to kidnap the children of Mr. Vijayan were absolutely false. (The Chief Minister had accused Mr. Sudhakaran of plotting to kidnap his children when they were school students.) Diversionary tactic He said the allegations against him were aimed at diverting attention from the accusations facing the government on the issue of illegal tree felling at Muttil in Wayanad district and other parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sudhakaran-pinarayi-war-of-words-escalates/article34862449.ece
20 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child rights panel seeks report on online classes’ security||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has sought a detailed report from the cyber cell of the Kerala Police on cybersecurity issues reported in connection with online education. The move assumes significance in the wake of a recent incident in which obscenity was streamed in the middle of an online school session. Apparently, leakage of credentials helped someone infiltrate the session. “We are not just looking into this incident. All other related cybersecurity issues, including students’ addiction to online gaming, will be given focus. Once the report is received, we plan to hold an exhaustive discussion of stakeholders, including cyber experts, on how to address these dangers,” said Manoj Kumar K.V., commission chairperson. Police advisory Meanwhile, the police have issued an advisory asking stakeholders, including school authorities, parents, and students, to safeguard the links of online sessions. “While there is the probability of the link getting leaked, the chances are less since hardly any financial incentive is involved. The greater probability is for students to share it with friends, thus leading to the leak,” said police sources. ‘Lack of awareness’ Nandakishore Harikumar, a cybersecurity expert, said the incident pointed to serious lapses in credential management on the part of teachers, students, or parents. He attributed it primarily to the lack of basic cybersecurity awareness and lacuna in the practical application of cybersecurity measures. “There is the probability of parents inadvertently sharing the link with others or their email account getting compromised in the event of the links being shared over email. There is also the possibility of students sharing it with others as a prank,” said Mr. Harikumar. He said it would be hard to crack the identity of infiltrators adopting fake names.  Apparently, leakage of credentials helped someone infiltrate the school session||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-rights-panel-seeks-report-on-online-classes-security/article34862445.ece
20 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red flags removed in Lakshadweep||Members of the Lakshadweep district panchayat and the village (dweep) panchayat in Kavaratti on Saturday removed red flags said to have been posted by the authorities to delineate several plots of land in the southern part of the island. A panchayat member said they protested what they termed ‘land encroachment’ by the administration. “The authorities had put up red flags in several areas which led to protests following which flags were removed from some of them. We removed the remaining today [on Saturday],” he said. Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Khoda Patel ended his short sojourn to the island group on Saturday. The islanders, united under the Save Lakshadweep Forum, protested ahead of his return on Friday night by observing a power blackout. They also banged plates and utensils to register their protest against the ‘unwelcome’ reforms being pushed by the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-flags-removed-in-lakshadweep/article34862446.ece
20 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held, fake cotton seed racket busted||An alert Sub-Inspector of the Adoni Taluka Police Station, Narendra Kumar Reddy, had intercepted a vehicle and apprehended two persons allegedly transporting 25 packets of fake cotton seed of popular companies on June 12, which ultimately led to the busting of a major racket that was involved in printing the packing material for the fake seed in Hyderabad. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli, at a press conference on Saturday, said the racket busted was indulging in the sale of fake cotton seed and printing the packing material. He said the police had confiscated the material / machinery valued at Rs. 2 crore from the Kapeeshwar Roto Packing Private Limited at Cherlapally in Hyderabad. The accused were selling fake seeds in the Adoni and Yemmiganur areas of Kurnool district. The police also arrested the CEO of the printing press, B. Suresh, and Subba Reddy and Kurava Pedda Thimmayya of Byluppala village in Gonegandla mandal of Kurnool district, and confiscated 683 offset printing cylinders and raw material needed for packaging valued at Rs. 2 crore. A case was registered under the IPC Sections 420 and 487 r/w 34, Section 15(1) of the Environment Protection Act of 1986, Sections 6 and 7 of the Seed Act, and Section 103 of the Trade Mark Act of 1999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-fake-cotton-seed-racket-busted/article34863056.ece
20 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||451 new infections, two deaths in Prakasam||The cumulative tally in South Coastal Andhra rose to over 2.42 lakh as 235 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 451 persons in Prakasam tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. Two patients in Prakasam district and one in SPSR Nellore district succumbed to the viral disease. With this, the toll marginally rose to 1,776 in the region, a health bulletin released by the State government said on Saturday night. At least 892 patients in Prakasam district and 508 in SPSR Nellore district were declared recovered from the disease during the period. As a result, the number of active cases dropped to 10,092 in the region, including 4,509 in Prakasam district. With this, the recovery rate improved further to 95.53%. So far, over 2.31 lakh patients have recuperated in the two districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/451-new-infections-two-deaths-in-prakasam/article34863047.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT closes proceedings against Mekedatu dam project||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has closed proceedings against the Mekedatu dam project after finding merit in the Karnataka government’s submissions that requisite environmental clearances were pending consideration before the statutory authorities concerned. The observations came when the green panel took suo motu cosgnisance of media reports on allegations of violations of environmental norms in the construction of the dam. A Bench headed by the NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “We find merit in the submission of learned A-G (Attorney General) for the State of Karnataka that the media report does not mention that the issue of statutory environmental clearances is already pending consideration before the statutory authorities concerned. Even the very same media report has been mentioned by the State of Tamil Nadu in its submission before the Ministry of Jal Shakti...” “Accordingly, proceedings before this Tribunal are closed without prejudice to rival contentions of the parties on the subject in proceedings pending before the statutory authority concerned and before the Supreme Court,” the Bench said, while observing that the State of Tamil Nadu had raised the issue before the apex court. The Karnataka government had contended that the media report had failed to disclose the fact that the process of obtaining necessary clearances was pending before authorities. All issues, including those of environmental, forest and wildlife clearances, were already a subject matter of consideration before the authorities, it had said. However, the counsel appearing for the Tamil Nadu government opposed the stand and submitted that the environmental issue be examined by the Tribunal. “Further, the same issue has also been raised by the state of Tamil Nadu before the Supreme Court. Thus there is no need for this Tribunal to continue the suo motu proceedings,” the NGT said. The news report in question had stated that the construction of the dam would have adverse impact on forests and sanctuaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-closes-proceedings-against-mekedatu-dam-project/article34862437.ece
20 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP govt. left farmers in lurch’||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party(TDP) staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Saturday protesting against the “anti-farmer” policies of the YSRCP government. The activists, led by party Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N. Balaji, raised slogans demanding market intervention in support of different sections of farmers, including growers of paddy and Bengal gram. TDP farmers wing district president K. Venkaiah said none of the farmers received a remunerative price for their produce. He added that out of 25,000, only 1,233 quintals of the Bengal gram was procured by market intervention agencies, forcing farmers to put the rest of the produce in cold storage units. The purchase price of subabul and eucalyptus had fallen below Rs. 2,000 per tonne as against over Rs. 4,200 per tonne agreed by paper mills at the behest of the State government, he alleged, adding that the zero interest scheme for farmers had not served the purpose in view of reduction in the loan amount to Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-left-farmers-in-lurch/article34863049.ece
20 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Deepening of Valluru Cheruvu is needed’||Even in a year when the Nagarjunasagar Project (NSP) reservoir, which replenishes drinking water supply to Ongole, attained full capacity, water woes for the city have not ended. The two summer storage tanks that supply water to the civic body need to be replenished twice every year. Even when the position is comfortable in the two tanks, water is only supplied once in three days. In worst situations, when the storage in the tanks plummets to low levels, water is supplied only once in five days. It takes about 45 days for the SS tanks to get filled in view of limited 100 cusecs capacity of canal bringing Krishna water. To ensure a 24x7 supply to the denizens and to end their water woes, the solution lies in deepening of the Valluru Cheruvu and Pelluru Cheruvu and filling them with Krishna waters, said Ongole Town Development Committee president Marella Subba Rao, adding that it would also augment water supply to hundreds of villages now depended upon the two water bodies. Former A.P. Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had allotted Rs. 8 crore for deepening of the tanks in an extent of 900 acres. But the files relating to the project is now gathering dust after change in governments. The present Jagan Mohan Reddy government should take it up on top priority basis the project with a view also to unleash the tourism potential, on the lines of Swarnala Cheruvu in Nellore that had been developed taking into view the gathering of pilgrims during ‘Rotela Panduga’, said Ongole Citizens Association member K. Madhu. Tourism potential If the water bodies are developed, tourism potential of a string of beaches in the district, including Kothapatnam, Ramayapatnam, Pakala, Ethamukala and Karedu, could be also developed by constructing a tourist resort close to the Valluramma temple on the city outskirts and organising tourism package tours covering nearby places like Jambulapalem with 1,008 Sivalingas and Singarayakonda, they explained. Meanwhile, the two summer storage tanks are getting fast filled up with Krishna water released from NSP to Ramatheertham balancing reservoir. The two summer storage tanks had a combined storage of 4,526.45 million litres as against the full capacity of 5,800 ml, OMC Municipal Engineer D. Sundarami Reddy said. Storage in S.S TANK-1 has reached 1893.20 ml now as against the full level of 1950 ML and to 2633.25 ML in SS Tank-2 as against the full level of 3850 ML, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deepening-of-valluru-cheruvu-is-needed/article34863051.ece
20 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||AICTE-IDEA Lab to be set up in Ongole college||QIS College of Engineering and Technology(QISCET) has been selected by the All India Council for Technical Education(AICTE) for setting up AICTE-IDEA (Idea Development, Evaluation & Application) Lab. Announcing this at a media conference here on Saturday, N. Nageswara Rao, president of the Nidamanuri Education Society which runs QISCET, said the AICET-IDEA Lab would go a long way in encouraging students for application of science, technologies, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fundamentals towards enhanced hands-on experience, learning by doing and product visualisation. QISCET was one of the 49 colleges in the country, including five in Andhra Pradesh, selected under the scheme of the AICTE, said principal C.V.Subba Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aicte-idea-lab-to-be-set-up-in-ongole-college/article34863046.ece
20 June 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGH doctor ‘gives away’ baby with intersex traits to transgender group||A doctor in King George Hospital here has allegedly given away a newborn baby with intersex traits to a group of transgender people. The incident reportedly happened sometime in the third week of May and the baby is now allegedly in the custody of a Nayak from the Hijra Jamaat. Gopi Shankar, southern regional representative of the National Council for Transgender Persons, received information about this incident in a formal complaint. The baby was allegedly abandoned by the parents after they were informed that it was born with intersex traits. “Primarily, one should understand that such babies who are termed as intersex infants are not transgenders. They may be born with diverse sex characteristics which cannot be classified as male, female or transgender,” said Gopi Shankar. According to Gopi Shankar, the term transgender refers to diverse gender identity and expressions of a person whereas intersex is sex characteristics, and most importantly, such babies cannot be handed over to transgenders without following the legal procedures, even if parents abandon the child. Legal protection According to law, abandoned children are required to be produced before the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC). It is the responsibility of the CWC to arrange a shelter home for the child and take care of their well-being until they can be legally adopted. Gopi Shankar also confirmed that sex selective surgery, unless there is an emergency need, cannot be performed, as it is banned by the Madras High Court and not recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO). In Tamil Nadu, it was banned by a GO in 2019. It was the first State to protect intersex infants from unnecessary medical interventions in the country and second in the world after Malta, said Gopi Shankar. “We wish that the authorities concerned, including the CWC, the District Collector and the Commissioner of Police, take up the issue and see that an inquiry is initiated. The State government should think of passing an order on the lines of Tamil Nadu,” Gopi Shankar said. “More than 10,000 intersex infants are born in India. They are at risk of forced medical interventions such as sex selective surgeries. They are also at risk of being trafficked or being handed over to the Hijra Jamaat or Haveli, if parents disown them,” said Gopi Shankar. Meanwhile, senior officials in KGH said that no such thing had come to their notice. They would conduct an inquiry if there was an official complaint. They said that such children were normally handed over to government shelter homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kgh-doctor-gives-away-baby-with-intersex-traits-to-transgender-group/article34863066.ece
20 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||28 doctors dismissed from service||The State government has issued orders removing from service 28 doctors in the Medical Education Service for their unauthorised absence from service. The government terminated their service as the doctors did not show any inclination to join back for duty despite several official intimations, an official statement issued by Health Minister Veena George here on Saturday said. Doctors who are staying away from government service unauthorised should join back for duty immediately. At a time when the State is fighting the pandemic, the State needs the service of all health-care workers, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/28-doctors-dismissed-from-service/article34862447.ece
20 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD resolves to complete Balaji temple in J&K by end of 2022||The TTD has resolved to complete the construction of the temple of Lord Venkateswara in Jammu and Kashmir by the end of next year. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the board of trustees here on Saturday. The foundation stone for the temple coming up in a sprawling 62-acre land was laid last week. Addressing the media, TTD chairman Y.V. Subba reddy said the board was also keen on taking up the construction of temples at Varanasi and Mumbai. It was also firm on completing the construction of 500 temples in SC, ST and fishermen colonies in both the Telugu States in a span of one year with the funds of the SriVani Trust. The board, which also discussed about the establishment of a paediatric facility at BIRRD hospital, decided to invite Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to lay stone for it shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-resolves-to-complete-balaji-temple-in-jk-by-end-of-2022/article34863060.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen generator plant inaugurated at GGH||Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao along with Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi and MLC Md. Karimunnisa inaugurated an oxygen generator plant on the premises of the Government General Hospital in the city on Saturday. The plant was set up with the support of the alumni of Siddhartha Medical College. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said another such plant would be inaugurated on Old Government Hospital premises in a week. District Collector J. Nivas said that Ramco and KCP cement companies were providing support in the supply of oxygen.  Both plants set up at a cost of Rs. 2 crore were funded by SMC old students. College alumni association secretary Dr. Nalamati Amanna said Dr. Yalamanchili Aruna Kumari donated Rs. 50 lakh and Alluri Indrakumar Rs. 25 lakh apart from many others who contributed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-generator-plant-inaugurated-at-ggh/article34862468.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mega vaccination drive today||The Health Department will conduct a ‘Mega Vaccination Drive’ on Sunday with an aim of vaccinating 10 lakh eligible persons. As part of the drive, first and second dose vaccines will be administered to all the eligible persons, including people above 45 years of age, mothers of children aged below five years and persons who want to travel abroad for various purposes. More focus would be on vaccinating young mothers. The department has appointed officers to oversee the drive arrangements and execution in every district. District Medical and Health Officers have been instructed to use the services of ANMs, ASHA workers to mobilise eligible beneficiaries to the permanent vaccine centres. In Krishna district, the mega vaccine drive will be conducted in schools, colleges, community halls. In Vijayawada, over 40,000 Covishield doses will be available at 122 centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mega-vaccination-drive-today/article34863055.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three capitals issue of Andhra Pradesh||In the wake of renewed buzz over shifting of Executive Capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam and top leaders from the YSR Congress Party government hinting at likely shift of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) in the near future, here is an explainer on the three capital issue of Andhra Pradesh. What is Decentralisation Act? The AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, 2020 is meant to have three seats of governance, namely Legislative, Executive and Judicial Capitals. The AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) has been converted into Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority consequent to the passage of the APCRDA Repeal Act, 2020. Why three capitals? The YSR Congress Party government wanted to decentralise the administration by having three capitals with a firm opinion that they will give a fillip to the development of the north coastal districts, the coastal stretch from West Godavari to Nellore and backward Rayalaseema. The present government was also of the view that the grandiose capital plan of the previous government was unaffordable in the current economic scenario. When was it decided? Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan gave his assent to the relevant Bills in July, 2020. The Bills were initially passed in the Assembly in January 2020 but were then referred by the Legislative Council to a select committee, which was not formed due to the deep discord between the ruling and opposition parties. They were passed in the Legislative Assembly for the second time in June 2020. Where are the proposed seats of authority? The existing State Legislature Complex will remain at Velagapudi in Guntur district and the region will be called Legislative Capital. The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) and offices of all HoDs will be shifted from Amaravati to the Executive Capital (Visakhapatnam). The principal seat of the AP High Court situated at Nelapadu in Guntur district is to be moved to Kurnool which will be the Judicial Capital. Controversy and legal battle The Acts were challenged in the High Court by farmers and a few hearings were conducted under the aegis of the then Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari. The situation had returned to square one after Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari was transferred and replaced by Arup Kumar Goswami as the cases had to be heard from scratch again. The farmers are vehemently opposing the proposed three capitals having given their multi-crop lands under the ‘pooling scheme’ for the construction of the greenfield capital city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-capitals-issue-of-andhra-pradesh/article34863061.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on e-learning strategies on July 2, 3||NRI Institute of Technology (NRIIT), in association with Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR), a Central government organisation, will organise a webinar on ‘Blending Remote Teaching and Learning Strategies among Urban and Rural Colleges’, on July 2 and 3, said NRIIT secretary K. Sreedhar. Mr. Sreedhar said the webinar would help to identify some of the best strategies of online teaching suitable to urban and rural colleges. Participants can register their names through online by clicking the registration linkhttps://forms.gle/ VXd4QYghdudTP1zN7or visitwww.nriit.edu.into download the brochure. Last date for abstract submission is June 23 and full length paper has to be reach the institute before June 30. Selected papers would be published in UGC and scopes journals, Dr. Bhaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-e-learning-strategies-on-july-2-3/article34863052.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM, Governor condole death of Milkha Singh||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed grief over the demise of athlete Milkha Singh, popularly known as Flying Sikh, who passed away on Friday due to post COVID-19 complications. Achievements In a statement issued here on Saturday, Mr. Harichandan said Milkha Singh was the first Indian athlete to win gold medal in individual athletics in Common Wealth Games, and represented the country in Summer Olympic Games held in Melbourne, Rome and Tokyo. Milkha Singh, honoured with Padma Shri Award in 1959, had many achievements in his life, said the Governor and conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members. ‘Inspiration to many’ Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said: “Milkha Singh has been an inspiration to many young athletes and will continue to remain so.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-governor-condole-death-of-milkha-singh/article34862474.ece
20 June 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fingerprints help trace accused in double murder||The Krishna district police have claimed to have solved a double murder case that took place at Kanchikacherla in December last. A couple, Bandarupalli Nageswara Rao and Prameela Rani, was found dead in their house. The Kanchikacherla police registered a suspicious deaths case (Section 174 Cr.P.C.) and took up investigation. Meanwhile, the Penamaluru police under the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits, took three persons into custody in an ATM theft case, and their fingerprints got tallied with the prints collected from the scene of offence in Kanchikacherla. The accused entered the house by removed the iron grills and murdered the couple on December 25, said Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu.  Modus operandi “The modus operandi of the accused is to target women in isolated places, and senior citizens staying alone and resort to chain snatching and thefts. The gang was also involved in some ATM thefts,” the SP said. “During questioning, the accused confessed to have committed the double murder in Kanchikacherla. The gang might have been involved in more crimes and a thorough investigation is on,” the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fingerprints-help-trace-accused-in-double-murder/article34862473.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination camp held at AP Bhavan||Vaccination camp was organised at the Andhra Pradesh Bhavan auditorium in New Delhi under the aegis of the resident commissioners of A.P. and Telangana bhavans on Saturday. A total of 100 officers, employees and their family members aged between 18 and 44 were administered Covishield vaccine in the camp, an official release said. Doctor Akanksha from Lady Hardinge Medical College present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-camp-held-at-ap-bhavan/article34863064.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘22% of 1.67 lakh houses grounded’||Collector J. Nivas has said that the district was in first place in the State in grounding construction of houses under the housing for all scheme. Mr. Nivas said the government was constructing 1,67,541 houses in the district, and 28,192 of them were grounded. By the end of the month 13,000 more houses would be grounded, he said. Mr. Nivas said that all other amenities such as roads, electricity and drainage system would be developed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/22-of-167-lakh-houses-grounded/article34863040.ece
20 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointed Central govt. counsel in AP High Court||The Department of Legal Affairs of the Government of India has appointed advocates J.U.M.V. Prasad from Tadepalli in Guntur district, Divya Datla from Visakhapatnam, Jupudi Venkata Kumar Yagnadutt from Guntur, and Venna Hemanth Kumar and Kilaru Krishna Bhushan Chowdary from Vijayawada as Central government counsel in the Andhra Pradesh High Court for all litigations related to the Centre, except matters concerning the Railways and taxation, for three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appointed-central-govt-counsel-in-ap-high-court/article34863062.ece
20 June 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu flays govt. policies||BJP State president Somu Veerraju questioned through Twitter what had happened to the Chief Minister’s promise to implement a new Pay Revision Commission for the government employees soon after his party came to power. He also wanted to know the status of his assurance to regularise the contract employees in all departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-flays-govt-policies/article34863063.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special vaccination drive in all ward secretariats today||District Collector V. Vinay Chand took stock of the arrangements being made for the special COVID-19 vaccination drive to be conducted on Sunday.. He said that the drive will be conducted from 7 a.m. in all the 578 ward secretariats in the GVMC limits. He instructed the officials to ensure vaccine is transported to the centres. District Immunisation Officer Jeevan Rani, Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar and a few others were present. Meanwhile in a release, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana said that the programme will be held for people above 45 years of age and women with children between zero and five years. People can get their first and second dose vaccination, she said. Basic amenities The GVMC Commissioner instructed the Zonal Commissioners, Ward Special Officers and volunteers to ensure the secretariats have basic amenities like drinking water, tents, chairs and electricity for the smooth conduct of the drive. She said that the government aims at administrating vaccine to at least one lakh eligible people through the special drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-vaccination-drive-in-all-ward-secretariats-today/article34863077.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ECoR extends cancellation of specials due to poor patronage||Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and poor patronisation of special trains, officials from East Coast Railway decided to extend the cancellation of several special trains. The train number No.08528 Visakhapatnam-Raipur daily special train leaving Visakhapatnam from June 21 to 30 will be cancelled. In return direction, the train No. 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam daily special train leaving Raipur from June 22 to July 1 will be cancelled. Similarly, train No. 08445 Bhubaneswar-Jagdalpur special train leaving Bhubaneswar from June 21 to June 30 will be cancelled. In the return direction, train No. 08446 Jagdalpur-Visakhapatnam special train leaving Jagdalpur on June 22 to July 1 will be cancelled Another train No. 08516 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul special train leaving Visakhapatnam from June 21 to June 30 will be cancelled. In its return direction, train No. 08515 Kirandul-Visakhapatnam special train leaving Kirandul from June 22 to July 1 is also cancelled The train No. 08561 Visakhapatnam-Kacheguda special train leaving Visakhapatnam from June 21 to June 30 will be cancelled. In return direction, train No. 08562 Kacheguda-Visakhapatnam special train leaving Kacheguda from June 22, to July 1 is also cancelled The officials also said that train No. 07488 Visakhapatnam-Cuddapah special train leaving Visakhapatnam from June 21 to June 30 will be cancelled. In its return direction, train No. 07487 Cuddapah-Visakhapatnam special train leaving Cuddapah from June 22 to July 1 is also cancelled. Meanwhile the train No. 02831 Visakhapatnam- Lingampalli special train leaving Visakhapatnam from June 21 to June 30 will be cancelled. In return direction, the train No. 02832 Lingampalli- Visakhapatnam special train leaving Lingampalli from June 22 to July 1 will also be cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ecor-extends-cancellation-of-specials-due-to-poor-patronage/article34863079.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Samples of slain Maoist test positive for COVID||Mandatory tests conducted on Saturday on the six Maoists killed in an exchange of fire with Greyhounds personnel on Wednesday, reportedly showed that one of was COVID-19 positive. The bodies of the six Maoists reached Narsipatnam Area Hospital on Thursday night and the post-mortem was conducted on Friday. Test for confirmation According to sources, samples of Santu Nachike from Koraput reportedly tested positive in the rapid antigen test. His swabs were sent for RTPCR tests for confirmation, said a source from the forensic team. Meanwhile, the bodies of Ranadev alias Arjun from Malkangiri in Odisha, Sande Gangaiah alias Dr. Ashok from Peddapalli in Telangana, and Lalita from G.K. Veedhi of Visakhapatnam district, have been handed over to their family members. Bodies not claimed The bodies of Paike from Chhattisgarh, Nachike and Madakam Chaite also from Chhattisgarh, are still to be handed over, as no one has claimed them, it is learnt. “We will wait for 72 hours as per the norms, and still if there is no claimants, we shall take the necessary steps to bury them,” said OSD of Narsipatnam Sateesh Kumar. The six Maosits were killed in a gun battle with the Greyhounds near Theegalametta village in Koyyuru mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. Meanwhile, it is learnt that combing operations are still on in the interior parts of Visakha Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/samples-of-slain-maoist-test-positive-for-covid-19/article34862450.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL sanctions Rs. 65 lakh to AU to establish medical genetics centre||As part of Corporate Social Responsibility activity, Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL), Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), sanctioned Rs. 65 lakh from Corporate Environmental Responsibility (CER) funds to Andhra University for establishing RINL Centre for Medical Genetics in the AU campus. Director (Personnel) and CMD Additional Charge, K.C. Das, handed over a cheque for Rs. 32.5 lakh as the first spell of payment to Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy at the university here on Saturday. Mr. Das underlined the need for establishing such a centre for medical genetics in the State. He also assured the Andhra University officials for further help. NEP guidelines Prof. Prasad Reddy outlined the initiatives being taken by the varsity in meeting the guidelines laid out in the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020). Director (Finance), RINL, V.V. Venugopal Rao, and Director(Operations),A K Saxena, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-sanctions-rs-65-lakh-to-au-to-establish-medical-genetics-centre/article34863078.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists blame CM, DGP for ‘encounter’||The CPI(Maoist) has squarely blamed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang for the killing of six of its cadre in an exchange of fire with the Greyhounds at Theegalametta in the Visakhapatnam Agency area on June 16. In a letter released late on Friday night, Ganesh, secretary of the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) of the CPI(Maoist), while paying tributes to the slain cadre, said, “Though this is a loss for us, we will continue our fight for the rights of the people.” Dig at Sawang He further alleged that Mr. Gautam Sawang was a “covert operation specialist.” The Maoist leader also accused the Chief Minister of pursuing the bauxite mining project by joining hands with private players. He also accused the police of trying to bring hundreds of hectares of coffee plantations being cultivated by tribal farmers under government control. The government also failed to take proper steps to control the spread of COVID-19 second wave in the Agency area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-blame-cm-dgp-for-encounter/article34863065.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees three deaths and 215 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 215 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,47,191. A total of 514 persons undergoing treatment for the infection recovered. The death toll has increased to 1,005, after three more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has declined to 4,243, while the number of discharges/recoveries has increased to 1,41,943.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-three-deaths-and-215-new-covid-cases/article34863081.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto driver’s son becomes Flying Officer in IAF||Son of an auto-rickshaw driver from the city has succeeded in fulfilling his dreams by being selected as a flying officer in the Indian Air Force (IAF). Hailing from Old Dairy farm area of the city, Mr. G. Gopinath earned coveted pips of flying officer and President's Commissioning into the IAF at combined graduation parade at Air Force Academy, Dundigal, Hyderabad, on Saturday. Mr. Gopinath has completed his graduation in Dr V.S. Krishna Government Degree College in the city and completed his P.G in Andhra University. “My father G Suri Babu is an auto-rickshaw driver. He always worked hard for me and ensured all my needs are taken care,” he adds. “I will be forever grateful to him,” said Mr. Gopinath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/auto-drivers-son-becomes-flying-officer-in-iaf/article34863083.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘E-commerce likely to reach $ 99 billion by 2024’||The e-commerce segment of the country likely to reach US $99 billion by 2024, with grocery, fashion and apparel likely to be the key drivers of incremental growth, said Dutch multinational company Spar International Chief Operating Officer K. Devendra here on Saturday. He was addressing a webinar organised by GITAM Deemed to be University, Institute of Management. Mr. Devendra said that the Indian online grocery market is estimated to reach US$18.2 billion in 2024 from US $1.9 billion in 2019, expanding at a Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 57%. India’s e-commerce orders volume increased by 36% in the last quarter of 2020, with the personal care, beauty and wellness segment being the largest beneficiary, he added. Mr. Devendra said that in India 91% retail markets are still in unorganised sector and only 9% is in organised sector. He said that 8% of Indian work force is employed in retail industry. Mr. Devendra said that career opportunities will open up in various functions of retail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-commerce-likely-to-reach-99-billion-by-2024/article34863084.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sivanagendra Reddy elected IRCS district branch chairman||Y. Sivanagendra Reddy has been unanimously elected the chairman of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), Visakhapatnam district branch by the managing committee. The new chairman called upon District Collector and president of IRCS V. Vinay Chand to give a report on the status of various programmes being taken up by the Red Cross to mitigate COVID -19, here on Saturday. Speaking to the media, Dr. Sivanagendra Reddy said that there is a need to bring awareness on the importance of blood donation. He explained about activities of the IRCS during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sivanagendra-reddy-elected-ircs-district-branch-chairman/article34863076.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take back all encroached lands: CPI(M)||Members of CPI(M) demanded that the State government take steps to resume all the government lands which were encroached by various persons in Visakhapatnam district. The party leaders staged a protest at Gandhi Statue here on Saturday. They alleged that government land worth about Rs. 50,000 crore was encroached. Party State Secretariat member Ch. Narsinga Rao said that though Special Investigation Team (SIT) report about the land grabbings was out, the YSRCP government did not take any action against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-back-all-encroached-lands-cpim/article34863080.ece
20 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism Minister lays foundation stone for Jagananna Colony||Minister for Tourism M Srinivasa Rao on Saturday laid foundation stone for construction of Jagananna Housing Colony at Padmanabham mandal in Bheemili constituency in the district on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that about 450 families will be benefited with the housing scheme in the panchayat. He said that the colony would have all basic amenities. YSRCP leaders from Bheemili constituency participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourism-minister-lays-foundation-stone-for-jagananna-colony/article34863082.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Might on display||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/might-on-display/article34863068.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cool outing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cool-outing/article34863086.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Only two of 33 districts post 100+ cases||A total of 1,362 coronavirus cases and 10 deaths were reported in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Saturday, taking the State’s total to 6,12,196 and toll to 3,556. On the day the State government decided to lift the lockdown, the daily positivity rate of COVID-19 infection stood at 1.11% as 1,23,005 samples were examined, including 1,17,429 tests in government facilities. Reports of 1,206 samples were awaited. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department, the highest of 145 cases were reported from GHMC area followed by 122 in Khammam district. In 23 districts, the cases reported were in double-digit numbers with Rangareddy leading with 97 cases. In another eight districts, they were in single digits with a lowest of three in Kamareddy. With 1,813 infected persons declared recovered during the day, the total number of recoveries has gone up to 5,90,072 so far. The recovery rate of 96.38% in the State is lower than the national average of 96.12%. Telangana’s case fatality rate is currently 0.58% against 1.3% at the national level. Active cases down Active cases stood at 18,568 with 6,759 persons undergoing treatment in various hospitals and the remaining 11,809 staying in home and institutional isolation. Meanwhile, during the 24-hour period till 9 p.m. on Friday (June 18), a total of 1,80,084 doses were administered to different categories of recipients, including 1,35,881 given to beneficiaries in the 18-44 years age group. A total of 88,72,345 doses have been administered so far from the beginning of the vaccination drive in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/only-two-of-33-districts-post-100-cases/article34862927.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to take up new water projects||The Telangana government has decided to construct a slew of irrigation projects to set up hurdles to diversion of Krishna river water by Andhra Pradesh. One of them will be construction of a barrage near Alampur to divert 60 to 70 tmc ft water by pipeline. The barrage will come up within the limits of four villages -- Gummadam, Gondimalla, Velaturu and Pedda Maruru -- between Gadwal and Wanaparthy districts. The water will be used to fill Edula reservoir which was part of Palamaru - Ranga Reddy lift-irrigation scheme, it was decided at the Cabinet meeting presided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday. Further, the left canal of Pulichintala project will be constructed to irrigate two lakh acres in Nalgonda and Suryapet districts. Another one lakh acres will be irrigated in Nadigadda area by a lift-irrigation scheme from Sunkesula reservoir. A flood flow canal of Bheema, a tributary of Krishna, will be constructed at the point where the river entered Telangana at Kusumarthi village of Krishna mandal. A lift-irrigation project will be constructed to on the tail-pond of Nagarjunasagar to irrigate two lakh acres. The Cabinet ordered the irrigation department to take up surveys and prepare detailed project reports. It was also decided to take up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat the illegal irrigation projects constructed by Andhra Pradesh government on the Krishna. The government will submit memoranda to both of them seeking to stop these projects and also highlight the over-exploitation of river water in courts of law. The Cabinet strongly condemned the work on Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme and right canal of Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS) by AP government. The work was asked to be stopped by the National Green Tribunal and the Central government, yet AP government went ahead with it. The meeting also deplored the Central indifference to constitution of a river water tribunal after the State government withdrew its case in Supreme Court demanding larger share of water in river. The Centre had offered to expedite constitution of the tribunal if the State government withdrew the case but it did not happen. The Cabinet also expressed its unhappiness that the Centre did not extend a helping hand to the State and, on top, adopted an attitude of negligence in the matter of river water disputes. Therefore, it was decided to go to any extent to protect the interests of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-to-take-up-new-water-projects/article34862943.ece
20 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Long race of Flying Sikh began in Secunderabad||In the 2013 film Bhaag Milkha Bhaag , actor Farhan Akhtar is seen running parallel to a train. The scene was a slice of Milkha Singh’s life in Secunderabad where his ascent as one of the best athletes began. Milkha Singh came to Secunderabad as a soldier at the EME Centre and sometime in January 1953, he learnt that athletics could save him from the rigour of fatigue duty that involved digging trenches, laying roads, gardening, washing utensils and other manual labour. And he began training for a six-mile race. But it was in the shorter 400-metre race that he carved a niche for himself. One of the biggest EME Centre facilities is in Secunderabad at the foothills of Koh-e-Imam e Zameen. The railroad connecting Secunderabad to Nizamabad passes through the area with some trains stopping at Ammuguda station. It was parallel to this railway track that Milkha Singh actually raced with trains which were then metre-guage ones pulled by steam engines. In his biography, he recalled how racing against trains was one of the fun aspects of his life. He also remembered having a free run in the cantonment area which was a vast swathe of wilderness. It was in Secunderabad while practising in the night that a young and enthusiastic Milkha Singh was spotted by Brigadier S.P. Vohra who cleared his path for serious training by reducing his workload. The hillock of Ammuguda too played a role in shaping his career as it was used by Milkha Singh for strength and stamina training where he would carry a bag filled with stones up the steep hill and then run down. Old-timers still remember the athlete who didn’t mind sharing his knowledge. “Tamil people from the SC community (a majority of them who aspired to join the Army through sports quota) from Ammuguda, JJ Nagar Colony, trained along with him. Several sports veterans from Ammuguda, JJ Nagar Colony, Yapral and adjoining areas had met him at some point and they trained together,” says a resident of the area.  Several sports veterans from Ammuguda, JJ Nagar Colony, Yapral and adjoining areas had met him at some point and they trained together. A resident of Secunderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/long-race-of-flying-sikh-began-in-secunderabad/article34862928.ece
20 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Law student, friends testing their culinary skills to feed the needy||When Mohd. Abdul Yousuf, a fourth-year student of Symbiosis Law School in Hyderabad, and his friends wanted to feed the needy hit by COVID-19, they could not afford to hire a chef at Rs. 1,200 per day to prepare a meal with 25 kg rice. Undeterred, the boys watched cookery channels to learn to prepare it themselves. Now, the team of volunteers of Helping Humans Hyderabad founded by Abdul, packs 400 dinner boxes and distributes them at Tadbun, Charminar, Government Maternity Hospital in Afzal Gunj, Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, Osmania General Hospital, Hyderabad Railway Station at Nampally, Public Gardens, MNJ̥ Cancer Hospital and Niloufer Hospital. “We make kaju, lemon and jeera rice and even made chicken biriyani sponsored by a friend,” says Abdul. Helping Humans Hyderabad is among several voluntary organisations helmed by youngsters to verify leads, identify and share information on hospital resources and medical supplies to help tackle second wave of the pandemic. However, Abdul’s organisation reached out beyond Hyderabad to Bengaluru, Gujarat, Delhi, Patna and Kerala as he networked from his contacts across India. It started when Abdul posted a friend’s plasma request on his Instagram account. Buoyed by the response and backed by his associates Lamya Hussaini, Molshree Totla and Ismail Zabiullah, he launched Helping Humans on April 16, his birthday, to amplify appeals for help. Abdul and four core members of Helping Humans pooled Rs. 20,000 from their pockets to steer the network. With friends across India, he created a network of individuals to provide info from their cities; volunteers then verified the leads and updated the information on a Google spreadsheet. ‘If you are sitting idle at home, give your time to us,’ was their message on social media, inviting volunteers to be part of the initiative which had over 200 members from across India. The office of K. Kalvakuntla responded to their tweets for hospital resources; which not only helped in closing the requests, but also airlifting a passenger from Bihar to Hyderabad. Abdul now hopes to find more sponsors for their free food distribution programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/law-student-friends-testing-their-culinary-skills-to-feed-the-needy/article34862932.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS-bPASS monitoring committee constituted||A monitoring committee has been formed in GHMC to fast-track clearance of building approvals under the newly constituted TS-bPASS regime. The nine member committee will be chaired by GHMC Commissioner. It will have as members, the Chief City Planner of GHMC, District Collectors of Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, and Medchal Malkajgiri, Superintendent Engineer of the Irrigation Department, Director, Enforcement Vigilance, and Disaster Management wing of GHMC, Director General of Fire Services or his nominee, and any other officer nominated by the GHMC Commissioner. The committee, meeting once every fortnight, shall monitor and review performance with regard to clearances and permissions. It will ensure disposal of all building permission applications within the prescribed time line, and resolve the complaints received from citizens in coordination with the line departments or agencies involved. Rejected cases as well as the reasons will be reviewed by the committee from time to time, and reports will be sent to government about the status of the applications received. The committee has also been assigned with the task of keeping record of dashboard and MIS reports pertaining to all applications with respect to building and layout permissions. For coordination with various departments, the committee shall appoint a nodal officer from the respective wings as single point contact for clearances. Time limits have been specified for each department for issue of NoC. Accordingly, provisional Fire NOC has to be issued within 14 days by the EVDM wing, approvals pertaining to the Telangana Non-Agriculture Land Assessment Act 2006 from the Revenue Department within 14 days, NOC pertaining to proximity to water bodies from the Irrigation department and from the Revenue department within 10 days each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-bpass-monitoring-committee-constituted/article34862936.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 5,146 cr. Rythu Bandhu benefit disbursed in 5 days: Minister||About 4.9 lakh farmers with a landholding from 4 to 5 acres each were extended the investment support of Rs. 5000 per acre, totalling Rs. 1,050.1 crore, under the Rythu Bandhu scheme on the fifth day of the benefit disbursement on Saturday. The amount was credited into their bank accounts from district treasuries concerned. According to Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, a total of Rs. 5,145.87 crore has been credited into the bank accounts of about 54.37 lakh farmers with a landholding of about 102.92 lakh acres so as to help them take up kharif cultivation. He stated that the investment support given as grant since 2018 has increased the extent of cultivation and the rising production of various crops over the last last few years is an indication of it. He explained that a highest of Rs. 401.92 crore has been credited into the accounts of 3,97,260 farmers in Nalgonda district and the least of Rs. 19.68 crore has been disbursed to 27,819 farmers in Medchal-Malkajigiri district so far. An amount of Rs. 254.62 crore has been given out to 2,35,549 farmers in Nagarkurnool, while Rs. 247.67 crore is extended to 2,66,797 farmers in Sangareddy district. Production of paddy this season (2020-21 rabi) has been so high that it has been stored in godowns with a storage capacity of 29.26 lakh tonnes, which was only 4 lakh tonnes at the time of State formation, besides in every other possible facility such as Rythu Vedika buildings, cotton mills and others. He suggested the opposition parties “indulging in meaningless criticism of the government on procurement of paddy this season” to think as how it had become possible to achieve such an unthinkable quantity of production and procurement. The procurement in the two seasons of 2014-15 was only 24.29 lakh tonnes, while it has been 90.01 lakh tonnes till Thursday this this one season alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-5146-cr-rythu-bandhu-benefit-disbursed-in-5-days-minister/article34862938.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four killed in road accident in Vikarabad district||A 58-year-old woman Moulan Bee, her two sons and grandson were killed when the vehicle they were travelling in rammed an oncoming car on the outskirts of Kodangal town of Vikarabad district, nearly 120 kms from here, on Saturday morning. The accident occurred after driver of the vehicle lost control as its rear left tyre burst, Kodangal Circle Inspector M. Appaiah said. The driver of the vehicle and inmates of the oncoming car sustained serious injuries in the accident. They were shifted to local government hospital for treatment. Along with Moulana Bee, her sons Babu Miya, 39, Mohd. Abdul, 35, and grandson Mohd. Rasheed, 27, died in the accident that occurred around 6 a.m. They were going to Yadgir district in Karnataka State for medical treatment of Moulana Bee, the Circle Inspector said.  Injured In a separate accident reported in Warangal district, 30 passengers of a RTC bus sustained injuries when a speeding lorry laden with sand hit it on the outskirts of Mandaripeta near Sayampet. The bus was going from Hanamkonda to Bhupalpally when the accident occurred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-killed-in-road-accident-in-vikarabad-district/article34862939.ece
20 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nama denies wrongdoing, says will cooperate with ED||TRS floor leader in the Lok Sabha Nama Nageswara Rao, who is summoned by the Enforcement Directorate in a case related to bank fraud of Rs. 1,046 crore, has denied wrongdoing and said he would assist the investigative authorities. At a press conference here, he said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had delayed the permissions and did not get the environment clearances before handing over the project to Madhucon for laying the 163-km National Highway-33 between Ranchi-Rargaon-Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. Moreover, the NHAI got approvals for 21% of land transfer though it should have given 80% at least to the company for starting the work. The company was also forced to take up the work despite not fulfilling the criterion for smooth operations. He said the NHAI resorted to breach of the contract and illegally terminated it putting the Madhucon company into financial losses. However, he would attend the ED questioning and clear their doubts. Madhucon company set up Ranchi Expressway Ltd under special purpose vehicle to take the project in the Build, Operate and Transfer mode at a cost of Rs. 1,151 crore. Madhucon received Rs. 1,029.39 crore from a consortium of banks under Canara Bank. Mr. Nageswara Rao claimed that he was not involved with the day-to-day operations of Madhucon after he came into public life and the company was being looked after by his brothers. He said the company has gained reputation over the last 40 years and it had laid roads on the China border where even state-owned companies could not do.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nama-denies-wrongdoing-says-will-cooperate-with-ed/article34862944.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRDO urged to set up 500-bed COVID hospital for children||The Telangana unit of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has requested the DRDO chairman G. Satheesh Reddy to establish an exclusive temporary 500-bed COVID hospital for children in the name of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam on any of the vast open spaces available to the Defence Ministry in Secunderabad to prepare for a possible third wave of the pandemic. In a communication to Dr. Reddy, a copy of which was released to the media on Friday, organisation spokersperson R. Shashidhar said the hospital could be on the lines of those already established in various places across the country, including the 750-bed Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital in Delhi, 900-bed Dhanvantari hospital in Ahmedabad, a 500-bed ESI hospital in Patna, a 750-bed Pandit Rajan Mishra hospital in Varanasi, a 500-bed Atal Bihari Vajpayee hospital in Lucknow, and a 500-bed General Bipin Chandra Joshi hospital in Haldwani. He added that Kalam had affinity towards the twin cities as he had spent many years working as a scientist in many of the DRDO labs and had a special love for children, hence it would be fit to name the hospital after him, a release said.  Former president A.P.J Abdul Kalam had an affinity towards the twin cities as he had spent many years working as a scientist in many of the DRDO labs and had a special love for children, hence it would be fit to name the hospital after him. R. Shashidhar, Spokesperson, VHP-Telangana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drdo-urged-to-set-up-500-bed-covid-hospital-for-children/article34862924.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man, two sons killed over land dispute||Long-pending land disputes resulted in the killing of a sexagenarian and two of his sons at Kataram in Jayashankar Bhupalpally district, nearly 260 km from here, on Saturday. The victims Lavudya Manja Nayak, 68, and his two sons Saraih Naik, 45, and Bhaskar Naik, 38, were working on their agricultural field on the outskirts of Gangaram village of Kataram mandal when they were attacked by Manja Nayak’s younger brothers and others. Bhaskar Naik’s wife and son were also working on the field when the murders were committed, the police said. Manja Naik purchased 20 acres of land on the village outskirts. His younger brothers Mahankali Naik and Sammaiah Naik and their families were demanding share in the property, claiming that they had rights over six acres of that land. Some of them had moved the local court and the matter was pending for disposal. Meanwhile, Manja Naik reportedly secured pattadar passbooks of the said land recently. On Saturday morning, a group of persons led by Mahankali and Sammaiah attacked them with axes and hacked them to death. According to information reaching here, some of the accused walked into the police station with blood-stained clothes and surrendered before the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-two-sons-killed-over-land-dispute/article34862940.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New super speciality hospitals in Hyderabad||The State government has decided to convert the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) at Gachibowli into a super speciality hospital and add three new ones to this category of hospitals in and around Hyderabad. Apart from TIMS, the other super speciality hospitals will come up on Chest Hospital campus, the vacant campus of fruit market at Gaddiannaram, which was shifted and somewhere between Alwal and Outer Ring Road in Medchal - Malkajgiri district. The decision was taken at the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday. The Cabinet was briefed by officials about the agricultural conditions in the State following a more than 5% rainfall so far this season as compared to last year. It was also more than 60% of normal, a release of CMO said. They said Rs. 5,145 crore was deposited in the accounts of farmers under Rythu Bandhu scheme. Last year, about 1.4 crore tonnes of paddy was procured from framers and 1.6 crore tonnes purchased by traders. The rest of the produce was used by farmers for their own needs. A release said the fruit market at Kothapet would be converted into a modern integrated veg and non-veg market. The Cabinet mandated authorities to relaunch the sheep distribution scheme for members of cowherd community. They were also instructed to take necessary measures to set up modern hair dressing saloons in villages as decided earlier. Steps should be taken to ensure that insurance claims of toddy tappers were settled immediately and ex gratia to toddy and fishery workers was released. Insurance for artisans of caste-based occupations should be released as quickly as it was done for farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-super-speciality-hospitals-in-hyderabad/article34862941.ece
20 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana Cong. celebrates Rahul birthday||The 51st birthday celebrations of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were subdued with Telangana Congress leaders avoiding lavishness and confining themselves to distributing essential commodities to poor people. ‘Not new to posts’ At a programme held at Gandhi Bhavan, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy inaugurated the free COVID-19 vaccination camp organised by the NSUI and rice distribution camps organised by the OBC and minority cells of the TPCC. He termed Mr. Gandhi a visionary and man of people. He said despite being offered to be Prime Minister and Union Minister, Mr Gandhi preferred to serve people like a common man showcasing his simplicity. He reminded that the great-grandfather, grandmother, and father of Rahul worked as Prime Ministers of the country and top posts were not new to the young leader. The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader in Assembly, Mr Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, former Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Ponnala Laxmaiah, former minister G Vinod, PCC vice president Kumar Rao, NSUI State president Venkat Balmoor, State minority cell chairman Amir Sohail, Other Backward Classes (OBC) cell chairman N Srikanth, Woman Congress State president N Sarada and others participated in the programmes. Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy distributed 30 wheelchairs to the physically challenged in Sangareddy town while his daughter Jaya Reddy provided financial assistance to two orphans. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president Ponnam Prabhakar distributed rice cookers to poor people on the occasion. Aall India Congress coommittee (AICC) secretary V. Hanmantha Rao provided financial assistance to a poor girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-cong-celebrates-rahul-birthday/article34862945.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Initiative to fight viral fevers||Citizens are requested to participate in -- Project No Fever. For more information on, please contact through Telegram and WhatsApp on: 91 7702169118.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/initiative-to-fight-viral-fevers/article34862933.ece
20 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cyient pledges to be carbon, water-neutral by 2025||Global engineering and digital technology solutions company Cyient has pledged to become a carbon and water neutral business by 2025. The Hyderabad-based company said this launching a sustainability report with a holistic sustainability framework on Friday. It said the framework has 13 focus areas distributed across three pillars — responsible, equitable, and accountable — in alignment with UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. MD and CEO Krishna Bodanapu said the new framework was expected to help it become the most sustainable engineering, manufacturing and technology services organisation. With stakeholders demanding and valuing sustainability as an imperative, “we envisage adopting a path where we create shared and sustainable long-term value for all stakeholders,” he said. The company said it is doubling down on addressing the growing climate crisis by committing to carbon and water neutral operations and ensuring zero waste to landfills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyient-pledges-to-be-carbon-water-neutral-by-2025/article34862922.ece
20 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Villagers seek DPR of reservoir||The villagers of Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal have urged the officials to provide complete details of the proposed increase in the extent of Gouravelli Reservoir and address the problems of the villagers. Grama Sabha for acquiring 272 acres from farmers for the construction of Gouravelli Reservoir was held at the village on Friday, which was attended by Husnabad Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) Jayachandra Reddy, who explained the details of the project. The village will be submerged in the reservoir. “We are the residents of Gudatipally village. Gouravelli Reservoir was initially proposed with 1.4 tmcft but the capacity was increased without any rationale. Land acquisition can not be taken up without proper detailed project report (DPR) and if it has already been prepared, please provide copies of it. Administrative sanction for Gouravelli Reservoir was accorded in 2007. Forest permission were taken in 2003, followed by permissions from Tribal Welfare department in 2004 and planning board permissions in 2005. According to the original plan only 1814.33 acres was required for the proposed project. No permissions have been accorded so far for the increased capacity, hence acquiring land for the revised project will not stand good before the court of law,” said the oustees in the memorandum submitted to the RDO in the Grama Sabha. Further, the villagers noted, as per Section 4 of LA Act – 2013, the officials have to conduct social impact assessment and ascertain whether the same lands are required for the reservoir. “No Grama Sabha was held in our village. Similarly no expert committee was constituted. Primary notification was issued even without correcting market price of land rates. Provide us complete details and give us 60 days time to nderstand,” said the villagers in their memorandum to the RDO. The RDO said all information will be available with the MRO and RDO office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/villagers-seek-dpr-of-reservoir/article34862947.ece
20 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||CM visit to Siddipet today||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that Telangana became role model for the nation in administrative reforms and bringing administration closer to the public. He said that the development that could not take place in the last seven decades made it possible in seven years. Speaking to media persons after inspecting the arrangements for the inauguration of newly constructed Collectorate and Commissionerate on Saturday, Mr. Harish Rao said that integrated Collectorates were being constructed in all district headquarters to make it convenient to the public to meet officials at one place. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao would inaugurate the new buildings on Sunday and then proceed to Nizamabad. He will also inaugurate MLA Camp Office constructed at Housing Board Colony. The Chief Minister would arrive here at 11 a.m. by helicopter and spend till 2 p.m. “New mandals, revenue divisional headquarters and districts were established to bring administration closer to the public. These government offices will stand testimony to development. Mr Chandrasekhar Rao had realised the dreams of people. Division of erstwhile Medak district into three districts took administration nearer to the public,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-visit-to-siddipet-today/article34862948.ece
20 June 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Youth from Kodad dies in the US||A 28-year-old man from Kodad, Ravi Kumar Shiripurapu, died in Connecticut of the United States on Friday, a little after he was admitted for emergency care following a drowning accident, family members here confirmed. According to the bereaved family, who reside at Azad Nagar in Kodad in the district, they were informed of the news by his friends. The accident occurred at around 2.30 p.m. local time on Friday, when Mr. Ravi Kumar went for boating. Family members said Ravi Kumar had gone to U.S. to pursue his master’s degree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-from-kodad-dies-in-the-us/article34862937.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Draft MPD-2041 promotes cycling, walkability network||A cycling and walkability network will be a mandatory requirement under the land pooling policy, according to the draft Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) - 2041. Development of public plazas have also been laid out under the policy. The draft MPD-2041 which was placed in the public domain recently, states, “The sector road network shall incorporate the road hierarchy and street design regulations of the plan. Cycling and walkability network shall be a mandatory requirement. All major roads [24 metres and above] shall be provided with underground utility ducts for accommodating trunk services.” Public plazas “Existing revenue roads acting as major movement corridors within a sector shall be improved and or widened and integrated into the sector layout, if feasible,” it read. The layouts are also required to incorporate public plazas of various scales to improve the availability of public spaces, according to the draft plan. “Public plazas of minimum 2,000 square metre shall be planned at all major intersections of arterial-to-arterial roads as part of the sector layout plan. All mass transit stations shall provide 20% of the plot area as a single open access public plaza for spillover of passengers and multimodal integration,” the draft plan stated. Further, the draft MPD-2041 added, “All plots above a size of one hectare shall also provide 10% of the plot area as mid-street or corner public plazas.” The draft document also underscores sustainability features which multiple sectors or schemes can come together to meet the requirements. “Physical infrastructure in the sector shall ensure 100% treatment and maximum reuse of treated waste water and segregation and 100% reuse of green waste. Optimum retention of stormwater for direct reuse and recharge of groundwater as per applicable norms,” the draft plan read. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has not yet issued approvals to any housing project under the policy. Under the land pooling policy, landowners with any size of land in identified areas may register and express their willingness to participate in the process. According to the policy, a minimum of 70% contiguous land of the developable area within the sector is required to be eligible for development in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/draft-mpd-2041-promotes-cycling-walkability-network/article34862907.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Speeding, drunk constable rams cab, kills driver at Barapullah flyover||A 35-year-old cab driver was killed when his car was hit by a speeding vehicle allegedly driven by a drunk Delhi police constable at Barapullah flyover on Friday night. The accused constable has been arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said that the victim has been identified as Prem Pal, a resident of Agra, and the accused has been identified as constable Mohit Bhardwaj (35), a resident of Gautam Budhha Nagar posted in New Delhi district. His father is also a sub-inspector in the force posted in the security unit. The police said that they received a call around 11.30 p.m. regarding an accident at Barapullah flyover. When the police reached the spot, they found two vehicles in accidental condition. It was revealed that the constable’s car was speeding and had hit the cab from behind. The impact was such that the cab was completely crushed and the driver was severely hurt. Locals rushed him to a hospital. Mr. Meena said that Prem Pal was declared brought dead at the hospital and the constable was taken for medical examination. The accused was drunk at the time of the incident, a senior police officer said. The police said that a case on charges of rash and negligent driving and causing death by negligence has been registered and further investigation is under way. Bhardwaj was on his way home after completing his duty and had two pegs of whiskey in his car before leaving, the police said. He has been working in the force since 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/speeding-drunk-constable-rams-cab-kills-driver-at-barapullah-flyover/article34862903.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||40-year-old held for posing as Army officer||A 40-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly posing as an Army officer to impress women on social media, the police said on Saturday. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused has been identified as Dilip Kumar, resident of Sainik Enclave in Mohan Garden, who works as a security guard at a school. The police said that on Friday around 3 p.m., following a tip-off, the accused was arrested near GK-I. He had come there to meet a date. “He was in an Army uniform. A fake ID card and a mobile phone were seized from him,” Mr. Thakur said. The accused told the police that he posed as Captain Shekhar to impress women on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/40-year-old-held-for-posing-as-army-officer/article34862904.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||Water supply to be affected in parts of city||The water supply of several parts of north and south Delhi, including Civil Lines, Karol Bagh, Sangam Vihar and Moolchand, will be affected on Sunday due to high amounts of ammonia in water from the Yamuna, the Delhi Jal Board said on Saturday. “Due to increase in ammonia pollution and high algae in Yamuna river, water production has been curtailed from water treatment plants at Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla and water supply shall be affectedon June 20,” the DJB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/water-supply-to-be-affected-in-parts-of-city/article34862905.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||In line for the metro||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-line-for-the-metro/article34862917.ece
20 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||Ghaziabad assault case: SP worker arrested||A Samajwadi Party worker was arrested on Saturday for allegedly instigating an elderly Muslim man to claim in a video that he was beaten up by four youths who also chopped his beard and asked him to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ in Loni area of Ghaziabad. Ummaid Pehelwan Idrisi, absconding since Wednesday when an FIR was lodged against him at the Loni Border police station, was nabbed from Delhi on Saturday, a Ghaziabad police official said. “The accused, identified as Ummaid Pehelwan, was held near the LNJP hospital in Delhi by a team of Ghaziabad police. He is being brought here for further proceedings in the case,” Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak said. The FIR, filed against Idrisi on the complaint of a local policeman, alleged that he had ‘unnecessarily’ made the video — in which Abdul Shamad Saifi narrates his ordeal. It was made with an intention to ‘create social disharmony’ and shared through his Facebook account, the FIR said. He was booked under IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, class etc), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (public mischief). A separate FIR was lodged against him on Thursday evening in Bulandshahr district that charged him and around 100 others with violation of the COVID-19 norms by holding a public gathering on June 16, the officials said. Bulandshahr resident Saifi, who had made communal allegations in his video on June 14, had earlier on June 7 alleged in a complaint to the Ghaziabad police that he was assaulted by four youths on June 5 after being abducted by them and confined in a room in a secluded field in Ghaziabad’s Loni area. On being asked about Saifi’s allegations, Mr. Pathak had said earlier that the elderly Muslim man had made no communal allegations in his original complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ghaziabad-assault-case-sp-worker-arrested/article34862918.ece
20 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra sees 8,912 fresh cases, 257 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 8,912 new COVID-19 cases and 257 fatalities, taking its tally to 59,63,420 and the toll to 1,17,356, the State Health Department said. Of the 257 deaths, 193 had occurred in the last 48 hours, and 64 in the last week. Another 425 fatalities were added to the cumulative toll as part of the ongoing data reconciliation exercise, which increased the overall count by 682. With 10,373 patients being discharged, the tally of recoveries reached 57,10,356, leaving the State with 1,32,597 active cases. The case recovery rate stands at 95.76%, while the fatality rate is 1.97%. With 2,34,379 new tests, the number of samples tested so far has gone up to 3,93,12,920. Mumbai city added 676 cases and 13 fatalities, taking its case tally to 7,19,266 and death toll to 15,279. Mumbai division reported 1,708 fresh cases and 81 deaths, taking the tally to 15,73,223 and the toll to 31,216. Palghar district reported 32 deaths. Nashik division reported 878 new cases and 25 deaths of which 16 were from rural parts of Ahmednagar. Pune division reported 2,523 cases and 66 deaths, of which 23 were from Satara alone. Kolhapur division’s total case tally increased by 2,705 and its death toll by 59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-sees-8912-fresh-cases-257-deaths/article34862649.ece
20 June 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. will be No. 1 party in Maharashtra: Patole||The Maharashtra Congress on Saturday decided to observe June 19 as ‘Resolve Day’ to mark the birthday of former party president and Lok Sabha MP Rahul Gandhi. State Congress chief Nana Patole said he would ensure that it would emerge as the No. 1 party in the State in the next Assembly election. He said, “When I became State Congress president and met Sonia Gandhi ji , she told me that Maharashtra has always been Congress’s turf and it should remain so. I promised her that I would bring back those days and started working with that aim from Day 1. We resolve to make Congress the No. 1 party in the State.” Mr. Patole was speaking at the inauguration of the refurbished Tilak Bhavan, the State party headquarters, in the presence of senior party leaders. Former Congress leader and BJP MLA Dr. Sunil Deshmukh rejoined the party on the occasion. The move is likely to boost the party’s electoral prospects, especially in Vidarbha. Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap gave the call to fight the polls independently. “Please allow us to fight the upcoming elections independently. It is our turn to show the strength of the party,” he said. Several speakers, including three former chief ministers, pledged to strengthen the party and take it to the top. As part of the initiatives to mark Mr. Gandhi’s birthday, the party pledged to provide food, check-ups, and medicines to 1,000 malnourished children in Mumbai’s slums. Last week, Mr. Patole said he was willing to be the face of the party in the polls with the high command’s consent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-will-be-no-1-party-in-maharashtra-patole/article34862645.ece
20 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Dairy dept. to give land for NDRF base camp in Mahad||Raigad Guardian Minister Aditi Tatkare has said the Maharashtra Dairy Department has given its in-principle nod to provide five acres of land to set up a base camp of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) at Mahad. “Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Sunil Kedar confirmed the move in a meeting at Mantralaya,” she said. With the Konkan region being prone to cyclones, especially Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, the need was felt for a centrally located NDRF camp. “The State has submitted a proposal to the Centre for further approval,” she said. District Collector Nidhi Choudhari said Raigad’s geographical location exposed it to natural calamities. “The district has a large industrial network, the Mumbai-Pune National Highway and Expressway, Mumbai-Goa National Highway, waterways and railway lines. The ‘Golden Hours’ are very important for rescue operations in emergencies. If the NDRF team is permanently stationed at Mahad, rescue work can be speeded up and loss of life can be avoided. Usually, we wait for the team to arrive from Pune,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dairy-dept-to-give-land-for-ndrf-base-camp-in-mahad/article34862646.ece
20 June 2021||Dubai,||Judiciary chief Raisi wins Iran presidency||Iran’s hard-line judiciary chief won a landslide victory on Saturday in the country’s presidential election, a vote that both propelled the supreme leader’s protege into Tehran’s highest civilian position and saw the lowest turnout in the Islamic Republic’s history. The election of Ebrahim Raisi, already sanctioned by the U.S. in part over his involvement in the mass execution of thousands of political prisoners in 1988, became more of a coronation after his strongest competition found themselves disqualified from running. That sparked calls for a boycott and many apparently did stay home — out of over 59 million eligible voters, only 28.9 million voted. Of those voting, some 3.7 million people either accidentally or intentionally voided their ballots, far beyond the amount seen in previous elections and suggesting some wanted none of the four candidates. Iranian state television immediately blamed challenges of the coronavirus pandemic and U.S. sanctions for the low participation. But the low turnout and voided ballots suggested a wider unhappiness with the tightly controlled election, as activists criticized Raisi’s ascension. Amnesty’s call “That Ebrahim Raisi has risen to the presidency instead of being investigated for the crimes against humanity of murder, enforced disappearance and torture is a grim reminder that impunity reigns supreme in Iran,” Amnesty International’s Secretary-General Agnes Callamard said. In official results, Mr. Raisi won 17.9 million votes overall, nearly 62% of the total 28.9 million cast. Had the voided ballots gone to a candidate, that person would have come in second place. Following Mr. Raisi was former hard-line Revolutionary Guard commander Mohsen Rezaei with 3.4 million votes. Former Central Bank chief Abdolnasser Hemmati, came in third with 2.4 million votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/judiciary-chief-raisi-wins-iran-presidency/article34862370.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A loyal ally of the clerical establishment||With the victory of Ebrahim Raisi, the conservative chief of Iran’s judiciary, in Friday’s presidential election, the country’s clerical establishment has tightened its grip on the Islamic Republic. Mr. Raisi, who won 62% of the vote, would replace the moderate President Hassan Rouhani, whose tenure was marked by international diplomacy, pressure, regional tensions and growing protests and crackdown at home. The 60-year-old Mr. Raisi, who traces his lineage back to the Prophet Mohammed (which allows him to wear a black turban), is a senior figure in Iran’s establishment. He contested the 2017 Presidential election, but lost to Mr. Rouhani. But the defeat did not deter Mr. Raisi’s rise as one of the most important clerics in the country’s tightly held politico-religious system. In 2019, Mr. Raisi was appointed the Chief Justice. In the same year, he was named deputy chief of the 88-member Assembly of Experts, the clerical body that will pick the next Supreme Leader when Ayatollah Ali Khamenei departs. In the presidential election, there were complaints that the establishment was favouring Mr. Raisi. Mr. Rouhani, a popular figure among reformists and moderates, is constitutionally barred from seeking a third consecutive term. Prominent moderate candidates, former Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani and outgoing Vice-President Eshaq Jahangiri, were excluded from running by the Guardian Council. The 12-member Council, which vets potential candidates, allowed only seven contestants to run. Mr. Raisi was the only prominent candidate on the list. Closer to the election, two more candidates dropped out, boosting Mr. Raisi’s chances. There were no surprises when the results were announced. Born in 1960 in a village near the holy city of Mashhad, Mr. Raisi, as a teenager, studied in a Qom seminary. When Iran erupted against the rule of the Shah in the late 1970s, Mr. Raisi, like many other seminary students, liberals and leftwing activists, joined the protests. After the Pahlavi dynasty was overthrown and Iran became an Islamic Republic, Mr. Raisi began his judicial career as a prosecutor in the city of Karaj. He moved to the capital in 1985 after he was appointed a deputy prosecutor of Tehran. It was this time Mr. Raisi got the attention of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the founder of the Islamic Republic. ‘Death Commission’ After the Iran-Iraq war of 1980-88, Khomeini issued secret decrees condemning thousands of political prisoners (mostly members of the People's Mujahedin of Iran, a dissident group backed by Saddam Hussein that carried out attacks after Iran accepted a ceasefire, and supporters of leftist factions such as the Fedaian and the Tudeh Party) to death. Then a four-man commission, which is widely known as the “death commission”, was set up to carry out the executions. Mr. Raisi was reported to be a member of the commission. A 2019 U.S. Treasury Department release, which imposed sanctions on top Iranian officials, including Mr. Raisi, “for advancing domestic and foreign oppression”, states that “as deputy prosecutor general of Tehran, Mr. Raisi participated in a so-called ‘death commission’ that ordered the extrajudicial executions of thousands of political prisoners in 1988.” Iran has never acknowledged the killings. Mr. Raisi has never talked about it publicly. Always a loyal ally of the establishment, Mr. Raisi has held several important positions in Iran’s judicial system. From 2004 to 2014, he was the First Deputy Chief Justice. In 2014, he was named the Attorney-General of Iran, a position which he held until 2016. Then Mr. Khamenei appointed him to run the Astan-e Quds-e Razavi (Imam Reza charity foundation), which manages a wide network of businesses and endowments. When he was appointed to the foundation, Mr. Khamenei called Mr. Raisi a “trustworthy person with high-profile experience”, a rare praise from the Supreme Leader that fuelled speculations that the Ayatollah could be grooming him as a potential successor. Challenges ahead After his election victory, Mr. Raisi could now claim some popular legitimacy. Mr. Khamenei himself was a two-term President before he was chosen as the Islamic Republic’s second Supreme Leader in 1989. But as President, big challenges are awaiting Mr. Raisi. Iran’s economy is practically in shambles. Negotiations to restore the nuclear deal, which Mr. Raisi has supported, are under way. More importantly, the country has seen repeated mass protests in recent years, which the regime has put down using force. Mr. Raisi ran a campaign promising that he would tackle “poverty and corruption, humiliation and discrimination”. Now it’s time for him to deliver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-loyal-ally-of-the-clerical-establishment/article34862366.ece
20 June 2021||Nzérékoré,||Ebola outbreak in Guinea is over: WHO||The World Health Organization on Saturday officially announced the end of Guinea’s second Ebola outbreak which was declared in February and claimed 12 lives. At 16 confirmed cases and seven probable infections, according to WHO figures, the limited size of the latest flare-up has been credited to experience from the 2013-16 epidemic, which killed more than 11,300 people mostly in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Just 12 people died this time around. “I have the honour of declaring the end of Ebola” in Guinea, WHO official Alfred Ki-Zerbo said at a ceremony in the southeastern Nzerekore region, where the disease surfaced at the end of January. International rules meant that Guinea had to wait 42 days — twice the virus’ incubation period — without a new case before declaring the epidemic over. That wait was over on Friday, weeks after the last person was declared cured on May 8, a senior Health Ministry official said. Health Minister Remy Lamah also declared the outbreak finished “in the name of the head of state” President Alpha Conde.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ebola-outbreak-in-guinea-is-over-who/article34862373.ece
20 June 2021||Kabul,||Afghan President replaces top Ministers as Taliban advance||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani replaced two top Ministers charged with managing the country’s faltering security on Saturday, as the Taliban pressed on with their campaign to capture new territory in fierce battles with government forces. The shake-up of the Defence and Interior Ministry portfolios comes as violence surges and peace talks remain deadlocked, with the Taliban claiming to have seized more than 40 districts in recent weeks across the rugged countryside. The presidency announced in a statement that General Bismillah Khan Mohammadi, who fought under the late anti-Taliban commander Ahmad Shah Massoud during a 1990s civil war, has been appointed the new Defence Minister. Gen. Mohammadi has previously held the Defence and Interior Ministry portfolios and also served as the chief of army staff after the fall of the Taliban regime following a U.S.-led invasion in 2001. Mr. Ghani also appointed General Abdul Sattar Mirzakwal as Interior Minister, the presidency said. Mr. Mirzakwal has previously held several regional posts. Gen. Mohammadi replaces Asadullah Khalid, who has repeatedly flown out of the country for treatment to wounds suffered after a suicide bomber attacked him in 2012. The latest Cabinet changes, which have to be approved by Parliament, come with violence increasing since early May after the U.S. military began the formal withdrawal of its last remaining troops. U.S. President Joe Biden has set September 11 — the 20th anniversary of the attacks in the U.S. that led to the invasion of Afghanistan — as the deadline to withdraw American soldiers. The insurgents claim to have seized more than 40 districts since early May, forcing military leaders to strategically retreat from a number of rural districts. The Taliban are now present in almost every province and are encircling several major cities — a strategy the militants employed in the mid-1990s when they overran most of Afghanistan until they were ousted by invading U.S.-led forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-president-replaces-top-ministers-as-taliban-advance/article34862368.ece
20 June 2021||Beirut,||Lebanon leaders may face sanctions, says EU||EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell warned on Saturday that Lebanese leaders could face sanctions unless they pull the country away from financial collapse and strike a deal with the IMF. Lebanon is facing what the World Bank has described as one of the world’s worst economic crises since the 1850s. A political crisis has left the country without a functioning government since the last one resigned after a massive explosion killed dozens and destroyed swathes of Beirut in 2020. Speaking in Beirut after talks with Lebanese President Michel Aoun, Mr. Borrell said he had “a message of firmness to all Lebanese political leaders on behalf of the EU”. “The crisis Lebanon is facing is a domestic crisis, is a self-imposed crisis, not a crisis coming from abroad or from external factors,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lebanon-leaders-may-face-sanctions-says-eu/article34862371.ece
20 June 2021||Ramallah,||Palestine nixes vaccine deal with Israel||The Palestinian Authority said on Friday it cancelled a swap deal that would have seen Israel provide it with one million COVID-19 jabs, as the doses were “about to expire”. Israeli officials had announced the deal, saying the Jewish state was to provide the doses to the Palestinian Authority. The PA had confirmed the delivery “in the coming days” of a million vaccine doses, without mentioning an agreement with the Jewish state. PA spokesman Ibrahim Melhem said on Friday that an initial delivery of some 90,000 Pfizer doses failed to conform “to the specifications contained in the agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/palestine-nixes-vaccine-deal-with-israel/article34862372.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Infosys set for another year of market-leading performance’||Infosys is well-positioned for another year of market-leading performance in a post-pandemic, cloud-first, distinctly digital era, said chairman Nandan Nilekani. Unprecedented technology transformation driven by cloud and the digitalisation of business models was shaping the next normal for all, he told shareholders at the company’s 40th AGM. ‘Critical capability’ “Whether it’s the uptick in online demand, mastery over digital demand fulfilment or tackling the threat of cyberattacks, technology has become an urgent and critical business capability,” Mr. Nilekani said. “Adjusting to this new reality can be daunting,’’ he added. Firms could no longer afford the long wait for business returns or settle for the sometimes underwhelming outcomes of large transformation projects, he said. The company’s digital business grew to 48.5% of total revenue, while its large transformation deals rose to an all-time high of $14.1 billion, with 66% being net new in the last fiscal, he said. Mr. Nilekani said Infosys continued to strengthen its talent pool in the last financial year by recruiting 19,230 graduates in India and 1,941 – both graduates and associate degree holders — outside the country to serve clients’ burgeoning demand for digital acceleration. “We expanded our U.S. hiring commitment to 25,000 by 2022 with an additional 12,000 new American jobs across a variety of roles. We will also double our Canadian workforce to 4,000 by 2023,” he said. “In the U.K., we announced plans to create 1,000 digital jobs to fuel post-pandemic growth.’’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-set-for-another-year-of-market-leading-performance/article34862480.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||AWS eyes financial services, media clients for expansion||Witnessing an inflection point in customer spending on cloud technology, Amazon Web Services (AWS) is eyeing expansion in the ‘critical’ India market by leveraging ‘huge opportunities’ in sectors such as financial services, media and entertainment, and telecom, a senior company official said. “This is the perfect storm for digitalisation in India, and we are seeing a huge inflection point towards customers investing in cloud technology,” said Ashish Dhawan, MD, enterprise, mid-market and global business, South Asia, AWS. “AWS is growing its footprint in India, and we are committed to investing in India and putting the power of AWS Cloud directly in the hands of our customers, our partners, and developers.” Mr. Dhawan added that India was a very critical market for AWS and the company’s announcement of its second region (Hyderabad) here is testament to the fact it is seeing more customer demand here and is investing to cater to that demand. “The growth in India, is not just in the enterprise segment which I manage, but also in segments like Digitally Native Businesses and Independent Software Vendors, because India is home to a number of B2B software-as-a-service firms,” he said. He said last year was ‘great’ for customers migrating critical workloads such as SAP to AWS. It also saw new investments in analytics and machine-learning. To a query, Mr. Dhawan said India presented a large opportunity for AWS to aid financial services customers transform their banking and insurance platforms. “The media and entertainment industry is also an opportunity for us,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aws-eyes-financial-services-media-clients-for-expansion/article34862482.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Flipkart eyes 200-300 mn customers through grocery||Flipkart aims to expand its grocery business and add another 200-300 million customers through doorstep delivery of household essentials, the Walmart Inc.-owned Indian e-tailer said. “Flipkart has seen a 3X [threefold] increase in grocery orders in the last six months,” the company said in an e-mailed response to questions. “We have also witnessed increased demand for groceries from tier 2 cities,” it added. With smartphones currently accounting for about 40% of Flipkart’s GMV (gross merchandise value), fashion contributing about 30%, and the rest spread over categories including appliances, books and furniture, grocery has so far accounted for a relatively small share in the firm’s overall GMV. Slice of the pie With the Indian online grocery market estimated to reach $18.2 billion in 2024, from $1.9 billion in 2019, according to the India Brand Equity Foundation, Flipkart is targeting to enlarge its share of a business segment that counts Big Basket, Amazon’s Pantry and Fresh and Reliance Industries’ Jio Mart as the major players. Flipkart, which entered the e-grocery space in early 2020, introduced Flipkart Quick, a 90-minute grocery service, in April this year. The company, which invested in fresh produce supply chain firm, Ninjacart and other local vendors to build a supportive ecosystem, has also roped in logistics firm Shadowfax to build last-mile support for Flipkart Quick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/flipkart-eyes-200-300-mn-customers-through-grocery/article34862478.ece
20 June 2021||Chennai,||‘Ekki to start making partner Homa’s pumps in six months’||Water technologies provider Ekki Group said it plans to commence assembly of German joint venture partner Homa’s products, including pumps, at its Coimbatore facility in the next six months. Ekki, which had been selling imported Homa products since the JV was set up in 2018, has started an assembly-test-and-paint unit. “We have tested the products at more than 100 locations in the last year and have had overwhelming results,” said Kanishka Arumugam, co-CEO Ekki Homa Pvt. Ltd. “We hope to start assembling Homa products in the facility in the next six months,” he added. Ekki Homa will produce a range of waste-water technologies, including pumps, targeted at India and the neighbouring markets, Hans Hoffmann, CEO, Homa Pumps, said in a statement. Asked if specific segments helped Ekki tide over the pandemic-induced slowdown, Mr. Arumugam said, “Agriculture, from which segment we derive 70% of revenue, helped generate demand during the first wave. This time, that has not been the case. “Further, we have had to raise our market prices by about 20% in the recent past due to input cost pressures, despite having absorbed some of these costs. The market may not be able to take any more price increases,” he added. “We are hopeful that the situation will improve going forward,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ekki-to-start-making-partner-homas-pumps-in-six-months/article34862485.ece
20 June 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Digital surge not to unduly raise emissions’||Information technology-related electricity demand is expected to increase by almost 50% by 2030. Yet, as the electricity system decarbonises, emissions will not rise by more than 26% by then, said Schneider Electric, an energy management and automation firm. “When the world locked down, it also logged on and Internet traffic soared,” said Pankaj Sharma, EVP, Secure Power, Schneider Electric. “It’s misleading to assume that digital activity will inevitably result in a deeply-problematic increase in CO2 emissions.’ Analysis from the Schneider Electric Sustainability Institute puts to rest many of the worst-case scenarios predicting IT-related power use will double every 5 years, as per the report titled Digital Economy and Climate Impact, released by Schneider. “That said, as an industry, we must remain vigilant in finding new sources of sustainability gains while ensuring resiliency as digital keeps life moving forward,” it cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/digital-surge-not-to-unduly-raise-emissions/article34862476.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||UCO Bank may raise up to Rs. 500 crore||State-owned UCO Bank on Saturday said its board of directors will meet next week to consider raising up to Rs. 500 crore as tier-II capital. The board of directors will consider the proposal for raising tier-II capital of up to Rs. 500 crore at its meeting scheduled to be held on June 23, the public sector lender said in a regulatory filing. Tier-II capital of a bank consists of undisclosed reserves, revaluation reserves, general provisions and loss reserves, hybrid capital instruments, subordinated debt and investment reserve account. The loss absorption capacity of tier-II capital is lower than that of tier-I capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uco-bank-may-raise-up-to-rs-500-crore/article34862483.ece
20 June 2021||La Jolla (USA),||Bland, Henley share the lead||England’s Richard Bland and American Russell Henleyshared the lead after Friday’s second round of the US Open with South African Louis Oosthuizen and Matthew Wolff one stroke adrift. Henley lipped out a two-foot par putt on his final hole to fire a one-under 70 and settle for a share of the lead on five-under 137. Age no bar After shooting a 67 on Friday, 48-year-old Blanda has the possibility to become the oldest winner in US Open history, breaking the mark of 45 set by American Hale Irwin in 1990. Oosthuizen fired 71 to share third on 138 with 22-year-old American Matthew Wolff, last year’s runner-up, who is coming off a two-month mental health hiatus.  Two-time Masters champion Bubba Watson and third-ranked Jon Rahm of Spain shared fifth on 139. McIlroy struggles Meanwhile, defending champion Bryson DeChambeau shot 69 to share 13th on 142 and four-time Major winner Rory McIlroy struggled to a 73 to share 21st on 143.  Leading scores: 137: Richard Bland (Eng) 70, 67, Russell Henley (USA) 67-70; 138: Louis Oosthuizen (RSA) 67, 71, Matthew Wolff (USA) 70, 68; 139: Bubba Watson (USA) 72, 67, Jon Rahm (Esp) 69, 70; 140: Kevin Streelman (USA) 71, 69, Mackenzie Hughes (Can) 73, 67, Xander Schauffele (USA) 69, 71.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bland-henley-share-the-lead/article34862495.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nation bids farewell to ‘Flying Sikh’||At five in the evening on Saturday, Indian track and field bid a final adieu to its first post-independence superstar. Padma Shri Milkha Singh succumbed to COVID — after battling it for a month and five days after losing his wife Nirmal Kaur — in Chandigarh on Friday. Befitting his stature, he was accorded a State funeral on Saturday with the Punjab government announcing a day of mourning in his honour. They had been married for 59 years and the family, led by golfer Jeev Milkha Singh, made sure they weren’t separated in death, cremating the ‘Flying Sikh’ at the same place and with a photo of his wife in his hands on the final journey. Besides Jeev, Milkha is survived by three daughters — Mona Singh, Aleeza Grover and Sonia Sanwalka. The 91-year-old Milkha had initially been hospitalised on May 24 after testing positive for COVID-19 on May 20. He was discharged after stabilising on May 30 before being re-admitted to PGIMER on June 3 with dipping Oxygen levels. The 1958 Commonwealth Games champion and 1960 Rome Olympian was moved out of the COVID ICU after testing negative on Thursday but his condition worsened early on Friday before finally breathing his last at 11.30 p.m. Born in Gobindpura in present day Pakistan, Milkha remained the lone Indian athletics winner at the CWG for more than 50 years after Cardiff before discus thrower Krishna Poonia emulated the feat in the 2010 edition. While his four Asian Games golds — 200m and 400m in 1958 and 400m and 4x400m relay in 1962 — put him firmly in the pantheon of legends, ironically his biggest and most memorable moment was also the most tragic when he finished fourth at the 1960 Rome Olympics in a photo-finish with a then National record of 45.6 seconds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nation-bids-farewell-to-flying-sikh/article34862347.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||For God and country, a race well run!||Milkha Singh, the name synonymous with running to survive and succeed, has moved to a better world. “Life has given me more than what I deserved.” Milkha often repeated this line. “I can't help saying this each time I am asked to reflect on my life”. Having lived through the horrors of partition to become the best-remembered Indian athlete for generations. “God wanted me to play a part in bringing glory to India and bestowed me and my family with all the goodness. My country and countryman gave me more than what I could ever expect,” Milkha used to say. Military discipline A die-heart devotee of discipline and fitness, Milkha attributed this to the role played by the Indian Army: "The Army gave me a second life. For three or four years, after partition, I roamed around doing odd jobs. Always wanted to join the Army but I succeeded on my fourth attempt. “sIt was in the army that I got a chance to run in the cross-country run. Army saw some talent in me and encouraged me. “For Southern Command and later for Services, I won a number of races in 200 and 400 metres.” Milkha held the 1958 Commonwealth Games 440-yard gold medal (in Cardiff) very close to his heart. “This was really a very special moment. The other moment was when I was honoured with the Helms Trophy for the best athlete. That felt incredible.” His best days came between 1958 and 1962 but the heartbreak of missing a medal in the 1960 Rome Olympics left behind a lingering pain. “I cried for many days after that loss. But Nehru Ji (then Prime Minister Jawahar Lal Nehru) was very kind and told me that the nation was proud of me and I should not despair having given my best,” he once shared. “Running on those cinder tracks (later replaced by the synthetic tracks from the 1968 Olympics) took a lot out of the athletes. “We had to train harder and did not know how much training was enough. “Wish we had these kind of even tracks and today’s guidance, in our days,” he said.  In his later years, Milkha was a regular in walking the course when his golfer son Jeev played the Indian Open, the country’s flagship golf event. In fact, golf became his second love after running. Similarity “There is a similarity between golf and running,” he would say and continue, “in both, your rivals don’t stop you from doing what you are capable of doing. In other words, in both these disciplines, you ‘run’ your race.” Milkha surely ran his race well.   Career highlights  1958: 440 yards, gold, British Empire and Commonwealth Games, Cardiff (was the only men’s athletics gold till discus thrower Vikas Gowda won the yellow metal at the 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games) 1958: 200m and 400m gold, Asian Games, Tokyo 1960: 400m, fourth, Rome Olympics (his timing of 45.6s was an Indian National record that stood for 38 years until Paramjit Singh broke it in 1998) 1962: 400m gold, 4x400m relay gold, Asian Games, Jakarta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/for-god-and-country-a-race-well-run/article34862343.ece
20 June 2021||Munich,||Intense Germany too hot for Portugal||Germany finally got its Euro 2020 campaign on track with a commanding Group F performance against Portugal here on Saturday. The holder succumbed to some intense pressure from the Germans to concede two own goals — defenders Ruben Dias and Raphael Guerreiro turning the ball into their own net within the space of five first-half minutes — and the advantage after taking an early lead. Kai Havertz and then Robin Gosens added two more quick goals in the second half for an eventual 4-2 win. Shock lead Earlier in Budapest, Hungary took a shock lead against France in a pulsating match, but Antoine Griezmann equalised for a 1-1 draw inside the packed Puskas Arena. In Friday’s late Group D match, a lacklustre England was held goalless by a determined Scotland.  The results: Group F: Hungary 1 (Fiola 45+2) drew with France 1 (Griezmann 66); Portugal 2 (Ronaldo 15, Jota 67) lost to Germany 4 (Dias 35-og, Guerreiro 39-og, Havertz 51, Gosens 60).   Group D: England 0 drew with Scotland 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/intense-germany-too-hot-for-portugal/article34862354.ece
20 June 2021||Bristol,||Sneh, Taniya help India to a draw||The one-off women’s Test between India and England ended in a draw on the fourth and final day here on Saturday, with the visitors defying the home attack to score 344 for eight in the second innings. India was forced to follow-on on Friday after conceding a 165-run first innings lead. But it recovered from a middle-order collapse to defy the home bowlers on a sluggish pitch. No. 8 Sneha Rana top-scored with an unbeaten 80 off 154 balls. She and No. 10 Taniya Bhatia (44 not out) shared 104 for the unbroken ninth wicket as they frustrated the England bowlers for 30.4 overs. Shafali Verma made 63 in the second innings to add to her 96 in the first essay. Another debutant Deepti Sharma came good with a 54 to add to her 29 in the first innings. India took an overall lead of 179 with two wickets in hand when the two sides decided to end the match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sneh-taniya-help-india-to-a-draw/article34862340.ece
20 June 2021||Southampton,||Kohli and Rahane stage a fightback||Virat Kohli’s watchful innings (44 batting) in challenging conditions and an equally gritty knock from Rahane (29 batting) helped India reach 146 for three when play was called off due to bad light in the third session on day two of the World Test Championship (WTC) final here on Saturday. Earlier, New Zealand had won the toss and elected to field. Rohit Sharma (34 off 68) and Shubman Gill (28 off 64) staved off the initial swing threat with disciplined batting before New Zealand fought back to leave India at 69 for two at lunch. India added 51 runs in the second session for the loss of Cheteshwar Pujara (8 off 54) and when early tea was taken due to bad light, India had progressed to 120 for three. India decided to stick to the same eleven it announced two days ago while New Zealand went in with an all-pace attack for the summit clash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-and-rahane-stage-a-fightback/article34862349.ece
20 June 2021||Sao Paulo,||Argentina edges Uruguay||Argentina beat Uruguay 1-0 on Friday in its second match at Copa America, making Lionel Messi’s team co-leader of Group A with Chile with four points each. Midfielder Guido Rodriguez scored the only goal in Brasilia with a header in the 13th minute after Messi crossed from the left. The ball hit goalkeeper Fernando Muslera’s right post before going in. Earlier Chile beat Bolivia 1-0 on a goal by English-Chilean striker Ben Brereton. Controlling the game Argentina controlled nearly all of the game against an Uruguayan team that included the powerful offensive duo of Luis Suárez and Edinson Cavani. Argentina midfielder Rodrigo de Paul said his team deserved to finally win — it had not won since November 2020. The result also provided some relief for Argentina coach Lionel Scaloni, who was criticized after his team’s opening 1-1 draw against Chile on Monday.  The results: Group A: Chile 1 (Brereton 10) bt Bolivia 0; Argentina 1 (Rodriguez 13) bt Uruguay 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentina-edges-uruguay/article34862497.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||Japan imposes stricter rules on Indians||The Indian athletes and officials travelling for the Tokyo Olympics have been asked by the Japanese Government to undergo daily COVID-19 tests for a week prior to their departure and not interact with anyone from another country for three days on arrival, strictures that have left the IOA fuming. “The unfair and discriminatory” rules have drawn sharp criticism from the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), which has written to the Games Organising Committeerequesting it to ensure that mechanisms to prevent COVID-19 do not have any “adverse and detrimental impact” on performance of athletes. India has been clubbed in Group 1 alongside Afghanistan, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. IOA president Narinder Batra and secretary-general Rajeev Mehta, in a joint statement, questioned the new regulations. “Athletes are allowed to arrive in the Games Village only 5 days before their event. Now 3 days will be wasted, this is the time the Athletes need to be moving towards their mode to Peak. Highly unfair for Indian Athletes,” the joint statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/japan-imposes-stricter-rules-on-indians/article34862490.ece
20 June 2021||Kochi,||‘Milkha would have got Olympic medals if he had been running now’||The starting block once flew off when Milkha Singh took off for a race. He turned and looked at the man, who had fixed it, in anger. But though the others had taken a big lead, Milkha still managed to win the race. P.T. Usha narrated this as one of the many stories her coach O.M. Nambiar had told when she was a 13-year-old at Kerala’s Kannur Sports Division. “There were so many stories about Milkha so I was very keen to meet him,” Usha told The Hindu from Patiala, ahead of Monday’s Indian Grand Prix-4, on Saturday. But when they finally met, language was a bit of a barrier. “We had gone to Korea for the 1982 World junior invitation meet, he as the chef de mission and I as an athlete. I did not understand much because I did not know Hindi well,” said Usha. Full of life But as years went by, Usha found Milkha very warm and witty, full of life and laughter. “If Milkha had been running now, he would be getting us medals at the Olympics and World championships. He was so talented, the time that he set in 1960 stood as a national record for nearly four decades. “For me, my favourite Indian performance is Milkha running that 400m at the 1960 Rome Olympics. Even though many had broken his record, I still consider it as the best Indian performance considering the facilities our current athletes have.”  Milkha had an eventful life, he was ready to face death bravely too. “When I met him three years ago, he said ‘I’m ready to die, ready to say good bye. I have given my medals and spikes to the museum’,” revealed Usha. “I was stunned when I heard that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-would-have-got-olympic-medals-if-he-had-been-running-now/article34862351.ece
20 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Azhar says Tiger’s Cup T20 to be held||Hyderabad Cricket Association president Mohd. Azharuddin has written to all the 216 secretaries of the affiliated Clubs that Tiger’s T20 Cup in memory of Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi would be organised by the end of the month. “The teams shall be divided into groups and each team shall get five matches at the league level. “All the matches shall be played on turf grounds, using white ball and colour clothing,” Azhar said in a communication, a copy of which is available with The Hindu . “The tournament shall have sponsor(s) of which the details will be known in due course. The details for registration shall be informed shortly.”  However, later HCA secretary R. Vijayanand issued a statement saying that Azharuddin, who is suspended by the Apex Council, has no powers to conduct any such tournament. “The issue was never discussed in the AGM and that all the clubs affiliated to HCA and players should understand that there will be no 20 overs cricket now," he said. “Cricket season will start with all COVID-19 precautions and after vaccination in a fortnight and all the details will be informed,” the secretary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/azhar-says-tigers-cup-t20-to-be-held/article34863039.ece
20 June 2021||Belgrade,||Sajan, Srihari fall short||Sajan Prakash and Srihari Nataraj fell short of the A-mark Olympic Qualifying Time for Tokyo 2020, at the Belgrade Trophy swimming championships on Saturday. Sajan won the 200m butterfly in 1:56.96s, a new National record, breaking his own previous mark of 1:57.73s set in 2018. But it was still nearly half a second short of the Tokyo A-mark (1:56.48s). Srihari won the 100m backstroke in 54.45s but it was well below the required 53.85s. The duo will next race in the Sette Colli Trophy in Rome (June 25 to 27), in what appears to be the last chance to qualify for Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sajan-srihari-fall-short/article34862491.ece
20 June 2021||Gros-Islet (St. Lucia),||Elgar, de Kock on song||Dean Elgar's five-hour occupation of the crease in compiling an invaluable 77 and Quinton de Kock’s 96 lifted South Africa from 37 for three to 298 all out at lunch on the second day of the second Test against the West Indies here on Saturday. Elgar's knock spanned 237 deliveries and included eight fours. His watchful style contrasted sharply with that of de Kock, who took just 162 deliveries for his 96 (8x4).  The scores: South Africa 298 in 112.4 overs (Dean Elgar 77, Quinton de Kock 96, Kemar Roach 3/45, Kyle Mayers 3/28) vs WI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/elgar-de-kock-on-song/article34862489.ece
20 June 2021||Nottingham,||Ankita loses in doubles||Ankita Raina and Renata Zarazua of Mexico lost 6-3, 6-2 in the doubles semifinals of the $100,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on grass Nottingham.  Other result: $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (semifinals): Seong Chan Hong & Jisung Nam (Kor) bt Alexander Kotzen (US) & Siddhant Banthia 6-1, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-loses-in-doubles/article34862487.ece
20 June 2021||HALLE,||Rublev in Halle Open final||Andrey Rublev will take on Ugo Humbert in the final of the Halle Open.  The results (semifinals): Halle Open: Andrey Rublev bt Nikoloz Basilashvili 6-1, 3-6, 6-3; Ugo Humbert bt Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-4, 3-6, 7-6(5).   Queen’s Club: Cameron Norrie bt Denis Shapovalov 7-5, 6-3; Matteo Berrettini bt 6-4, 6-4.   German Open: Belinda Bencic bt Alize Cornet 7-5, 6-4; Ludmilla Samsonova bt Victoria Azarenka 6-4, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rublev-in-halle-open-final/article34862492.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 07:41 IST,||Sudoku — June 20, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-20-2021/article34863105.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A Shudra queen and the sacred river||In the 1840s, fishing communities in the Bengal Presidency were facing a crisis of survival. The trading corporation, East India Company, had turned its profiteering gaze towards the placid waters of the Ganga. In the months between February and October, small fishing boats would dot her iridescent surface, netting in bounteous harvests of the silvery hilsa, a prime delicacy in Bengali cuisine. Arguing that the fishing impeded the movement of ferries, a tax was imposed on fishing boats, a clever sleight of hand that reduced river traffic while raking in extra revenue for the Company. Hundreds of anxious fisherfolk travelled to Calcutta to plead their case with their upper-caste Hindu landlords, hoping they would support their cause. Unwilling to sour relations with their patrons in the Company, the Hindu elites were quick to turn their backs on the Shudra fishing community. Disheartened, the fisherfolk, mostly from the Jele Kaibaryta and Malo  communities, trudged to Janbazaar, in central Calcutta, to the house of the wealthy entrepreneur, the late Raj Chandra Das. His widow, Rashmoni Das, also a Shudra, was their last hope. What followed was a remarkable event in India’s colonial history. Rashmoni offered Rs. 10,000 to the East India Company to take an ijara , or lease, of a 10-km-long stretch of the Hooghly River (the famous distributary of the Ganga), on whose banks was nestled the bustling metropolis of Calcutta, the then capital of colonial India. After Rashmoni procured the lease-holding documents, she proceeded to place two massive iron chains across the Ganga — in Metiabruz and Ghusuri — where the river arched like a bow, and she invited the beleaguered fisherfolk to cast their nets in the barricaded zone. Ganga for all As dinghies flocked to the catch zone, all large commercial and passenger traffic on the Hooghly came to a grinding halt. Bewildered at the turn of events, Company officials sent out dispatches seeking an explanation. Rashmoni said that incessant riverine traffic made it difficult for fisherfolk to cast their nets inside her ijara , lowering its profitability. As a leaseholder, she was entitled, under British law, to protect the income from her property. If the Company thought otherwise, she was happy to litigate, and till a judicial verdict was reached, she would not unshackle her stretch of the river. With skiffs, budgerows , and steamships piling up on the riverfront, the Company officials had little recourse but to come to an agreement. The tax on fishing was repealed, allowing the fisherfolk unfettered access to the Ganga. A Bengali Shudra widow had outwitted the most cunning colonial corporation in history, and protected the Ganga as a commons for fishing rights, using Anglo-Saxon capitalism’s potent weapon — private property. Subaltern folklore Almost 120 years later, in 1960, Rashmoni’s first biographer, Gauranga Prasad Ghosh, photographed one remaining iron peg — the size of a baby elephant’s foot —that had been used to fasten the chain across the river. Uncelebrated and forgotten, the peg was a lonely remnant of that historical moment, now used sometimes by tea-sellers to break the charcoal for their chulas . Rashmoni’s resistance, however, had become part of subaltern folklore. Acclaimed Bengali author Samaresh Basu, in his seminal river novel, Ganga (1974), wrote that for the fisherfolk, the river forever remained ‘Rani Rashmonir Jal’ — ‘the waters of Rani Rashmoni’. *** Mychildhood memories of Sunday mornings coalesce around Rani Rashmoni Bazaar in Beliaghata. Set up by Rashmoni in the 1850s, it was my weekend kaleidoscope of sounds, aromas and sights, a half-kilometre walk that ended on the Beliaghata Canal. Once a navigable creek, connected to the Ganga, which ferried cargo and people, the canal now carries away the city’s sewage. It was in the waters of the Beliaghata Canal that the Das family of Jan Bazaaar — Rashmoni’s husband’s family — first made their money, transporting bamboo downstream. Rashmoni’s husband bought most of the land in Beliaghata on both sides of the canal to store export goods ranging from musk to muslin. Using canals — the highways of the 19th century — for commerce, the Das family soon acquired substantial land and property, transforming the family from banik (entrepreneurs) to zamindar (landlords). In the 19th century, Calcutta was witnessing a remaking of the local aristocracy. Unlike in the previous century, when power was wielded by landed gentry from rural areas, the new elites were urban traders who made their fortunes as trading partners to the East India Company. With their newly accumulated wealth, many bought out the estates of landowning aristocrats whose fortunes were declining. This new aristocracy birthed Calcutta’s abhijata bhadralok — high society — the exclusive domain of upper-caste families. In Calcutta: Essays in Urban History (1993), the late historian S.N. Mukherjee narrates how the Brahmin, Kayastha and Baidya castes were unwilling to accommodate Shudras, such as the Das family, into their echelons. Water and power It is believed that it was Rashmoni’s advice that made Raj Chandra Das look towards the Hooghly. The banks of the sacred river, central to the everyday lives of the people of Calcutta, were emerging as a site for upper-caste Hindu philanthropy. The ghats — landing stages for bathing, cremation, and commerce — were located at the intersection of water and power. It was the perfect site to establish the Dases’ influence. The result was the elegant Babu Rajchandra Das Ghat or Babughat, adorned with Doric columns, timber louvres, and an expansive set of steps leading to the river. Soon after, in 1831, the Das family went on to build the Ahiritola Ghat. Of the 42 historical ghats that still adorn the riverfront in Kolkata, these two remain among the oldest and busiest. The untimely death of Raj Chandra Das, six years after the completion of Babughat, left the young widow, Rashmoni, in charge of one of Bengal’s wealthiest family estates. She wielded her power for the next 30 years, guided by her keen business acumen, solidarity with the underprivileged, a penchant for litigation, and a remarkable ability to take patriarchy to task. Rashmoni persuaded Prince Dwarakanath Tagore, the grandfather of Rabindranath Tagore, to part with two of his profitable estates to repay the loans he took from her late husband: a daring feat at the time, given Tagore’s prestige and power. Neither did she hesitate to take on armed conflicts with oppressive landlords and British indigo planters, who were at the receiving end of her lethels, trained private army. She repeatedly took on the East India Company — using their white men’s laws against them — but also did not shy away from profiting from the Company. Gauri Mitra, in her biography of Rashmoni, notes that during the Revolt of 1857 many Indian and European traders started selling off their shares in the East India Company. Rashmoni bought these at dirt cheap prices, accruing immense profits after the revolt. Through her lifetime, Rashmoni continued donating money for the construction of ghats on the Hooghly. Mitra suggests that Rashmoni constructed and renovated nine ghats after the passing of her husband, which added significantly to her popular appeal. For a widow from the Kaibartya caste to wield such power in a male-dominated orthodox Hindu society was unusual. It was thus fated perhaps that her tryst with Brahminical orthodoxy would take place at the site of her last and greatest undertaking — the Dakshineshwar Kali Temple on the banks of the holy river. *** At100 feet, the ornate beige and vermilion temple with nine spires is considered one of the holiest sites for Hindu pilgrimage and prayer. It emerged out of a dream. Rashmoni was on a budgerow  on her way to Benaras on a pilgrimage, when Kali appeared to her in a dream, asking for a temple dedicated to her to be built on the banks of the Hooghly. Rashmoni decided to give material shape to her theophany, and sought to buy land on the auspicious western bank of the river. As news spread of a Shudra widow wanting to build a temple on the banks of the sacred river, the upper-caste landlords on the west bank decided to remind Rashmoni of her place. They admonished anyone selling land to her, forcing her to turn to the eastern bank. Montage of religions The 33 acres of land that Rashmoni finally acquired for Dakshineshwar Kali Temple on the eastern bank came from a montage of religions. A major part of the land, including an abandoned factory office, was acquired from the family of a deceased Protestant English businessman, John Hesty. The rest was bought from Muslims, which included a large pond, a graveyard, and a mazhaar or shrine for Gazi baba, a local saint. The last plot belonged to Hindu villagers and included a mango orchard. Rashmoni did not erase the history of the land she purchased. Instead, she repaired the factory office and the water tank. Today, the magnificent temple carries the syncretic history of its origins in its reflection on the waters of the Gazipukur tank on one side and the sacred Ganga on the other. As the temple neared completion, the priests of Calcutta refused to endorse the Dakshineshwar Kali Temple as a Hindu place of worship. A Shudra woman offering prasad to the divine was forbidden by the shastras, they said. The rejection shook Rashmoni deeply. But a solution appeared in the shape of a poor Brahmin scholar, Ramkumar Chattopadhyay, who had recently moved to Calcutta. Hindu texts said that if temple land was donated to a Brahmin priest and he installed the deity, it would be deemed fit for worship. Rashmoni handed over all the temple land and property to Chattopadhyay. The priest installed the deities, and the temple was inaugurated in 1855. As Chattopadhyay moved into the temple complex as the resident priest, he brought his teenage brother, Gadadhar. Scholars Supriya Banik Pal and Rup Kumar Barman quote historical archives to show that young Gadadhar not only had initial reservations about working for a Shudra woman, he also refused to eat the prasad at her temple. This obstinate and orthodox young Brahmin boy, later to share a spiritual bond with Rashmoni, would metamorphose into one of India’s greatest Hindu philosophers and mystics, Ramakrishna Paramahamsa. *** Today, the Dakshineshwar temple ghat teems with people on weekends. The surface of the Ganga glitters with sunlight leaping into it from the edges of slate-grey clouds. Some pilgrims arrive for an immersion in the Ganga, their bodies emerging from the silt-laden waters, their hands folded in prayer. Some fill up old plastic bottles to carry the sacred water home. In one corner, a middle-aged man carefully takes off his shoes and socks and dips his feet gently into the water, as his wife, in a black sari with a golden fish print, holds him firmly by his arm. The colossal Vivekananda Setu that bridges the distance between the city and its suburbs looms large above it all, juxtaposing the 20th century with a 19th-century centre of Hindu revivalism that owes its existence to a Shudra widow. Except for the Dakshineshwar Temple, the rest of Rashmoni’s legacy, strewn across Kolkata, is in different stages of dilapidation. According to biographer Sisutosh Samanta, this includes two houses, 30A and 30B, on Harish Chatterjee Street in Kalighat, purchased in 1837 by Rashmoni. The resident of this ramshackle heritage building is the current Chief Minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee. As upper-caste  male protagonists — Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, Swami Vivekananda, and others — gained intellectual prominence, Rashmoni, one of the most influential icons of the 19th century, was relegated to the margins of history. But she stayed uneffaced in folklore, recent evidence being a chart-topping 1,300-episode Bengali biographical series on TV since 2017. Her mass appeal is unsurprising. The honorific of ‘rani’ was not, after all, bestowed on her by any official decree. The ‘rani’ prefix for Rashmoni resonates with that of ‘Ma’ for Ganga — both emerge from the love of the people and meet at the point where the Ganga’s waters become Rani Rashmonir Jal, finally dissolving the caste barrier between the Shudra queen and the sacred river. The writer is a Leverhulme Trust Ph.D Candidate at the School of GeoSciences, University of Edinburgh, U.K.  The ghats — landing stages for bathing, cremation, commerce — were located at the intersection of water and power. It was the perfect site to establish the Das family’s influence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-shudra-queen-and-the-sacred-river/article34862290.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday bonding||How do you spend ‘quality time’ with your spouse? Most couples have their own little thing they like to do. Some watch movies together. Others cook a meal together. The adventurous ones bond over a long drive. Myself and wife, we go on a wild goose chase that culminates in one or more purchases that are random, expensive, or both. Regular readers of this column may recollect that last summer we had embarked on an epic adventure into the badlands of Noida in search of that rare treasure: north Indian mud. This time, too, mud was involved. But the script was somewhat different. Famous last words Last Sunday, I was on the terrace reading the newspaper when I noticed that the wife was engaged in some gardening-type activity using kitchen implements. I should have minded my own business. Instead, I said, “If I were a plant, I would have no respect for a gardener who can’t even be bothered to get her tools right.” The wife looked up and said, “You’re right. This kitchen knife won’t do. Let’s go buy a khurpi .” “A what?” “Khurpi,” she repeated. “A kind of trowel.” “Oh,” I said. “Let me check my diary and confirm if we can schedule this purchase next week.” Famous last words. Within 15 minutes we were on our way, in search of a roadside vendor she had spotted ‘somewhere in Noida’ two years ago. But wonder of wonders, we found him almost immediately. He was exactly where she said he would be: somewhere in Noida. Wife stepped out of the car, bargained briefly, and returned with a shiny new khurpi , looking pleased at having overpaid by only 200%. “Can we go home now?” I said. “Since we’re already in Noida, let’s visit Furnicio.” “Who is that?” “An Italian boyfriend you don’t know about.” “This is totally against Indian culture,” I said. “How long has this been going on?” “It’s a furniture retailer,” she sighed. “I wanted to check out their garden furniture.” “Excuse me?” I was stunned. “All these years you’ve vetoed my requirement for a recliner. Now you want to buy a new sofa for the resident money plant?” “C’mon,” she said. “We need new garden chairs, and a bench.” “Aren’t you like putting garden furniture before the garden? You know, like cart before —” “Turn left,” she said, looking at Google Maps. “The Furnicio outlet is not far from here.” Stop talking I turned left, and we entered an alley that got narrower the further we went, until we reached a dead end. Where Furnicio should have been, there were two godowns and a cow. “Looks like your Italian boyfriend is avoiding you,” I said. “Strange,” she said. “Google Maps says it should be right here.” “It must be hard,” I said. “Being betrayed by Furnicio and Google Maps at the same time. Maybe Google Maps is helping Furnicio.” “Will you please stop?” “I can’t drive if I wanted to,” I said, pointing to the dead end. “You’ve brought us where there is no space even for a U-turn. “I meant stop talking.” She took over the wheel. She gave up on Furnicio and drove straight to the furniture market in Sector 10. All the showrooms were shut — obviously, since partial lockdown was still in place. But because everything was shut, there was so much parking that we couldn’t resist. We decided to park and walk around a bit. As we were passing a shuttered showroom, a guard motioned to us. “You want to buy?” “Outdoor furniture,” the wife said. “Recliner,” I said. “ Mil jayega ,” he said. “Entry from backside, sir. We are officially not open.” “I don’t think we should go in,” I wanted to say, but wife was already halfway inside the compound. So I hurried after her. “What’s going on?” I said, when I caught up. “I don’t like this ‘entry from backside’ business. Are we buying furniture or ganja-charas ?” She wasn’t listening. She climbed a stairway and pushed open a metal door. We entered a massive room, as big as half a hockey field. Someone turned on the lights and we found ourselves facing an endless maze of sofas, arm chairs, beds, recliners and dining tables. I started checking out the recliners while wife got into a complicated conversation with the manager over a wooden bench she’d taken a fancy to. We finally ended up ordering a recliner from Malaysia and a bench from, I suspect, Badarpur. Together, they cost us four months’ worth of Kattabomman’s school fees. “You said we’re going out to buy a khurpi ,” I said, as we were driving back. “A bench was never on the agenda.” “Neither was a recliner.” “A recliner at least has use value,” I said. “Who buys an expensive bench just to impress a bunch of squirrels?” “You see this khurpi ?” she said, pointing the sharp side at me in a vaguely but not totally non-threatening manner. “Apparently it also has some unorthodox use values that go beyond gardening.”  Wife stepped out of the car, bargained briefly, and returned with a shiny newkhurpi, looking pleased at having overpaid by only 200%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-bonding/article34862328.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The cat that turned into a handkerchief||Plato, it turns out, was a bit of a Ramgorurer chhana or a “son of Rangaroo” for whom laughter is taboo. “A funny tale will make them wail: ‘We’re not amused, boo-hoo!’” Plato was upset that Mount Olympus rang with the laughter of the gods in the Greek epics. He felt “men of worth”, especially gods, should not be seen as being “overpowered by laughter”. One wonders what he would make of the venerable Calcutta University making Sukumar Ray, the master of Bengali nonsense, a part of its English syllabus. Even academic and critic Ananda Lal, who runs Writers Workshop, the publisher of Sukumar Ray: Nonsense Rhymes, Translated by Satyajit Ray, sounds a little bemused. University syllabi have a reputation for being prim and proper, not unlike the Rangaroo’s lair “bereft of sun and air” and “doomed to be a monastery of permanent despair.” “What is interesting is that they chose the translations by Satyajit Ray. These are trans-creations, neither literal nor faithful to the original, an aspect of Satyajit that many people don’t know,” says Lal. Always simple Satyajit has written that he knew his father, Sukumar, only through “writings and illustrations, a volume of drafts, some notebooks, two numbers of a hand-written magazine” and the accounts of family members. Sukumar, a pioneer in photography and lithography, also ran the family printing business and the children’s magazine, Sandesh . He died of leishmaniasis in 1923. Nine days later, his classic collection, Abol Tabol , was published. Satyajit was two and a half. Satyajit translated 10 poems from Abol Tabol for a radical weekly called Now in 1969. Purushottama Lal, the founder of Writers Workshop, persuaded Satyajit to let him publish a limited edition, which came with a frontispiece photograph of a beaming baby Satyajit on his mother’s lap. Satyajit autographed 100 copies, which are now collector’s items, says Ananda Lal. Those poems are also part of a new book called Three Rays, collecting the writings of three generations of Rays — Upendrakishore, Sukumar and Satyajit — all translated by Satyajit. In its foreword, Satyajit’s son Sandip remembers, “Baba started translating Sukumar’s nonsense rhymes quite unexpectedly, while waiting at an airport lounge due to a long flight delay.” There have since been other translations. Sukanta Chaudhuri’s The Select Nonsense of Sukumar Ray was a more ambitious attempt than Satyajit’s. Chaudhuri remembers going to Satyajit for feedback. “He was so generous. He said my phrasing in Haw-Jaw-Baw-Raw-Law was occasionally sounding grown-up. He reminded me that Sukumar’s language is always simple because it’s being told by a young boy,” says Chaudhuri. As an English professor, Chaudhuri was drawn not just to Sukumar’s imagination but also to “the sheer technical excellence of the verse. In nonsense poetry, more than other kinds of poetry, the form, the metre, the rhyme is very important.” Shuddh desiglee Years later, when poet Sampurna Chattarji brought out Wordygurdyboom! The Nonsense World of Sukumar Ray, she says she relished the aural challenge posed by Sukumar’s wordplay and onomatopoeia though, she adds, the word onomatopoeia cannot capture the “riotous caboodle of effects that Sukumar Ray conjures up.” Her translation of the opening poem of Abol Tabol begins, “Come happy fool whimsical cool come dreaming dancing fancy-free, Come mad musician, glad glusician beating your drum with glee.” This shuddh desi glee has ensured Sukumar Ray has never gone stale. Sukanta Chaudhuri points to Jogindranath Sarkar, whose books like Hashi Khushi were popular in the early 20th century. “His humour is predictable, simple inversion. The grass is blue, the sky is green. But when Sukumar writes, why does the king’s aunt play cricket with a pumpkin, you think why indeed.” Why indeed? With Nonsense Rhymes in the syllabus, students have to actually ponder these grave questions. Assistant professor of English, Sanghita Sanyal, who has been teaching the new syllabus, says she has to delve into the social context of the poems to make sense of the nonsense to a generation of students many of whom know Sukumar chiefly through Satyajit.  In ‘ Gonf Churi ’ or ‘Missing Whiskers,’ the head babu of an office raises hell thinking his moustache has been stolen. “When I am talking about it, I have to talk about babu culture or the colonial idea of ‘boss’,” says Sanyal. A closer reading of Sukumar’s poems shows that he took great pleasure in skewering the pompous Bengali babu and his false sense of pride and status, always aping the white sahib. Kimbhut or the Super Beast wants a cuckoo’s voice, a lizard’s tail, an elephant’s trunk, but in the process loses his own identity, lamenting, “Oh what can I be?” The Kumro-potash or Pumpkin-Grumpkin is a dead-ringer for every petty bureaucrat obsessed with peculiar rules. As T.S. Eliot wrote about Edward Lear, to whom Sukumar is often compared, Lear’s nonsense “is not a vacuity of sense; it is a parody of sense and that is the sense of it.” Many of Lear’s bizarre misshapen creatures acquire new shades of meaning when we learn of their creator’s epilepsy, his bankrupt childhood, how he felt like a misfit in Victorian high society. But the odd couple of the Owl and the Pussycat finding happiness together becomes a poignant love story when you realise that Lear himself was lovelorn, tormented about his homosexual desires. Sukumar Ray, in his short life, left behind no personal accounts and diaries that can be mapped against his poems; just a few notebooks like hijibiji khata (doodle notebook) and emni khata (aimless notebook). Ray and Lear Perhaps it’s just as well. Too much psychosocial analysis could ruin the magic of what Satyajit called a rasa beyond the usual nine — kheyal or whimsy. Michael Heyman, who edited The Tenth Rasa: An Anthology of Indian Nonsense, says Sukumar isn’t the only Indian literary nonsense poet around. There are the likes of Nabakanta Barua (1926-2002) in Assamese or Mangesh Padgaoankar (1929-2015) in Marathi. But Sukumar, he says, has such a “depth and breadth of nonsense” that “comparisons outside Edward Lear and Lewis Carroll tend to diminish his accomplishments.” Lear visited Calcutta, which he called “Hustlefussabad,” before Sukumar was born. Sukumar himself transcreated Lear’s Father William as an 88-year-old man who likes to dance upside down. But Sukumar produced something whose soul was utterly madly Bengali, biting but never malicious. He inspired so much Bengali nonsense, Heyman worried about a “Bengali nonsense hegemony” in his anthology. Yet Sukumar was never provincial. Poet Ranjit Hoskote says Sukumar’s work, which he read in translation, is “at once intensively engaged with the local and cosmopolitan in its expansiveness.” The real power of nonsense is that it offers a refuge where we get to make up the rules — a cat can turn into a handkerchief and nobody blinks. Sukumar, even in his sick bed, understood that. His last poem in Abol Tabol embraces death but “with crazy rhyme and puckish note” and somersaulting elephants. This is, says Welsh poet Eurig Salisbury, playfulness elevated to its full potential. Even before I could read, Sukumar Ray’s magical illustrations (like Lear’s) sucked me in, despite scary cudgel-wielding monsters who simpered “To eat you alive is beyond me, I swear on a thousand moans”. As a boy I would while away afternoons with Abol Tabol, imagining ducks and porcupines fusing into porcuducks/ porcochards/ duckupines (depending on your preferred translator). As I grew up, like countless other Bengalis, I could recite with a flourish the talents of Gangaram — the matric-fail, debt-ridden, sickly yet still eminently marriageable groom — without understanding its social satire fully. In adulthood, I keep returning to Sukumar Ray not just for silverfish-riddled nostalgia but also because the poems offer, as Chattarji puts it, “a far more capricious and subversive version of reality”. As in ‘Rule of 21,’ where ‘in Lord Shiva’s native land, the laws are hard to understand’. Or, as Chaudhuri translates it:  You also need a special lease   Till six o’clock to cough or sneeze   And those who sneeze without      permission   Are thrashed in gentle admonition   And twenty one compelling doses   Of snuff rammed up their stream   ing noses.   “ I keep thinking of this poem these days when I read the news,” says Chaudhuri wryly about ‘Rule of 21’. “Especially in this 21st year of the 21st century.” Even the sons of Rangaroo might be grimly amused. The writer is the author ofDon’t Let Him Know.  Too much psychosocial analysis could ruin the magic of what Satyajit Ray called a rasa beyond the usual nine — kheyal or whimsy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-cat-that-turned-into-a-handkerchief/article34862301.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Where winged women fly away||Saudade is the Portuguese word for ‘bitter-sweet’. It represents a deep nostalgia or melancholic longing for something or someone absent. Barcelona and Mumbai-based artist Rithika Merchant’s work Saudade shows two figures looking in opposite directions. “Two selves stand in conversation. One has returned from the future with a warning of the doom that lies ahead if we do not change our ways,” says Merchant, who was recently awarded the Vogue Hong Kong Women’s Art Prize at the 2021 Sovereign Asian Art Prize. Saudade won the highest marks from the jury for a woman artist out of 700 entries from Iran to Japan. “This piece evokes the bitter-sweet feeling my generation has when we think about the past and the future,” she says.  Saudade was part of an exhibition held in Mumbai earlier this year called ‘Birth of a New World’. While the exhibition was ostensibly about the apocalyptic effects of climate change, its name alluded to a compelling conversation around the world. The Birth of the New World is a 360-foot bronze sculpture of Christopher Columbus located in Arecibo, Puerto Rico, which shows the explorer and his three ships traversing the Atlantic Ocean. Statues like this have been flashpoints in debates on imperialists who tortured, killed and enslaved hundreds of natives while amassing wealth. But there is also a contemporary debate on how imperialism and capitalism tie into the discourse on climate change: that a few rich people, countries and companies are destroying the planet. Eruptions of fire Merchant’s current show in Berlin focuses on feathered — or winged — women. She draws on winged spirits, Peris, from Persian mythology. In the original myths, Peris were regarded as fallen angels who were denied entry into Paradise until they had repented. But Merchant’s winged women are shown leaping joyfully as they escape from a scene that appears idyllic at first glance but on closer look, shows small eruptions of fire beneath the delicate, blooming flowers. The paintings imply a freedom that exists beyond the confines of conventional perspectives. Merchant’s interest in myths began when she read Joseph Campbell’s The Hero With a Thousand Faces . “I have always been very interested in narratives, myths and received histories. I am also interested in how these different fragments are woven together to form a complete image. Most cultures use imagery to tell stories and represent ideas. I try to use these ancient means of storytelling in a more contemporary context. Myth-making brings humanity back to the centre of concern, unlike science, which places humans as part of a greater scheme. Much as science gives an accurate description of humanity, it takes away the spiritual power given to every human to understand their own destiny,” she says. Links to the past Merchant’s work is filled with literary allusions, contemporary world events, international mythology, feminist references, botanical drawings and folk art. She uses symbols from epics — Greek, Indian, Portuguese — as well as folk art and science fiction to weave parallel narratives across societies to show links to our collective past. Her fairly big paintings look familiar and exotic at once. The materials she uses, such as cut-paper collages, embroidery hoops, jute string, mother of pearl buttons, and other household materials, add to a sense of familiarity. “The whole tradition of craftmaking by women is to me a very powerful thing,” she says. “Incredibly talented women artists such as Leonora Carrington and Remedios Varo used a lot of these materials and they were sort of brushed away as things that just women were interested in; but they made these profound paintings that made so much sense in the world then and now. There’s something powerful in reusing scraps to make something new. So I make my collages from scrap pieces I find around my studio, beating them, putting them together, and making this entirely new thing.” Citizen of the world ‘Birth of a New World’, for example, used 27 paintings to tell a story about this point in history when climate change heralds an almost insurmountable challenge to the planet and the choices we have to make to save future generations. The exhibition took this conversation to its next logical step after the Anthropocene: rising water levels, space-travel, gateways to a different time, as well as Kalki bringing back a simpler, more optimistic age, ending the despairing Kali Yuga. Merchant has seen both commercial and critical success since 2016 when French designer Natacha Ramsay-Levi saw her work on Instagram and invited her to design for the famous Paris brand Chloé. Merchant produced paintings filled with esoteric and spiritual symbols, as well as botanical images for Chloé’s summer 2018 collection. This collaboration earned her the Young Achiever of the Year at the Women of the Year 2018 Awards from Vogue . Galerie LJ, Paris, showcased Merchant in spring 2019, first with a group show and then with a solo show in December 2019. Her next group exhibition will be held in Brussels in 2021, followed by a solo show in Paris in 2022. “Perhaps the very first detail that caught my eye was her use of colour, then almost immediately, the narrative aspect of her works and their composition. She is a great colourist,” says Galerie LJ founder Adeline Jeudy. “Her style is figurative, narrative. We could probably call her a graphic artist, because she works with lines, outlines and compositions, on paper. She often says in interviews that she is a citizen of the world and that’s true, you can see it in her work.” The writer is the author of the fantasy seriesWeapons of Kalki, and an expert on South Asian art and culture.  The materials she uses, such as cut-paper collages, embroidery hoops, mother of pearl buttons, and other household materials, add to a sense of familiarity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/where-winged-women-fly-away/article34862326.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking back at the origins||In the initial days of the pandemic, as we now know it, there were several versions of a simple animated graphic doing the rounds on the internet. It sought to demonstrate a concept that was hitherto only in the stratosphere that epidemiologists inhabit, but wholly alien to the public — R-Naught (R0), which measured the transmissibility of the virus. Little infected stick figures in red would move around, and when they came into contact with another individual, that plain stick figure would light up in red, indicating the transmission had been passed on. In a sense, Michael Lewis’ The Premonition is structured quite like this animation — in the way he introduces his characters and advances the story — each character element seems to light up as his or her turn comes in the book, and is introduced with a run-up that does not necessarily indicate the significance of the character in what is to come. ‘Wolverines’ to the rescue The animation is suffused with an energy that increases as more and more people get infected. Lewis’ book too bristles with the same kind of energy as it progresses racily to tell the story of how the American establishment failed to summon the only people who could have made a difference in the early stages of the pandemic. It is a book about the superheroes who were never summoned, it is a no-holds-barred indictment of the way America mismanaged the crisis, and the way they looked away when all the resources were right in front of them. A journalist and an author, Lewis summons to his aid, the minutiae and details that journalists often find themselves handling and then hooks it on to a narration that could rival the best medical thriller. He sets out to chronicle the work of a motley band of experts calling themselves the “Wolverines”, who originally came together for the express purpose of working out a pandemic preparation plan for the nation. This team was cobbled together after former President George W. Bush was wholly influenced by John Barry’s The Great Influenza: The Story of the Deadliest Pandemic in History . This story of the 1918 Spanish Flu which killed between 40 million and 60 million people around the world in about 18 months and half a million Americans, was the trigger for the then President to begin the process of pandemic planning. The team is built slowly, the book dwelling in good measure on what they did to get on the panel.  Mind you, what they do is so highly technical, you could have put this book down even before you picked it up. Lewis redeems it from that, painting these people as superheroes, their super skills explained as charmingly as in a Marvel comic, with the attendant jaw drop. Lewis argues in retrospect that these “rogue group of patriots”, led by the bandleader Carter Mecher, the ‘redneck epidemiologist’, could see the scale of the pandemic before their country could, and they were just interpreting the writing on the wall. The story is about the ‘premonition’ they had and also about the science they employed. Beginning underground, literally as emails passed amongst Wolverines, eventually parts of the strategy surfaced, and went on to influence America’s management of the COVID-19 pandemic.   Lessons from 1918 The “Nerd Bible” as it is called, written by Mecher, and Richard Hatchett, and added on painstakingly over the years, takes its lessons from the 1918 pandemic, and builds on that to arrive at the theory of Targeted Layered Containment, which is now commonly understood as a transmission chain-breaker — lockdowns. This voluminous document, which one of the ‘heroes’ Charity Dean, a public health official, carries around, is often lobbed at various powers that be, dramatically, and as an indictment of the action they could have taken to prevent deaths and morbidity due to COVID-19 but did not. Dramatic narrative Adaptations of at least three of Lewis’ earlier books made it to the Oscar nomination list, and there’s a certain touch of screenplay in the writing, a dramatic telling. For instance, the way he constructs the scene where lowly CDC employee Lisa Koonin gets a message inviting her to the White House, is a classic example of this penchant for the dramatic. There are such scenes right through, crafted as if for effect in a movie. They work well here too. He’s a master at building tension and raising the pitch , at the same time, using sleight-of-hand to deliver relatable, engaging tales even when working with purely technical subjects. Whether it’s explaining the science behind Joe DeRisi’s rapid viral detection kit, or how Bob and Laura Glass painstakingly arrived at their transmission model, or Dean explaining the nitty gritty of tuberculosis in public health, his content remains eminently accessible. Lewis’ nonfiction work might be a mere interpretation of what actually happened in America through the pandemic. However, his pacy tale has its share of readers who are looking through the rearview mirror, realising that the objects in the mirror are closer than they appear, and finding themselves transfixed.   The Premonition: A Pandemic Story Michael Lewis Penguin Random House India  Rs. 999||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/looking-back-at-the-origins/article34862314.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Someone still loves you||The radio is, unforgivably, becoming a quaint relic. Its considerably reduced circumstances cause in me an ineffable sadness and stir nostalgia. A rich part of our lives seems to be receding irretrievably. I grew up in an industrial town on the banks of a river, with one English national daily, a vernacular newspaper, and The Illustrated Weekly of India . It was the late 50s and the radio had not yet come into our homes. One June evening, amid the torrential monsoon rain, a man in a khaki raincoat appeared, carrying a large cardboard box. I heard my father ask him if the box had got wet. It was the coming of the radio, thankfully wrapped in a plastic sheet inside the box. There was palpable excitement that day. Because of the rain, the installation was postponed to the next day. Marconi’s invention had a rectangular body in brown and off-white plastic, with a small light at the top right corner and two knobs for sound control and band selection. It was a Müller; my father merely said the Germans made good radios. The radio was placed on a wall-mounted wooden stand and plugged in. I was fascinated by the fixing of its aerial, a lengthy strip of porous, gauze-like material about three inches wide. It had to be unrolled, fully stretched and firmly tied length-wise. Ours was tied under the eaves of the tiled roof, protecting it against lightning and strong wind.  Even then, constant crackling was a perennial solo accompaniment to all the All India Radio (AIR) broadcasts. Although I didn’t understand much of it then, our father insisted that I listen dutifully. Recognisable voices came on the air — Surajit Sen, Lotika Ratnam and, of course, Melville de Mellow. Nothing historical ever happened without his reassuring and authoritative voice. One evening in late January 1948, he came on air and ominously pronounced, “Stand by for an important announcement!” A short while before, Godse had shot Gandhi. Later, De Mellow gave a seven-hour report on the Mahatma’s funeral. In May 1964, when Jawaharlal Nehru died, it was De Mellow again, leading the commentary. Sen, the first to report on the fall of East Pakistan in 1971, was also hugely popular.  I still recall the radio’s signature tune. It is a most beautiful adagio, about a minute and 50 seconds long, and I first heard it immediately after our radio became operational. The tiny blue light had come on, indicating the set was receiving signal. There was no more pitter-patter of raindrops on leaves, the wind was silent, and in the quiet of the evening the treble notes of the violin rose and then fell from a pleasant crescendo to be muffled by the bass of the viola and the tampura. West meets east Walter Kaufmann, who composed the tune for AIR, was a Jewish refugee who had fled Nazi Germany and come to Mumbai. From 1936 to 1946, he worked for AIR’s predecessor, the Indian Broadcasting Company, and was its director of music. Though a Western classicist, he based the composition on the Shivaranjani raga. The violin is played by Mehli Mehta, Zubin Mehta’s father.  A few years later, we bought a new radio, another German make. It was larger, with a dark wood cabinet, and had infinitely better reception in short waves. One could listen to music and sports commentaries, but for some reason Vividh Bharati’s reception was patchy. That’s when Radio Ceylon stepped in, with high-quality transmission from across the ocean. Ameen Sayani then rode in on the back of a sea breeze, with his silken voice. We tuned into Aadmi ki Geet for the latest Hindi film songs, and on Wednesday nights, there was Binaca Geetmala , and with it renewed longing for romance in the heavy tropical air. AIR’s response was magnificent. B.V. Keskar as information and broadcasting minister had conceived the National Programme of Music. His goal was to popularise India’s rich heritage of classical music, both vocal and instrumental. The programme was a great hit, and the man who gave it its soul was AIR’s director general, V.K. Narayana Menon, a musicologist with a Ph.D in Yeats’s poetry. As the head of AIR, he brought India’s best artists into its fold.  For me, the best years of the radio were the three decades between the 60s and the 90s. The infatuation that began on a monsoon evening with Kaufmann’s ethereal signature tune took me through countless news bulletins, Hindi film songs, Indian classical concerts and Western classical music. I heard Nehru’s clipped delivery, Rajaji’s precise voice, and Dr. Radhakrishnan’s rousing renditions . Heroic contest I can never forget one AIR commentary. It was the famous 1966 Davis Cup match between India and Brazil, played at South Club, Kolkata. The teams were tied 2-2. In the fifth and deciding match, when play stopped on the third evening, Thomaz Koch was leading Ramanathan Krishnan 2-1. Next morning when the match resumed, I was at Lawrence Club, Kochi, sitting by the backwaters. Someone had a transistor. The match began. 15-0, 30-0, 40-0 — Koch took an early 3-0 lead. Then Krishnan fought back, taking the set at 7-5. It was two-all. In the final set, Krishnan played flawless tennis to win 6-2 and India reached the Challenge Round of the Davis Cup. The radio played its part in that heroic match. The radio was still there when time swept me into my 50s. Father had departed. But whenever I went home on holiday, I would fiddle with the knobs and listen to a broadcast. Until one summer holiday, when I visited and found the radio missing. It had broken down and couldn’t be repaired, so my mother had given it away. By then, Doordarshan had displaced Akashvani in her affections. While radio still does well elsewhere — for example, the BBC in Britain — TV has stifled it here. While there is FM, of course, one misses the high-quality broadcasting from AIR. And those soothing voices bringing us the news, both good and bad. The writer is a photography and classical music enthusiast.  The radio’s signature tune is a most beautiful adagio, about a minute and 50 seconds long. Walter Kaufmann, who composed it , was a Jewish refugee who had fled Nazi Germany and come to Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/someone-still-loves-you/article34862258.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A farewell to dreams||With the departure of Buddhadeb Dasgupta, we have lost a great poet and auteur. He belonged to the generation of filmmakers who entered the scene after the first wave of pioneers in Indian art cinema like Ray, Ghatak and Sen. He also represents the post-Emergency era, whose social concerns, political vision, and aesthetic sensibilities were honed in the post-Nehruvian age of disillusionment with establishment of any kind — social, political, cultural and aesthetic. The promises of the nationalist project as well as the revolutionary dreams of the radical movements — both were on the wane, leaving a huge vacuum within the larger political imagination. From his first films — Dooratwa (Distance, 1978), Neem Annapurna (Bitter Morsel, 1979), Grihajuddha (The Civil War, 1982), and Andhi Gali (Blind Alley, Hindi, 1984) — one sees an auteur-in-the-making, with a distinct aesthetic vision and narrative style. Also evident are his primary sociopolitical concerns and thematic trajectories, and the larger political anxieties and uncertainties that loomed large over these narratives about individuals, their struggle for survival, personal ambitions, love affairs and marital conflicts. In the later decades, his works became more complex and nuanced, more intensely poetic and melancholic. And in a filmmaking career that spanned four decades, he made some of the most memorable works of film art, leaving behind an enchanting trail of dreams, fantastic but also nightmarish. Poetic vision In terms of form, he strode a path of his own. A promising and well-known poet before he ventured into cinema, he brought a certain kind of poetic vision, and also form, to his filmmaking style through his lyrically intense and metaphorically charged imageries. He was never a prisoner to the prose of ‘realist-naturalist’ modes that ruled the ‘art cinema’ narratives of his times. Instead, he drew his creative energies from poetry , as is evident in the visual fluidity and oneiric imageries in his films. Breaking away from linear storytelling and inane symbolism, he explored new modes of narration, blending the inner lives and destinies of characters with several other strands of fantasy and dreams, songs and fables. In his world, we come across minstrels, magicians, wrestlers, nomadic singers, and performers who wander in and across his narratives, along with motifs like birds and animals caged and flying free, aeroplanes — a constantly recurring image — and old, dilapidated mansions, the ruins of the past that house memories, dreams and ghosts. Sudden snatches of songs, flights of poetry, colourful processions and drunken reveries, epiphanies, monologues, and apparitions populate this world. Leaving behind the linear logic of prose and its claustrophobic rigidities, Dasgupta’s imagination was more at home in the exteriors; in every film, one can see more exteriors than interiors. In true poetic mode, it was such concrete and visceral exteriors that he used to express and reveal the mysterious and dark interiors. Through them, viewers are transported to a magical realm of vast and desolate landscapes, undulating terrains, enigmatic skylines and hillsides, silent and verdant stretches of thick vegetation. (For instance, the poetic opening and ending shots of Uttara (2000), where the camera lingers in a dense grove of trees, where everything stands still but for the falling leaves.) Shifting time Singing and dancing minstrels and their processions — both in the rural expanses and the cityscapes — are another recurrent motif punctuating his narratives; they seem to function like the chorus in Greek drama, suddenly shifting time, space and context into another realm of experience and understanding. In his later films, the narratives became even more magical and mystical, where the past and present blend, the living, dead and undead converse with each other, and apparitions take corporeal form to make amends or repent for unlived lives. A strong and persistent undercurrent of politics runs through all his films; if it is the radical extremist politics of the late 60s and early 70s that haunt his characters in the early films ( Dooratwa, Andhi Gali, Grihajuddha ), it is the spectre of communalism, state violence and religious intolerance in later films — Uttara, Swapner Din (2004) , Anwar ka Ajab Kissa (2013), Urojahaj (2018). References to historical events abound: the Sepoy Rebellion, the freedom struggle, Partition, the China war — Tahader Katha (1992) , Bagh Bahadur (1989) — as well as recent instances of communal violence in Gujarat and state repression. These references connect and place the personal tragedies and dilemmas of the characters within their larger sociopolitical realities, often turning personal narratives into national allegories of sorts. Lost ideals Deep anxiety and anger about the erosion of values and loss of dreams surface in many narratives: Shibnath, the protagonist of Tahader Katha , who has returned after 11 years in prison fighting for the country’s freedom, finds himself adrift and insane in the new India and repeatedly asks his former colleague-turned-approver and upcoming politician: ‘What happened to our dreams?’ In Grihajuddha , the heroine whose brother has become a martyr, reminds his friend and her lover, who is ready to make compromises for middle-class comforts, ‘You had strange dreams then’. In Andhi Gali , the hero Hemant, who has run away from Kolkata to pursue his middle-class dreams in Mumbai, turns violent when reminded about his radical past and its betrayal. Such early resonances of idealism about political and class struggle seem to wane in the later films, where we only encounter random acts of violence, as in the opening sequence of Swapner Din (2004 ) . For a filmmaker who pursued and created film-dreams all along, his last film Urojahaj (The Flight) can, in retrospect, be considered his swan song. It is a lyrical film where time and space, past and present, dream and reality, dead and living, mix and mingle. It is a tale about a small-town motor mechanic whose dream of flying is brutally crushed by the System. It is indeed a gut-wrenching reminder of how dreams are becoming impossible and are even considered seditious in our times. Adieu, Buddhadeb Dasgupta, the filmmaker who created a world of dreams for us to seek solace in and find ourselves. The writer is a Kerala-based, award-winning critic, curator, director and translator.  In his later films, the narratives became even more magical and mystical, where the past and present blend, the living, dead and undead converse with each other, and apparitions take corporeal form||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-farewell-to-dreams/article34862263.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from Leh||It is around 10 a.m. on a blisteringly cold Monday morning in early May as I find myself making an emergency grocery supplies run at one of the many stores that dot Leh’s pedestrian-only Main Bazaar. It was just the evening before when it was announced that the trial weekend lockdown imposed upon the Union Territory of Ladakh would now be extended throughout the coming week. Indefinitely. A precautionary measure, I’m told, as the rest of India is all but submerged under the deadly second ‘tsunami’ of the COVID-19 pandemic. My purchases are of the usual bread, eggs, biscuits, instant noodles kind that is the want of any penny-pinching backpacker to the Himalayan wonderland that is Ladakh. But for the locals shopping alongside me, it is a whole other story. Sure, there are huge sacks of rice and wheat flour being schlepped upon the backs of porters who scurry about the soon-to-be-shuttered bazaar. But there is also one item that takes prime position on the shopping lists of the locals. The beloved cherma. Known as Leh berry, wonder berry, drilbu or the honorific ‘Ladakh gold’, it is the immunity boosting seabuckthorn berry that is being purchased, en masse, in its myriad avatars. From being imbued in jams and juices to oils and even sacks of the dried up berries, the seabuckthorn berry is omnipresent. Berry berry good! Roughly the size of a small, oblong pea, the orange-red hued seabuckthorn berry’s medicinal value has been recognised and prized in the region for centuries. With the ancient, local Ladakhi amchi medicine system placing a high premium on the seabuckthorn berry and its curative properties. Recorded as early as the 8th century in the Tibetan medical classic, the rGyud-bzi , it is said that the berry not just contains a good amount of Vitamin C — said to be 12 times more than an orange — but consuming the berry also boosts immunity, besides being a great tonic for one’s hair and skin. This, thanks to its high levels of potassium, calcium and Vitamin E. Interestingly, seabuckthorn is the only fruit which contains all types of Omega acids (Omega 3, 6 and 9) as well as the rare Omega 7. I quickly add a couple of bottles of the bright orange coloured seabuckthorn juice to my basket, while I chug down a third right there in the grocery store, even before I square off my bill! The slightly oily, viscous textured juice has an acidic taste similar to that of a weak mango panna. One that takes me a while to get used to. But it’s a different story with the delicious dried seabuckthorn berries, a small bag full of which I soon purchase a few yards away from a lady at the Tibetan Refugee Market adjacent to the Main Bazaar. Foraging for gold I ask the lady about its harvesting, which she tells me is more on the lines of foraging — as one cannot generally cultivate seabuckthorn in the traditional sense. This gathering happens in the autumnal months, from September to November every year, with a lot of care and attention given to the task. Not least of all because of the precarious, hilly terrain the berry shrubs prefer to grow wild amidst. In Ladakh, the thorny seabuckthorn shrub grows at an average altitude of 2,400 metres above sea level in the Leh, Nubra, Changthang and far north Zanskar valleys. This, I later learn is the direct result of India’s Cold Desert Afforestation Programme that cut a wide swathe across the nation’s Himalayan belt from the late 1990s to the early 2000s. The drought-resistant and tough-to-cultivate seabuckthorn plant specimen was specifically chosen for greening the mountain terrain after a little scientific intervention to boost its growth. Not just in Ladakh, and its neighbouring regions such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, but also in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh farther east. New superfood? On my last morning in Leh, I make sure to pack an array of seabuckthorn berry-based products to bring back home with me to Mumbai. It feels like I’m precariously teetering on the edge of serendipity, with a drone of questions buzzing through my mind. Is this perhaps what it felt like before the acai berry stepped out of the Amazon rainforest and became a rage the world over? Ditto for moringa and matcha? Is the seabuckthorn berry the newest superfood discovery of the decade...? The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-leh/article34862339.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Upended routines||I visited my mother in February 2020, with a promise to return in a few months. That was not to be, as the pandemic broke out soon after. Manni, as we call our mother, followed a daily routine of reading newspapers and watching TV programmes, taking in all the information about COVID-19. Even as she asked me to stay safe, her own life got significantly altered. The daycare assistant stopped coming and the family members who needed to go out, had to maintain a safe distance from her. As news became dismal and repetitive, she stopped watching TV and reading the newspapers and mostly stayed in bed. Her walk was limited to a short distance between the bedroom and the dining hall. Despite the walker, she tended to slump and my brother was always by her side to prevent a fall. He would try to make her sit longer by making video calls to me and my sister. We could see her but conversations started to lose the thread because of Manni’s hearing problem. The year 2021 dawned with new hope. The pandemic was waning and vaccines were in the offing. My sister and I planned to visit home on the occasion of our mother’s 90th birthday in May. The prospect of seeing children, grandchildren and great grandchildren made Manni look forward to the special day. But the second wave swept like a tsunami and the mayhem persisted well into May. Many known people became part of the disturbing statistics of cases and casualties. Once again everyone had to retreat into their houses, much like crabs rushing into sand holes. This time, many people filled Excel sheets with “what your family should know” and refreshed ICE (In case of emergency) numbers on their mobile phones. Manni was blissfully unaware of the gloom and eagerly looked forward to meeting her near and dear ones. Not wanting to disappoint her, we switched to Plan B — a hybrid celebration. An album depicting nine decades of her life was made. It contained sepia-toned photos from her childhood and youth, wedding photos of her children looking straight into the lens, and candid colour photos taken at the weddings of grandchildren and great grandchildren. In the evening as Manni walked towards the dining table, she was pleasantly surprised to see a cake with a lighted candle. For the first time in her life, Manni cut a cake on her birthday, as everyone present physically and virtually sang the birthday song. She looked radiant holding a bouquet and flashed a toothless smile. Manni peered into a mobile phone, recognised the beaming faces of her dear ones inside small rectangles and spoke affectionately to each one. After an hour of interaction, she declared that it was the best birthday she ever had. While walking back to her bedroom she asked my brother, “When will this disease end? If I could cast my vote from home, why can’t I get vaccinated at home?” My brother made a veiled statement, “Manni, it’s all about priorities.” vijayacardio@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/upended-routines/article34862285.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Familiar but new||In this collection of stories centred on Varanasi, Vivek Nath Mishra could be saying with D.H. Lawrence, “Not I, not I, but the wind that blows through me!” His characters seem to stand still while events and life move through them. The sincerity of his writing perhaps comes from his close involvement with his subjects. Mishra deals with heavy themes such as violence, death, sexual trauma and abuse in sparse, utilitarian prose. The lack of drama adds gravitas. By not allowing his characters to dwell on traumatic events, he shows how normal such incidents have become and how desensitised to them we are. In the titular story, Varanasi is presented as death’s waiting room, where friendships, love, infidelity, families all dissolve in the inevitability of the final journey. The haunts in which Mishra sets his stories are familiar but the stories themselves are new. In ‘A Less Painful End’, he talks about the sin of being born poor but beautiful. Anju, the attractive daughter of a vegetable vendor, must endure the attentions of the men around her. We are shown the reality of a society that is less concerned with the death of her poor father and more about the supposedly illicit ways in which she had supported him. ‘Plunge’ is the portrait of a man who quits his job to daydream about an imaginary garden and devotes himself to finding it. ‘A Fake Lotus’ revolves around an old woman overcoming her lifelong phobia of lotuses. It harks back to the unpleasant journey of her childhood where her fears had been leveraged and used against her. In ‘Smell of Leather’, we meet Subba, a butcher, who, in the aftermath of a lynching, is too traumatised to carry on with his profession. In a poignant ending Mishra makes him identify and sympathise with the very agent of his sorrow. However, Mishra’s prose has its weaknesses — for one, it could be tighter. Awkward sentence constructions lend unintentional ambiguity to the powerful stories. Despite this, none can deny the power of Mishra’s voice. One hopes to read more from him. The reviewer is a freelance writer and illustrator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/familiar-but-new/article34862296.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A radical form of humanism, the Sam Pitroda way||When Sam Pitroda says it is time to redesign the world, you sit up and take notice. He explains why he feels that way in his latest book which is a global call to action. Pitroda has devoted a major part of his life to public service using his vast technical knowledge. He is the founder, investor, chairman of six start-ups and five nonprofit foundations. He holds over 100 patents and 20 honorary PhDs. He is the man who laid the foundation for India’s telecommunication revolution in the 1980s.  To go back to the 80s, it was a period of acute shortages. Many young people will not know how many years we had to wait for a telephone which was seen as a luxury item. Pitroda, born in a small village in 1942, had not used a telephone till 1964. He worked hard, got his masters degree in physics, specialising in electronics, from Baroda’s Maharaja Sayajirao University and then there was no looking back. He went to the Illinois Institute of Technology in the U.S. and acquired his masters degree a year later in electrical engineering. He had not only learned to use a telephone but also design an electronic telephone switch. He acquired many patents and became a telecom entrepreneur and a millionaire. Pitroda came down to India and with perseverance was able to meet the then prime minister Indira Gandhi and make a presentation to her. More important, he won the trust and interest of her son Rajiv Gandhi, and the rest is truly history. With Rajiv Gandhi’s backing the Centre for Development of Telematics, C-DOT as it came to be known, was set up. By 1987, it had delivered a 128-line rural exchange, a 128-line private automatic branch exchange for businesses, a small central exchange with a capacity of 512 lines, and it was ready with field trials of a 10,000-line exchange. Many things went wrong. Rajiv Gandhi lost the elections and when he was staging a comeback he was assassinated. Pitroda had to face several false accusations and the stress led to ill- health and he returned to the U.S. Governments changed. Pitroda was back. Between 2005 and 2014, he was chairman of the National Knowledge Commission and adviser to the prime minister. He was also chairman of the National Innovation Council. Inequality syndrome The pandemic and the enforced stay at home set him thinking. He says the world as we know it is a Western construct, based on five pillars, democracy, human rights, capitalism, consumption and the military. In the first part of the book, Pitroda discusses these pillars and their historical context. He traces seven tipping points in the last 75 years, particularly increasing inequality. Pitroda says COVID-19 has given us a historical opportunity to rethink and redesign the world. He offers five new pillars to change the world, a radical form of humanism. They are inclusion, human needs, new economy, sustainability/conservation and non-violence. In this design, people and the planet are at the core of all ideologies. Innovation, Pitroda says, is required in all levels of government, business, and civil society to respond to the new realities of the hyper connected world. We should encourage bio, nano, material, energy and cyber technologies to improve the environment, food, health, transport, infrastructures and comfort. In particular we should emphasise on low cost local innovations in developing countries to take technologies to people in rural areas. This book would have been more exciting if the focus had been on how these ideas can be implemented. Too much space has been devoted to the analysis of the last 75 years. Will there be political will to redesign the world? Redesigning the world does sound like a utopian idea, but Pitroda is convinced it is doable.  The reviewer is a journalist and author.  Redesign the World: A Global Call to Action Sam Pitroda Penguin Business  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-radical-form-of-humanism-the-sam-pitroda-way/article34862316.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Airy nothings||T he Book of India Ghosts , a list of notes on ghosts that combines fiction with non-fiction, should have been fun. There are 84 kinds of ghosts listed in alphabetical order. There are the feminist ghosts (Sheekol Buri), who usually kill the men who have abused them in life; a delightful Jhapri ghost who shits on people; a classist ghost who finishes off people who wear torn clothes (Kanipishachi). Riksundar Banerjee records their characteristics with all seriousness, as if he is out to document a vanishing (pun intended) breed. Which begs the question: how were the stories sourced? Going by Banerjee’s explanation, he has reimagined them from stories in regional language-books and from tales narrated to him by locals in the course of his research (he holds a PhD on ghosts in literature). Yet there is no acknowledgement for individual entries. Judged as originals, not much can be said about the stories’ literary merit. Most of them are penny dreadfuls of the kind broadcast on popular radio channels on Saturdays — high-octane dramas verging on the prurient. What is worse is that they end up confirming cringeworthy stereotypes — in the entry for Ulkamukhi (a fire-breathing female ghost), a woman is married to her moneyed assailant and looks forward to birthing the “heir”; the victim in the story on Munchowa, a ghost that steals a person’s face, is predictably a woman, a starlet proud of her looks; the Masan is described thus: “When a lower-caste person dies and their bodies are left half burnt in the charnel ground, they haunt that ground as the masan ghost.” The only entry that shows some irony is that for Kollivai Pisaasu or the will-o’-the-wisp. After giving the “prosaic scientific explanation” for this ‘ghost’, Banerjee says, “Interestingly, thanks to our scientific-minded ancestors, the word ‘kollivayi’, or ‘kolli-vayu’, literally means ‘combustible deadly gas.’” The contemporary urban settings of most of the stories, with their selfies, cellphones and emails, suggest that their origins are not folk. If Banerjee has imagined them, he would have done well to use irony, commentary, humour, anything to suggest that he is at one remove from his material. Ghosts, of all topics, need a pinch a salt, which is in short supply here.  The Book of Indian Ghosts Riksundar Banerjee Aleph  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/airy-nothings/article34862292.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1This film based on a novel was released on June 20, 1975. It was responsible for starting the trend of films known as ‘summer blockbusters’. The novel’s author, Peter Benchley, eventually became a marine conservationist because the film had an unfortunate after-effect of the public viewing an endangered species as ‘villainous’. Which movie, named after the animal’s most fearsome feature, is this that supposedly stopped people from going to the beaches that summer? 2‘The Sheep-_____’ was a book by Dick King-Smith, who had been a farmer and based many of his books on his experiences. It tells the story of an animal who takes on the role of a completely different animal after being adopted by the farmer’s dog. What was the name of this animal (which became famous in a movie of the same name) and what animal was mentioned in the book title? 3In a Ruskin Bond story called ‘A _______ for all Seasons’, we see the world and the foolishness of human actions through the eyes of Speedy, a very clever animal whose wry utterances and observations make up the story. In real life, these animals have been recorded to use traffic signals to cross the roads, while a popular folktale talks about how they use available resources to access tiny amounts of water. What animal is Speedy, seen perfectly adapting to our cities? 4This 1933 film came about because the producer, Merian Cooper, pitched a film calledKing of Komodoabout a giant lizard terrorising people, but the idea was shot down by the studio. He re-wrote the plot but substituted the lizard with another animal that he could show falling in love with the heroine. What movie is this that had an iconic scene of the two main characters on top of the Empire State building? 5This 1997 film starred pop stars Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube as they go in search of a legendary animal in the Amazon rainforest. Known to grow up to 22 feet and weigh more than 200 kg, this animal’s name is supposed to have come from the Sri Lankan Tamil words for ‘elephant killer’. What is the film, named after the animal known to scientists asEunectes murinus? 6This author’s only book happened because she became disabled in a fall, began learning about horses and wrote the novel as an invalid. It became an immediate best-seller, with her dying just five months after its publication, but having lived long enough to see her only novel become a success. It teaches how to treat people with kindness, sympathy, and respect, and is a treatise on animal welfare. What book is this, which is narrated as an autobiographical memoir by the title character, who is not human? 7This is a 1996 comedy film about the family of a hotel manager whose son discovers a plan by a hotel guest to use his pet for a jewel heist. The pet, whose scientific name isPongo pygmaeus, is known by a common name that means ‘forest person’ in Malay, the language of its native land, Borneo. These animals are known for their skill in using tools and intelligence, which is shown to good effect in the movie. What is the name of the movie and what animal is the pet? 8The Ghost and the Darknessis a 1996 film starring Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas that is based on true events that happened in Kenya in 1898. It revolves around the death of workers who were building the Uganda-Mombasa Railway in Tsavo and were being killed by man-eating lions. When researchers saw the film they were unhappy as the movie showed the lions with a particular feature the actual lions didn’t have. What feature do Tsavo lions not have but was added as producers thought they did not look scary without it? 9MVPis a 2000 film about Jack, a chimpanzee who learns sign language and has an amazing ability to play ice hockey. He eventually joins the local team, and brings them a lot of success and revenue. The title refers to the award given to the ‘Most Valuable Player’ in the team usually, but in this case ‘player’ is replaced by another word that comes from a Latin term meaning ‘first rank’. What does MVP stand for? 10These animals are found only around the newly added Southern Ocean around Antarctica. In 2014, an animated movie explored the idea of four individuals who find themselves on an island country off the coast of East Africa. Using their ninja-like skills, access to weaponry, high intelligence and cutesy charm, they manage to escape, rob Fort Knox and help capture an evil octopus. What film is this that shares the name with a hilarious TV series about the same quartet? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34862332.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A pet by accident||I enjoy watching Tom and Jerry cartoons and cheer Jerry, every time he scores. I have watched the adventures of Stuart Little, quite forgetting that Stuart was but a pint-sized anthropomorphic mouse. But a mouse, in flesh and blood, inside the house petrified me disproportionately. The small hole in one of the tomatoes in the basket set the alarm bells ringing. It was clear evidence of a rodent bite. The mousetrap borrowed from the neighbour was dangerously rusty but I managed to pin the coconut bit to the hook and set it up by the kitchen sink. The next morning as I tiptoed in, I saw the trapdoor of the box held up, as I had left, but not the coconut. After three more nights of losing the bait and the battle, I returned the trap. “We too didn’t have any success with this,” the neighbour admitted. “Finally, we got a sticky mat from the medical shop and the mouse got caught within a day. When the rat steps on it, it gets stuck.” My stomach churned thinking about the trauma the stuck creature would undergo. And my revulsion for the rodent turned to compassion. From then on, my last job for the day in the kitchen was to leave the extra roti I had made, by the sink. With unfailing regularity, it disappeared and I started the day with a smile. It was now my mouse. I named him Templeton, after the gluttonous rat in Charlotte’s Web . “How do you know it is a he,” my son asked. “One of these days she might find a cosy spot in your friendly kitchen for her nursery!” Musophobia took hold once again and I had the opening at the exhaust fan sealed. But I continue to leave some food out, every night, for Templeton. No one in our family ever had a pet at home, let alone cuddled one. As such, we won’t make it to the animal lovers’ list. But we affirm the right of all animals to live in their spaces, as nature ordained. And that, as the Ancient Mariner said, is prayer at best. kamalabalachandran199@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-pet-by-accident/article34862283.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A sense of life’s diverse currents||Ruskin Bond turned 87 recently and lit up Instagram with a boisterous image of him trying to cut the cake while his adopted family watched. The impish smile was in place and just like the Himalayas he resides in, specifically Landour, there is an eternity to his huge body of writing. The array of short stories offering glimpses into small town people, big city blues, the odd share of ghosts and all enmeshed with India’s colonial past and its chaotic present, form one part of the spectrum. At the other end there are his self-referencing journals that juxtaposes the author’s personal life, his writing pursuits and the world around him, especially nature, be it the towering hills or a wild plant warming itself in the sun. Deep insight The lines coated with dry humour and infused in philosophy are all back in vogue while you leaf through Bond’s latest endeavour, It’s a Wonderful Life. The book penned over the last year while India and the globe coped with the coronavirus pandemic, is part-nostalgia and part-current-affairs as Bond tries to make sense of life’s diverse currents. There are truisms that pop up: “No matter how smart we think we are, nature always has the last laugh.” And there are lines that are gut-wrenching but said with a practical acceptance of fate’s drastic turns: “I was only ten, and it seemed to me that God had been unreasonable in requiring my father’s services at a time when I needed him more.” Bond always remembered one of his dad’s clinching lines — paddle your own canoe. It is an idea that he has adhered to even as the thespian continues to write every day fortified with a daily breakfast of bread, eggs and butter while even a sliced tomato is most welcome. Naughtiness is Bond’s second skin and at one point while sipping hot chocolate he quips that he would have preferred a rum! Ideal retreat In literary circles, there was this argument made about R.K. Narayan or Bond not taking a stance about historical churns. But in their understated ways, both Narayan and Bond while focussing on small towns, real or imaginary, drew our attention to the larger picture. In his previous books, Bond has made references to losing his school friends overnight as the Radcliffe Line was drawn and people coped with partition’s trauma. And in his current book, Bond observes the raging virus threat. He maintained a diary during the staggered lockdowns and through that, offers us an insight into a world in flux. “I think it was Thomas Hardy who espoused the view that God created a beautiful world and then forgot all about it, leaving us to the vagaries of chance and our own ingenuity,” he writes while toying with a depressing morning reading about COVID-related deaths in India. Bond refers to the sad plight of migrant labourers and politicians dwelling upon communal strife and as he winds down, he states: “I have always tried to achieve a prose that is easy and conversational.” It is his inherent style and for those clued to Bond’s universe, this book serves as an ideal retreat and for a new reader, this tome will offer its bounty of quaint joys, deep thought and a wry grin.  It’s a Wonderful Life Ruskin Bond Aleph Book Company  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-sense-of-lifes-diverse-currents/article34862311.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Some body is a no body||Dear Agony Akka,  A silver-haired politician was recently asked by a journalist, “Will you also consider leaving the party?” and he promptly replied, “Over my dead body.” Both question and answer are giving me endless pain. The question because no one is ever asking me to leave one party or join another. I have been a party-of-one since COVID began, while party-hopping politicians are jiving 24/7. When can we ordinary people go mall-hopping, traffic signal jumping, etc.? As for the politician’s answer, how does one walk over one’s own dead body? While most politicians seem not to care for semantics (let alone their constituencies), I am now sure they can summon an out-of-body persona at will. I can well imagine this doyen’s ghostly self, walking over his dead body, and reaching the other party. My own self is desperately seeking such out-of-body experiences. Then I too could island-hop in Antigua, while my body remains in my 1BHK, no?  — Desperately Seeking   Party Offers    Dear DeSPO,  The420-rupee question is what kind of party you want to hop to. Let me see now, there are some parties I am hearing about that are serving various mushrooms as starter items. If you attend one you can easily have out-of-body and out-of-mind experience I believe. Young Murugan from 10B was telling me that at one such party he had long conversation with washbasin throughout evening and formed warm relationship with it. In your present state of solitude, I am sure you will welcome such bonding. But perhaps you are already having liaison with soap-dish? The lockdown has made us all look for allies in unlikely places. I myself have become very partial to one rosewood coffee table and I pose it all manner of philosophical and philological queries at 3:00 a.m. The table is giving excellent responses, many of which find their way into this column. But why let l’affaire soap-dish come in the way? Any politician worth his silver hair will tell you party means hopping. Like how in Bengal, they are jumping back to mother ship like fleas leaving a dog sprayed with Notix but in U.P. they are scrambling towards father ship like dog not sprayed with Notix. Your problem is lack of ambition. You cannot think about jumping traffic lights if you want to get to Antigua. Jump bail instead. And leave country overnight. Don’t be afraid. All government agencies will look other way until you reach Antigua. Then 7-8 officers will do one jaunt on jet plane and promptly miss you there as well, then they will make another trip and another. Meanwhile, you can calmly finish sight-seeing trip with soap-dish, going from Antigua to Barbuda to Guiana to Redonda. Also remember, it’s very easy to walk over own dead body. It is common form of commuting in Kailasa. Because your body is my body is his body, you can walk over anybody without body. I am seeing this phenomenon spreading like anything nowadays. After one body is declaring pandemic is over and all are singing Hosanna, same body is smoothly gliding over many dead bodies and buying vaccine. It is called astral physics, whereby bodies can be in different places mouthing different things. Once you master this dark art, you will see world in new light. You will live in 1BHK but your other body will be travelling test-less in Goa. Your neighbour will die of COVID but his another body will get negative test report and travel to, well, Antigua. And your soap-dish will pretend to be in your suitcase while actually island-hopping with neighbour.  — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/some-body-is-a-no-body/article34862330.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Lazy play||North’s five-heart bid asked South to bid a slam with a first or secondround control in the enemy suit – spades. The five-spade bid showed a first-round control and North, with excellent trumps and a source of tricks on the side, bid the grand slam. South won the opening spade lead in hand with the ace, cashed the ace of hearts, and led a heart to dummy’s king. The 3-2 heart split made this an excellent grand slam. South drew East’s last trump with dummy’s queen and cashed three top diamonds, shedding two spades from dummy. Had the diamonds split 4-3, a diamond ruff would establish the thirteenth trick. Diamonds split 6-1, however, and South needed an extra trick from the club suit. Declarer cashed his king of clubs and led a club to dummy’s ace. Disaster! He could not set up a long club by ruffing and he drifted down one. Should he have made it? We think so. West was known to have started with only three red cards. He had overcalled only one spade at favorable vulnerability. Had he started with 6-2-1-4 distribution, wouldn’t every red-blooded bridge player have jumped to two spades instead of just bidding one spade? South should have played a club to dummy’s 10, after cashing the king, and made the contract. The odds were heavily in favor of that being the winning play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lazy-play/article34862338.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Anti-Clock||V.J James, trs Ministhy S.  Penguin Random House Rs. 599 Hendri the coffinmaker watches the world go by from his shop even as he plots revenge on Satan Loppo, who had defiled his beloved Beatrice. He meets Pundit, a 112-year-old watchmaker who is building an ‘anti-clock’, which can turn back time. But Loppo too wants the anti-clock and a battle ensues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/anti-clock/article34862294.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Firekeeper’s Daughter||Angeline Boulley  HarperCollins India Rs. 499 Eighteen-year-old Daunis’s mixed heritage has always made her feel awkward. When she witnesses a murder, she reluctantly agrees to be part of an FBI operation into drug-related deaths. The deaths multiply and soon Daunis must decide what it means to be a strong Ojibwe woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/firekeepers-daughter/article34862303.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Falling||T.J. Newman  Simon & Schuster Price not mentioned There are 143 other passengers on-board on a flight to New York. Thirty minutes before the flight, the pilot’s family is kidnapped. For his family to live, everyone on the plane must die. The only way the family will survive is if the pilot follows orders and crashes the plane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/falling/article34862305.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Animal||Lisa Taddeo  Bloomsbury Rs. 699 The novel opens with a gunshot to the head of an unrequited lover and becomes a road-trip to California, centring on a woman who is driven to kill by the violence of her past. Can the reader like the depraved woman? Described as “a hugely anticipated, compulsive thriller.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/animal/article34862307.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Why We Kneel, How We Rise||Michael Holding  Simon & Schuster Rs. 699 During a rain delay in the first Test between England and the West Indies last July, Holding spoke out about the racism he has suffered and seen all around him throughout his life. The former fast bowler shares his story, and also tales of other iconic athletes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/why-we-kneel-how-we-rise/article34862309.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Terms of Disservice: How Silicon Valley Is Destructive by Design||Dipayan Ghosh  Harper Business Rs. 599 Facebook, Google and Twitter are now beginning to recognise the misuse of their products by extremist groups and other malicious factors. Ghosh looks into the future to uncover how technology may be used to create an equitable global economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/terms-of-disservice-how-silicon-valley-is-destructive-by-design/article34862318.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The Hunt for Mount Everest||Craig Storti  Hachette India Rs. 699 The height of Mt. Everest was first measured in 1850, but the closest any westerner got to Everest during the next 71 years, until 1921, was 40 miles. This is the story of the 71-year quest to find the world’s highest mountain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-hunt-for-mount-everest/article34862320.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Smokeless War: China’s Quest for Geopolitical Dominance||Manoj Kewalramani  Bloomsbury Rs. 699 This is an account of the Communist Party of China’s political, diplomatic and narrative responses during the COVID-19 pandemic. Kewalramani discusses the Party-State’s efforts to convert a potentially existential crisis into a historic opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/smokeless-war-chinas-quest-for-geopolitical-dominance/article34862322.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3155||Across  6 Pastry’s sour: bit of tarragon the French included (7) 7 Tea room sent back plaited loaf (7) 9 The origin of Emmaus, Liebesahnung, Gloria, Arthur and Rosemary! (5) 10 Tried to listen with attention, like a judge (9) 11 Cuthbert, less bold, quivering somewhere in Low Countries (7) 13 Some boycott a warmonger: capital! (6) 15 Completes, romantically what icers do, showing enormous flair (10,5) 17 Numbers intended to be heard by more; words intended to be heard by fewer (1-5) 18 Stretchy base: perhaps Tupperware loses lid (7) 21 Honouring monarch around end of day (9) 22 A pooch rolled over, having eaten last of bleu cheese (5) 24 Unexpectedly encounter ram (3,4) 25 Health Secretary who reluctantly gave blood? (7)  Down  1 Dress up and show off (4) 2 ‘Uncle Ricky’: deep down inside, a father (6) 3 Everyman’s with drunken ‘best mate’; I’ve no idea why (2,5,2) 4 Sir, a tab’s arranged for those at the drinks counter (8) 5 Topless beekeeper going round trail: his ideas aren’t fresh! (10) 6 Brazil might prove resistant to this ballet? (3,10) 7 Announced roadside limit (4) 8 Curly hid a playing card: that’ll help in raising! (9,4) 12 Performances: when they’re extraordinary, they’re secret? (10) 14 Set free knight who’s regularly hidden assets (9) 16 ‘It’s used for plastic coating’: what Macbeth wanted to hear? (8) 19 Once clothing removed, managing to treat disorder (6) 20 Artist seen in mailroom every now and then (4) 23 Company abandoned voucher: it’s over! (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3155/article34862335.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Fake tests||A detailed investigation by the Haridwar administation found that at least 1 lakh COVID-19 test reports, of a total of 4 lakh, issued during the Kumbh festival, were forged by a private lab. The discrepancies included fake phone numbers, fictitious addresses and names. The Health Ministry said an investigation was under way. The Kumbh Mela drew a staggering 9.1 million pilgrims between January and April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fake-tests/article34862265.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Land tangle||The Aam Aadmi Party and Samajwadi Party raised allegations of fraud in the purchase of a plot of land in Ayodhya by the Ram Janmabhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust last March. They said two people bought it for Rs. 2 crore before selling it to the Trust for Rs. 18.5 crore minutes later. The Trust responded, saying the initial buyers had executed a pre-existing contract — agreed before land prices went up — before selling it to the Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/land-tangle/article34862267.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Bail or jail?||DelhiHigh Court granted bail to Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, student activists detained last year for their alleged role in the Delhi riots and charged under the draconian UAPA. The court criticised the state’s “anxiety to suppress dissent”. However, Delhi Police resisted releasing the activists while approaching the Supreme Court for a stay on bail. A Delhi court then ordered their immediate release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bail-or-jail/article34862269.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Party implosion||Five out of six MPs of the Lok Janshakti Party rebelled against party president Chirag Paswan and elected his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as leader of the parliamentary party. Paswan expelled the rebels in turn. Discontent has brewed since the Bihar election last year, when Paswan chose to oppose Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) despite being allies in the NDA. Paras emphasised his loyalty to the NDA and praised Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/party-implosion/article34862271.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Case closed||The Supreme Court quashed the cases against the two Italian marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, accused of killing two fishermen off the Kerala coast in 2012. It then closed all proceedings against them in India. This follows an international tribunal’s ruling last year that Italy should take up the investigation. As per the tribunal’s award, Italy deposited Rs. 10 crore as compensation to the victims’ families and the owner of the vessel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/case-closed/article34862273.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Twitter booked||After a video, in which a 72-year-old man in Ghaziabad, Abdul Samad Saifi, alleged that several people had assaulted him, chopped off his beard, and forced him to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’, went viral, Uttar Pradesh Police denied any communal angle to the attack. They then booked Twitter, Congress leaders, and journalists for tweeting the video and trying to “create animosity between Hindus and Muslims”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/twitter-booked/article34862275.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Truce broken||Soon after a new coalition government led by Naftali Bennett took office in Israel, a march by far-right Jewish nationalists in Jerusalem’s Old City stoked tensions with Palestinians once again. Incendiary balloons were launched from Palestinian territory in response, setting fires in fields in Israel. Israel responded with another round of air strikes against Hamas sites in Gaza, disrupting the fragile truce wrought after 11 days of deadly fighting last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/truce-broken/article34862277.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Do excess deaths suggest mortality crossed one million?||If the official count as on May 15 was over 0.27 million deaths in India since the pandemic began, based on modelling, The Economist had estimated around one million COVID-19 deaths as on May 15. Against a daily tally of over 4,000 deaths in May this year, the report estimated between 6,000 and 31,000 excess deaths per day. The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) estimated that India will have one million COVID-19 deaths by August 1. Based on modelling, a few Indian researchers outside India too had predicted that unrecorded COVID-19 deaths since the beginning of the pandemic might be at least five times greater, taking the total COVID-19 deaths in India to over one million. “We have estimated death underreporting by a factor of two-five in the first wave. Now with the surge, the reporting infrastructure has probably eclipsed dramatically. So I expect the underreporting of deaths to be massive right now,” Dr. Bhramar Mukherjee, Professor of Epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of Michigan told The Hindu on April 24. State-to-State variation “I think that underreporting varies a lot from State to State, and possibly also over time. Even within States, it is probably different in urban and rural areas. Many of the estimates (including my own median estimate of five times) are based on 2020 data. It’s too early to know whether underreporting has been higher during this wave, but as more data comes in, this will become clearer,” Dr. Murad Banaji who has been modelling COVID-19 and a senior lecturer in Mathematics at Middlesex University, London says in an email to The Hindu. “It may be that the speed of the surge meant that fewer of the deceased were tested, fewer received hospital care, and more died at home. All of these factors would tend to increase underreporting.” While the official cumulative COVID-19 death toll stands at over 0.385 million (3.85 lakh) as on June 18, the actual count might far exceed the one-million mark if the models are to be believed. Besides modelling studies, all-cause mortality numbers from India’s Civil Registration System (CRS) from Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Assam do indicate that COVID-19 deaths in the country might be much greater than the official figures. Excess deaths registered Based on data from the Civil Registration System, from January to May this year Madhya Pradesh reported 42 times excess deaths while Andhra Pradesh reported 34 times excess deaths. In comparison, Tamil Nadu reported 6.2 times more deaths from April last year to May 2021, and Karnataka reported five times the reported deaths in 2021. The excess deaths in the four large States have exceeded 0.5 million in the first five months of 2021 as against around 46,000 reported COVID-19 deaths in these States this year. “Not all these ‘excess deaths’ need to be COVID-19 but they are pandemic-related, in the sense that we would not be seeing them if the pandemic was not around,” says Chinmay Tumbe, Assistant Professor at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad and author of the book, ‘The Age of Pandemics’. “These four States comprise 21% of India and collectively are showing an under-reporting factor above 10. I would estimate the lower bound for excess deaths for all-India for the first five months of 2021 at 1.5 million.” Dr. Banaji is a little more cautious while interpreting excess deaths based on civil registration data but does agree that it serves as a pointer to huge underreporting of COVID-19 deaths. “Civil registration data is not always easy to interpret, and we have to remember that civil registration is not complete in every State. Bearing this in mind, and bearing in mind that we can’t assume that the excess deaths are all from COVID-19, the all-cause mortality data coming through strongly suggests – as suspected – that underreporting of COVID-19 deaths is a major and widespread problem,” he says. Additional, indirect evidence of the shocking rise in mortality during the second wave came from far in excess cremations seen in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, and a huge number of bodies floating in Ganges and buried on the banks of the river in Uttar Pradesh. “The speed of the surge means that the rise in mortality became very clear whether we look at obituaries, cremations, news reports from villages, or registration data,” Dr. Banaji says. “The excess cremations and bodies floating in the river may provide some empirical evidence for underreporting of deaths, but any conclusive statement cannot be made without reviewing linked medical certificates and/or verbal autopsies,” cautions Dr. Tanmay Mahapatra, epidemiologist and public health expert in an email. Despite ICMR guidelines on appropriate recording of COVID-19 deaths, many States simply did not record deaths as due to COVID-19 in the absence of positive test results, leading to many COVID-19 deaths being missed. According to the guidelines, suspected COVID-19 deaths which are not confirmed through testing should be reported as such. The same applies to comorbidities. States such as Gujarat wrongly claimed to be following ICMR guidelines when deaths of patients with comorbidities were not counted. Role of variants Besides testing capabilities being stretched beyond capacity during the second wave, Dr. Mahapatra points out the role of variants in returning negative results even when the patient has COVID-19 symptoms. “There was some concern that newer variants are somewhat altering the sensitivity of the tests,” he says. “If we applied our current protocols to the 1918 influenza pandemic, we would find that no one died of influenza in India even though the estimates are now placed at 20 million,” says Dr. Tumbe. “The reason: No one was ‘tested’ for influenza back then and the government had the common sense to note that if you died of a fever in late 1918, there was a high chance that it was influenza. We need to acknowledge that we have missed out on a large number of deaths due to the insistence that only those tested positive can be considered COVID-19 dead.” If Maharashtra added 1,328 deaths and Delhi reconciled 437 deaths after an audit in June 2020, Chennai added 444 deaths to COVID-19 toll in July last year based on the recommendations of a Death Reconciliation Committee. Bihar recently added nearly 4,000 deaths to its tally after auditing COVID-19 deaths. But these were restricted to private hospitals and clinics. But the auditing did not include rural areas and deaths that had happened outside the healthcare facilities. “It is unlikely that a reconciliation like the one which occurred would capture these deaths. As civil registration in Bihar is also weak, to capture the scale of mortality in the State, surveying (as in Jharkhand) will be needed,” Dr. Banaji says. Jharkhand became the first State to conduct a door-to-door counting of deaths during April-May 2021; it covered three-fourths of the total population. The State added nearly 25,500 more COVID-19 deaths, which is 43% more than the reported data. Verbal autopsy fills a critical gap in measuring mortality from COVID-19 for deaths that occur outside of healthcare settings and in rural areas. “In such scenarios where there is limited cause of death data, verbal autopsies have been recognised as a scientifically valid method of estimating cause-specific mortality,” says Dr. Mahapatra. Emphasising the importance of verbal autopsy Dr. Banaji says, “Jharkhand has set a good example by doing this survey. Trying to accurately measure mortality over the course of the pandemic is crucial to understanding its impact. Verbal autopsying can be a valuable element in such surveying.” Though Mumbai and Delhi witnessed a huge number of cases in both waves, one can expect underreporting in cities to be on a lower scale than in rural areas but cannot be ruled out. “We know that underreporting in cities can also be high. The impacts on marginalised communities may not be captured in death registration data. So, even in cities, it’s crucial to have civil registration data, and ideally mortality surveying to assess the pandemic’s impact,” says Dr. Banaji. Incorrect classification For instance, excess deaths that went unrecorded were five times in Bengaluru since January this year and 10 times in Hyderabad during the period April 2020 to May this year. “It is hard to know why this factor is so high, and whether we’ll see similarly high underreporting from other cities during this wave when they release mortality data. It is possible that the speed and scale of the surge meant that more people died at home without being tested. It is also possible that a large number of deaths were incorrectly classified,” says Dr. Banaji. “These examples show that while we might, in general, expect reporting from cities to be better than from rural areas, we cannot always assume that this will be the case,” Dr. Banaji adds. In most cases, cities have access to medical certification and have the data within the public system to know what the actual number of excess deaths is. So it should not take much time to analyse the data. It is important to note that transparency and timeliness in death reporting are integral for the success of health emergencies and in ensuring better preparedness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/do-excess-deaths-suggest-mortality-crossed-one-million/article34862435.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Dog language now falls in line: pattern analysis study||A pattern-analysis study of free-ranging dogs has come up with an interesting result that compares the language used by dogs with that of humans and other phenomena. The interdisciplinary study, which used a dataset of about 5,000 sightings of stray dogs, showed the existence of a power law dependence of dog behaviour that was a lot similar to graphs of human language. A member of the team walked on randomly chosen streets and whenever a dog was seen, its behaviour at that instant was noted by them. “This way, we got a population-level random sample of behaviours of dogs at different places and times. We had a corpus of 93 unique [examples of] behaviour,” says Arunita Banerjee, a PhD student at the Behaviour and Ecology Lab, in the Department of Biological Sciences at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata. She is an author of the paper describing the work which has been accepted for publication in the journal Heliyon and has been posted online. Power laws Power law dependences are seen in many places in nature and in structures made by humans. An example of this is the set of words in a corpus – namely, if you take each word, count its frequency of occurrence and rank the words according to their frequency, and then make a log-log plot of the rank on the X-axis and frequency on the Y-axis, you will see that the plotted points all fall on a straight line with a slope -1 (minus one). “Power-law dependencies suggest that there is, or are, underlying mechanisms(s), but extracting those mechanisms is not enabled by the power-law distribution, and requires further analyses of the time series,” says Ayan Banerjee from the Department of Physical Sciences of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata, who is a corresponding author of the paper. The present study works on the premise that the dogs’ language is a complex one involving intricate behavioural displays – gestures, vocalisations, movements, mating rituals etc. From the dataset of 5,000 sightings, the group ranked the gestures according to the frequency of use and constructed a log-log plot. The plot approximated a straight line with a slope equal to -1.7 (minus 1.7). Multifractal behaviour The group also observed a multifractal characteristic of the data. As explained by Nirmalya Ghosh, from the Department of Physical Sciences, IISER Kolkata, and an author of the paper: “When we plot the rank-frequency curve in a log-log scale, we observe that different sections of the data fit different straight lines (that is, they have different slopes). This implies they have different power law dependencies which is indicative of a multi-fractal nature.” As Ayan Banerjee explains, “From a pure probability-based statistical analysis, one would expect that a high probability event would be the most likely to happen, and thus a rare-occurence event would be immediately followed by a common one.” Thus, it would seem likely that a dog barking, would be followed by it sleeping – which is not what actually occurs in reality. “However, the multifractal analysis tells us that behaviours of particular ranks are clustered together. This implies that a behaviour of a particular rank is likely to be followed by one of a similar rank,” he adds. The idea for this study came up to Anindita Bhadra, a corresponding author of the paper, from the Behaviour and Ecology Lab, Department of Biological Sciences at IISER Kolkata, when she heard a talk by Ronojoy Adhikari, of The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. He presented a very interesting piece of work in which they had used the Zipf-Mandelbrot law to claim that the markings of the Indus valley seals are a language. She says, “I started wondering, whether we could do the same with data on animal behaviour and proposed doing this with Arunita's data. She had been collecting the data for a different study, and she jumped in.” According to Dr. Bhadra, this is a tool that can be explored by other behavioural biologists to understand the mysteries of their model systems.  The log-log plot of the rank-frequency curve was approximately a straight line with negative slope equal to -1.7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/dog-language-now-falls-in-line-pattern-analysis-study/article34862427.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Are your staple rice and wheat losing their nutrients?||Rice, domesticated by humans over 10,000 years ago has now become the staple food for more than three billion people. But today’s rice does not have the same density of essential nutrients as those cultivated 50 years ago, notes a new study. Researchers from various institutes under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya found depleting trends in grain density of zinc and iron in rice and wheat cultivated in India. The findings were published last month in Environmental and Experimental Botany.  The team collected seeds of rice (16 varieties) and wheat (18 varieties) from the gene bank maintained at the ICAR-National Rice Research Institute, Chinsurah Rice Research Station and ICAR-Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research. Cultivar repositories “These are nodal institutes that preserve and archive the old cultivars or varieties from our country. These institutes are repositories of genetic materials. If you want to study the genuine variety, or as botanists call them, ‘the true type’ of a plant, these institutes are your source,” explains Professor Biswapati Mandal from the Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya, West Bengal, and one of the corresponding authors of the paper. The collected seeds were germinated in the laboratory, sown in pots and kept under an ambient environment outdoors. They were treated with the necessary fertilizers and the post-harvest seeds were studied for their nutrient content. Falling nutrients The team noted that zinc and iron concentrations in grains of rice cultivars released in the 1960s were 27.1 mg/kg and 59.8 mg/kg. This depleted to 20.6 mg/kg and 43.1 mg/kg, respectively in the 2000s. In wheat, the concentrations of zinc and iron --- 33.3 mg/kg and 57.6 mg/kg in cultivars of the 1960s, dropped to 23.5 mg/kg and 46.4 mg/kg, respectively in cultivars released during the 2010s. Sovan Debnath, the first author of the paper explains: “There could be several possible reasons for such depletion: one is a 'dilution effect' that is caused by decreased nutrient concentration in response to higher grain yield. This means the rate of yield increase is not compensated by the rate of nutrient take-up by the plants. Also, the soils supporting plants could be low in plant-available nutrients.” He is a doctoral researcher at Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya and a scientist for ICAR. “Zinc and iron deficiency affects billions of people globally and the countries with this deficiency have diets composed mainly of rice, wheat, corn, and barley. Though the Indian government has taken initiatives such as providing supplementation pills to school children, it is not enough. We need to concentrate on other options like biofortification, where we breed food crops that are rich in micronutrients,” he adds. Not sustainable The paper concludes that “growing newer-released (1990s and later) cultivars of rice and wheat cannot be a sustainable option to alleviate zinc and iron malnutrition in Indian population. These negative effects need to be circumvented by improving the grain ionome (that is, nutritional make-up)…while releasing cultivars in future breeding programmes”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/are-your-staple-rice-and-wheat-losing-their-nutrients/article34862424.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Magical setae of spiders||Do spiders have sticky feet? Spiders do not have sticky or adhesive pads like frogs and lizards, instead, they have toe pads covered in tiny, branched hairs. Called 'setae', these hairs are also found in geckos and certain beetles. Each hair is just one-hundredth of one millimetre thick. The feet of wandering spider Cupiennius salei is made up of about 2,400 'setae' and a study published last month (Frontiers in Mechanical Engineering) found that each hair showed unique adhesive properties. The research team from Germany studied how each hair sticks to rough and smooth surfaces, including sandpapers, glass, epoxy resin. They also looked at how the hairs stuck at different contact angles. Group leader Clemens Schaber of the University of Kiel said in a release that the adhesion forces largely differed between the individual hairs, for example, one hair adhered best at a low angle with the substrate while the other one performed best close to a perpendicular alignment. The team writes that this variety helps spiders climb different surfaces. The team studied the hairs under hi-tech microscopes to understand their structure. They found that each hair was different and had previously unrecognised structural arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/magical-setae-of-spiders/article34862425.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Betting on Father’s Hour||I’m a great dad, don’t get me wrong, but Father’s Day terrifies me. It’s another date I’m reminded that I forgot. If you really want a Dad’s Day, it should be up to us dads to pick any one. Like casual leave. I’ll take it whenever I want to. Huge extended family function? Sorry, I can’t make it – I’m having a Father’s Day. Else, allow us a Father’s Hour — 24 of them to permutate. There’s the match and I’m claiming my Father’s Hour. With about 5,000 calories in deep-fried snacks and a remote control within arm’s reach. And of legitimately being emotionally unavailable (which is non-bailable jailable in the wife’s eyes). It’s not true that I never listen. I devoutly listen to the chaps in the commentary box who are kindly celebrating Father’s Hour with me, whether they’re fathers or not. What makes Father’s Day even more alarming is being asked what I want to do. The para above, obviously. But this ‘What I want to do’ is intricately linked to ‘What we want to do’ as a family. It’s a devious trap. The last time we did this family time, it clashed with the Roland Garros finals. So we sat through a family movie, with puppies and babies, which got my wife weeping. I was weeping too. Real tears. Because my friend kept pinging me about the nail-biting first set. I was so emotionally available, emotionally overwrought even - that I had to rush to the loo, to get him to aim his video at his TV. I returned to find that the puppy was still lost, or was it the grandpa? And they unfairly stayed lost through the second set as well. What I’d like on Father’s Day is not to be asked trick questions. And really, they’re all trick questions. Which section is the kid in? What is the history teacher’s surname? Did you remember to buy fabric softener — I said so thrice? Do I look fatter in this or this? Do you remember what we said 11 years, 3 months and 15 days ago in the veranda at Isha’s baby shower? I remember neither the baby nor its shower and only remember Isha for reasons you won’t want to know. For Father’s Day, listen to my answers, though. Permanent answers which never change. To kid #1, you’re too young for a boyfriend, and you always will be. To kid #2, no, your haircut doesn’t suit you, and what it costs doesn’t suit me. To both: I’m not paying your criminally-high fees for your vocabulary to comprise single alphabets like k, or c u. Actually, Father’s Day isn’t so bad. Those kind chaps have planned the Euro Cup fixtures around it. Let’s celebrate it with some family time and weep together — at the sheer beauty of this pass or that impossible save — and re-watch old matches for the 19th time. We’ll have such a great Father’s Day, you may just forget to remind me about it from the next year on. Where Jane De Suza, the author of Happily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/betting-on-fathers-hour/article34862615.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Row over study on bat viruses in Nagaland||The story so far: This week,The Hinducarried a government inquiry report on a 2019 study conducted by Indian institutions on bat viruses in the Mimi village area of Kiphire district in Nagaland. The report referred to the need to ensure that studies follow all regulations in order to pandemic-proof the future.  Why is it in the news? In December 2019  , the Union Ministry of Health began an inquiry into the study as it felt that appropriate permissions had not been taken by the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) before accepting foreign funding and collaborations for the study. The study, published in October 2019, was funded by “a United States Department of Defense, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, Broad Agency Announcement grant for the project ‘Bat harvesting in India: Detection, characterization and mitigation of emerging infectious disease risk’”, the Biological Defense Research Directorate of the U.S. Naval Medical Research Center, as well as the Indian Department of Atomic Energy (DAE). Of the 12 authors, three were from India, five from the Duke-National University of Singapore Medical School, and two each from the U.S. Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences and the Wuhan Institute of Virology. The government investigation and subsequent queries spoke of “concerning lapses” in the study protocols and also questioned whether the bat samples (nucleic acid extracts) should be stored at the NCBS, Bengaluru or at the National Institute of Virology lab in Pune run by the ICMR, which has a higher Biosafety Level-4 standard rating.  What did the NCBS claim? The NCBS denied all the charges in a statement in February 2020. Recently, its director, Satyajit Mayor, toldThe Hinduthat he had no knowledge of any lapses. He had earlier said the government had given NCBS an “all-clear”. The NCBS also said that it had received its clearances from the DAE, although the government’s 1987 rules on funding collaborations give the Health Ministry and the ICMR the final say. The NCBS also denied that the contribution of Shi Zhengli, known as China’s ‘Bat Woman’ for her studies on virus transmissions, was anything more than the supply of “chemical reagents”. However, the study lists Dr. Shi as having “reviewed writing and editing” of the paper.  Is there a Wuhan connection to the Indian study? No, say both officials and scientists. The Indian study looked at filoviruses (such as Ebola and Marburg), while the Wuhan studies, which originally collaborated with the U.S. University of North Carolina (UNC) and were funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), looked at coronaviruses SARS and MERS. However, as demands grow for more transparency in collaborations with the Wuhan Institute, which was inspected as part of the World Health Organization’s study into the origins of the pandemic, there is a renewed focus on the NCBS-TIFR study. In the U.S., Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases under the NIH, was questioned at a Congressional hearing in May this year about the NIH funding and the Wuhan-UNC studies. In an interview toThe New York Timesthis week, Dr. Shi denied that any regulations had been flouted at her labs, saying there was “no evidence” for theories of an accidental release of the SARS-CoV-2. The WHO study also concluded that the “lab-leak” theory was unlikely, but required more study. U.S. President Joseph Biden has ordered intelligence agencies to provide a conclusive finding by the end of August on whether the COVID-19 pandemic was caused by natural transmission or a lab-leak. Earlier this month, Canada’s Parliament voted to have their Public Health Agency (PHAC) release documents on the collaboration between its National Microbiology Lab in Winnipeg and the Wuhan Institute of Virology, on Ebola and Henipah viruses.  What next? Significantly, the Centre has not pursued its questioning on the U.S. funding and the Wuhan collaboration in the case of the Nagaland study with NCBS-TIFR without ICMR approval, and has confined its inquiry to the storage of samples. However, the ongoing pandemic with new variations is expected to trigger more public scrutiny into future research. Some scientists have voiced concerns about a “chilling effect” in the name of bio-security, on much needed scientific freedoms for research, which involves the collection of possibly infectious samples and studies on mutations. As long as the issue of the origin of the virus that was first detected in Wuhan remains unresolved, questions will linger.  As demands grow for transparency in collaborations with the Wuhan Institute, which was inspected as part of the WHO’s study into the origins of the pandemic, there is a renewed focus on the Indian study||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/row-over-study-on-bat-viruses-in-nagaland/article34862358.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||14 days of Covishield stock for youth: Atishi||The downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued in the national capital with 135 new infections being reported over 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. The total number of cases now stands at 14,32,168, Seven deaths were also reported, pushing the toll to 24,907. A total of 75,687 tests were conducted in a day, the bulletin added. Of the total cases, 14,04,889 people have recovered and there are 2,372 active cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.18%. The TPR was as high as 36% on April 22 and has been coming down since then. Aam Aadmi Party leader Atishi on Saturday said Delhi received 1.67 lakh doses of Covishield on Friday for the 18 to 44 age group and now the government has 2.95 lakh vaccines available for the youth. Low on Covaxin “Two days of Covaxin and 14 days of Covishield stock are available for the youth. We appeal to the youth of Delhi to book slots through the CoWin app and get themselves vaccinated... A total of 8.46 lakh vaccine doses are available for the above 45 years age category, six days Covaxin and 58 days Covishield stock is available,” the AAP leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/14-days-of-covishield-stock-for-youth-atishi/article34862638.ece
20 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘H.P. BJP leaders may join Cong.’||After his week-long visit to Himachal Pradesh in the wake of his appointment as co-incharge for the party affairs in the State, Sanjay Dutt feels the Congress is all set to dethrone the BJP government in the Assembly polls due late next year. The party’s mission is to ‘Save Himachal’ from the misrule of the BJP. Mr. Dutt, who is also All India Congress Committee secretary, told The Hindu that the BJP government in the State has failed to fulfil its election promises and not only the people of the State, but many of its own leaders are annoyed and disappointed by the governance. “The BJP in Himachal Pradesh is facing deep factionalism. The government has failed to deliver on all fronts. There are several disgruntled leaders in the BJP, who are in touch with us, who want to switch sides. While I can’t name them till talks get materialised, but I can assure that there’s a lot of discontent and factionalism within the BJP,” said Mr. Dutt. ‘BJP’s misgovernance’ “In the last four years there has been a complete misgovernance. The mishandling of COVID-19 is the latest example of poor governance. Especially in rural areas where heath facilities are poor, people are suffering badly. The BJP’s failed governance has taken the State back at least 20 years,” he said. “People expected development in the State when they voted the BJP to power, but instead what they got is rise in unemployment, poor roads, collapsing heath sector and pitiable development of infrastructure. The government failed to do anything concrete for the tourism and allied sectors. The people voted the BJP to power in Himachal as they fell for its ‘double engine’ story. Himachal Pradesh has been completely neglected by the BJP-led Centre,” he said. Dismissing that there’s any factionalism in the Congress’s State unit, Mr. Dutt said, “As far as the Congress is concerned, every senior leader has assured that they are united to bring back a Congress government in the State in 2022. I am positive and optimistic that everyone will put joint efforts to achieve the party’s mission. We have to save Himachal and our party stands united to achieve this objective. Suggestions have come up about being more aggressive to raise people-centric issues at macro and micro levels,” he added. Mr. Dutt said during his recent visit, he had one-to-one interactions with senior party leaders, MLAs, office-bearers and workers and frontal organisations. He said he would reach out to the party workers at the block levels. ‘Outreach plan’ “I will try to reach out to every worker at the block level in the Assembly segments. When we need to get the pulse of any Assembly and block segment, then the ideal way is to go there and meet workers and leaders. My priority is to focus on the 2022 Assembly election and upcoming bypolls for the Mandi Lok Sabha and the two Assembly segments of Fatehpur in Kangra and Jubbal Kotkhai in Shimla district. Besides, we are soon launching the COVID-19 outreach campaign. The party would be reaching out to the front-line health workers and those severely affected by the virus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hp-bjp-leaders-may-join-cong/article34862900.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The debate around gain-of-function research||The story so far: With the re-emergence of the lab-leak origin theory for the SARS-CoV-2, questions are also being raised on what gain-of-function research is, and whether the benefits of conducting such research outweigh the risk of pathogens escaping from labs. The Wuhan Institute of Virology was said to have conducted gain-of-function research on coronaviruses. What is gain-of-function research? In virology, gain-of-function research involves deliberately altering an organism in the lab, altering a gene, or introducing a mutation in a pathogen to study its transmissibility, virulence and immunogenicity. It is believed that this allows researchers to study potential therapies, vaccine possibilities and ways to control the disease better in future. “Gain-of-function research involves manipulations that make certain pathogenic microbes more deadly or more transmissible. This is done by genetically engineering the virus and by allowing them to grow in different growth mediums, a technique called as serial passage,” says Abdul Ghafur, senior consultant, infectious diseases, Apollo Hospitals. There is also ‘loss-of-function’ research, which involves inactivating mutations, resulting in a significant loss of original function, or no function to the pathogen. When mutations occur, they alter the structure of the virus that is being studied, resulting in altered functions. Some of these significant mutations might weaken the virus or enhance its function. Some forms of gain-of-function research reportedly carry inherent biosafety and biosecurity risks and are thus referred to as ‘dual-use research of concern’ (DURC). This indicates that while the research may result in benefits for humanity, there is also the potential to cause harm — accidental or deliberate escape of these altered pathogens from labs may cause even pandemics. Thomas Briese of Columbia University described gain-of-function research done in the laboratory as being a “proactive” approach to understand what will eventually happen in nature, during a 2014 seminar on ‘Potential Risks and Benefits of Gain-of-Function Research’. Kanta Subbarao, who was then with the Laboratory of Infectious Diseases at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), U.S., said in the seminar that current medical countermeasures are often insufficient largely because of resistance mechanisms that lead to ‘escape mutants’, i.e., drug-resistant strains. There is, hence, a continual need to develop new antiviral drugs and additional options, such as immunotherapy, based on neutralising monoclonal antibodies. Ultimately, gain-of-function studies, which enhance viral yield and immunogenicity, are required for vaccine development. What is the situation in India? In India, all activities related to genetically engineered organisms or cells and hazardous microorganisms and products are regulated as per the “Manufacture, Use, Import, Export and Storage of Hazardous Microorganisms/Genetically Engineered Organisms or Cells Rules, 1989”. Last year, the Department of Biotechnology issued guidelines for the establishment of containment facilities, called ‘Biosafety labs’, at levels two and three. The notification provides operational guidance on the containment of biohazards and levels of biosafety that all institutions involved in research, development and handling of these microorganisms must comply with.  Should research continue? Scientists have differing opinions on the issue, particularly since the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic. While those on the side of gain-of-function research say that it makes science and governments battle-ready for future pandemics, there have been a rising number of calls to suspend such research. Proponents of gain-of-function research believe that “nature is the ultimate bioterrorist and we need to do all we can to stay one step ahead”. Dr. Ghafur, who thinks it is time to stop such research, says, “Unfortunately, scientists have crossed all boundaries and created monster chimeric viruses.” In the U.S., after COVID-19 struck, concerns were raised to ensure greater transparency about such research. In 2014, the country paused funding for three years for such research until steps could be taken to ensure the safety of the procedure. The Scientific American says in a report that science policymakers “must wrestle with defining the rare instances in which the benefits of experiments that enhance a virus’s capacity to survive and flourish in human hosts outweigh any risks.” At the World Health Organization (WHO), the Science Division leads activities on DURC and responsible use of life sciences research, focusing on mitigation and prevention of biorisks and associated ethical issues. Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, WHO, says that in 2020, the Department organised three DURC Dialogues with academies and councils, science editors and publishers, and donors of life sciences research. The stakeholders also called on the WHO to develop a Global Guidance Framework for member states to follow. The organisation initiated the development of that Framework and organised a consultative meeting in March 2021. Work is on to address key topics as part of the Framework.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-debate-around-gain-of-function-research/article34862364.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI/GURUGRAM,||Adapting to a year of disruption||The year of disruption — 2020 — not only threw challenges on the health front but also impact many other aspects of life. In times of COVID-19, a large population, especially daily wagers, saw a sudden loss of livelihood. Several professions, where maintaining social distancing was implausible, were impacted more than the others. Faced with questions on survival, people engaged in various jobs experimented and innovated for the “new normal”. In 2021, we see the fruits as many have managed to overcome hurdles and remain afloat. Sex workers were, perhaps, among the worst-hit. But the practitioners of the world’s oldest profession have gradually embraced technology over the past year to overcome the economic hardship caused by the contagious nature of the novel coronavirus. While the nature of their work remains mostly the same, many sex workers and their clients in Delhi have, given the circumstances imposed on them by the virus, taken to video and phone calling for business. Virtual sex workers “This change happened right after the national lockdown last year. We were getting negligible to no clients since people feared getting infected by COVID due to what we do for a living and a significant proportion of the social class we cater to had migrated back home,” said * Jyoti, a “virtual sex worker”. Associated with the trade for seven to eight years, Ms. Jyoti said she now worked over the phone from an office with five to six other professionals like her. Though the fee is less compared to what was charged offline, it happens to be their sole means of sustenance. Delhi’s red-light district on Garstin Bastion (GB) Road, officially called Shradhanand Marg, with an estimated 68 kothas (brothels) and around 5,000 sex workers, has borne an increasingly debilitating brunt due to the ongoing pandemic. A large number of the professionals remain put despite earnings slashed by as much as 75%. Some have reportedly left for their hometowns while others have branched out becoming either “domestic sex workers” who invite patrons' homes or into the virtual realm. “I go to an office with a few other girls where clients connect with us over the phone or video calls. It’s mostly video calls. Old clients are among the ones we serve the most, but we also get new ones. Sometimes people default on making payments, so we make it a point to receive the digital payment first,” she added. “In fact, these old clients and NGOs have helped us survive over the last year, not any government. Our old clients sent money without even being asked for help and NGOs helped us with food. All we got from the government was 4kg of bad quality wheat,” Ms. Jyoti complained. Thousands of autorickshaw drivers, mostly migrants, across the National Capital Region too were badly impacted due to COVID-induced lockdown last year and the continued closure of offices, schools, and scaled-down operations of metro services and trains till date. Though many left for their hometowns, a few took up odd jobs to survive. But a few like, Santosh Tripathi from Gurugram, thought innovatively to turn their autorickshaws into mobile vegetable carts. More than a year later, Mr. Tripathi does not regret his decision. “Two of my brothers also worked as autorickshaw drivers before the pandemic hit. But they were reluctant to adapt to the changed circumstances. They have gone back home hoping to return after the things become normal,” said Mr. Tripathi. But it was not easy for Mr. Tripathi to adapt to the new way of life. “I drove around for two days after the lockdown was lifted last year but it was hard to find a passenger. Since I had earlier worked as a vegetable vendor, I decided to return to my old work. I contacted my old customers in the group housing societies in Sector 15 Part-II and started selling the vegetables,” said Mr. Tripathi. He may not be earning much, but it is enough to sustain his family of four. “It is difficult to know what lies ahead, but after this experience I am prepared to face come what may,” sighed Mr. Tripathi. Taking advantage of apps The past year has also seen the shutting down of many saloons across the National Capital Region, rendering countless hair-dressers jobless. Many of them have now registered themselves with the apps offering life-style services to tide over the crisis. “Saloon owners were also among those impacted by the pandemic,” said Shahzad Ahmad, who shut his decade-old saloon in HUDA Market Sector 5 last year during the lockdown. For the first few months of lockdown, Mr. Ahmad paid the shop’s rent — around Rs. 40,000 per month — and salary to his staff of four but soon realised that it was unsustainable. “Meanwhile four saloon shops in the market area were also shut. I soon realised that I need to adapt to a new way of doing things. Since customers were scared to return to saloons, we needed to reach out to them at their homes. I then registered myself with an app for saloon services,” said Mr. Ahmad. A year later, Mr. Ahmad earns almost at par with his earnings before the pandemic. “Initially I had difficulty in adapting to the new way of working. I had support staff for cleaning earlier, but now I need to do it on my own. But I have learnt it,” said Mr. Ahmad, proudly proclaiming that he was among those with the highest rating on the app.  *(Name changed on request)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/adapting-to-a-year-of-disruption/article34862644.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Delta plus’ and an emerging public health threat||The story so far: Scientists around the world and in India are concerned about ‘Delta plus’, an emerging form of the Delta variant of the novel coronavirus, which allows it to “escape” antibodies in recently approved treatment regimes. What is the Delta plus variant? Formally known as AY.1 or B.1.617.2.1, it’s a variant of Delta (B.1.617.2), which was first identified in India. It has an additional mutation called K417N, which has previously been identified in the Beta variant (first found in South Africa) and the Gamma variant (first detected in Brazil). These variants are characterised as being highly infectious and may reduce the potency of vaccines. Five Indian labs submitted data on this modified variant in May and June to the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID). Seven of the around 28,000 coronavirus genomes sequenced out of India so far reportedly belong to the AY.1 lineage. Globally, 143 genomes have been labelled as AY.1 so far and reported from Nepal, Portugal, Switzerland, Poland, Japan, Russia, Turkey, United Kingdom, France, United States and Canada, besides India. At 45, the U.K. has reported the maximum number of instances, followed by Switzerland (23), and Portugal (21). The number of cases reported from a country is not always indicative of the prevalence of the variant and has to do with the extent of genome sequencing of virus samples. The U.K. has sequenced nearly 466,437 samples and reported 45 cases, the U.S. has sequenced 549,164 samples and reported 12 cases, whereas the number of samples India has sequenced is only about 5% (28,065) of these figures. Why is it an area of concern? The Delta variant is now regarded as the most prevalent one in India, comprising nearly 31% of the 21,000 community samples processed until late May. This variant has significant differences compared to the strain that has been used by pharma companies to design vaccines, and tests are needed to check if the existing vaccines continue to be effective against the variants dominant now. Tests in the U.K., South Africa, and Brazil have shown that vaccines, while effective, appear to produce fewer antibodies when confronted with variants such as Delta. The concern is that because the Delta variant has a cavalcade of mutations that have allowed it to dominate in several countries, including India, another form may pose new challenges to the management of the pandemic in India. The ICMR-National Institute of Virology and the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad have conducted laboratory tests to determine the potency of Covishield and Covaxin against the Delta variant. While antibodies continued to be produced against the variant, they were fewer than those produced against the strain used by companies to prepare their vaccines. However, antibody levels are not the only markers of immunity. There is little evidence so far specifically linking AY.1 to large outbreaks and significant disease transmission, which is why it has not yet appeared in the World Health Organization’s list of ‘Variants of Concern’, which includes Alpha, Beta, Delta, and Gamma variants. Early reports say AY.1 is diverging into two sub-lineages — one cluster has been found in California, and a larger cluster comprises sequences from eight other countries including Nepal, India and the U.K. Can existing drugs help? An additional concern with the AY.1 is the presence of the K417N mutation. According to a database of the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), the mutation was associated with resistance to a newly developed monoclonal antibody treatment drug, Casirivimab and Imdevimab, for those with moderate and severe disease but at high risk. Marketed by Roche and Cipla in India, the drug was recently approved by India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. The price of each patient dose (a combined dose of 1200 mg — 600 mg of Casirivimab and 600 mg of Imdevimab) will be Rs. 59,750, inclusive of taxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delta-plus-and-an-emerging-public-health-threat/article34862362.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||500 astronomy labs yet to see light of day||Aryan Mishra, 21, son of a newspaper seller, made headlines when he discovered an asteroid at the age of 14. He was set to build astronomy labs in government schools in 2019 after being approached by the Central government. The idea hasn’t taken off yet and he and his colleagues Shishirant Rahul, Shakeel Ahmad, and Naveen Sharma have been able to set up only 15 labs across the country, including in only three government schools in Jammu, Leh and Kargil. “The government’s idea was to set up 500 astronomy labs across the country. I don’t know why the idea hasn’t taken off yet. Delhi government schools have done well over the last few years. I hope we can take the idea forward. Unfortunately, I haven’t been able to meet Delhi Deputy Chief Minster Manish Sisodia. I have tried many times though,” Mr. Mishra, now a third-year BSc student of a private university said. He is studying on scholarship. Could not fund studies The idea of astronomy lab — a start-up called Spark Astronomy — was conceived in 2018 when Mr. Mishra had just graduated from Class 12 and had got into several universities in the U.S. but had to cancel his plans because he couldn’t arrange the funds. “Honestly, I thought that with this start-up, I’ll also be able to fund my education but unfortunately, that didn’t happen. And the whole idea behind it was to make science accessible and easy for those who are interested,” he said. The lab — which roughly costs Rs. 4.5 lakh — has telescopes, planispheres, moon mapping catalogue among other articles. Now, this group of four is working towards making low-cost telescopes so those who want to see the sky can see it freely. The feeling was invoked because of Mr. Mishra’s personal experience as a child and the hardships he had to face coming from a humble background. He was born to Birbal Mishra and Shashi Mishra, both uneducated who had come to the city from their hometown in Uttar Pradesh in search of a better life.  “While living in the slums at Kusumpur Pahadi, I got a clear view of the sky. There were no big buildings that blocked my view and I was a curious child who had so many questions about what goes on up there. I used to ask my teachers at school and finally joined the astronomy club,” he said, adding that a cyber cafe in the vicinity helped him a lot. After the asteroid discovery, he got appreciation from different corners and was invited for talks but all the fame never really translated into anything tangible, he added. “I never received any monetary or other help from anyone to enable me to do anything. I have done everything on my own and with my family’s help,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/500-astronomy-labs-yet-to-see-light-of-day/article34862635.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to give Rs. 1 cr. each to families of 6 officials||The Delhi government on Saturday announced ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore each to families of six defence personnel and policemen who died in the line of duty. “Three out of the six personnel belonged to the Indian Air Force, two to Delhi Police and one was from Defence,” said Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. He said the government respects the bravery of every soldier in uniform, who has risked their lives to protect people and the nation. “Honouring the bravery of our personnel, CM Arvind Kejriwal initiated financial assistance for personnel in Delhi Police, Defence, Paramilitary forces and other forces who risk their lives to protect our nation,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-to-give-rs-1-cr-each-to-families-of-6-officials/article34862639.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police form panels for emergencies in ‘next wave’||To gear up and tackle the next possible wave of COVID-19 cases, Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Saturday announced the formation of the district and thana-level committees for public healthcare emergencies. Delhi Police, in a statement, informed that Mr. Shrivastava, during a crime and COVID-19 review meeting, said the committees will provide a professional response to situations arising out of public health emergencies, movement of migrant labourers, care for the destitute, elderly citizens and women, food or ration for the needy and hungry, and maintaining essential supplies. The COVID cell at Police Headquarters will be upgraded to a public health emergency management cell, which shall function as the PHQ node for supervising these district and thana-level committees, it said. ‘Important objective’ “One of the most important objectives of these committees will be to work towards public acceptance of COVID-appropriate behavior and placing measures for systemic and voluntary adoption, thus minimising the need for coercive enforcement,” the statement read. The CP said COVID-appropriate compliance can be ensured only when all citizens voluntarily observe it out of a sense of responsibility and duty. “Police are to prosecute the violations, which should be the minimum occurrence and not a norm,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-form-panels-for-emergencies-in-next-wave/article34862640.ece
20 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Take remedial measures for restoration of Najafgarh lake’||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the Chief Secretaries of Delhi and Haryana to take remedial measures for the restoration of the Najafargh lake. The tribunal observed that despite the issue being a significant environmental one, it had not received the attention it required from authorities. An NGT Bench said: “We have considered the matter and find that the issue of restoration of water body in question is significant for the environment but has not received the attention it requires from the authorities.” “Haryana has neither prepared Environment Management Plan [EMP] nor given any explanation for not doing so. None appears for the State of Haryana. The Delhi government has prepared the draft Environmental Management Plan but execution thereof has to be ensured after completing the EMP,” the Bench said. The Tribunal has also directed the Chief Secretaries to remain present via videoconference on the hearing and provide a status of compliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/take-remedial-measures-for-restoration-of-najafgarh-lake/article34862641.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. has no right to ask pvt. sector to implement minimum wages: LoP||The Leader of the Opposition, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Saturday said the Delhi government “had no right” to ask the private sector to implement minimum wages in the Capital when its own departments were under scrutiny for not following this order. Several Delhi government departments, including the Delhi Jal Board, the DTC, Social Welfare and other departments, ran day to day work on outsourcing to contractors who do not pay minimum wages to workers, he said. “The Aam Aadmi Party had come to power with the slogan of putting an end to this outsourcing to contractors and give permanent jobs. Forget the permanent jobs, the workers are not even being paid minimum wages,” he alleged. Mr. Bidhuri alleged that in Delhi, the Anganwadi workers, ASHA workers and other such communities were being paid between Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 9,000 whereas under the Minimum Wages Act they should be given between Rs. 15,492 to Rs. 19,291. “What is the use of a hike in minimum wages when the Delhi Government is not ensuring its implementation in its own departments?” Mr. Bidhuri asked. “We must ensure that the decisions taken by a government are implemented in letter and spirit for the welfare and larger interests of the people or the beneficiaries. These decisions should not only be announced or taken for the sake of publicity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-has-no-right-to-ask-pvt-sector-to-implement-minimum-wages-lop/article34862642.ece
20 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Amarinder defends jobs for sons of Cong. MLAs||Under fire from the Opposition over giving jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday defended his government’s decision, saying it was in recognition of the sacrifices made by their grandfathers, who laid down their lives for the country. The State Cabinet had on Friday decided to appoint Arjun Pratap Singh Bajwa as an inspector in the Punjab Police and Bhisham Pandey as a naib tehsildar in the Revenue Department as a “special case” on “compassionate” grounds. Mr. Bajwa is the son of Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Mr. Pandey is the son of Ludhiana legislator Rakesh Pandey. Mr. Bajwa is the grandson of former Minister Satnam Singh Bajwa who laid down his life in 1987 while Mr. Pandey is the grandson of Joginder Pal Pandey who was gunned down by the terrorists in 1987, the government had said. Capt. Amarinder said those who make a sacrifice for the nation can, and should, never be forgotten. Meanwhile, the SAD urged the Governor to dismiss the government by taking suo motu notice of the manner in which the CM was allegedly “purchasing” the loyalty of the Congress legislators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-defends-jobs-for-sons-of-cong-mlas/article34862901.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Abuzz with cicadas||The story so far: The latest phenomenon that has taken America by storm is the song of the cicadas. Billions of cicadas have emerged across eastern parts of the United States. Periodical cicadas, so called because of their 13- or 17-year life cycle, most of which is spent underground, emerge from their earthy digs to romance, reproduce and retire. This year is the year of the Brood X periodical cicadas. Here, X stands for the Roman numeral and refers to the sequence of emergence. Certain questions arise in the research on cicadas — how do they grow underground, what do they eat during their 13- or 17-year nymph stages spent burrowed in, or how do they know it is time to emerge? When was this phenomenon first recorded? Periodical cicadas of the genusMagicicadaehave intrigued entomologists since they were noticed. Though Native Americans in the east of America knew about them earlier, the earliest recorded mention of these insects was in 1633 (there is some doubt whether this was in 1631 or 1634) by William Bradford, the governor of Plymouth Colony in America, according to Gene Kritsky’s article in American Entomologist in 2001. This area later developed into the town of Plymouth, Massachusetts. The next mention was in 1666 by an unsigned note published by Henry Oldenberg where he referred to “swarms” of “locusts”. However, these insects are neither locusts nor do they swarm. How did the evolution of lineages take place? As species, periodical cicadas are older than the forests they inhabit, writes Chris Simon in an article in The Conversation . Molecular analysis has shown that about 4 million years ago, the ancestor of the currentMagicicadaspecies split into two lineages. Some 1.5 million years later, one of those lineages split again. The resulting three lineages are the basis of the modern periodical cicada species groups, Decim, Cassini and Decula . Each of these three species has 13-year and 17-year broods. Why is the present emergent population called Brood X? The term ‘brood’ is used to refer to all periodical cicadas that emerge the same year and occupy a geographically contiguous area. Charles Marlatt assigned roman numerals to designate their year of emergence, and the sequence started arbitrarily in 1893. The brood with the 17-year cycle that emerged in 1893 was denoted Brood I, and so on. So, the 17-year broods were designated I to XVII, and the 13-year broods were designated XVIII to XXX. Why are they called ‘periodical’ cicadas? These cicadas spend most of their lives underground. They grow burrowed in their earthy homes by feeding on root xylem for 13 or 17 years. During this time, they complete five developmental stages, known as “instars”, entirely underground. The fifth-instar nymphs emerge from the ground by making holes and then transform into adults, only to perish approximately four weeks later. As adults, they gather in so-called chorus groups, where the males sing to woo the females. After mating, the female lays eggs in thin twiggy branches of trees, and then dies. The eggs hatch and the nymphs drop into the earth like rain, burrowing into it. About 95% of the nymphs die, and the ones that are left feed on root sap and remain underground, till it is time to emerge. This is described in an article by Kathy S. Williams and Chris Simon in Annual Review of Entomology (1995).  In which parts of the U.S. are they found? They are found to the east of the Great Plains in the U.S. and north of Florida, says Chris Simon, Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Connecticut, in an email. “They emerge earlier in the warmer southern areas (late April-May) and later in the colder zones (late May-June),” she adds. How does climate impact them? “In any given place, they come out only once every 13 or 17 years. Occasionally, part of a population will come out four years early and part four years late. With climate warming, we are seeing more four-year early emergences in larger numbers,” says Prof. Simon. For instance, the Brood X periodical cicadas were documented in 2017 too, according to an article in the Washington Post . Are there periodical cicadas in India? There are three species of cicadas found in the Indian subcontinent — Chremistica mixta (found in Sri Lanka), C. seminiger (found in the Nilgiri hills) and C. ribhoi (discovered in Ri-Bhoi district of Meghalaya). Mass emergence has been noticed only in the case of Chremistica ribhoi . The emergence takes place after dusk and once in four years. The phenomenon is well-known among villagers, who refer to the insect in the local Khasi language as ‘niangtaser’ ( niang stands for “insect” and taser is believed to be derived from the name of the village “Iewsier”, which refers to the area in which the phenomenon occurs, and the forest region around it). This periodical cicada is used as food and fish bait and has been observed in May 2006 and in May 2010, according to a 2013 article in Zootaxa by Sudhanya Ray Hajong and Salmah Yaakop.  Periodical cicadas come out only once every 13 or 17 years. Occasionally, part of a population will come out four years early or four years late. With climate warming, we are seeing more four-year early emergences||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/abuzz-with-cicadas/article34862360.ece
20 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||10-day-old child ‘sold’, rescued in Bhubaneswar||A 10-day-old infant was rescued by the Bhubaneswar police after his biological parents, who were reportedly struggling to make both ends meet due to poverty, sold him for Rs. 10,000 to a couple in the city. The incident had taken place on June 14, but it came to light on Friday. The woman, who had ‘bought’ the baby boy, was identified as Sumedin Bibi. She has admitted to have paid the money. The infant was produced before the Child Welfare Committee, Khordha, a quasi-judiciary body constituted as per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. As per the CWC’s order, the child was placed with Subhadra Mahatab Seva Sadan, a special adoption agency for rehabilitation of children, on Saturday. Ms. Bibi has been taken into custody. “The parents have not been traced. They used to live near the Bhubaneswar railway station,” said Arun Swain, Inspector-in-charge of Kharavelanagar police station. District Child Protection Officer Banishree Patnaik received a videoclip regarding the ‘sale’, which she forwarded to Childline, an NGO which works for the protection of children. “After receiving information about the ‘sale’, we constituted a team and took help of the city police. Following the intervention of the police, the baby was rescued from Malisahi area of Bhubaneswar,” said Benudhar Senapati, Director of Childline. Mr. Senapati said, “The woman told the investigators that the couple did not have any resources. So they offered to sell their child for Rs. 10,000. Since the woman did not have any children, she went for the deal.” Childline has lodged a police complaint in the city’s Kharvelnagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/10-day-old-child-sold-rescued-in-bhubaneswar/article34862898.ece
20 June 2021||New Delhi,||Court takes cognisance of chargesheet against Sidhu||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of the supplementary chargesheet filed against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and others in the Republic Day violence case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar has summoned all the accused through video conferencing on June 29. Production warrants have been issued against Maninder Singh and Khempreet Singh, who are still in judicial custody. Except for the duo, all the other accused are out on bail. The judge said the court is taking cognisance of the charge sheet relating to various sections of IPC, except those sections for which prosecution sanction is still awaited. Sanction under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and Arms Act is still awaited from concerned authorities. On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort injuring scores of policemen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-takes-cognisance-of-chargesheet-against-sidhu/article34862982.ece
20 June 2021||Patiala,||‘Merit should be criteria’||Former legislator Navjot Kaur Sidhu criticised the decision, saying only merit should be the criteria. Talking to reporters at Chaura village in Sanour constituency in Patiala, Ms. Sidhu said rather jobs could have been given to a sportsperson or a ward of a freedom fighter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/merit-should-be-criteria/article34862902.ece
20 June 2021||Hot air balloons:,||Instapick||Multimedia artist Patricia Piccinini will fly her two whale balloons, Skywhale and Skywhalepapa, around Australia through 2021 and 2022. Celebrating fathers’ roles as caregivers, the aerial sculptures depict ‘the whale papa holding babies’. Meanwhile, artist Brian Donnelly, aka KAWS, is taking his character, Companion, as a hot air balloon to international cities. @kaws on Insta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article34862616.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Payal’s NYC trunk show||While she has been promoting her floral lightweightlehengas, and joining other designers for fundraisers during the second wave, Payal Singhal has also been busy getting back into the international pop-up circuit. #PSTravellingTrunkShow at Radisson Hotel in New York, includes her SS’21 collection ‘The New Normal’, menswear and wedding accessories. Also on payalsinghal.com. Closer home, Amazon Fashion has its Wardrobe Refresh Sale from June 19 to 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/payals-nyc-trunk-show/article34862617.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Knowing Sita||Aalaap begins a six-part series calledThe Goddess: Six-Foldwith storyteller, artist and practitioner of Sanatana Dharma, Vinay Varanasi. Expect immersive storytelling with the focus onSita: The Power of the Feminine. The curators will explore the many meanings and metaphors of the goddess. @aalaap_concepts on Instagram. Meanwhile, National Centre of Performing Arts has an introductory music programme for five to seven-year-olds, starting July 5. Registration closes on June 21. Rs. 15,000, soimumbai.com/prelude||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/knowing-sita/article34862618.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Playing with the Khans||If it feels like it’s too soon, you are not alone. World Music Day (June 21) returns and with it scores of initiatives. Sony India has special offers on headphones and other audio products till June 21. Tourism Virginia is helping travellers plan ‘country music’ holidays for, sigh, 2022. But our favourite is the collaboration bysarodmaestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan with Eagles’ guitarist Joe Walsh. Khan’s sons Amaan and Ayaan Ali Bangash are also part of the equation that has resulted in a three-song EP,Prayers-East Meets West. On Universal Music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/playing-with-the-khans/article34862619.ece
20 June 2021||Euro 2020:,||Talking Point||The European Championship is pan-continental for the first time, with host cities ranging from Seville, Spain to Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan. Fans are banking on Britain going ahead with full unlock plans: it would mean a full stadium for the final at Wembley Stadium on July 11. Meanwhile, Cristiano Ronaldo’s Coca-Cola snub has highlighted the flip side of the rise of celebrity ambassadors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article34862620.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Hear, hear||Not travelling yet? British travel writer Aaron Millar will prime you for your first post-pandemic getaway with his stories from around the world. Check out his podcast,Armchair Explorer. Another podcast for the moment: Deepa Narayan’sWhat’s a Man: Masculinity in India. New episodes from June 23 feature feminist queer activist Manak Matiyani and Sanora Jha, the author ofHow to Raise a Feminist Son. But this weekend, a recent episode,Fathers and Sons, may be of interest, as it explores relationships between fathers and sons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hear-hear/article34862621.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Art likes print||Adult colouring sheet, art by muralist and visual artist Anpu Varkey…The Irregular Times, a new art+design newspaper, has this and more in its first issue. TitledPlease Wait For The Host To Start This Meeting, it is fuelled by plans to build a community-driven culture around design and zine-making. From Tarini Sethi and Anant Ahuja, the team behind visual arts and design initiatives like The Irregulars Art Far (an anti art-fair for independent artists). Rs. 750 at theirregulartimes.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/art-likes-print/article34862622.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Asanas unite||Let’s not forget International Yoga Day (also on June 21). Accessory brand Fastrack has a fitness band, Reflex 3.0, that they say will track all yoga movements at Rs. 2,495. Yoga-based wellness platform, Sarva, has a new campaign #StartTohKaro featuring Malaika Arora and Mira Kapoor. With 14 live sessions from 6.30 a.m. onwards that can be accessed if you register for the Yoga Day Pass. Rs. 499-Rs. 999. sarva.com Meanwhile, The Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations has an online celebration from 6 pm to 7.30 p.m. (IST) on UN WebTV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/asanas-unite/article34862623.ece
20 June 2021||June 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Art and IKEA||AstaGuru’s upcoming auction, Collector’s Choice, has 120 lots and rare Modern Indian works. Like Ivory Eyes, an enamel on canvas work by Prabhakar Barwe from 1976. Or MF Husain’sUntitledfrom hisCalcutta Series, circa 1990. Each estimated at Rs. 20-Rs. 30 lakh. All lots will be offered at no reserve and will start at an opening bid on Rs. 20,000. June 25-26. astaguru.com. For something more affordable for the home, there’s good news: Swedish furniture giant IKEA is now in Bengaluru via e-commerce and their mobile shopping app. ikea.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/art-and-ikea/article34862624.ece
