21 June 2021||New Delhi,||Massive distribution of ex gratia will strain finances, says Centre||The COVID-19 pandemic is not a “one-time disaster”, such as an earthquake or a flood for which victims can be compensated with just money, the Centre told the Supreme Court. It is an ongoing pandemic, which will continue to attack in waves. A “broader approach” is essential. The government was responding to petitions in the Supreme Court to pay Rs. 4 lakh compensation to the families of every COVID-19 victim. “Unlike disasters of a short and finite duration, occurring and ending quickly, COVID-19 is a global pandemic which has affected all the countries in the world. The pandemic has claimed more than 3.85 lakh lives, a number which is likely to increase further... These deaths have affected families from all classes — the rich and poor, professionals and informal workers, traders and farmers…” the Ministry of Home Affairs, represented by Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, said in a 189-page affidavit. Limiting relief to monetary pay-offs was a “narrow and pedantic approach”. There was also no precedent of giving ex gratia compensation for a disease or disaster spread out over several months or years. “The pandemic started in the early months of January 2020 and the country is still battling the same with different intensity, different symptoms and different mutations, with no certainty regarding the end,” the government said. Massive distribution of compensation across the country at this point would dry up precious financial resources of the Centre and the States. “If the entire State Disaster Response Funds get consumed on ex gratia compensation for COVID-19 victims, the States may not have sufficient funds for organising COVID-19 response, for provision of various essential medical and other supplies, or to take care of other disasters like cyclones, floods, etc. Already the finances of State governments and the Central government are under severe strain due to the reduction in tax revenues and increase in health expenses on account of the pandemic,” the affidavit explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/massive-distribution-of-ex-gratia-will-strain-finances-says-centre/article34875360.ece
21 June 2021||Belagavi,||Govt. issues revised order easing lockdown restrictions in Dharwad||The State government has issued a revised circular relaxing lockdown norms across Dharwad district, district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar said in Hubballi on Sunday. Due to some communication error, the name of Dharwad district was left out of the list of districts with relaxations, despite test positivity rate being less than 5%, he told journalists. The confusion was caused by a list forwarded by the COVID war room in Bengaluru that put the positivity percentage at 5.7%. Actually, Dharwad’s positivity rate is 4.5% . “I conveyed this fact to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa who issued a revised circular,” he said. He thanked the people for their cooperation during the lockdown. However, people should not let their guard down. They should continue to follow COVID-19 protocol. All shops and factories will open during the day. City buses, BRTS and intra-State route buses will operate. The State government will take a decision on operating inter-State buses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-issues-revised-order-easing-lockdown-restrictions-in-dharwad/article34875522.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru/ Chennai,||Karnataka’s excess deaths nearly 6 times official toll||The number of “excess deaths” registered by the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Karnataka ever since the COVID-19 pandemic hit (from April 2020 to May 2021) was 1,67,788, which is 5.8 times the official reported figure of 29,090 deaths for the same period. This high number was largely due to the deaths registered in April 2021 (46,000) and May 2021 (77,000 and still being reconciled). In this period, which coincided with the second COVID-19 wave, the excess deaths were around 53,728, compared to the registered COVID-19 tally of 16,523, leading to an undercount factor of 3.25. The overall COVID-19 tally in Karnataka as of June 19 is 33,763. Excess deaths in Karnataka were calculated based on the month-wise number of deaths registered by the CRS (provisional figures) from January 2015 to May 2021, which were accessed by The Hindu . Not all excess deaths would be due to COVID-19 but a bulk of them would be related to it during the pandemic. The undercount factor (5.8) and excess deaths for Karnataka (1,67,788) were comparable and similar to that of Tamil Nadu (6.2 and 1,51,408 respectively). For 2021 alone, the undercount factors for Karnataka and Tamil Nadu were 4.7 and 6.5 respectively, which are much lower than those for Madhya Pradesh (42) and Andhra Pradesh (34). Lower in Bengaluru  The Hindu also accessed the corresponding CRS figures for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) (the Greater Bengaluru metropolitan area). The CRS registered 40,264 and 75,441 deaths (till May) in 2020 and 2021 respectively in the area, which accounted for 31,029 estimated excess deaths, compared to the baseline mortality of the pre-pandemic period (2015-2019). However, the BBMP’s official tally till May 2021 was only 13,296. This adds up to an undercount factor in the city limits of 2.33, which is lower than that of Chennai (5.6). Other cities such as Hyderabad (17.5-30.5) and Kolkata (4.5) also registered higher undercounts for 2021 alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnatakas-excess-deaths-nearly-6-times-official-toll/article34875365.ece
21 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Over 1.3 million vaccinated in record drive on Sunday||The State reached a new milestone with more than one-fifth of the population getting at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine as a record 13 lakh doses were administered on Sunday. Across the country, only 28,34,204 doses were administered as of 8 p.m. and 47% of them were in Andhra Pradesh alone, according to the CoWin portal. The State had earlier set a record of administering 6.2 lakh doses in a single day on April 14. On Sunday, though a target of administering 10 lakh doses was set, it was surpassed by 8 p.m. even as a total of 13,26,271 doses were administered during the Mega Vaccination Drive. With this, a total of 1,38,81,386 doses were administered in the State since January 16 and 1.11 crore people received at least one dose and 27.35 lakh persons were fully vaccinated. Women take the lead Of the 1.11 crore who got at least one dose of the vaccine, 53.97% were women and 46% men and 1,762 were of others category as mentioned in the portal. Of the 1.38 crore doses administered, 1.16 crore were of Covishield, 22.62 lakh of Covaxin and 5,555 of Sputnik. The drive aimed to vaccinate mothers of children aged below five, people aged above 45 and those travelling abroad. By 9 p.m., 13.45 lakh doses were administered. The vaccination drive was conducted at 4,589 centres across the State with 28,917 staff. In addition, 40,000 ASHA workers and 5,000 staff from other departments were involved to drive eligible people to the vaccine centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-13-million-vaccinated-in-record-drive-on-sunday/article34875352.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu announces fresh relaxations in 27 districts||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday announced fresh relaxations in 27 districts, even as he extended the lockdown to curb COVID-19 till 6 a.m. on June 28. The State government has classified districts into three categories, based on the spread of COVID-19, and has announced a separate set of relaxations for each. In Chennai and the neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur (categorised as Type-III districts), passengers will be allowed to travel in cabs and auto-rickshaws without e-registration. Excluding the driver, only three passengers in cabs and two in auto-rickshaws will be allowed. The State government allowed intra- and inter-district public bus services in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur, but only with 50% seating capacity and in compliance with Standard Operating Procedures. Chennai Metro rail services will be allowed by following the SOPs, but only with 50% seating capacity, an official press release said. In 23 other districts falling under Type-II, passengers will be allowed to travel in cabs and auto-rickshaws only with e-registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-announces-fresh-relaxations-in-27-districts/article34875424.ece
21 June 2021||Kochi/ New Delhi,||Plan to put Lakshadweep under Karnataka HC||The Lakshadweep administration, which has been facing widespread protests over its policies, has mooted a proposal to shift its legal jurisdiction from the Kerala High Court to the Karnataka High Court, officials said. The proposal was initiated by the administration after several litigation were moved before the Kerala High Court against the decisions taken by the islands’ new Administrator Praful Khoda Patel. These decisions included revising standard operating procedures for COVID-appropriate behaviour, introduction of the “goonda Act” and demolishing hutments of fishermen for widening of roads. Mr. Patel, who is the Administrator of Daman and Diu, was given the additional charge of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep in the first week of December last year, when former Administrator Dineshwar Sharma died after a brief illness. This year, as many as 23 applications, including 11 writ petitions, have been filed against the Administrator and also against the alleged high-handedness of either the police or the local government of the islands. The proposal for shifting the legal jurisdiction from the High Court of Kerala to Karnataka comes amid these developments. Advisor of the Administrator A. Anbarasu did not respond to queries on the proposal. However, Lakshadweep Collector S. Asker Ali said no proposal had been made by the administration to shift its legal jurisdiction from the Kerala High Court to the Karnataka High Court. “The news about shifting of the jurisdiction of the High Court from Kerala to Karnataka is baseless and is devoid of truth,” he said. The jurisdiction of a High Court can be shifted only through an Act of Parliament, according to the law. “Parliament may by law constitute a high court for a Union Territory or declare any court in any such territory to be a high court for all or any of the purposes of this Constitution,” states Article 241 of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plan-to-put-lakshadweep-under-karnataka-hc/article34875361.ece
21 June 2021||Srinagar,||Mufti holds off decision on meeting PM Modi||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti chaired a meeting of the party’s Political Affairs Committee (PAC) in Srinagar on Sunday, following the Union Home Secretary’s invitation to 14 Jammu and Kashmir leaders for a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi next week.  “All members of the Political Affairs Committee shared their inputs on engaging with the Centre. It was unanimously decided that Ms. Mufti will be authorised to take a final call during her meeting with members of the Gupkar alliance [People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration],” PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari said. Sources said Ms. Mufti is for nominating National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah as the Gupkar alliance leader to meet the Prime Minister on June 24 in Delhi. Dr. Abdullah held consultations with senior NC leaders, including general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar and provincial president of Kashmir Nasir Aslam Wani. Others who attended the meeting were Chowdhary Mohammad Ramzan, Sheikh Mustafa Kamal, Mian Altaf, Mubarak Gul, Sakina Itoo, Khalid Najeeb Suhurwardy and two Members of Parliament Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi. “After the party president is done talking to party leaders, a meeting of the PAGD will take place where the member parties will discuss the issue and take a collective decision,” Mr. Wani told reporters after the meeting. Sajad Lone also chaired a meeting of his Peoples Conference in Srinagar.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mufti-holds-off-decision-on-meeting-pm-modi/article34875363.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Delta variant dominates second wave||Most of the infections during the second wave of COVID-19 in the State were due to the Delta variant, a study has shown. Breakthrough infections, or infections that occur even after vaccination, were also due to the variant. A preliminary report on the findings of the samples collected from those infected with COVID-19 revealed that the Delta variant (B 1.617.2) was the most common virus circulating in the State. The second most common was the Alpha variant (1.1.7).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delta-variant-dominates-second-wave/article34875425.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Certify all COVID deaths||Any lapse in stating COVID-19 as the cause of demise in a death certificate will have penal consequences for those found responsible, includ- ing the certifying doctor, the Centre said in the Supreme Court.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/certify-all-covid-deaths/article34875347.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Patna HC pulls up Bihar govt.||The Patna High Court pulled up the Bihar gover- nment for not maintaining proper records of deaths during the pandemic, saying that the State’s reluctance to publish the number of deaths was “uncalled for”.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/patna-hc-pulls-up-bihar-govt/article34875348.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Scale up health infra: WHO||The World Health Organization has advised countries in the South-East Asia region to scale up public health and social measures, along with the vaccination drive, to prevent another surge in COVID-19 cases.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scale-up-health-infra-who/article34875349.ece
21 June 2021||Vijayawada,||State sees 5,646 new COVID cases||The State reported 50 COVID-19 deaths and 5,646 new infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The cumulative tally crossed 18.5 lakh mark and reached 18,50,563 while the toll increased to 12,319. The recovery rate increased to 97.93%. Total recoveries reached 17,75,176, including 7,772 recoveries in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-5646-new-covid-cases/article34875350.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Only 8% inmates inoculated in Delhi jails’||Only around 8% of the total inmates in Tihar jail, considered the largest prison in Asia, have been vaccinated against COVID-19 so far. Overall, too, a meagre 8% of the total number of inmates in Capital’s prisons have been vaccinated, according to the Delhi prisons administration. A senior officer said the inoculation drive among jail inmates has suffered due to shortage of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-8-inmates-inoculated-in-delhi-jails/article34875484.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Parks to reopen today, bars to operate at 50%||The Delhi government on Sunday permitted bars to reopen with 50% seating capacity. Parks, gardens and golf clubs will also reopen from June 21 as part of the gradual unlock measures. Malls, restaurants and markets that had opened on a trial basis have been allowed to operate for another week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parks-to-reopen-today-bars-to-operate-at-50/article34875486.ece
21 June 2021||MYSURU,||Mysuru grapples with high positivity rate||Confounded by the high Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in Mysuru, the only district to continue with the tough lockdown restrictions, public health experts are suspecting mutant variants of the COVID-19 virus, besides gaps in tracing and home isolation strategies as being among the reasons for the high transmission rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-grapples-with-high-positivity-rate/article34875377.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Buses, metro to resume services after 55 days||After a gap of 55 days, the road transport corporations and Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. are set to resume public transport services. “Like last year, all protocols to contain the spread of COVID-19 will be followed,” said Shankar A.S., executive director (operations and maintenance), BMRCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buses-metro-to-resume-services-after-55-days/article34875379.ece
21 June 2021||Pune,||MVA not permanent fixture: Nana Patole||After Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut indirectly criticised the Sena’s coalition ally, the Congress, for its talk of contesting polls alone, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Sunday said that the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance was for a period of five years and not a permanent fixture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-not-permanent-fixture-nana-patole/article34875667.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Students flay CUCET for more varsities||A group of students who have just completed Class 12 are objecting to the proposal to conduct a common entrance test for admission to all Central universities, including those such as Delhi University which have used only Class 12 board marks as the criterion so far. The students, who hail from different parts of the country, have written to the Education Ministry and the DU authorities, warning that such a move will favour rich students who have had access to coaching classes or are already preparing for standardised tests such as JEE or NEET. The National Testing Agency is yet to take a final decision on the scope or the date for the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) this year. The test’s multiple choice question papers cover language, general awareness, mathematical aptitude and analytical skills, as well as domain knowledge in the candidate’s chosen subjects. “Delhi University aspirants were entirely focused towards Board exam preparation. Since an entrance exam will contain aptitude part, many will face problems dealing with it as it entirely varies from what one has learnt in 10+2,” said one common letter sent by students to the DU Vice-Chancellor, noting that science students may not be prepared for the general knowledge section, while arts and commerce stream students may need time to prepare for the logical reasoning and quantitative ability sections. “Also, the students who were already preparing for professional degree courses would find it easier as they were already preparing for such a test since grade 11,” it said, noting that lakhs of students do not have the resources to suddenly access online paid coaching classes at this stage. The students also noted that students looking to change streams would find it hard to attempt the subject-specific papers. Last year, the CUCET was only used for admission to 14 new Central Universities and four State universities. However, earlier this year, the Education Ministry told all Central Universities including older, more prestigious institutions that have so far depended on Class 12 mark cut-offs or their own entrance tests, that CUCET could be expanded to cover them as well in accordance with the National Education Policy recommendations. The proposal has taken on new urgency since Class 12 examinations were cancelled, with every Board issuing its own tabulation formula to assign marks instead. The students suggested that these marks be used with different cut-offs for different Boards. Namrata Kalita, a Class 12 student from Assam, sent her own letter, noting that students from Northeast India who attempt to enter the Central Universities would be particularly affected. “The CUCET has no clarification so far, no pattern, no syllabus, no previous year questions to practice. Although it was proposed under NEP-2020, the authorities never gave any official announcement regarding its implementation. For a national-level entrance, we need adequate time and space to prepare which is absent in the current situation,” she wrote, adding that letters have been sent to the Education Ministry and the admissions authorities at the DU. She argued that the same health and digital divide concerns which led to the cancellation of Class 12 exams should apply to CUCET as well in a pandemic year. “The CUCET is perhaps a good initiative but it’s not right to conduct it suddenly in this unprecedented year without informing about it earlier. Holding another set of exams would further delay our session and waste our entire year keeping us under constant foreboding. We have faith in the Education Ministry and the varsities that they would listen to the students’ concerns,” she wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-flay-cucet-for-more-varsities/article34875280.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Restore full statehood to J&K’||The Congress on Sunday asked the Narendra Modi government to restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) in the interest of democracy and upholding constitutional principles. The demand comes days before the Prime Minister’s proposed meeting with political leaders from J&K on June 24. The Prime Minister’s Office is learnt to have invited 14 leaders, including four former Chief Ministers from J&K, to discuss the political situation. It will be the first meeting between Mr. Modi and leaders from the region after the Centre diluted in 2019 J&K’s special status under Article 370. “It is now for the Prime Minister and the BJP to decide whether to hold a meeting or to accept the demand of the Indian National Congress in the interest of the Constitution, democracy and the people to restore full statehood to the State of Jammu and Kashmir,” party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told mediapersons. He did not say whether or not the party will participate in the June 24 meeting. Previous resolution He recalled that on August 6, 2019, a day after the Centre’s decision on Article 370 and bifurcation of J&K, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) had adopted a resolution that clearly demanded the restoration of full statehood. “We believe that undoing it [statehood] is a direct attack on democracy and the constitutional principles.” He said elections to the Assembly should be held so that people can elect their representatives instead of being ruled by Delhi. While the political affairs committee of the PDP has authorised its chief, Mehbooba Mufti, to take a call, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an umbrella of mainstream parties in J&K, will meet on Tuesday to decide on the June 24 meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restore-full-statehood-to-jk/article34875300.ece
21 June 2021||Patna,||Public deserves to know toll: HC||The Patna High Court has pulled up the Bihar government again for not maintaining its records of births and deaths during the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that the State’s reluctance to publish the number of deaths was “uncalled for” and was “not protected by any law”. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar said, “To cover with a veil of secrecy the common routine business is not in the interest of the public. Such secrecy can seldom be legitimately desired.” “In our considered view, the resistance [to publish records of deaths and births] is uncalled for, as such action is neither protected by any law nor in consonance with settled principles of good governance. The government, while correcting its myopic approach, only needs a reminder that to cover with a veil of secrecy the common routine business is not in the interest of the public,” the court said on Friday while hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) petition on COVID-19 management. The Bench has been passing strictures on the State government’s dismal management of the pandemic for the last several days. ‘Transparency in govt.’ “Transparency is the hallmark of good governance, more so in today’s era, especially when the government, both Central and the State, are committed to making a success the flagship ‘Digital India’ programme and the ‘National Data Sharing and Accessibility Policy, 2012,’” the court observed further. “We see no reason as to why such information of deaths, COVID-19 and non-COVID-19, is not regularly uploaded and made known to the general public,” it added. The court also asked the elected representatives in the State to elicit the number of deaths in their respective constituencies within 24 hours. “Elected representatives, upon whom an obligation has been placed, are duty-bound to disclose the number of deaths that occurred in their constituencies within 24 hours,” the High Court said while directing the State government to complete the process of updating deaths and births within the next two months. “The Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, and also the Right to Information Act, 2005, give rights to a person, in almost unequivocal terms, of their access to information and, therefore, digital portals should be made accessible to the general public with regular and timely updates,” the court observed. Recently, Bihar had hit the headlines for undercounting the number of deaths related to COVID-19. In a single day, the death toll had jumped by a whopping 72% and had caused a spike in the number of deaths in the country as well. Earlier, the contradictory death toll from Buxar district by two top officials in the court had also been highlighted in the media. As many as 81 bodies were recently found floating in the Ganga in Buxar. Meanwhile, a media report said close to 75,000 persons had died in Bihar of unexplained causes in the first five months of 2021. Bihar, so far, has registered 9,543 deaths due to COVID-19, while the number of active cases is 3,395. Currently, there are 7,19,400 positive cases and the recovery rate is 98.20%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/public-deserves-to-know-toll-hc/article34875307.ece
21 June 2021||Patna,||Chirag to hold roadshow in Bihar||Locked in a tussle with his uncle over the control of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), Chirag Paswan on Sunday attended a national executive committee meeting in Delhi and said he would hold a roadshow across Bihar from July 5 on the occasion of his father and party’s founder Ram Vilas Paswan’s birth anniversary. Mr. Paswan said Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was trying to engineer a split in the LJP, but “was not successful”. “Like every year, the birth anniversary of the founder of LJP and my father Ram Vilas Paswan will be organised with fanfare in the country and on this occasion I will take out an ‘Aashirwad Yatra’ [journey of blessings] on July 5 from Hajipur which will pass through all districts of Bihar in nearly two months before culminating in Patna with a call of party’s national council meeting. Thereafter, a mammoth rally will be held in Patna,” said Mr. Paswan after the national executive committee meeting of his group at his residence in Delhi. Mr. Paswan’s father, Ram Vilas Paswan, had represented Hajipur nine times in the Lok Sabha, and currently, his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras is the LJP MP from there. “The Bihar Chief Minister has been trying to generate a split among Dalit voters’ unity for a long time. In this contest, first he made a division among Dalit and Mahadalit and the LJP had opposed this policy of Mr. Kumar and him in the last Assembly election. It was because of the LJP’s opposition that the JD(U)’s seats were reduced to half in this election. And after this debacle, Mr. Kumar had decided to make a split in the LJP. It was under this plan that he tried to split our party by promising ministerial berth to a senior leader of the party. But his plan was not successful,” said a release. “The LJP has never compromised out of fear of struggle. If we were to compromise we would have accepted Nitish Kumar’s offer of 15 seats in the last Assembly poll and our Ministers would have been there in the State,” Mr. Paswan said. While condemning as “unconstitutional” the misconduct of expelled party leader Mr. Pashupati Kumar Paras to mislead people, the national executive committee passed five resolutions. The committee also urged the Prime Minister to confer Bharat Ratna on the late Ram Vilas Paswan and install his statue in Bihar in view of his 50 years of active politics and his contribution to nation-building. The committee also opposed the use of LJP’s symbol by Mr. Paras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chirag-to-hold-roadshow-in-bihar/article34875292.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,||India records 51,388 new cases, 1,385 more deaths||India recorded 51,388 new COVID-19 cases and 1,385 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Sunday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,99,32,793 cases and 3,88,126 deaths. Kerala reported 11,647 new infections, followed by Maharashtra (9,361) and Tamil Nadu (7,817). Maharashtra recorded 605 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (182) and Karnataka (120). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Punjab, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Samples tested Around 18.11 lakh samples were tested in the country on Saturday (the results for which were made available on Sunday). About 43.04 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Sunday, which is 10.04 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. It is also 8.02 lakh doses more than what was recorded during the corresponding period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 32.22 lakh on June 19, which is more than the 30.3 lakh recorded a week before (June 13). About 24.1% of adults in India, 44.1% of those aged above 45, and 47.4% of people aged above 60, have been administered with at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Sunday. While 16.6% of the country’s population has received at least one dose, only 3.7% are fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. The seven-day rolling average of daily recorded fatalities in the country stood at 2,333 on June 19. Maharashtra registered the highest average daily deaths (1,289) in the country followed by Tamil Nadu (248), Karnataka (139), and Kerala (139). It is also significantly higher than the average daily doses recorded a month before (May 19), which stood at 13.63 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-51388-new-cases-1385-more-deaths/article34875312.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Work begins on Krivak class frigate||The keel of the second frigate of the additional Krivak class stealth ships being built with technology transfer from Russia by Goa Shipyard Ltd. (GSL) was laid by the Vice-Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral, G. Ashok Kumar, on Friday. “Keel laying is a major milestone activity in the construction of any ship symbolising formal commencement of the construction process. The keel for the first ship was laid on January 29, 2021. It would be delivered in 2026 and the second ship after six months,” the Navy said. Vice Admiral Kumar said it was for the first time that these vessels, with such technological complexity, were being constructed indigenously at the GSL. “He said a large number of major equipment are being substituted with indigenous equivalents, in addition to use of significant indigenous build material. The entire hulls of the ships are also being built with indigenous steel,” the statement quoted him. In October 2016, India and Russia signed an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) for four Krivak or Talwar stealth frigates — two to be procured directly from Russia and two to be built by the GSL. Following that, India signed a $1-billion deal with Russia for the direct purchase. The basic structures of the two frigates are already ready at the Yantar shipyard in Russia and are now being completed. In November 2018, the GSL signed a $500-million deal with Rosoboronexport of Russia for material, design and specialists assistance to locally manufacture two stealth frigates and in January 2019 the contract was signed between the Ministry of Defence and the GSL. The engines for the ships are supplied by Zorya Nashproekt of Ukraine. Four gas turbine engines, gear boxes and specialist support will cost around $50-million per ship, officials had said earlier. India had earlier procured six Krivak class frigates weighing around 4,000 tonnes in two different batches, the Talwar class and the upgraded Teg class. The four ships to be built will weigh 300 tonnes more than the earlier ones and will be armed with BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles, the Navy said earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/work-begins-on-krivak-class-frigate/article34875289.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||Punjab PCC chief flays move to give jobs to sons of MLAs||Amid the ongoing turmoil in the Punjab Congress, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Sunil Jakhar targeted the Amarinder Singh Cabinet’s decision to give government jobs to the sons of two sitting Congress legislators, and demanded that the decision be scrapped. Last Friday, the Punjab government decided to appoint Arjun Partap Bajwa and Bhisham Pandey, both sons of two Congress lawmakers, Fatehjang Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey, as police inspector and naib tehsildar, respectively. The rationale for the Cabinet decision was that their grandfathers had been murdered by militants. “Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh Ji must reverse the ill-advised decision,” Mr. Jakhar said in a statement that was released on Saturday, adding that charges of nepotism and political expediency would be levelled against the party. “The decision is also, in my view, against the ethos and culture of neutrality followed by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the Congress party as a whole.” Mr. Jakhar, who is expected to be changed as part of a PCC revamp exercise, asserted that key decisions of the State Cabinet, such as implementing the pay commission recommendations, regularisation ofsafai karamcharis, and other pro-employee measures got overshadowed by the news of government jobs for the sons of MLAs. ‘Token of gratitude’ “No question of rescinding #PunjabCabinet decision on jobs for sons of 2 @INCPunjab MLAs. It is just a small token of gratitude & compensation for the sacrifices of their families. It’s shameful that some people are giving political colour to this decision,” the Punjab Chief Minister said on Twitter on Saturday. Notwithstanding the official explanation, the decision regarding the two MLAs follows a political re-alignment between Capt. Singh and his former critics to take on Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is now leading the dissidence against the Chief Minister. Mr. Fathehjang is the sitting MLA of Qadian constituency and the brother of former PCC chief and Rajya Sabha member, Partap Singh Bajwa. Once a bitter critic of the Chief Minister, Mr. Bajwa has now joined hands with Capt. Singh to take on Mr. Sidhu. The Amarinder-Bajwa duo in Punjab has been formed to send a clear signal to the All India Congress Committee (AICC) that the high command cannot “force” any decision regarding the cricketer-turned-politician. The three-member AICC panel, set up to resolve Punjab factionalism, had recommended to “suitably accommodate” Mr. Sidhu. However, the high command has to now deal with the Amarinder-Bajwa duo before any compromise can be worked out. On June 22, the Punjab CM is expected to meet the head of the three-member AICC panel and Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, towards resolving the Punjab crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-pcc-chief-flays-move-to-give-jobs-to-sons-of-mlas/article34875297.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We were always hopeful that justice will prevail’||Jawaharlal Nehru University student and Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita , who was recently released on bail after being arrested for her alleged role in the Delhi riots and charged under the UAPA, speaks on freedom, life inside Tihar jail and other things. Edited excerpts: It has been over a year since you were charged and in jail. How does it feel to finally be free? It’s definitely a relief to be free, not just for Natasha and me, but for all our friends and families who have been supporting us for the last one year ... It’s still overwhelming to even look at a bustling street after a year of being locked in. There are many still inside, for crimes they do not even know or never committed, like our friend and jailmate Gulfisha incarcerated for over a year under the same charges as us. In their continued incarceration, our bail doesn’t feel like freedom. Between the Delhi High Court granting you bail and your release, there was almost a 36-hour gap. What was going on in your mind at that time? Your comments on the delay? Those 36 hours were stressful but we had anticipated that if we got bail, securing release would not be easy. We were glad to learn that the High Court had granted us bail, considering what the UAPA covers cannot be arbitrary and vague... The next day we had heard that the verification had not been completed and that the police had filed an application in the Supreme Court challenging the order ... Knowing how difficult it is to get bail for a UAPA undertrial, we were prepared for a long time in prison. The suddenness of the release also did not allow us the chance to say goodbye to our fellow inmates properly... UAPA charges were slapped against you and the others. In the past year, were there moments of uncertainty and helplessness? Historically, one has seen how laws like the UAPA have been used to keep dissenting voices and people from marginalised communities inside for prolonged periods without bail. The process itself becomes a punishment, even before a trial takes place... There were many moments of uncertainty and helplessness, especially given the general anxiety and insecurity caused by the pandemic, fearing for the health of our loved ones who we could barely access and could not care for inside and outside prison. Yet, we were also always hopeful that sooner or later justice will prevail through the judicial system and through the rising voices of protest... What was your experience like inside Tihar and how has it impacted you? Jail is systematically made into a dehumanising experience. Authorities have absolute power over life and movement and use that power arbitrarily to deny inmates basic freedoms. This over and above the lack of infrastructure inside. It’s maybe too soon to say exactly how it has impacted me personally, but there are so many things that I saw that I will never be able to forget. We witnessed first-hand how our jails are filled with the most vulnerable people in our society, mostly working-class, Dalit and Muslim communities. It was also deeply impressed on us how jail is but a microcosm of the power dynamics that operate in society as a whole, with people’s vulnerabilities outside only getting intensified inside. Often, lack of support on the outside and the challenges of navigating an opaque legal aid system with very scant resources extend and intensify the punishment meted out by the legal system ...  There are several scholars and activists who are still behind bars with similar charges. Your comments on it and how do you perceive the government’s action? It is a terrible reality that today people who are, in fact, speaking up and working to make our country and society more just, equal and free of oppression are being incarcerated and labelled as anti-national, especially those from marginalised communities or in solidarity. At the same time, the repression of activists and scholars are just the tip of a massive iceberg, where wrongful incarcerations and long jail terms for undertrials have become a rule rather than an exception.  What next for Devangana Kalita?  It’s probably too early to say but we hope to carry on the struggle to build an equal, just and free society ... I also look forward to spending some time with my friends and family...and finishing my M.Phil.  It was deeply impressed on us how jail is a microcosm of the power dynamics that operate in society as a whole||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-were-always-hopeful-that-justice-will-prevail/article34875303.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Death due to COVID-19 must be certified as such: Centre||Any lapse in stating COVID-19 as the cause of demise in a death certificate will have penal consequences for those found responsible, including the certifying doctor, the Centre has said in the Supreme Court. “It is mandated that any death resulting from COVID-19 shall have to be so certified, i.e., as COVID death, failing which, everyone responsible, including the certifying doctor, shall be responsible for penal consequences,” the Centre said in its affidavit on Sunday. The Centre further clarified that deaths with a diagnosis of COVID-19, irrespective of co-morbidities, had to be certified as COVID-19 deaths. The only exception to the rule was when there was a clear alternative cause of death, for example, accidental trauma or poisoning. The Supreme Court recently told the Centre that death certificates of those who died of COVID-19 often did not reveal that fact. “The death certificates of persons who die from COVID-19 in hospitals show the reason as lung or heart problem or something else,” Justice M.R. Shah had told Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, recently. “All deaths with a diagnosis of COVID-19, irrespective of co-morbidities, are to be classified as deaths due to COVID-19,” the Centre clarified. It said “death certification” was required for recording deaths in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Registrar-General of India. “The primary goal of certification of cause of death [death certificate] is to identify and correctly classify all deaths due to a medical condition [eg. COVID-19] and to eliminate any discrepancy in coding so as to obtain true estimates of burden of COVID-19 deaths,” the Centre explained. “Any breach of the guidelines for recording COVID-19 deaths would be a criminal offence as stipulated under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code,” it added. This provision punishes disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-due-to-covid-19-must-be-certified-as-such-centre/article34875320.ece
21 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Pact signed to conserve rare turtle in Assam||A major temple in Assam has signed a memorandum of understanding with two green NGOs, the Assam State Zoo-cum-Botanical Garden and the Kamrup district administration for the long-term conservation of the rare freshwater black softshell turtle or the Nilssonia nigricans . A vision document 2030 was also launched after Turtle Survival Alliance India and Help Earth signed the pact involving the Hayagriva Madhava Temple Committee. The temple, revered by both Hindus and Buddhists, is at Hajo, about 30 km northwest of Guwahati. Until sightings along the Brahmaputra’s drainage in Assam, the black softshell turtle was thought to be “extinct in the wild” and confined only to ponds of temples in northeastern India and Bangladesh. The International Union for Conservation of Nature had in 2021 listed the turtle as “critically endangered”. But it does not enjoy legal protection under the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972, although it has traditionally been hunted for its meat and cartilage, traded in regional and international markets. “Various temple ponds in Assam such as that of the Hayagriva Madhava Temple harbour various threatened species of turtles. Since the turtles are conserved in these ponds only based on religious grounds, many biological requirements for building a sustainable wild population have since long been overlooked,” Arpita Dutta of Turtle Survival said. “This multi-stakeholder association [conservation pact] aims to restock the wild with viable, self-sufficient and genetically pure threatened turtle populations in the region. We will offer assistance for the required improvement of husbandry of turtles kept in such ponds, and further recovery efforts are recommended for the long-term survival and existence of the endangered freshwater turtles,” she added. Kamrup Deputy Commissioner Kailash Kartik N. emphasised the mass awareness on the conservation issues of all species of turtles in the region while working on threats and opportunities to strengthen the black softshell turtle population in Assam. Zoo director Tejas Mariswamy and Help Earth’s Jayaditya Purkayastha attended the programme on June 19, along with members of the Hayagriva Madhava Temple Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pact-signed-to-conserve-rare-turtle-in-assam/article34875278.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress to celebrate 1971 war jubilee||The Congress is planning to organise district-level programmes to kick off the golden jubilee celebrations of the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh from mid-July, a source said on Sunday. The party had planned grassroots level meets across 650 districts from May 1 to celebrate an occasion considered to be one of the finest moments of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Politically, it is meant to be an effective counter to BJP’s aggressive nationalism plank by reminding the new generation that Indira Gandhi was the person who managed to break up Pakistan. However, the party’s plan got derailed because of the spike in the number of COVID-19 case in the second wave. The source cited above said former Defence Minister A.K. Antony, who heads the Congress committee on organising golden jubilee celebrations of the 1971 War, has reviewed plans with the convener of the group, Captain Praveen Davar (retd), on restarting the programmes if the corona situation improves by mid-July. Invitation cards with the iconic photo of the then Pakistani commander, Lieutenant General A.A.K. Niazi, signing the surrender document before India’s Lt General Jagjit Singh Aurora and of Ms. Gandhi congratulating the chiefs of Indian armed forces including Sam Maneckshaw, have been sent out. Last December, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had set up a committee that included senior members like Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan among others. Though Ms. Gandhi was invited by Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to take part in the March 26 celebrations at Dhaka, she skipped it because of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-to-celebrate-1971-war-jubilee/article34875283.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELhi,||Cong. questions ‘silence’ on Ayodhya deal||The Congress on Sunday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence over alleged corruption in the purchase of land in Ayodhya by the Ram Temple Trust and urged the Supreme Court to “fulfil” its duty of getting the matter probed under its supervision. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala alleged that a local BJP leader in Ayodhya, Deep Narayan, brought 890 square metres of land for Rs. 20 lakh in February and sold it to the temple Trust for Rs. 2.5 crore, making a profit of 1,250% in only 79 days. For speedy construction He said the funds collected in the name of Lord Ram were being “looted” by BJP leaders in Ayodhya, and wondered why Mr. Modi has not spoken out or the top court hasn’t taken note of it. The Congress, however, reiterated that it favoured the speedy construction of a Ram temple at Ayodhya to fulfil the aspirations of millions of devotees of Lord Ram. “Lord Ram’s temple is being constructed as per the orders of the Supreme Court. Is it not the responsibility of the Supreme Court and its judges and the Prime Minister who formed the Trust, to find out the truth and investigate this?” Mr. Surjewala told reporters when asked if the party would move the court. Earlier, on June 14, the Congress had demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into a land “scam”, alleging that a plot of land that was purchased for Rs. 2 crore was sold for Rs. 18.5 crore to the Trust within five minutes. The party had cited the land deed registered on March 18 this year. Mr. Surjewala said, “President of Ram Mandir Construction Trust, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, has publicly stated that he is not being consulted about the affairs of the Trust for last one year nor is any transparency being followed. Even Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati has openly come out and spoken against irregularities in affairs of the Trust. Who is, then, accountable?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-questions-silence-on-ayodhya-deal/article34875298.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Excess deaths nearly 6 times official toll’||With officials of the Statistics Department remaining tight-lipped after oral gag orders from seniors, COVID-specific death reporting from districts has become inaccessible in Karnataka. It also indicates a much higher toll than reported earlier. For example, last week, the official COVID-19 death toll in Mysuru, which was counted at 1,910, was revised to 3,300 after reconciliation. Officials admit that even the numbers available in the CRS data is only provisional as reporting of death has always been slow in rural areas. The pandemic has also resulted in inefficient data collection across 35,000 births and deaths registration centres in the State. With Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announcing Rs. 1 lakh to BPL families that have reported a COVID-19 death, the number of deaths being reported is going up, officials said. The Chief Minister has indicated that the State is estimated to spend between Rs. 250- Rs. 300 crore on the relief scheme which is expected to benefit between 25,000 and 30,000 families. Irrespective of the number of deaths, each such BPL family will receive Rs. 1 lakh. “Normally, rural areas do not report death immediately. Delayed registration has been a norm,” Mr Yediyurappa said recently. He pointed out that in 2019, of the total 5.08 lakh deaths reported, as many as 1.67 lakh deaths, including 1.01 lakh reported in rural areas, were delayed registration. While the figures are provisional, and officials are expecting reconciliation of numbers in the coming weeks or months, the Registration of Births and Deaths Act 1969 and the Karnataka Registration of Births and Death Rules 1970 (subsequently amended in 1999), mandate reporting of deaths within 21 days. Under various other provisions, however, deaths can be reported beyond 21 days. Even after a year, the death can be registered through an order of a First Class Judicial Magistrate. Attempts to seek a response on the issue of excess deaths from Additional Chief Secretary Planning and Statistics Shalini Rajineesh failed.  (With inputs and graphics from Vignesh Radhakrishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/excess-deaths-nearly-6-times-official-toll/article34875285.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Concerns on IT rules are highly misplaced’||The new IT rules of India were framed after extensive consultation with stakeholders and are meant to protect the rights of online users, India told the Human Rights Council in Geneva. The statement came soon after experts at the U.N. said the Rules are not in line with international human rights principles. India maintains that the concerns of the experts are “highly misplaced”. “The Rules are designed to empower ordinary users of social media. The victims of abuse on social media platforms shall have a forum for redressal of their grievances,” said a special ‘brief’ that the Permanent Mission of India in Geneva had sent to the HRC on the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The brief said both the Houses of Parliament “repeatedly” asked the Government of India to “strengthen” the legal framework to hold online platforms accountable under Indian laws. Three Special Rapporteurs of the U.N. had on June 11 expressed “serious concerns” about the Rules and said they amount to “infringement of a wide range of human rights”. “On the traceability of the first originator of the information, it may be noted that the Rules seek only limited information. Only when a message already in public circulation is giving rise to violence, impinging on the unity and integrity of India, depicting a woman in a bad light, or sexual abuse of a child and when no other intrusive options are working, only then the significant social media intermediary will be required to disclose as to who started the message,” India said in response. The issue has drawn attention in view of the continued differences between the government and social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook. The differences with online social media platforms have added to India’s continued problems with Internet, which was shut down repeatedly over the last three years in Kashmir after the dilution of Article 370 in August 2019, and in other parts of the country, such as Assam and Delhi, following protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). The G7 statement However, India last week signed the “open societies statement” at the G7 alongside other guest countries, such as South Africa and South Korea. The statement criticised “rising authoritarianism, disinformation and politically motivated Internet shutdowns”. Official sources clarified that the Indian concerns were accommodated in the statement. The statement indicated India’s commitment to “protect digital civic-space” and respect for human rights and international law.  The victims of abuse on social media platforms shall have a forum for redressal of their grievances Permanent Mission of IndiA in Geneva||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/concerns-on-it-rules-are-highly-misplaced/article34875293.ece
21 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||2 senior BJP leaders to visit Uttar Pradesh||Two senior leaders of the BJP are due to visit Uttar Pradesh for a two-day tour starting Monday as the party continues its preparation for the 2022 Assembly election. The visit of general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh and State in-charge Radha Mohan Singh comes when the unit is getting into shape all its frontal units and announced the heads of its morchas. The visit also assumes significance as it comes days after A.K. Sharma, former bureaucrat and close aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was appointed a vice-president in the State unit, bringing an end to the speculation that he could find himself a berth in the Cabinet of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Mr. Singh and Mr. Santhosh had earlier this month visited Lucknow and met party leaders. Meetings planned Manish Dixit, State media in-charge, said the two leaders would hold meetings on the upcoming organisational programmes. They will review the “seva hi sanghathan” programme and the vaccination drive, and also discuss further activities, said Mr. Dixit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-senior-bjp-leaders-to-visit-uttar-pradesh/article34875295.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Bangaru Telangana will be a reality, says KCR||“We have focused on round-the-clock power and are happy that three crore tonnes paddy was produced when Punjab has produced 2.2 crore tonnes. Over 91 lakh tonnes were sold to Food Corporation of India (FCI). As 26 lakh tonnes of fertilizers are being used by farmers, the godown capacity was increased from 4 lakh tonnes to 25 lakh tonnes by Harish Rao. There will be no power problem or water problem in Telangana. As many as 2,601 Rythu Vedikas were constructed for farmers in the State,” said Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. Referring to direct sowing of paddy, he said it would reduce costs by Rs. 10,000 per acre and yield was 42 quintals per acre. Farmers were also asked to go for cotton, oil palm and red gram. He explained how the government worked on Dharani portal for three years and 6 lakh land registrations were completed. Stating that Telangana is a farmer friendly State with Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Beema schemes, he said no one is hungry in Telangana. Workers are coming from UP, Bihar and other States to work here, he said, adding the situation has changed now. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said that he had never seen such a building and officials working in accordance to the directions of the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister arrived here in a helicopter from Hyderabad at 11.55 a.m. and directly went to the MLA camp office for its inauguration. After that, he inaugurated the Police Commissionerate followed by the Collectorate. Preventive custody Farmers of Chinnagundavelli and Bandacharalappy villages were taken into preventive custody as they are protesting against digging of Mallannasagar canals through their lands. Similarly, knowing that the CM is coming for inauguration of the Collectorate, villagers of Kuknoorpally held dharna on Rajiv Rahadari demanding that their village should be declared as a mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangaru-telangana-will-be-a-reality-says-kcr/article34875550.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC appoints retired judge as observer for DCI poll||The Delhi High Court has directed the Dental Council of India (DCI) to forthwith hold election for the post of vice-president under the watch of a court-appointed observer. Justice Amit Bansal said: “To carry out the process of holding of election in a smooth manner, I appoint Justice G.S. Sistani, retired judge of this court, as an observer”. “Justice G.S. Sistani will consult with the Secretary and the members of the Executive Committee of the respondent no.2 (DCI) council to carry out the modalities of the election process, including but not limited to holding elections virtually and the notices to be sent to the members of the council and will oversee the conduct of the elections,” the court ordered. The order came while hearing a petition challenging a May 11, 2021 order of the Centre appointing Ashok Khandelwal to discharge the functions of president of the DCI with immediate effect. Justice Bansal declined to interfere with the appointment of Dr. Khandelwal noting that the May 11 order only provides that he shall discharge the functions of President of DCI till election takes place for the post. “I see nothing wrong in respondent no.1 appointing someone to perform functions of the president on a temporary basis,” the court said but added that it was “inclined to maintain the democratic functioning” of DCI. “It is essential that institutions like the respondent no.2 (DCI) council, that perform important public functions, continue to retain their democratic character. After all, democratic values are the essence of our society and elections are the bedrock of democracy,” the court remarked. “Though the election of the president is subjudice, there is no impediment in election of the vice-president of the respondent no.2 council...,” it said while directing election for the post of vice-president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-appoints-retired-judge-as-observer-for-dci-poll/article34875275.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Navy team in U.S. for chopper training||A team of 18 Navy personnel reached the U.S. for training on the MH-60R multi-role helicopters, 24 of which were contracted in a $2.2-billion deal signed during the visit of then President Donald Trump in February 2020. “Three helicopters are scheduled to be delivered to the Navy next month which will be used for training in the U.S. The first batch is likely to arrive in India by June 2022,” a defence official said. Training of the first batch of aircrew and technical crew, will commence at Pensacola, Florida and San Diego, the official said. The helicopters built by Lockheed Martin are being procured under the ‘Buy (Global)’ category of the procurement procedure through the Foreign Military Sales route of the U.S. The deliveries are expected to be completed by 2025. “MH-60R international partnerships continue — Indian Navy students arrived at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola and North Island to commence training with two MH-60R helicopters while strengthening global partnerships,” the U.S. Naval Air Systems Command said on twitter. The Navy is facing an acute shortage of helicopters on its frontline warships but procurement of new helicopters has been repeatedly delayed. A tender for 111 Naval Utility Helicopters (NUH) is being processed through the strategic partnership route of procurement procedure while there is a projected requirement of 123 multi-role helicopters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-team-in-us-for-chopper-training/article34875276.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Plan to put Lakshadweep under Karnataka HC||These decisions included revising standard operating procedures for COVID-appropriate behaviour, introduction of the “goonda Act” and demolishing hutments of fishermen for widening of roads. Mr. Patel, who is the Administrator of Daman and Diu, was given the additional charge of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep in the first week of December last year, when former Administrator Dineshwar Sharma died after a brief illness. This year, as many as 23 applications, including 11 writ petitions, have been filed against the Administrator and also against the alleged high-handedness of either the police or the local government of the islands. The proposal for shifting the legal jurisdiction from the High Court of Kerala to Karnataka comes amid these developments. Advisor of the Administrator A. Anbarasu did not respond to queries on the proposal. However, Lakshadweep Collector S. Asker Ali said no proposal had been made by the administration to shift its legal jurisdiction from the Kerala High Court to the Karnataka High Cour t. “The news about shifting of the jurisdiction of the High Court from Kerala to Karnataka is baseless and is devoid of truth,” he said.The jurisdiction of a High Court can be shifted only through an Act of Parliament, according to the law. “Parliament may by law constitute a high court for a Union Territory or declare any court in any such territory to be a high court for all or any of the purposes of this Constitution,” states Article 241 of the Constitution. Talking to PTI over phone, Lok Sabha member Mohammed Faizal P.P. said, “This was his [Patel] first attempt to shift the judicial jurisdiction from Kerala to Karnataka.” “Why was he so particular to transfer it... It’s totally a misappropriation of the post. The mother tongue of the people on these islands is Malayalam,” he said. “One should not forget the name of the High Court is Kerala and Lakshadweep High Court. This proposal was conceived during his first visit to the islands,” he said. The MP said there have been 36 administrators before Mr. Patel and none had this kind of an idea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plan-to-put-lakshadweep-under-karnataka-hc/article34875281.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Mufti holds off decision on meeting PM Modi||Others who attended the meeting were Chowdhary Mohammad Ramzan, Sheikh Mustafa Kamal, Mian Altaf, Mubarak Gul, Sakina Itoo, Khalid Najeeb Suhurwardy and two Members of Parliament Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi. “The consultations are on. After the party president is done talking to party leaders, a meeting of the PAGD will take place where the member parties will discuss the issue and take a collective decision,” Mr. Wani told reporters after the meeting. Sajad Lone also chaired a meeting of his Peoples Conference in Srinagar.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mufti-holds-off-decision-on-meeting-pm-modi/article34875282.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Massive distribution of ex gratia will hit finances’||Besides, the MHA said granting ex gratia compensation for one disease while denying it for those accounting for a larger share of mortality would not be fair or proper. “It would create unfairness and invidious discrimination between persons suffering from one disease and those suffering from another,” the government justified. The court said its “broader approach” encompasses a different set of ‘Minimum Standards of Relief’ focussed on public health interventions, social protection and economic recovery for the affected communities. “This would be a more prudent, responsible, and sustainable approach,” the Ministry argued. It said funds to the tune of Rs. 1,113.21 crore were released to States/UTs towards management and containment of COVID-19 over and above the National Health Mission coverage in 2019-2020 financial year. In 2020-21, Rs. 8,257.89 crore was released to the States/UTs to fight the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/massive-distribution-of-ex-gratia-will-hit-finances/article34875287.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scale up public health, social measures: WHO||The World Health Organization (WHO) has advised countries in the South-East Asia region to scale up and rigorously implement public health and social measures, along with efforts to accelerate vaccination for COVID-19, to prevent another surge, as more countries confirmed prevalence of highly transmissible variants of concern. “We need to continuously strengthen our efforts to test, trace and isolate. Societal interventions such as physical distancing, hand hygiene and proper wearing of masks need to be stringently implemented. These measures should be in full force and for longer periods in areas reporting more transmissible Variants of Concerns,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia. The release added that the public health and social measures were part of a wide range of non-pharmaceutical interventions, both individual and societal, and were cost-effective measures to reduce the spread of SARS-CoV-2 . In addition to personal protective measures, cleaning, disinfection, ventilation, surveillance, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine are recommended. Even as countries scale up vaccination against COVID-19, they need to implement public health and social measures in a tailored and agile way, Dr. Singh said. A risk-based approach is needed for public health and social measures. These measures should be implemented by the lowest administrative level and continuously adjusted to the intensity of transmission and the capacity of health systems. The capacity of health systems includes both clinical care for COVID-19 and non-COVID-19, and public health services such as case detection, diagnostic testing and contact tracing. “Where more transmissible Variants of Concern are spreading, these measures need to be applied more stringently,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scale-up-public-health-social-measures-who/article34875309.ece
21 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala CPI(M) leaders take on KPCC president||Starkly different accounts of the outcome of a campus brawl between Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran in Brennan College in 1967 provoked a fresh round of sniping between the ruling front and the Opposition on Sunday. The economic devastation and public health crisis precipitated by the COVID-19 pandemic appeared to take a backseat, as Congress and CPI(M) leaders took potshots at each other on live television. In his official Facebook page, Mr. Sudhakaran said his foray against Mr. Vijayan was personal. “I have learned to subdue political criminals personally,” he said. Mr. Sudhakaran said he was answering to criticism that he had targeted Mr. Vijayan personally. He also attempted to link Mr. Vijayan to the communal riots in Thalassery in 1971 and the political killing of RMP leader T.P. Chandrasekharan in 2012. He said senior CPI(M) leaders such as V.S. Achuthanandan, K.K. Shylaja and M.A. Baby were victims of Mr. Vijayan’s authoritarianism. The CPI(M) has pulled Mr. Vijayan out of the frayand delegated the task of fending off Mr. Sudhakaran to other leaders. Former Minister A.K. Balan accused Mr. Sudhakaran of laying the ground for political violence. CPI(M) leader P. Jayarajan said Mr. Sudhakaran lacked the courage to act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-cpim-leaders-take-on-kpcc-president/article34875488.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Health infrastructure has increased 45-fold: Centre||The Centre told the Supreme Court that the nation’s health infrastructure has increased up to 45-fold to brace successive waves of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Centre also told the court that the total cumulative vaccine coverage was 27.23 crore doses as on June 19. The total cost, including payment, advance and operational cost, had been Rs. 9,504.315 crore. The Centre shared the information with the court even as apprehensions have been raised about a third wave hitting the country soon. A detailed affidavit filed by the Centre, represented by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor-General Aishwarya Bhati, in the Supreme Court showed that the total intensive care unit (ICU) beds had increased by 45-fold, from a baseline 2,500 to 1,13,035. The total isolation beds (excluding ICU beds) had climbed 42-fold, from 41,000 to 17.17 lakh. The number of category one COVID-19 dedicated hospitals had increased 25-fold from 163 to 4,096, while the number of category two dedicated COVID-19 health centres and category three dedicated COVID-19 care centres were 7,929 and 9,954 respectively. Oxygen-supported beds had multiplied 7.5-fold, from 50,583 to 3.81 lakh. Even isolation railway coaches grew from zero to 5,601. The government said over 1.5 lakh health personnel had been engaged — 7,024 medical officers, 3,680 specialists, 35,996 staff nurses, 18,649 MHWs, 1,01,155 community volunteers, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and ASHA facilitators, and 48,453 other support staffs. The affidavit said insurance coverage was given to 22.12 lakhs heath workers, including ASHAs fighting COVID-19. Testing capacity had been increased with 2,621 labs. The government called its increase in testing capacity “phenomenal”, from 30,000 tests a day in April 2020 to a high of 22 lakh tests daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-infrastructure-has-increased-45-fold-centre/article34875314.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Andal’s sister-in-law||Vasudeva takes Krishna to Gokula while everyone is asleep. He picks up the girl born to Yasoda, leaves Krishna beside Yasoda, and departs for Mathura. When Vasudeva had to take Krishna to Gokula, the chains binding him had fallen off. When he returned to the prison, the chains automatically bound him again. There is a symbolic message here, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. When the Lord is with us, the bonds of samsara can be broken easily. When He is not with us, we remain bound by worldly ties. As soon as Vasudeva gets back, the sleeping guards wake up; the baby cries, and Kamsa is informed about the birth of the child. Devaki begs Kamsa not to harm the child, for it is not a male child as had been predicted. But Kamsa picks up the child by its legs, ready to smash its head. The child escapes from his hands, goes up, and says, “I can kill you easily, but I never kill anyone who has held my feet. So I am sparing your life. The One who will kill you is safe. Stop torturing gentle people like Vasudeva and Devaki.” The child up in the sky transforms into eight-armed Durga, seated on a lion. Because Durga, who is the Lord’s Yoga maya, protected Him when He took the Krishna avatara, there is a separate shrine for Her in the Thirukkovilur temple. Thirumangai Azhvar, while singing of this temple, praises this Durga too. Because Durga was born to Yasoda, Krishna’s foster mother, she was Krishna’s sister. Andal speaks of her as her sister-in-law! Because Yoga Maya went up to the sky (antariksha), Andal refers to her as antari. It is the tradition for the groom’s sister to help the bride drape the wedding saree. Andal dreams of her marriage to Krishna, and she says that in that dream, she saw antari (Durga) help her wear the wedding saree!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/andals-sister-in-law/article34875310.ece
21 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘We are not against live-in relationship’||The Allahabad High Court has directed the police to grant protection to a couple from Uttar Pradesh's Badaun district who were in a live-relationship and recently got married. While passing the directions on June 18, a Division Bench of Justices Dr. Kaushal Jayendra Thaker and Dinesh Pathak clarified why it had recently refused to grant relief to a married woman who had approached it seeking protection to live-in with someone after leaving her husband. The court had dismissed the plea on grounds that their act went against the mandate of the Hindu Marriage Act. In the fresh matter, a couple in a live-in relationship had approached it on apprehension that they would be harassed and would not be permitted to live in peace by their families. “We are not against the live-in relation,”" the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-not-against-live-in-relationship/article34875487.ece
21 June 2021||Agartala,||Three youth lynched in Tripura||Three youth suspected of stealing cattle were allegedly lynched at north Maharanipur in Khowai district of Tripura on Sundaythe police said. The victims from Sepahijala district were transporting cattle in a mini-truck when they were stopped. The villagers held Billal Mia, 30, and Joyed Hussain, 28, while Saiful Islam, 18, fled. The mob tied Billal and Joyed and thrashed them to death. Another group caught Saiful at Mungiakami and lynched him. ‘Brought dead’ Police teams shifted the three to GBP Hospital in Agartala, where they were declared brought dead, senior district police officer Sonacharan Jamatia said. “We have seized the mini-truck and five cows,” a local police officer said, declining to be quoted. The police said a few cattle were stolen from Namanjoypara, near north Maharanipur. The CPI(M) said the incident was a fallout of lawlessness in the State. It claimed several lynching incidents had occurred after the insta-llation of the BJP-led coalition government in Tripura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-youth-lynched-in-tripura/article34875286.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. open to steps to boost economy: CEA||The government is open to coming out with more measures to boost the economy, hit by the second COVID-19 wave, said Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) K.V. Subramanian. But he said the demand for a fresh stimulus package had to be considered against the backdrop of the initiatives taken by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget for 2021-22. The CEA was responding to a suggestion by some industry bodies that the government needed to announce a Rs. 3 lakh crore stimulus package to boost the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-open-to-steps-to-boost-economy-cea/article34875290.ece
21 June 2021||Pune,||Sena MLA for party’s return to NDA fold||Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik wrote to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray asking him to join hands with the BJP. Mr. Sarnaik is facing an ED probe in the NSEL scam. “While we have complete faith in your leadership ... it would be better if you formed an alliance with Mr. Modi… It would also give relief to Sena leaders like Ravindra Waikar, Anil Parab and myself, who are being harassed by Central agencies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-mla-for-partys-return-to-nda-fold/article34875301.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||Over 3.06 cr. vaccine doses still available with States: Centre||More than 3.06 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the States and Union Territories and over 24.53 lakh doses will be received by them in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. It said 29,10,54,050 vaccine doses had been provided to States and Union Territories so far through the Union government’s free of cost channel and the direct State procurement category. Of these, the total consumption, including wastage, was 26,04,19,412 doses, according to data available at 8 a.m. on Sunday, the Ministry said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-306-cr-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-centre/article34875304.ece
21 June 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. reports 251 new COVID-19 cases||Uttar Pradesh reported 251 new COVID-19 cases and 46 fatalities on Sunday, taking the State’s infection tally to 17,04,358 and its death toll to 22,178. Eleven of the fresh deaths were reported from Allahabad and 10 from Lucknow, the U.P. government said in a statement. Among the new cases, 25 were reported from Lucknow, followed by 11 each in Varanasi, Rae Bareli and Bareilly, and 10 each in Meerut, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Shahjahanpur and Pratapgarh. A total of 561 more COVID-19 patients have recovered from the disease in the State, taking their number to 16,77,611 so far.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-reports-251-new-covid-19-cases/article34875490.ece
21 June 2021||Dibrugarh (Assam),||Villagers light lamps for COVID-19 victims||In a unique prayer ceremony for the people who have succumbed to COVID-19, nearly 4,500 earthen lamps were lit by residents of two villages in Assam’s Dibrugarh district. The Sonowal Kachari community in the Naharkatia area organised the event with villagers of Na-Khotiya Sonowal gaon and Mathawoni gaon lighting the earthen lamps on both sides of the road passing through the two villages. A total of 774 families in the two villages lit 4,444 lamps on Saturday night remembering the people who have lost their lives battling the COVID-19 infection.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/villagers-light-lamps-for-covid-19-victims/article34875489.ece
21 June 2021||Mumbai,||3 held with drugs in multiple NCB raids||Three people were arrested following raids in separate places in Mumbai by the Narcotics Control Bureau, an official said on Sunday. Sachin Tupe, Afsar Khan, and Fahad Salim Qureshi were held allegedly with LSD blots, mephedrone, cocaine and cannabis, he said. Mr. Tupe was arrested in connection with a case of a bakery in Malad that was making edible items laced with narcotics, and his questioning led to 11 LSD blots being seized from Marol, the official said. Mr. Khan, an autorickshaw driver, was nabbed with cocaine.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-held-with-drugs-in-multiple-ncb-raids/article34875625.ece
21 June 2021||Srinagar,||L-G lauds ‘J&K model of vaccination’||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha on Sunday praised the “tireless contribution of corona warriors” and frontline workers in the June episode of the Awaam ki Awaaz programme aired on all local and primary channels of the All India Radio in the Union Territory. He said J&K had achieved great strides in vaccine coverage. “People are discussing the ‘J&K model of vaccination’ and want to replicate the same in other parts of the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/l-g-lauds-jk-model-of-vaccination/article34875316.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fake drug unit busted in Delhi||The Crime Branch of the Delhi police has busted a unit manufacturing fake life-saving drugs meant for the treatment of COVID-19 and mucormycosis patients, and arrested 10 people, officials said on Sunday. The medicines were being black marketed via WhatsApp, they said. One of the accused, Mayank Taluja, 25, worked as a COVID-19 volunteer and came in contact with a salesperson named Waseem Khan, who worked at Al Khidmat Medicos. Soon, Mr. Taluja began advertising on WhatsApp groups that drugs for the treatment of mucormycosis were available with him, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fake-drug-unit-busted-in-delhi/article34875317.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||Only 8% of Tihar’s inmates vaccinated||Only around 8% of the inmates at Tihar jail, considered the largest prison in Asia, have been vaccinated against COVID-19 so far. An officer said the vaccination drive among inmates has suffered due to the scarcity of vaccines. Prison officials said 1,615 persons over the age of 45 have been completely vaccinated so far in the three prison complexes, including Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli. On May 18, vaccination of the age group 18 to 45 was started at Tihar prison complex and till Saturday total 1,991 inmates received the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-8-of-tihars-inmates-vaccinated/article34875318.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases fall below 1,000 in several districts||The number of COVID-19 cases fell below 1,000 in several districts across Tamil Nadu on Sunday. The State reported 7,817 fresh cases, taking the total number of infections to 24,22,497. A total of 69,372 people are undergoing treatment, either at home or at healthcare facilities. Although Coimbatore district recorded just 904 cases, 10,802 people are under treatment. In Erode, 870 fresh cases were recorded and 8,326 people are under treatment. In Salem (517), Tiruppur (477) and Chennai (455), the number of cases was slightly lower. While 4,392 people are under treatment in Salem, 4,461 are being treated in Tiruppur. In Chennai, 1,316 people are under treatment. Most deaths were recorded in the western districts, with Salem recording 21 deaths, followed by Coimbatore (17) and Erode (15). In Chennai, 14 persons died of the infection, adding to the toll of 182 deaths across the State. So far, 31,197 have died of the infection in the State. Chennai reported 455 new infections, taking the total number of cases to 5,29,211. Among the deceased, 28 persons had no co-morbid conditions. However, 154 persons died of co-morbidities, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. A 95-year-old man from Thanjavur who had coronary artery disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease tested positive on June 18. He was admitted the same day to a private hospital with complaints of fever and cough. He died the next day of COVID-19 pneumonia. Of the 9,424 oxygen beds, 4,211 non-oxygen beds and 2,127 beds in intensive care units in Chennai district, 8,006 oxygen beds, 3,602 non-oxygen beds and 1,011 intensive care unit beds were vacant. Across the State, 65,981 beds were vacant. A total of 1,79,657 people were vaccinated on Sunday. With this, 1,20,03,710 people have been vaccinated in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-fall-below-1000-in-several-districts/article34875454.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to facilitate more vaccination sessions||The Greater Chennai Corporation plans to administer at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine to all eligible residents in the next 72 days by increasing the number of vaccination sessions, introducing mobile units for slum residents and opening a portal to keep the public updated on stock availability. Currently, the number of vaccination sessions has decreased because of issues in the supply of vaccines. On Sunday, residents reported that sessions were not held in many zones. For instance, just one session was held in several zones on Sunday. The vaccine stock had reduced to just 7,680 on Saturday evening, with many zones such as Adyar having no Covishield vial at all. Anna Nagar zone had a stock of 230 Covishield and no Covaxin doses. Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar zone, with a stock of 1,740 Covishield doses, had the highest number in the city by Saturday evening. As a result, officials informed residents that the schedule for vaccination was not readied on Sunday in many zones. The Corporation conducted 98 vaccination sessions on Sunday, including at 45 adhoc centres, 19 community health centres, 5 area camps, 6 government hospitals and 23 special camps. A total of 8,290 residents received their vaccination in the city on Sunday. Officials said the Corporation plans to increase the number of vaccination sessions in the next 72 days. Tele-counselling volunteers have started tracking at least 50,000 residents who are yet to get the second dose and will help them receive it in a few days. “The number of vaccinations is dynamic and completely supply driven. We intend to have one centre in each ward. To begin with, we are doing in 65 and will augment, based on supply,” an official said. “The proposed portal will capture availability of vaccines as they are received from the government for all 65 centres. We are also planning a pre-booking option through phone and WhatsApp. This is expected to be up in the coming week,” he added. Vaccines would be distributed to the 65 centres on Monday. For a list of walk-in vaccination centres, visit http://covid19.chennaicorporation.gov.in/covid/vaccine_centers/ Efficient usage Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the number of vaccination sessions was set to increase on Monday. “The Corporation received 40,380 doses of vaccine on June 18, which were distributed immediately, and 30,740 persons were vaccinated on Saturday. The remaining vaccinations are being done at urban community health centres (UCHCs) today,” he said. The Standard Operating Procedures for vaccination were maintained by ensuring that each zone had vaccines in UCHCs, three prominent places within the zone, such as schools, colleges or community halls, and prominent places selected in coordination with social service organisations, such as the Rotary and Lions clubs, resident welfare associations and public representatives. “The percentage of two-dose vaccinations of 8% in Chennai is one of the highest in the country. In fact, our need for vaccines is much higher than what the State and the city are able to procure. Now, we are running 65 centres parallelly, and efficiency is high in these centres so our stock depletes the same day we receive it,” Mr. Bedi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-facilitate-more-vaccination-sessions/article34875429.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-AIADMK Minister Manikandan arrested||A special team arrested former AIADMK Minister M. Manikandan from Bengaluru, on charges ofraping a Malaysian-Indian woman, causing miscarriage and criminally intimidating her. Last month, the woman lodged a complaint against Mr. Manikandan, accusing him of cheating her. A case was booked against him in the Adyar All Women Police Station under different Sections of the IPC, including 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 417 (punishment for cheating), 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) and the IT Act. The former Minister was reported to be absconding and two special teams were formed to nab him. Earlier this month, he sought anticipatory bail from the Madras High Court. The court asked the police not to arrest him till June 9. The Malaysian-Indian woman, an actor, complained to the police that the former Minister had cheated her after a live-in relationship with her for a few years. She alleged that he had promised to marry her and made her pregnant thrice. She alleged that he had forced her to get abortions and threatened her family members in Malaysia when she insisted that he marry her. She said Mr. Manikandan was introduced to her in 2017 when he was the Information Technology Minister. He developed friendship with her on the pretext of making an investment in Malaysia. Within a few days, he proposed to her although he was already married. She alleged that he persuaded her to undergo an abortion by promising to marry her. He threatened to upload her nude pictures online if she returned to Malaysia. However, the former Minister reportedly denied all the allegations levelled by her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-aiadmk-minister-arrested/article34875440.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel: Finance Minister||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Sunday ruled out reducing the VAT on petrol and diesel in the present circumstances, but promised to bring it down once the State’s finances improved and the injustice done to Tamil Nadu in the sharing of tax revenue was rectified. “Though we have fulfilled many promises, we could not bring down the VAT on petrol and diesel in the present circumstances. I will explain why it cannot be done now,” he said. Mr. Rajan said that after the BJP came to power at the Centre in 2014, it increased the total taxes and cess on petrol from Rs. 10.39 (of which 50% was excise duty, which was shared with the States) to Rs. 32.9 (from which only Rs. 1.4 was shared with the States) in the 2021 Union Budget. “In the last year alone (2020-21), the Union government’s revenues from cess and surcharges on petrol and diesel have rocketed from Rs. 2.4 lakh crore to about Rs. 3.9 lakh crore, while the actual revenues shared with Tamil Nadu from the excise tax collected by the Union on these products have dropped from Rs. 1,163 crore to Rs. 837 crore,” he said. Mr. Rajan added that after the agriculture cess was added in place of excise duty in February 2021, the States’ share was further reduced by about Rs. 50,000 crore. “If a State government which is already facing such a loss further reduces the VAT, it will amount to abetting the unfair deeds of the Union, which has increased the cess and surcharge while appropriating the States’ share. It will be an injustice to the people of the State, irrespective of the ruling party,” he said. The Minister estimated that for a rupee raised by the Union from the average Tamilian through direct and indirect taxes, roughly 35 paise was the amount distributed from the Union to that citizen through grants and share of taxes. As another benchmark, he stated that while Tamil Nadu was the source of roughly 10% of India’s GDP and tax contribution, the formula of the 15th Finance Commission allocated only about 4% of the allocation of 41% of the Union’s tax revenues to all the States combined (4% of 41% = 1.7%), after excluding cesses and surcharges. He also alleged that even after the price of crude oil came down, the Centre had not reduced the prices of petrol and diesel. “When the crude oil price was $112 per barrel, the price of petrol was Rs. 69 and the State’s share was Rs. 14.48. In 2020, the price came down to $40 per barrel, but petrol was sold for Rs. 98 and Tamil Nadu’s share was Rs. 23. Similarly, when crude oil was sold for $111 a barrel, the price of diesel was Rs. 43.99. Now, the price has come down to $44 per barrel and diesel is sold for Rs. 92,” he explained. The Minister said Tamil Nadu was levying less VAT than many other States. “But these States are getting more from the Centre and still levy more VAT. How can we run the government if we further reduce VAT?” he asked. Mr. Rajan said the government did not depend only on the TASMAC liquor shops for revenue. He said the work on preparing a White Paper on the State’s finances was on, and it would be tabled in the Assembly two weeks after the Governor’s address.  Though we have fulfilled many promises, we could not bring down the VAT on petrol and diesel in the present circumstances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-reduction-in-vat-on-petrol-and-diesel-finance-minister/article34875456.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fish prices soar due to supply shortfall||Fish prices more than doubled in many places in the city on Sunday. A kilogram of Sankara fish and vari paarai cost Rs. 400 each instead of Rs. 200. Oosi kanawa was priced Rs. 4,000 for 50 pieces in place of Rs. 1,500. With not many boats returning on Sunday, fish arrivals were less, automatically pushing up prices. Consumers, who had come to buy fish after the fishing ban was lifted, said despite prohibitive rates they purchased what was available. S. Chezhiyan, of Palavakkam, said he preferred to go to Neelankarai Kuppam to buy freshly-caught fish, which he hoped would be cheaper than those at the Palavakkam market. At the Kasimedu Fishing Harbour, retail sales were not allowed, and vendors could be seen buying baskets of fish from mechanised boats and traditional crafts. “Not many boats returned today. In fact, not many ventured into the sea in the first place. With very high diesel prices, lack of labour and the lockdown continuing, around 30% boats remained on shore,” said M.E. Raghupathy, a boat owner. S. Balaraman, an accountant with a private fishing company, said high diesel prices led to an increase in rates of fish nets too. “Boats need to be stocked up and everything has become costlier. Owners have to spend at least Rs. 5 lakh just for diesel and ice per trip, and if they don’t break even, many prefer to remain on land,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-prices-soar-due-to-supply-shortfall/article34875435.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of farmers’ stir, security to be tightened at Raj Bhavan||Acting on specific intelligence from central agencies that violence could erupt during the protests called by farmers’ associations and trade unions against the new farm laws, the Tamil Nadu police have chalked out a strategy to intensify security cover for the Raj Bhavan here and in Udhagamandalam in the Nilgiris district. In a bid to intensify its agitation against the new farm laws of the Centre, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha called for a “save agriculture, save democracy” sit-in protests in front of Raj Bhavans across the country on June 26. The joint platform of trade unions, including CITU, AITUC, INTUC, LPF, HMS and others, expressed their support to farmers in their agitation against the farm laws. After an alert was received from the Centre that some Pakistan-based ISI proxies had planned to sabotage the farmers’ protest by instigating violence, a note was sent to keep the intelligence machinery on high alert and step up security at Raj Bhavans in all States. In Tamil Nadu, senior police officials in Chennai, the Nilgiris and all other districts were told to step up surveillance ahead of the proposed black flag protest. Special teams of the State intelligence and local police were monitoring the movement of suspicious persons and others who came to adverse notice in recent months, police sources said on Sunday. Besides access control at the Raj Bhavans in Chennai and Udhagamandalam, security would be tightened at major Central government establishments in the State. Police were in touch with farmers’ associations and trade unions to assess the number of participants, though there was no permission for protests or any other activity in view of the prohibitory orders and COVID-19 safety guidelines, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-farmers-stir-security-to-be-tightened-at-raj-bhavan/article34875446.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko seeks early hearing of pending Mekedatu dam case||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Sunday urged the government to hasten the process of hearing of the Mekedatu dam case pending in the Supreme Court and ensure that Karnataka’s plan to construct a dam is stopped. Mr. Vaiko accused the National Green Tribunal of acting one-sided in favour of Karnataka by closing proceedings against the project last week. “When the Mekedatu case has been scheduled for July 5, 2021, for hearing the arguments of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, NGT chairperson A.K. Goyal has not given the opportunity for it to be heard and has acted in a biased manner,” he said in a statement. He said it was in this backdrop that Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa claimed that the NGT had given permission to Karnataka to construct the dam across the Cauvery. “It is highly condemnable that the BJP government is supporting Karnataka when there is a final judgment of the Cauvery Tribunal and the Supreme Court that is being side-stepped,” he said. Mr. Vaiko said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi during their meeting that the Union government should not give consent for the project. “If the project is allowed, then the 177.25 tmcft of Cauvery water that is legally Tamil Nadu’s share as per the Supreme Court judgment will become a trickle,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaiko-seeks-early-hearing-of-pending-mekedatu-dam-case/article34875458.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin visits children’s hospital in Egmore||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children in Egmore on Sunday to review the COVID-19 precautionary arrangements being taken there. He also reviewed the setting up of a 250-bed unit intended for giving treatment to children without any delay, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-visits-childrens-hospital-in-egmore/article34875432.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled teachers allege denial of pay regularisation despite HC order||Around 200 differently abled part-time teachers working in government schools across Tamil Nadu have alleged denial of regularisation of pay despite a Government Order issued in 2008. The teachers have alleged that the previous government also failed to comply with the ruling of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court in December 2020, asking the government to take a decision. The government had issued an order (G.O. 151) in 2008, when the DMK was in power, to provide regularised time-scale pay for all the differently abled employees who had worked for more than two years on a consolidated pay. H. Jaleel Mohaideen, State president, Tamil Nadu All Types of Differently Abled Teachers’ Association, said that though they had been demanding regularisation of pay, their demands had been ignored. “Subsequently, we approached the court in 2020. The court ordered the government to take a decision on our demand within 12 weeks. However, the School Education Department has still not taken a call,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-teachers-allege-denial-of-pay-regularisation-despite-hc-order/article34875430.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEET will destroy medical education and public health system, says SPCSS||The State Platform for Common School System (SPCSS), a body of educationists, activists and professionals, has said that the National Eligibility-cum Entrance Test (NEET) must be abolished as it was harmful to both medical education and the public health system. In a detailed representation sent to the Justice A.K. Rajan Committee, set up by the Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of NEET, SPCSS said NEET would destroy the public health infrastructure built by Tamil Nadu at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels by denying medical education to meritorious students from humble backgrounds who would prefer to serve in the government sector. The organisation argued that NEET was not recommended by the expert committee headed by Ranjit Roy Chaudhury in 2014 to study the Indian Medical Council Act to suggest changes or the Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC) that analysed the report or even the Supreme Court in its 2016 judgment in the Modern Dental College case. It pointed out that the concerns raised by the expert committee, the PSC and the Supreme Court were related to commercialisation of medical education and steps to prevent charging of arbitrary and high fees by private medical educational institutions. It said that the concerns were “not aimed at interfering in the medical colleges and universities incorporated, administered and regulated by the State governments”. Stating that it was NITI Aayog that came up with the idea of NEET, SPCSS alleged that it was done to favour private educational institutions and had worsened the situation regarding commercialisation of education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-will-destroy-medical-education-and-public-health-system-says-spcss/article34875436.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayadharani is Cong. whip||The Congress on Sunday informed the Speaker that its MLA S. Vijayadharani will be the party’s whip in the Assembly while J.M.H. Hassan Maulana will be the deputy whip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayadharani-is-cong-whip/article34875444.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session from today||The Assembly session is set to start with the customary Governor’s address at Kalaivanar Arangam here at 10 a.m. on Monday. This is the first time the 16th Assembly is meeting after all the elected members have been administered the oath of office as legislators. In view of COVID-19, the Assembly has been meeting in a multi-purpose hall on the third floor of Kalaivanar Arangam since September last. After the Governor’s address, the Business Advisory Committee will meet to decide on the duration of the session. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is expected to give his reply to the motion of thanks to the Governor’s Address on the last day. The ruling DMK has 133 MLAs and the main Opposition AIADMK has 66 MLAs in the 234-member House. The Congress has 18 members, the PMK has five and the BJP and the VCK have four each. The Communist Party of India and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) have two members each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-from-today/article34875451.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Grocery kits distributed in city and nearby districts||The Chennai Food Bank, in association with Jain Annapurna Trust, distributed grocery kits to low income groups in the city and 40 villages covering the nearby districts this week. According to a press release, 600 grocery kits, with 35 kg of various ingredients that can sustain a family for a month, were distributed to villagers located around Arni, Chetpet, Cheyyar, Vandavasi, Vellore, Ponneermalai and Polur. Also, 400 grocery kits were distributed in and around the city. Both NGOs have distributed more than 1 lakh meals during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grocery-kits-distributed-in-city-and-nearby-districts/article34875426.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro services will resume from today||After almost two months, Metro Rail will be operational again from Monday with 50% capacity initially. The timings have also been limited, with services available from 6.30 a.m. to 9 p.m. During peak hours, trains will be operated every five minutes and at other times, every 19 minutes. Passengers will be allowed into the concourse level to purchase tickets only if they are wearing a mask. “Each coach will only have a maximum of 28 passengers to ensure physical distancing. Specific staff have been assigned to monitor adherence to COVID-19 guidelines,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-services-will-resume-from-today/article34875427.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man out on bail murders friend||The police are searching for a 25-year-old for murdering his friend in his house at Adambakkam. He had murdered another friend in the same house a year ago and was out on bail. According to the police, Edwin alias Karg is a ganja peddler. Last year, he was arrested for killing his friend Manikandan in a drunken brawl. He was released on bail recently, and invited his friends — Ajit Kumar, Ravi and Dinesh Kumar — to his home for a party. A fight broke out after Edwin questioned why they did not help him get bail earlier. Ravi and Dinesh left the house but Ajit Kumar, who was drunk, fell asleep there. Edwin dropped a concrete flower pot on his head and murdered him, the police said. He then fled the spot. Neighbours alerted the police after finding the body. Personnel from the Adambakkam police station retrieved the body and sent it for post-mortem examination. A case has been registered, and they are searching for Edwin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-out-on-bail-murders-friend/article34875437.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai calls on Stalin||Telangana Governor and Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan called on Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-calls-on-stalin/article34875438.ece
21 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown brings down work, earnings of handloom weavers||For several handloom weavers in Coimbatore district, the lockdown that came into force last month to control the spread of the pandemic has resulted in either less work or less pay. For instance, 64-year-old Varadaraj at Alakombu near Sirumugai used to weave four saris a week and earn Rs. 1,600 a saree. Now, he weaves two saris are a week and the payments are not regular, he says. “Even if we get Rs. 100 or so less, we take it because we need an earning,” he says. For the handloom weavers in Sirumugai area, raw silk comes from Karnataka and the saris woven are sent to Bengaluru for sales. With lockdown in Karnataka too, there is no movement of silk yarn or the saris. The months of May and June are peak seasons because of weddings. Last year and this year, sales during these months were completely affected, he says. Manoharan, a master weaver near Negamam who sells to private traders, says the weavers were given jobs for about two weeks after the lockdown. After that, the master weavers did not have raw material. “Most of the weavers are idle now. They have no work. We do not have raw material and with no sales, we are unable to pay the weavers too,” he says. Weavers in Coimbatore district may have stocks worth Rs. 50 crore. They are the worst hit because of the lockdown. The government should pay Rs. 5,000 compensation to each handloom weaver, he said. Production plan In the case of Sirumugai, most of the products are sold to Cooptex. An official at Cooptex said the weavers were given the production plan for 2021-22 and production was going on. However, since most of its retail outlets in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, and Erode districts remained shut because of the lockdown, there was no sales now. An official in the Handloom Department here said that about 60 weaving societies in the district, with 30,000 handloom weavers, had been given work to the weavers during the lockdown too. There was no drop in work, but there were no sales. So, there were stocks. However, sales would pick up immediately after the lockdown. “This year, we were better prepared for the lockdown based on last year’s experience. Hence, we had planned and weavers continue to get work,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-brings-down-work-earnings-of-handloom-weavers/article34875466.ece
21 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Proceedings initiated for closure of brick kilns in Thadagam valley||Coimbatore district administration has initiated proceedings for the closure of all the brick kilns/chambers in five village panchayats in Thadagam valley as a follow-up to an order issued by the Madras High Court on April 30 this year. Sources in the know of the development said that closure proceedings were served on all the brick kilns in the valley namely, Chinna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Veerapandi, Pannimadai and Somaiyampalayam, by registered post. “The proceedings were completed by former District Collector S. Nagarajan and orders were served based on the brick kilns/chambers through the Department of Geology and Mining,” said a senior official involved in the process. Setting aside previous closure orders issued by Coimbatore north tahsildar, the High Court had held that tahsildar was not empowered to order the closure of brick kilns. The court had directed the District Collector to pass appropriate orders within four weeks after hearing from brick kiln owners. The official said the closure orders were served on the brick kilns/chambers within the time stipulated by the court. The owners of the brick kilns were not allowed to move any property from the compounds of their brick kilns/chambers, added the official. According to the district administration, 186 brick kilns/chambers in the valley had not obtained proper licences for operation. Activists who had been campaigning for the closure of brick kilns had submitted to the district administration that the five village panchayats had 24 more units. While setting aside the closure order issued by the tahsildar, justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana had said that the authorities were duty bound to regulate the brick kilns activities by reviewing the permission/licence or clearance granted to the brick kiln operators, which they failed. The justice had also observed that that it was unfortunate to note that the entire district administration, in dealing with the issue at hand, failed to discharge their duties as mandated by the statute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proceedings-initiated-for-closure-of-brick-kilns-in-thadagam-valley/article34875472.ece
21 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Micro units turn to different sources for financial needs||Chandran (name changed), a micro unit owner for nearly two decades, employs six workers to run lathes, making spares for pumpsets. Recently, he had sold jewellery to pay wages to workers and electricity charges. He had to shell out at least Rs. 50,000 a month towards wages, pay electricity charges, and rent even if the unit is closed for lockdown. “Last year, during the two month lockdown, the micro units suffered losses and had to sell some jewels to meet the expenses. When the lockdown was lifted, the orders picked up only gradually. With lockdown again this year, I had sold the remaining jewels and also taken an advance from a scrap dealer,” he says. The private finance companies are not willing to lend as there is no collateral to give. Banks do not give much support to the micro units. So, the unit owners approach different sources and take an advance amount or sell or pledge jewels, he says. Though Coimbatore district is under lockdown till June 21, the units are paying electricity charges with penalty since June 15. “We need to meet the family expenses too. There is absolutely no help from the Central government. The Electricity Board is collecting charges with penalty. There is no relief of any kind for these units,” he says. J. James, president of the Tamilnadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said that many of the micro units had already borrowed by money lenders and hence were borrowing from relatives or pledging jewels now. “The unit owners need to pay wages to workers, electricity charges, rent for the unit and their house. When there is lockdown for a month, the units cannot meet these expenses and hence they turn to different sources for money,” he said. The local money lenders are the bank for most micro unit owners. The money borrowed is repaid on monthly basis. Though the lenders charge exorbitant interest for the money given, the unit owners have no other option, he adds. An officer at the Coimbatore district said the district administration held a meeting with representatives of micro finance institutions recently. Even those from unregistered institutions took part. They were asked to not insist the borrowers to repay the loans immediately, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-units-turn-to-different-sources-for-financial-needs/article34875480.ece
21 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation asked to be transparent about vaccination||A few days ago, a Mettupalayam resident went all the way to Coimbatore to get vaccinated. The reason Prem Jayanth travelled more than 25km to get vaccinated was because there was vaccine shortage in Mettupalayam and Coimbatore being a city, thought that his chances of getting vaccinated would be better. But he could not as there was no information available in the public domain on when the Corporation would vaccinate people, which vaccine it would administer and to what age category of people. In a few vaccination centres, sources said, people waited in queue since 5 a.m. only to be told at 8 a.m. that there would be no vaccination on the day or it was for only the age category that they did not belong to. And, worse, the staff at vaccination centres were unable to answer queries. Sources in the Corporation said the civic body was informing people that there would be no vaccination on the day by placing a board outside the vaccination centres and that too in the mornings. This would not help people waiting for vaccination because to know that there would be no vaccination, people would still have to travel all the way to the vaccination centres, countered consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon. It would be better if the Corporation used the press, social media platforms, FM radio and its website to inform public of when it would vaccinate people, the age category of people for whom it intended to vaccinate people and the type of vaccine it had on hand – Covaxin or Covishield.  In vaccinating the public, the Corporation should join hands with the Revenue Department or police or other such department like the Civil Supplies that had experience in crowd management. He also suggested that the Corporation should prioritise the public over industry employees or bank employees or workers in organised sector as private hospitals had started getting vaccines and were ready to administer vaccines at work places, something that was not possible until a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-asked-to-be-transparent-about-vaccination/article34875460.ece
21 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Priests get COVID-19 relief package||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani on Sunday distributed COVID-19 relief package to temple priests and wedding assistance to women at a function held at the Collectorate on Sunday. A release from the district administration said, the Minister gave Rs. 4,000 and a bag containing 10 kg rice and 15 essential commodities to 423 priests from 353 temples that come under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. The bag contained sugar, wheat, tea, toor dal, urad dal, chilli powder and a few other items. And, the cost the State had incurred for distributing the relief package was Rs. 16.92 lakh. The Minister also gave eight gram gold and Rs. 25,000 for women who had completed Class X or Plus Two and eight gram gold and Rs. 50,000 for women who had completed degree or diploma to each of 206 women in the district at Rs. 1.27 crore, the release said. The Minister said former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had introduced the aforementioned scheme in 1989-90 with an aim to encourage girls to take up higher education. Collector G.S. Sameeran was present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priests-get-covid-19-relief-package/article34875459.ece
21 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps today||A total of 24,550 doses of Covishield will be available at vaccination centres in the district on Monday. Each of the 13 UPHCs in Coimbatore rural will have 200 doses of the vaccine. A total of 41 PHCs have been allotted 6,150 doses. Valparai PHC, Mettupalayam urban health centre, PHCs at Vadugapalayam and Kamatchi Nagar in Pollachi municipality will have 200 doses each. The government schools at Kottur, Malaiyadipalayam, Ettimadai and Sulur have been allotted 500 doses each. In Coimbatore Corporation limits, 13,000 doses will be administered to people aged above 45 through the 43 vaccination centres functioning in schools from 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-today/article34875467.ece
21 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Finance firm executive booked on rape charge||The All Women Police Station (AWPS), Coimbatore Central, has booked an executive of a microfinance firm on the charges of raping a Coimbatore-based woman by promising to marry her. The police said a case was registered against Anand Sharma (49), resident of a gated community at Mogappair East in Chennai, on Saturday based on the complaint lodged by a 48-year-old woman from Coimbatore. The woman complained to the police that she got introduced to the accused through a dating app early in 2020. According to the woman the accused introduced himself to her as a divorcee. He then worked as the Chief Technical Officer of a microfinance firm in Chennai and he offered to help her revamp and restructure her business. The man promised to marry her and assured to help her in getting legal separation from her second husband, the complaint said. The woman alleged that the accused invited her to a luxury hotel in Coimbatore on September 19, 2020 on the pretext of discussing business and forced himself on her against her will. In March 2021, she came to know that the accused was not divorced and thus cheated her, the complaint said. The AWPS registered a case against Sharma for rape and cheating. His brother Prabhat Sharma was also booked after the woman complained that he intimidated her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finance-firm-executive-booked-on-rape-charge/article34875481.ece
21 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cyber Cell warns on FB cheating||The Cyber Cell of Coimbatore City Police have warned people of cheating wherein Facebook users are targeted. The Cell said in a release that fraudsters commit the cheating by creating a fake account of a person by downloading his or her profile photo and cover photo. Fraudsters then contact the friends of the person using Facebook Messenger and ask for money for emergencies. They seek to transfer money to specific digital wallets or bank accounts through online payment methods. According to the Cell, stealing of profile picture and cover photo of a Facebook account could be prevented by activating ‘Lock Your Profile’ option which enables only those in the friends list to see the profile picture. Users, who are not interested to lock the profile, could also change settings which hides friends list from others. The URL of a fake profile will be different from the original Facebook profile, said the Cyber Cell, cautioning users about the mode of cheating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyber-cell-warns-on-fb-cheating/article34875473.ece
21 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||The Department of Post will make available a special cachet designed by the Postal Directorate at Coimbatore Head Post Office for International Yoga Day on June 21. It will be used to deface on all mails booked and delivered on June 21. Philatelists and students can make use of it, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-reports/article34875474.ece
21 June 2021||COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lanka defends plan to build reef||Days after Tamil Nadu fishermen protested against Sri Lanka’s efforts to build an artificial reef off Delft island, west of Jaffna peninsula, authorities defended the move “aimed at enhancing fish breeding”. Last week, Sri Lanka’s Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, with the assistance of the Navy, launched a project, dropping around 20 discarded buses into the sea off Delft, as was earlier done in other parts of the island nation, including the eastern Trincomalee district, officials said. “Many countries, including India, have in the past created artificial reefs to facilitate fish spawning. Old train carriages were used in the U.S., for instance,” Cabinet Minister for Fisheries Douglas Devananda, who represents Jaffna district in Parliament, told The Hindu . The move was backed by research undertaken by Sri Lanka’s National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency (NARA), he said. “By objecting to an initiative in Sri Lanka’s territorial waters, Tamil Nadu fisher leaders have only exposed themselves as parties interested in fishing illegally in the Palk Strait,” he said, referring to the long-persisting fisheries conflict.  Scores of Tamil fishermen living in the war-affected northern and eastern districts of Sri Lanka have, for over a decade now, been protesting against Tamil Nadu fishermen’s use of destructive bottom trawlers along their coast, severely impacting the marine ecosystem and their post-war livelihoods. Despite ongoing bilateral discussions and several rounds of talks between fishermen of both countries, Tamil Nadu fishermen are yet to meet northern Sri Lankan fishermen’s consistent demand that they stop bottom-trawling in their seas. On the other hand, Tamil Nadu fishermen have accused the Sri Lankan Navy of attacking and killing fishermen – allegations that the Sri Lankan side denies. Meanwhile, members of the All Mechanised Boat Fishermen Association held a protest in Rameswaram last week, urging Sri Lanka to stop dropping “iron scrap” into the sea since it would “affect” marine ecology in the Palk Strait, and also “damage” their own boats and nets. In a tweet indicating that Sri Lanka sees its recent initiative also as a deterrent to bottom-trawling, State Minister of Fisheries Kanchana Wijesekera said while the artificial reef would boost fish spawning, “it will also act as a shield against bottom line trawling conducted illegally by the Indian Fishermen”. It is not only the government that defended the move but also Jaffna-based fisher cooperatives. “This initiative is aimed at helping our livelihoods by increasing fish production, and that is why we have welcomed it. We condemn certain sections of fisher leaders in Tamil Nadu opposing the move,” said Annalingam Annarasa, leader of the federation of fisher cooperative societies in Jaffna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lanka-defends-plan-to-build-reef/article34875443.ece
21 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Six held for posting derogatory videos||The district police on Sunday arrested six boys allegedly for posting derogatory videos against the police on social media. According to the police, six boys from Panchampalli have posted derogatory videos challenging police personnel. They have allegedly also posted videos posing with sickles. After the videos became viral on social media platforms, the Panchampalli police registered a case and arrested them. The boys were sent them to a juvenile home here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-posting-derogatory-videos/article34875477.ece
21 June 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Water tubs placed for monkeys||Days after the visit of Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) K. Sekar Babu, the authorities of Sri Rathnagiriswarar Temple began the task of providing water to the monkeys on Ayyarmalai. Noticing that the monkeys had been struggling to quench thirst due to lack of water sources, Mr. Babu, who visited the temple a few days ago, instructed the authorities to provide water tubs immediately. Hence, authorities placed tubs at different places. S. Ramamoorthy, Executive Officer of the temple, said there could be as many as 1,000 monkeys on the hillock. Twenty-five concrete water tubs had been placed at all ‘shadow mandapams’ along the pathway to the temple. They would be connected with pipes to supply water. The work would be over in a day or two, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-tubs-placed-for-monkeys/article34875705.ece
21 June 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||KVB donates ambulances to fight pandemic||Karur Vysya Bank has donated 10 ambulances to Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project to fight COVID-19. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin flagged off the ambulances  at the Secretariat on Saturday. The ambulances will be deployed for COVID relief activities across the State. While two of them will be used in the plains, hill regions will be allotted eight ambulances. This contribution is being implemented by the bank under its Corporate Social Responsibilities initiatives at a budget of Rs. 1.77 crore. Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare; V. Senthil Balaji, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise; V. IraiAnbu, Chief Secretary, and J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary, took part. Karur Vysya Bank was represented by K.V.S.M. Sudhakar, General Manager; R Ganesan, Deputy General Manager, and V. Krishnan, Assistant General Manager. The bank has so far extended Rs. 4.61 crore worth of assistance to the people during the second wave of COVID 19, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kvb-donates-ambulances-to-fight-pandemic/article34875711.ece
21 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Mullaperiyar drinking water project work gains momentum||Work on executing Mullaperiyar Drinking Water Project to bring water from Lower Camp in Theni district to Madurai city has gained momentum. Laying of pipelines from Lower Camp to Madurai, construction of water treatment plant at Pannaipatti in Theni district and construction of 17 of the total 37 overhead tanks (OHTs) in Madurai city have begun. The project, executed under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, was necessitated to provide 220 million litres a day (MLD) of water to 100 wards of Madurai city with a population of 14.64 lakh. The project, being implemented at a cost of Rs. 1,295.76 crore, will provide an additional 125 MLD of water to the city. It envisages laying of 96-km-long pipeline to conduct water from Lower Camp to Pannaipatti, construction of a water treatment plant with a capacity of 125 MLD and laying of a 54-km-long pipeline from the water treatment plant to Madurai city. Madurai Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan inspected the progress of works on Saturday. City Engineer S. Arasu, who was present during the inspection, said that different components of the works were underway. “Work on constructing headworks at Lower Camp will begin soon. On the other hand, laying of a pipeline from Lower Camp to Pannaipatti is under way,” he said. Construction of a water treatment plant and a pipeline from the plant to Madurai city were also under way. “Out of the 37 overhead tanks to be constructed, work has started for 17 tanks,” said Mr. Arasu. Tender process is under progress for construction of a new water distribution system in the newly-added 28 wards. The Corporation has also proposed to introduce a fifth component to construct a new water distribution system in 57 wards of the city.  All for Madurai Headworks at Lower Camp will begin soon Pipeline being laid to Pannaipatti Work on for 17 of the 37 overhead tanks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mullaperiyar-drinking-water-project-work-gains-momentum/article34875653.ece
21 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Price rise: construction sector seeks govt. intervention||The sudden and steep rise in costs of building materials, including cement, sand, steel and bricks, has caused concern in construction sector in Madurai. Civil engineers, building material dealers, work force and consumers are baffled by the steep rise. The price of a cement bag has risen to Rs. 520 from Rs. 330. Steel, which was earlier available at Rs. 55,000 per tonne, now sells at Rs. 75,000 per tonne. Likewise, the prices of bricks and M-sand too have gone up by 40% and consumers claim that fly-ash bricks are unavailable. Speaking to The Hindu , members of Builders’ Association of India (Madurai Chapter) and those affiliated with CREDAI, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other organisations have appealed to the State government to form a monitoring panel immediately to regulate prices. When there are regulators fixing prices for agricultural produce, drugs and others, building materials too should be brought under the fold. The price of cement has witnessed a steep rise only in Tamil Nadu, while it is selling at Rs. 330 per bag in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. At a time, when the COVID-19 pandemic has led to total lockdown, where is the need for cement manufacturers to inflate the price so much and that too in Tamil Nadu only, ask the stakeholders. The government should intervene as many consumers have been affected due to rise in prices. Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N. Jegatheesan said on Sunday that the building industry had been given permission to begin activities by the State government from Monday (June 21). Now, the steep rise had come as a dampener. ‘Give enough time’ The cement manufacturers’ association should consider the pandemic situation and give sufficient time to stakeholders before the increasing price as it might help builders and the consumers to plan accordingly, said K.R. Gnanasambandan, former TANSTIA president. By forming a high-level panel involving all stakeholders, the price mechanism could be regulated, an office-bearer in the CREDAI said and added that the inflation in cement price was felt only in Tamil Nadu. “The cartel in the cement sector is responsible,” he charged, saying the government should not remain a mere spectator in this issue. A civil engineer-cum-building contractor V. Vijayaragukula Pandian in Madurai said that the steep hike in cement had stalled the work abruptly in many sites. “My clients, who have taken home loans from banks and NBFCs, have already raised eyebrows over the rise in prices,” he noted. People building homes on 1,200 square feet may have to either arrange for additional loans or reduce the carpet area, he suggested and for the time being, they had stalled the works. Echoing his views, an ex-banker, A. Subramanian, who is a consultant on home loans in Madurai, said that the home loan agreements, which were signed a month ago, could not be altered that easily as the banks had sanctioned the quantum of loan component and disbursals were in process. Hence, the clients had to either wait for the government’s intervention or arrange for private loans to bridge the gap. A cement dealer, who is importing portland cement from countries like Pakistan and Indonesia through sea, said that the imported cement cost around Rs. 200 toRs. 215 per bag. Claiming that the pandemic had stalled the imports temporarily he however said that the public could procure cement from States like Andhra Pradesh or get it from government-owned cement companies, where the price hovered around Rs. 300 per bag. A top official in the government, seeking anonymity, said the Chief Minister was aware of the rise in prices and very soon a solution might be there as not only domestic construction had been hit, but many government welfare schemes such as Green Houses for the economically weaker sections too had been affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/price-rise-construction-sector-seeks-govt-intervention/article34875637.ece
21 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||One arrested for forcing a Dalit man to fall at the feet of caste Hindus||Madurai Rural District Police on Sunday arrested a person, Nagendran, on a charge of forcing a Dalit man to fall at the feet of Caste Hindus, including himself, for having stolen a calf a few days ago. Alanganallur police, who have registered a case under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, are on the lookout for Nagendran’s sister Nagalakshmi in this connection. “We did not receive any complaint but found a video clipping, shot by local youths, in the social media, in which P. Kannan (42) was seen falling at the feet of some persons following which we got a complaint from him,” Madurai Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said. Nagalakshmi of Mela Panangadi had found her missing calf in a butcher’s place at Arapalayam here on June 15 and brought it back home. They suspected that Kannan had stolen and sold it. The caste Hindus at the village claimed that Kannan had only fallen in front of the temple seeking apology for his act. “As per the video clipping, it looks like Kannan fell at the feet of some persons in front of temple,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-arrested-for-forcing-a-dalit-man-to-fall-at-the-feet-of-caste-hindus/article34875654.ece
21 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Waive patent rules on vaccines: forum||Members of Swadeshi Jagran Manch conducted an awareness programme here on Sunday, emphasising on the need to temporarily waive patent rules on COVID-19 vaccines and medicines. State Convenor of Swadeshi Jagran Manch H. Adhiseshan said that COVID-19 vaccine was the main arsenal in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. There was an urgent need to administer the vaccine to a vast number of people in the country at the earliest. So, the World Trade Organisation must waive patent rules for COVID-19 vaccines for the next five years for the larger interests of the public. “If the patent rules are waived, the production of the vaccine will vastly increase so as to meet the demand. Moreover, it will also help in bringing down the price of the vaccines,” said Mr. Adhiseshan. The huge companies that produce COVID-19 vaccines and medicines must voluntarily help in waiving the patents. “All stakeholders must not focus on earning profits, but work towards the benefit of the public,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waive-patent-rules-on-vaccines-forum/article34875656.ece
21 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water troughs placed for monkeys||The administration of Sundararaja Perumal Temple at Alagarkoil near here has placed 25 water troughs on the Alagarkoil hills to quench the thirst of monkeys of the forest. T. Anitha, Deputy Commissioner (in charge) of the temple, said that the initiative was possible thanks to philanthropists. The troughs would be filled with water every day using a tanker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-troughs-placed-for-monkeys/article34875651.ece
21 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Prisoners in Tiruchi, Madurai Central jails receive 1st vaccine dose||Inmates of the Madurai and Tiruchi Central Prisons have been administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccines. Over 1,500 convicts, under-trials, remand prisoners and those under preventive custody have been administered vaccines in Madurai, at a special drive held on Saturday, said Deputy Inspector General (Prisons), Madurai range, D. Pazhani. Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services Sunil Kumar Singh had ordered 100% vaccination of prisoners, prison employees and their family members. A similar drive is being conducted at the Central Prison in Palayamkottai. While 80% inmates have been vaccinated, the rest will get their jabs when the next stock of vaccines become available. Stringent process With a stringent process of lodging remand prisoners in sub-jails until their COVID-19 negative reports are obtained, officials have succeeded in keeping Central prisons free of the virus during the second wave, he added. The Tiruchi Central Prison has also given the first dose of vaccines to its inmates and jail staff. All 1,290 prisoners belonging to different categories — convicts, remand prisoners and TPDA (Tamil Nadu Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act) detenus — have got the jabs, in phases, within the jail premises. Vaccines have also been administered to all 365 prison staff and their family members residing in quarters, located in close proximity to the Central Prison, adjoining the Tiruchi-Pudukottai National Highway. All jail staff deployed in different sub-jails, functioning in Tiruchi, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts, falling under the Tiruchi control have also been vaccinated. Broad coverage Mr. Singh said 92% of the total 4,200-odd convicts lodged in Central prisons in the State had been vaccinated and 95% prison staff and 35% remand prisoners, initially lodged in sub-jails before being lodged in other prisons, had also been inoculated. “Our goal is to achieve 100% vaccination of all staff and inmates, and make Tamil Nadu’s prisons the best protected from COVID-19,” Mr. Singh said. The capacity of the State’s prisons, including Central prisons, is 23,592, while their occupancy is around 59%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prisoners-in-tiruchi-madurai-central-jails-receive-1st-vaccine-dose/article34875452.ece
21 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Treat people with dignity: Kanimozhi||Government officials, including those in the police department, should be sensitised to treat people with dignity, said DMK MP Kanimozhi at the release of ‘Sattankulam declaration’ via videoconferencing here on Saturday. Joint Action Against Custodial Torture (JAACT) in its declaration has set out guidelines to be followed to prevent police torture and loss of lives due to custodial torture. The ‘Sattankulam declaration’ was released on the first anniversary of the custodial death of a trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks in Thoothukudi district. The man and his son succumbed to injuries sustained while they were in the custody of Sattankulam police. The police atrocity sparked a nationwide outrage. Ms. Kanimozhi said that the resolution was important. Custodial torture and deaths were not acceptable. There must be a change and the laws alone were not the answer. There must be a cultural change and that process had to start, she said. The ‘Sattankulam declaration’ was released by senior advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan and the copy was received by Ms. Kanimozhi. Recollecting the incident, the daughter of Jayaraj and sister of Benicks, J. Persis said that such incidents should not happen again and sought a speedy trial in the custodial deaths case. She thanked people for their support. Key aspects Advocate Henri Tiphagne explained the key aspects of the declaration that set out certain guidelines to be followed by the law-enforcing authorities at the time of taking people into custody, formal arrest and at the time of interrogation. The law-enforcing agencies were given specific powers to enable them to discharge their duties. However, they must respect human rights while exercising their powers. People must be treated with dignity. JAACT sought the reconstitution of the State and District Police Complaints Authority as independent bodies headed by retired judges of the Supreme Court, High Court and District Court respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-must-be-sensitised-to-the-way-to-treat-people-mp/article34875649.ece
21 June 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 134.40 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,725 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 66.67 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,558 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,695 mcft. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 137.60 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 1,236.76 cusecs and a discharge of 1,702.50 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 83.30 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 675 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34875658.ece
21 June 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district records 151 fresh cases and five fatalities||Madurai recorded 151 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with which the district’s positive case count went up to 71,299. A total of 562 persons were discharged from various hospitals and healthcare facilities. The district reported five fatalities to have an overall death toll of 1,068. Virudhunagar district reported 112 fresh cases and 566 discharges on Sunday. Woman dies A woman, aged 58, died at Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital on Friday. With this, the death toll in the district increased to 511.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-district-records-151-fresh-cases-and-five-fatalities/article34875639.ece
21 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal designates vaccination centre for persons travelling abroad||The district administration and health department have designated a COVID-19 vaccination centre for administering second dose of Covishield vaccine to persons travelling abroad. Following instructions from State government, the district administration has designated Ernapuram primary health centre for vaccinating persons travelling abroad for studies, work or to participate in the Olympics. According to officials, while the general waiting period between first and second dose of Covishield is 84-112 days, persons under the specified category were allowed to receive the second dose after 28 days at the centre. District Collector Shreya P.Singh said in a release that persons under the specified categories can get their second dose by August 31 by producing proofs for the purpose of travel. Health officials said that the beneficiaries would be able to download vaccination certificates from Cowin portal, with their Passport details included, and produce it asproof of vaccination in foreign countries. For details, contact Ernapuram PHC at 8098001576, or the district war room at 1077, 04286-281377, 04286-299137, 04286-299139, 82204 02437, 93423 12761, 93423 12596.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-designates-vaccination-centre-for-persons-travelling-abroad/article34875470.ece
21 June 2021||PARAMAKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Shrines in State to be opened soon’||HR & CE Minister P.K Sekar Babu on Sunday that temples would be opened to devotees as and when the number of positive cases further declined in the State. Distributing financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 and a kit containing 15 grocery items to 198 archakas , pujaris and others at Meenakshi Amman Temple here, he told reporters that over 12,000 pujaris and archakas , who were not receiving salary, were given 10 kg of rice, grocery items and financial assistance by the government on instructions from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. The shrines in the State would be thrown open after COVID-19 cases declined. The government and officials were in touch with experts in this regard. Once they were satisfied with the decline in numbers of positive cases, the shrines would be open soon. The Minister said the government would consider taking over temples that had higher revenue under the HR&CE administration. He earlier visited Sivaganga, where HR&CE officials retrieved temple land measuring 9.58 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrines-in-state-to-be-opened-soon/article34875640.ece
21 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Five government school students selected for central scholarship||Five girl students of Government Higher Secondary School, Arayapatti in Alangudi taluk in the district have been selected for the Centrally-sponsored "National Means -cum Merit Scholarship". All the five students had completed standard VIII and are in standard nine now. The amount of scholarship for each student would be Rs. 12,000 per annum. They would be given Rs. 1,000 per month. The scholarship would be given to them up to Plus Two. The students had taken the Mental Ability Test and Scholastic Aptitude Test that was conducted in October last year, said a School Education Department official. The students selected for the scholarship were Nithiya, Kavipriya, Sarathi, Pavithra and Sivanee. The scholarship is primarily given to prevent dropout at class VIII and encourage the students to continue with their study at secondary stage, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-government-school-students-selected-for-central-scholarship/article34875718.ece
21 June 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Mangaluru police team visits Mandapam||An eight-member team of special police from Mangaluru visited Mandapam seashores and other places on Sunday in connection with the arrival of 38 Sri Lankan nationals in the Karnataka city from here. A week ago, the Sri Lankan nationals allegedly arrived at Vedalai near Mandapam clandestinely. With the help of some locals, they escaped to Mangaluru. They planned to leave for Australia, Canada and other countries with the help of some agents on payment of Rs. 5 lakh each. But, Mangaluru police arrested the Sri Lankans, the police here said. The special team brought four of the Sri Lankans here. After recording their submissions, the team led by Inspector Lokesh, visited the house of a suspect, who is absconding. Three days ago, a special team of Q-Branch police from Chennai came here and arrested Abdul Mohideen (43), Saddam (31) and Rasool (29) of Maraikayarpattinam near Mandapam. They were on the lookout for two other suspects. It may be noted that recently, 23 Sri Lankans managed to reach Thoothukudi clandestinely. They stayed in Madurai, where the police detained them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mangaluru-police-team-visits-mandapam/article34875646.ece
21 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Organs of accident victim transplanted||Eight organs of an accident victim who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Salem was harvested and transplanted to needy patients. Severe injuries A 27-year-old man working at a private firm near Namakkal suffered severe injuries in a road accident near Rasipuram on June 18 and was admitted to Kauvery Hospital here for treatment. The patient succumbed to injuries on Sunday. After the patient was declared brain-dead, his family volunteered for organ donation and tissue donation, hospital sources said. Selvam, Facility Director, Kauvery Hospital said in a release that the patient got married only recently and succumbed to injuries without responding to treatment. He added that through the organ donation, new lease of life was given to eight patients. According to hospital authorities, eyes, heart, lung, skin, kidneys and liver were harvested from the donor’s body and transported to hospitals in Salem, Chennai and Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organs-of-accident-victim-transplanted/article34875475.ece
21 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel suspended||A traffic police inspector and special sub-inspector with the Salem district police were suspended allegedly for corruption. Selvamani, a traffic police inspector, and Selvamani, SSI, who were deployed for vehicle checks near Omalur on the Salem-Bengaluru highway had allegedly indulged in collecting bribes from drivers of heavy duty vehicles and a video in this regard went viral on social media. Based on a report from Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav, C. Mageshwari, DIG-Salem Range, suspended the officers for bringing disrepute to the police and has ordered departmental inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-suspended/article34875476.ece
21 June 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Temple lands will be protected: Minister||Immovable assets such as lands and buildings, which belonged to temples in the State, will be protected and encroachers will be taken to task as per the law, said Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekar Babu here on Sunday. The Minister was here to inspect 9.58 acres of retrieved land belonging to Gowri Vinayagar Temple. On Saturday, local HR and CE officials sealed the property on Sivaganga-Melur Road that was encroached by people said to be close to a former AIADMK minister. Mr. Sekar Babu said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had clearly instructed that no encroachment or illegal occupants of temple properties would be allowed by the government. Instead of indulging in politics, the DMK government was determined to retrieve all such properties that might have been encroached by people in power in the past. He also clarified that action would be initiated after a thorough probe against elected representatives (present or past) and officials. “Whoever committed a mistake and was found an accused, he or she will have to face the music,”" he added. The Gowri Vinayagar Temple here, which is under HR&CE administration, had a little over 140 acres of land in the temple's name. The complaint was that 9.58 acres of land belonging to the temple was encroached by some people close to the former AIADMK minister. After taking over the land, they connived with officials and obtained temporary power connection for the site. Also, construction activities were under way. The Minister said temporary power connection was given in the name of Saravanan. After thorough examination, action would be taken against the encroachers, he replied to a query. After a section of media reported about the encroachment last week, HR&CE officials swung into action. As a sequel, the land had been retrieved, Mr Sekar Babu said and thanked media persons for exposing the encroachment. Asked about BJP leader H. Raja’s claims that about one lakh acres of temple land were encroached in Tamil Nadu, the Minister said that if the BJP leader gave details, the government would take firm action as per the laws. Rural Development Minister K.R. Periyakaruppan, Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-lands-will-be-protected-minister/article34875642.ece
21 June 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Stakeholders’ plea to permit tourists to Courtallam falls||Shopkeepers, hoteliers and autorickshaw drivers in Courtallam have appealed to the State government to consider permitting tourists to various tourists spots in the area. In a joint memorandum submitted to the district administration on Sunday, they said that at a time when the government had relaxed the curfew imposed due to the pandemic, they should consider similar relaxation for tourists to visit Courtallam. Every year, the season lasted for about five months. Stakeholders such as hoteliers, resort operators, shopkeepers and cab/auto drivers depended on tourists for their survival. Last year, curfew was imposed in March. The season at Courtallam normally began in April, touched its peak in June with tourists arrving till October. When the number of positive patients declined, the government lifted restrictions in mid-December. Following heavy rainfall and floods in the falls, officials banned entry of tourists. Again, since March, the pandemic came as a hurdle. Now, the season had begun and the government should consider their plea and relax the restrictions. Any delay or failure to throw open Courtallam falls might result in utter poverty of the stakeholders. The government should examine modalities and allow tourists after getting assurance to adhere to the standard operating procedure. When many shops and establishments were given permission, buses to operate with certain conditions, tourists should also be permitted to visit Courtallam in larger public interest, the memorandum stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stakeholders-plea-to-permit-tourists-to-courtallam-falls/article34875643.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tenements for slum-dwellers, homeless people mooted||A plan has been mooted to build 4,000 tenements in Tiruchi for slum dwellers and homeless people in the city. According to a rough estimate, about 4,000 families live on illegal structures on the roadsides and along watercourses, besides underneath of bridges and sides of railway tracks. A number of families have built houses with tiles, while others have illegally constructed semi-concrete structures on public places. The city has 211 approved and 75 unapproved slums. A large number of people live in several approved and unapproved urban slums by encroaching the public places. The encroachments have evidently led to several issues including traffic snarls, disruption in flow of traffic, inadequate sanitary facilities, open defecation, poor hygiene, and inadequacy of water supply. It had often been the reason for outbreaks of water-borne disease. There were difficulties in the Government agencies in establishing basic infrastructure in the slum areas. It is with a view to providing permanent houses for them that the State government has planned to build tenements. Collector S. Sivarasu said that the move was not only aimed at providing permanent houses to them but also making the city neat and clean. It had been estimated that it would require 4,000 tenements to accommodate the slum dwellers. The Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board would implement the scheme. It had been asked to identify suitable lands for constructing tenements. He said that the Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru had initiated efforts to build tenements in different parts of the city. Corporation officials had been asked to conduct a survey on slum dwellers and those living on encroached lands. The project could be completed in two to three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenements-for-slum-dwellers-homeless-people-mooted/article34875713.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination camps for lactating women||The district administration has made arrangements to inoculate postnatal mothers after an official communication from the State came out with guidelines on administering COVID-19 vaccine. The Directorate of Public Health has drawn up a plan to organize special camps and reserve doses for post-natal and lactating mothers. Following the delivery of a new consignment of vaccines to the district, 1,000 doses were given to 14 blocks in the district. Of that, 200 doses are to be reserved for postnatal and lactating mothers. Meanwhile, at the 18 Urban Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs), 1,000 doses have been reserved, at the rate of 50 per PHC. At the Tiruchi GH, 500 doses have been reserved for post-natal and lactating mothers. All other GHs in the district, too, have been allotted their share of vaccines. M.D. Hakkim, Emergency Physician, who has been monitoring the inoculation of the vaccine, said that the PHCs have a line list of the contacts of all pregnant mothers. According to the communication from the Director of Public Health, mothers who had been delivered of babies between December 2020 to May 2021 would qualify for the vaccination. ‘The health workers at the PHCs have been contacting these women and informing them of the availability of the vaccine. They tell them about the importance of the vaccine for their safety and children,’ he said. A senior health official said that since the inoculation of the public has been shifted to government schools and college campuses, the PHCs and GHs are free to inoculate these mothers safely. ‘There is a misconception that post-natal and lactating mothers must not take the vaccine. The vaccine is safe for them,’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-camps-for-lactating-women/article34875715.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||1,198 fresh cases reported in central districts||The central districts reported 1,198 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The region has been reflecting the declining trend already prevalent in the State. The number of reported deaths, too, was lower than the previous days. Thirty one patients succumbed to the viral infection on Sunday. Thirteen patients succumbed to the infection in Tiruchi district. Thanjavur recorded eight deaths, while Ariyalur reported four. Pudukottai and Nagapattinam reported two deaths each, while Perambalur and Tiruvarur reported one each. Karur district did not report any COVID-19 death. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 370 patients testing positive. However, the district has continued to report a marked dip in the number of fresh cases over the last couple of weeks. In Tiruchi district, 263 patients tested positive, while Nagapattinam reported a marked dip with 135 fresh cases. Tiruvarur reported 110, and Karur 103 cases. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had only 16 ICU beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had increased its ICU- bed vacancy to 81. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 222 and 147 ICU beds vacant, respectively. Ariyalur district reported 81 fresh cases, while Pudukottai recorded 84. Meanwhile, Perambalur district reported 52 fresh cases. Pudukottai had only seven vacant ICU beds, while Perambalur had 34. Ariyalur district had 10 vacant beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1198-fresh-cases-reported-in-central-districts/article34875716.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi engineering student excels in online teaching, earns dollars||A Tiruchi-based engineering student has taken up teaching core science subjects and computer programming to students in United Kingdom, United States of America, New Zealand and Singapore. When K. Viswathika (20) of Woraiyur, who is pursuing B.Tech. in Computer Engineering in a college in Bengaluru, taught chemistry and physics to her niece in California about seven months ago she didn’t know that online teaching would fetch her dollars while studying. Enthused by the response that she got from his niece, she gave a demonstration and registered her on an online teaching portal. Aliyah (10), a Grade IV student of London, was her first overseas student. Aliyah was enrolled for python, a coding programme. Through her Viswathika received a number of referrals for coding programmings and chemistry, physics and mathematics. She teaches 20 students of UK, USA, New Zealand and Singapore. She continues to get enquiry from various students. Using her knowledge in Information and Technology and online teaching tools, she makes her teaching attractive and interactive. “I feel happy to leverage the online methodologies to connect the students across the borders. My passion for teaching has made it happen,” she says. She said that short term course in English with the British Council in Chennai had helped her in effectively communicating with the overseas students. Though she had an Indian accent, she did not face any problem with the UK students. While she devoted daytime for attending online classes conducted by CMR University in Bengaluru, where she pursues B.Tech, she spends the evenings taking online classes. “There is a great scope for online education transcending borders. The time is not far away when there will be recognised online schools,” says Viswathika, who has developed two pharmacy management software for the pharmaceutical companies. She has employed five MBA interns to find clients for her products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-engineering-student-excels-in-online-teaching-earns-dollars/article34875708.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Defence civilian employees to go on indefinite strike||Taking a "very serious note" of the Central Government's "autocratic and arbitrary" decision to convert the Ordnance Factory Board with 41 production units into seven corporations, the three main federations of defence civilian employees at its joint meeting on Sunday decided to commence indefinite strike from July 19. Representatives of All India Defence Employees' Federation, Indian Natinol Defence Workers' Federation, and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, expressed serious concern over what they termed as "violation" of all previous written assurances and commitment given to the federations by the Government that the ordnance factories will not be corporatised. In the absence of the three major federations, the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) had "hastily" concluded the conciliation proceedings and recorded a failure report on June 15, which enabled the Cabinet to take its decision on the issue, C. Srikumar, General Secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation said. Viable and robust proposals given by the federations as desired by the Secretary of Defenc Production for continuance of ordnance factories as government organisations have been ignored by the Central Government. The government's decision on corporatisation will jeopardise survival of a majority of ordnance factories, and cause serious repurcussions on service matters of employees, their job security, wage protection and terminal benefits. While discussing the possibility for legal actions in consultation with senior lawyers, they decided to serve the notice for indefinite strike on July 1, and to inform the government about their decision to go on indefinite strike on June 23, Mr. Srikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defence-civilian-employees-to-go-on-indefinite-strike/article34875706.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Body found in stone quarry||The body of a man was found floating in water in a stone quarry at Nedumalai near here on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as S. Prakash (46), a resident of Malaipatti, who was involved in tile laying work. Police suspect Prakash who had gone missing since Friday might have consumed alcohol. Somarasampet police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-found-in-stone-quarry/article34875717.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at 91.16 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 52 cusecs and the discharge 9,999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34875720.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Snag halts power generation at KKNPP||The generation of electricity from the second reactor at the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant (KKNPP) has been suspended due to a technical snag in one of the turbines. A source at the plant said the second reactor, which commenced power generation only on May 27 after maintenance work, developed a snag on Saturday. Technicians were rectifying the snag and were expected to restart generation in a day or two, the source said, adding that as a result, 465 MW power for Tamil Nadu could not be provided. About 1,000 MW was generated from both the reactors at the KKNPP facility, and the snag in the second reactor would be set right soon, the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snag-halts-power-generation-at-kknpp/article34875449.ece
21 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Assistance given||City Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha handed over the State government’s cash relief of Rs. 25 lakh to the kin of a head constable who died of COVID-19. A statement from Tiruppur City Police said D. Arulkumar, who was the head constable at Anupparpalayam police station, died on September 8, 2020. Ms. Vanitha handed over the cheque to the deceased’s widow A. Padmakumari at the Commissioner’s office, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-given/article34875471.ece
21 June 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare workers brave rough weather to deliver vaccine in tribal hamlets||Healthcare workers in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks are toiling long hours to vaccinate the tribal population, braving inclement weather and walking to distant villages, to ensure that the entire population is vaccinated by the end of the month. Recently, a photo of a woman healthcare worker administering the COVID-19 vaccine to an elderly Paniya tribal woman after sunset began circulating on mobile messaging applications. The picture was indicative of the efforts being taken to ensure full vaccine coverage in the two taluks, said Block Medical Officer (Gudalur), G. Kathiravan. “Initially, we were finding it extremely difficult to convince tribal communities to come forward and get vaccinated. With the help of local NGOs and outreach programmes, we have managed to get most community members onboard with the vaccination programme,” he said. The Health Department was informing villagers beforehand of the vaccination drive, so that they stayed at home for the vaccine. One healthcare worker, who has been administering vaccines to tribal communities around Pandalur, said that people were initially reluctant to get vaccinated. “Even now, there is a certain amount of reluctance, but people see us every day, going to each village despite rain, and sometimes having to walk to these hamlets if the roads are damaged. So people see how hard we are working and are more ready to come forward to get vaccinated,” she said. “This is what happened with the picture. We had received 500 doses of vaccines which had to be administered in ten villages on the same day, as people were awaiting the medical teams. So our nurses and healthcare staff administered vaccines to villagers till late at night,” said Mr. Kathiravan. The district administration along with the health department and local NGOs have been working over the last few weeks to try and addressing vaccine hesitancy among communities, and has largely been successful. According to officials, out of 17,685 tribals in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks, around 8,000 tribals have already been administered the vaccine, especially over the last couple of weeks. “In a single day, we managed to administer 3,175 vaccines, and our focus remains on vaccinating all plantation workers and tribals in the region,” said a health official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-workers-brave-rough-weather-to-deliver-vaccine-in-tribal-hamlets/article34875469.ece
21 June 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram student develops wearable device to track oxygen saturation||A 24-year-old student, Mohamad Shakul Ameed, from Villupuram, claims to have developed a wearable device, which enables users to keep track of their SpO2 (oxygen saturation in blood) levels. The continuous tracking may help in early diagnosis ofCOVID-19symptoms, he says. According to Mr. Ameed, the wearable device modelled like a wrist band works on Zigbee, a wireless technology, and helps users to keep track of their oxygen levels via an app, called Blyink, installed on their mobile phones. The vitals are stored on the phone and access could be provided to the COVID-19 war room for centralised monitoring of people in containment areas and those isolated at home, he says. The device, strapped to the wrist, is connected to a mobile phone and the readings can be remotely monitored. “When the user’s oxygen level drops below 95, an alert will be sent to three mobile numbers authorised on the app. Contacts of three family members can be fed into it so that they receive the alerts. The mobile will also vibrate before sending a call to five persons. This device will enable friends or relatives to help detect early hypoxia, leading to better clinical management of suspected patients,” the student says. Mr. Ameed completed his Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) from Mailam Engineering College in the district last year. He says that the device is priced Rs. 2,000, and that he has applied for a patent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-student-develops-wearable-device-to-track-oxygen-saturation/article34875442.ece
21 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Relief given||Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management, K.K.S.S.R.Ramachandran, on Sunday distributed Rs. 4 lakh each for victims of lightning and landslide in the district. Mr. Ramachandran gave Rs. 8 lakh to Ramalakshmi, whose husband Senthurpandi and son Rajesh were killed in a lightning attack on April 14 in Sukklanatham. Similarly, Rs. 4 lakh was given to Chithra after her husband Murugan was killed in a landslide in Sundarapandiam on June 4. Earlier, he received 13 oxygen concentrators costing Rs. 19.50 lakh donated by Virudhunagar Rotary Club and Rs. 1.25 lakh worth drugs, including Amphotericin B to treat Black Fungus, donated by American Tamil Medical Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-given/article34875644.ece
21 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two youths murdered||A 17-year-old youth, Mohammed Yousuf, was found dead with injuries on his face in a farm at VKP Nagar here on Sunday. Police suspect that the youth, who was a class 10 student, could have been murdered late on Saturday. The body was found on Sunday morning. He was a resident of Mehaboobpalayam. The motive and the assailants behind the murder were under investigation by S S. Colony police. In another incident near Srivilliputtur, a 22-year-old youth, Sundaramahalingam, was hacked to death at Ramasamyapuram under Koomapatti police station limits on Saturday night. He is suspected to have been attacked by Tamarai, 34, belonging to another group. Relatives of the deceased pelted stones on the house of the suspect, police said. Superintendent of Police M. Manohar inspected the village. The motive for the murder was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-youths-murdered/article34875645.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases fall below 1,000 mark in Coimbatore||COVID-19 cases fell below the 1,000 mark in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The district reported 904 new cases of the disease on Sunday and 1,277 persons recovered. The district had 10,802 active cases. The death toll increased to 1,888 after the Health Department on Sunday declared that 17 more persons died of the disease. Tiruppur district’s active cases fell below the 5,000 mark. The district had 4,461 active cases, including the 477 new cases reported on Sunday. The Health Department said that eight more persons from the district died of the disease, taking the death toll to 696. As many as 2,518 persons recovered on Sunday. 870 cases in Erode Erode district reported 870 new cases, taking the tally to 83,658. While 1,451 persons were discharged, 8,326 continue to be under treatment. Fifteen persons died, raising the death toll to 546. As many as 517 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 497 cases were indigenous and 170 cases were reported in corporation limits. Twenty patients had returned from Namakkal, Erode, Kalakuruchi and Dharmapuri. As per bulletin, 21 deaths were reported, including seven women patients. In Namakkal, 327 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, 10 deaths were reported, including seven women patients. In Krishnagiri, 170 indigenous cases were reported. Two deaths were reported in the district. A total of 129 cases and three deaths were reported in Dharmapuri. In the Nilgiris, 175 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 27,158. The number of deaths in the district increased from 143 to 146 on Sunday while 1,914 persons are undergoing treatment.  Tiruppur district’s active cases fell below the 5,000 mark. The district had 4,461 active cases, including the 477 new cases reported on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-fall-below-1000-mark-in-coimbatore/article34875462.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu announces fresh relaxations in 27 districts||The Type-II districts are Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Kanniyakumari, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Perambalur, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet, Sivaganga, Theni, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Tirupathur, Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi, Tiruchi, Villupuram, Vellore and Virudhunagar. In Type-II and III districts, inter-district travel will be allowed for attending weddings, but with e-registration. Only 50 persons will be allowed at weddings. Only travel for emergency will be allowed with e-registration to Kodaikanal, Kutralam, Yelagiri and Yercaud and to the Nilgiris district. However, the government has not announced any fresh relaxation for Coimbatore, Erode, Karur, Tiruppur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Salem, Thanjavur, the Nilgiris and Tiruvarur districts. The existing restrictions will continue in these 11 districts, which are categorised as Type-I districts. The government also increased the business hours of establishments, shops and service centres, which have already been allowed to reopen (see table). While all government offices will be allowed to function with 100% staff in Chennai and the three neighbouring districts, only essential government offices will be allowed to operate with 100% staff in Type-II districts and 50% of staff will be allowed to work in other departments. Sub-Registrar Offices will be allowed in Type-II and Type-III districts without restrictions. All construction activities will be allowed and sports academies and training will be allowed between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m., but without the audience, in these two categories of districts. Sports tournaments and competitions can be organised. Tea shops will be allowed to offer parcel service from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. Roadside eateries will be allowed between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. Those travelling to homes for children, the differently-abled and the elderly, facilities offering mental health assistance and those for women, widows and destitutes in Type-III districts will be allowed without e-registration. Shops offering services to computers and related electronic items, hardware and software services, and sale of spare parts for electronic appliances will be allowed from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Beauty parlours, salons and spas will be allowed in these districts without air-conditioning and 50% seating capacity from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. Maintenance will be allowed for a day at cinema halls with permission from the Tahsildars. Shooting for films and television serials will be allowed with a maximum of 100 persons in Type-II and Type-III districts. Post-shooting activities will be allowed in these 27 districts. (The government order can be accessed at http://bit.ly/TNGOJune20)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-announces-fresh-relaxations-in-27-districts/article34875447.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Delta variant dominates second wave||The Directorate of Public Health (DPH) on Sunday released details of a study of whole genome sequencing of the virus it had carried out. According to the DPH, 1,159 samples were collected from district surveillance units and sentinel sites from December 2020 to May 2021 and brought to the State Public Health Laboratory in the city for preliminary screening, followed by referral to InSTEM, Bengaluru. The samples were classified under eight categories, including community clusters, family clusters, reinfection cases, vaccination breakthrough cases, children up to 12 years of age, young adults with severe lung involvement, deceased without any co-morbidities, and international travellers. As of date, the results of 554 samples have been received, and those of 605 samples are awaited, according to Public Health Director T.S. Selvavinayagam. The Delta variant was observed in 386 (70%) of 554 samples, and 47 samples (8.5%) had the Alpha variant (B.1.1.7). The Delta variant was found predominantly among adolescents (aged over 12) and adults, accounting for 81%, while 19% of children also had the variant. The Delta variant was noticed in community clusters (30%) and family clusters (23%). Of the 554 samples, 94 were from children aged up to 12, and among them, 73 (76%) had the Delta variant. There were as many as 66 vaccine breakthrough cases, of whom 55 exhibited the Delta variant, Dr. Selvavinayagam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-variant-dominates-second-wave/article34875450.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Street dog menace is increasing day by day in Eruvadi in Tirunelveli district. A pack of five or six dogs roam on every street. Starved of food during the lockdown, these dogs have started targeting sheep and goats. Children’s lives are at great risk. The Eruvadi panchayat must get rid of this problem soon. A. Kaja Nazimudeen,     Since the railway track between Tiruchi and Rameswaram is being strengthened, the speed of express trains must be increased to bring down the travel time. As envisaged by the late President APJ Abdul Kalam, a day-time superfast express between Chennai-Rameswaram, a long-felt need of the public, must be launched soon. Asmabagh Anvardeen,        An overbridge near Sholavandan railway station is under construction since 2017. It is being built on a vital link for the residents to go to the taluk office, court, GH and government girls school, and for boarding moffusil buses in Vadipatti. Presently, whenever the railway gate is closed for trains to pass through, all vehicles, even ‘108’ ambulances, have to wait for a long period, putting lives of patients in critical condition in danger. I appeal to the authorties concerned to expedite the work and alleviate the problems. M. Sainithii, Sholavandan   The entire tuberculosis facility in Madurai has been converted as a COVID-19 hospital, even as TB remains the single largest infectious disease killing mankind. Inpatients have been compulsorily discharged and asked to take OP treatment. Since TB cases are on the rise after the COVID-19 pandemic, the authorities should ensure that the patients are not left in the lurch. M. Selvaraj,  Madurai    With the suspension of public bus transport due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, poor people are the worst-affected. Since it is the only affordable mode of transport for many, they suffer much. The Kanniyakumari district authorities must consider operating some skeletal services at least with safety protocol in place. K. Chelliah,  Aundivillai    There is a continuous flow of trucks carrying boulders and stones, all quarried material, through Thuckalay on the National Highway every day. This means that a hillock somewhere in Kanniyakumari district is being brought down posing a serious threat to the ecosystem. Moreover, the continuous movement of these heavy trucks damage the road surface also. The authorities concerned must check whether the project for which the quarried materials are transported has got Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) clearance. M. Haja Mydeen, Thuckalay    Suspension of electricity meter reading by the Electricity Board due to the lockdown has left elderly and infirm people apprehensive of power disconnection. They are neither savvy enough to take reading themselves nor in a position to walk to the office to ascertain the status by personal contact due to risk of infection. Residents of Tahsildar Nagar and Anna Nagar have to go all the way to K.K. Nagar. They are not familiar with smart phone or e-payment. The EB authorities must resolve this issue soon. K. Natarajan,  Madurai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34875647.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||READERS MAIL||The rough surface of dug-up portion of by-pass Road at Thuraiyur-Perambalur highway has not been black-topped after completion of the work on construction of a canal bridge months back. The rough surface is a threat to motorists as it causes skidding. The presence of drainage close to the rough surface makes the threat of fall all the more dangerous for two-wheeler riders. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.   An oxygen park at Srinivasa Nagar will be of immense benefit to residents in a cluster of localities, including Kumaran Nagar and Ammayappa Nagar in the vicinity. A vacant area measuring about four acres along the eighth cross of Fifth Main Road of Srinivasa Nagar South would be ideal for the purpose. Stated to be a temple land, the area is full of thorny bushes and has turned into a habitat for reptiles and insects. It could be taken on a long-term lease by the local body for creation of a green patch, under the Smart City Project, since there is a dire need for fresh air in congested conditions. V. Sundararaju, Srinivasa Nagar South.   The proposed cable car system for Rockfort Temple may not be necessary as climbing the steps is not a tough proposition. The likelihood for people utilising the facility in large numbers seems to be less. Also, there are space constraints in the vicinity of the rockfort for establishing the base station. The safety aspect also needs to be considered before proceeding further. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam.   The new government is understood to be keen on constructing an integrated bus stand at Panchappur, and establishing a facility in the vicinity to shift the Gandhi Market. The idea of accommodating the Gandhi Market in Central Bus Stand could be considered. Dimple R. Mohan, Sangiliyandapuram.   The CBSE's 30: 30: 40 formula for arriving at Plus Two results seems to be the only possible solution at this critical juncture. The temporary assessment formula has become inevitable due to the pandemic. R. Pichumani, Thippirajapuram.   In the wake of the State Government's announcement on free bus travel concession for differently abled people, the prospective beneficiaries look for a clarity since identity cards have been issued by the Central Government as well. There is a confusion as regards which of the identity card needs to be shown as proof. Also, the differently-abled people seek to know if the new government will continue with disbursal of COVID relief initiated by the previous regime. V. Srinivasan, Thiruppanandal.     A drainage flowing near the Lal Bahadur Shastri road at Kumbakonam is turning into a garbage dump, raising fears of health hazard for the public. The spot has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes warranting speedy action by the authorities concerned. Naresh Kumar, Kumbakonam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34875710.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE||KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Webinar on English for Employability, Zoom meet, 10.30 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: International Yoga Day programme, 9 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Programme on All the way to yoga, Google Meet, 10 a.m.    RD National College of Arts and Science: International Yoga Day, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore/article34875463.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas.    Masakoundanchettipalayam and Periyanaikenpalayam sub-stations - June 22 (10 a.m. to 1 p.m.) :Masakoundanchettipalayam, Ponnekoundanpudur, M. Rayarpalayam, Kandamedu, Sennappa Chettipudur, Manikampalayam, Kallipalayam, part of Thottiyanur, Oraikalpalayam, Periyanaikenpalayam, Naikenpalayam, Kovanur, Gudalur Koundampalayam, Jothipuram, Press Colony, No 4 Veerapandy, Idigarai, Sengalipalayam, Poochiyur, Narasimhanaikenpalayam.  Coimbatore city   10 a.m. to to noon : part of Race Course, Trichy Road from Sungam to Kannan Department Store, West Club Road, Big Bazaar, Vysial Street, Big Bazaar Road, part of Karuppaiah Gounder street, Thomas Street, Edayar Street, Pavazham Street, TK Market, Raja Street, RG Street.  11 a.m. to 1 p.m .: Vivekananda Road.  2 p.m. to 4 p.m.: Sakthi Sugars, BSNL Housing Unit, part of Race Course, Avinashi Road from Anna Statue signal to Uppilipalayam fly over.  3 p.m. to 5 p.m.: one part of 100 feet road, Gandhipuram. HMTR Street, LN street, Perumal Koil street, Easwaran Koil street, Town hall, five corner.    Sivagiri, June 21, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.: Amman Kovil, Sivagiri Nagar, Coundampalayam, L.G. Valasu, Marappampalayam, Rangasamudram, Vijayanagaram, Chinniyampalayam and Poyangattuvalasu.  Vallipuram : Karukkampalayam, Korakadu, Kurukuvalasu, Ponnikalivalasu, Kovil Pudur, Vinayagan Pudur and Porasamettupudur.  Anjur: Nadupalayam, Karuvelampalayam, Pillapalayam, Nagapalayam, Kuppacoundanvalasu and Udayam.  Valliputhiran line, June 22, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Veppampalayam, Sri Ram Nagar, Athappampalayam, Valliputhiranpalayam, Pavalathampalayam, Therkupallam, Lakshmi Garden, Lakshmi Nagar Diamond Nagar, Palani Goundan Palayam, DR Nagar, Kargil Nagar, Murugan Nagar, V.I.P. Nagar, Saravana Nagar and Vidhya Nagar.  Siruvalur line: Thingalur, Nesavalar Colony, Mandiripalayam, S.K. Palayam, Nadupalayam, Subbaiyanpalayam, Madathupalayam and Vettaiyankinaru.  Kodumudi sub-station, June 22, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Kodumudi, Salai Pudur, Kuppampalayam, Rasampalayam, Othakadai, Unjalur, Pilikalpalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Thaluvampalayam, North Moorthipalayam, Arasampalayam, North Pudupalayam, Solakalipalayam and Nagamanaickenpalayam.  Gandhi Nagar, June 23, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.: Gandhi Nagar, Pallapalayam, Coundampalayam, Karattupalayam, Chinniyampalayam, Ayyanvalasu, Perumapalayam, Mullampatti, Olapalayam Kandampalayam Pirivu, Samicoundan Palayam, Vettai Periyampalayam, Gandhi Nagar, Naduvalasu, Karukkampalayam, Thudupathi, Ponnandavalasu, Kolathan Valasu, Suriyampalayam, Pethampalayam, Elayampalayam, Osapatti, Seerangoundampalayam, Palakarai, Thottiyanur, Kovilkattu Valasu, Nasiyanur, Kovilpalayam, Ellapalayam, Chellappa Goundan Valasu, Karukkampalayam, Sengalipalayam, Koolikattu Valasu and Alamedu.  Thindal line, June 23: Mel Thindal, Keel Thindal, Thangam Nagar, Amman Nagar, Sivan Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Selvam Nagar, Palayapalayam, URC Nagar, Rajiv Nagar, Telecom City, Sengodampalayam and Chinna Sengodampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34875464.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City Engagements||Tiruchi  Saranathan College of Engineering: International Yoga Day under National Service Scheme, Google Meet, 8.45 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article34875721.ece
21 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Floods recede in Belagavi||The intensity of floods was reduced on Sunday, due to reduced rainfall in Belagavi district and coastal Maharashtra. Water release from Maharashtra stood at 33,799 cusecs, less than Saturday’s release of over 40,000 cusecs. Outflow from Koyna Dam was reduced to 2,100 cusecs. Inflow into Alamatti Dam was reduced to 1.26 lakh cusecs, down from the 1.56 lakh cusecs on Saturday. This was due to reduced rainfall in Belagavi and Khanapur taluks and Konkan Maharashtra, irrigation officers said. Storage in the Alamatti Dam was 55 tmcft as against the gross capacity of 123 tmcft. Continuous rain for six to 10 weeks could fill the dam to the brim, not before that, said an officer. Water level receded in the Krishna and other rivers slightly. However, the 10 bridge-cum-barrages that were under water for three days, are not open to traffic yet. They could be opened if the water recedes further for three more days, said a revenue officer. Meanwhile, NDRF, SDRF and police personnel retrieved on Sunday the body of Sidrayi Doddarama Sutagatti, a farmer who was washed away in the Markandeya on Friday. The body was found near Dargah Bridge, at a distance of around 3 km from the spot where he was drowned in Kakati village, the police said. The family members of the deceased rushed to the spot and they were found crying inconsolably. However, NDRF continued to look for the body of Hussein Saab Attar (52), a fisherman who was washed away in the backwaters of the Malaprabha near Yakkundi village on Friday. Inflow into the Raja Lakhamagouda Reservoir over the Ghataprabha in Hidkal was 33,799 cusecs and outflow 103 cusecs. The dam with a gross capacity of 51 tmcft has around 14.36 tmcft of water. Inflow into the Renuka Sagar Dam over the Malaprabha was 36,073 cusecs and outflow 194 cusecs. The dam with 37.73 tmcft capacity has only around 12.49 tmcft of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/floods-recede-in-belagavi/article34875525.ece
21 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Special vaccination mela today||A special COVID-19 vaccination mela will be organised across Dharwad district on Monday. All those aged above 45 and frontline warriors and other priority group members aged above 18 will be vaccinated. The target is to vaccinate 27,000 persons during the mela. As many as 201 vaccination centres have been set up across the district, including 65 in the twin cities of Hubballi and Dharwad. “The only way to handle the third wave, if any, of the epidemic and to return to normality is to ensure universal vaccination,” Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said. He appealed to people in the 18 to 45 age group not to panic as they will be vaccinated in the coming phases. The district has 50,480 vaccine doses, including 38,020 of Covishield and 12,460 of Covaxin. He said that the demand for oxygen was coming down across the State. The government was setting up oxygen generation plants of 10 tonnes capacity in each district hospital, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-vaccination-mela-today/article34875528.ece
21 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NWKRTC to operate buses from today||NWKRTC will run buses as per demand and on some priority routes from Monday, as per relaxation of lockdown rules. Buses of nine divisions of NWKRTC in Dharwad, Belagavi, Gadag, Bagalkot, Uttara Kannada and Haveri districts will start operations at 6 a.m. on Monday. Officers have urged commuters to travel without hesitation. “We have ensured that all buses are sanitised before they leave the depots. Over 92% of staff have been vaccinated. Only those staff with COVID-19 negative reports are deputed for duty,” they said. NWKRTC Managing Director Krishna Bajpayee said that only half the seats will be filled on all buses. All passengers are expected to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Buses will operate to all districts except Mysore. And, weekend curfew does not apply to the movement of buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nwkrtc-to-operate-buses-from-today/article34875526.ece
21 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Webinar||KLS Raja Lakhamagouda Law College will organise a webinar on Yoga and Health During the Pandemic, on International Yoga Day in Belagavi on Monday. Anita Kadagad-Kembhavi, Yoga expert and director of Astanga Wellness, will speak on the topic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar/article34875529.ece
21 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Yoga training||KLE Society’s Raja Lakhamagouda Science Institute (Autonomous) College will organise a week-long yoga training as part of International Yoga Day. Students of the Department of Sports, NCC Unit and NSS Unit will under go online training. It will be live streamed on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yoga-training/article34875530.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Buses, Namma Metro to resume services after 55 days||After a gap of 55 days, the road transport corporations and Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. are set to resume public transport services. On Sunday, BMRCL staff sanitised metro coaches and common areas at stations. “Like last year, all protocols to contain the spread of COVID-19 will be followed,” said Shankar A.S., executive director (operations and maintenance), BMRCL. BMRCL has decided to run trains during the peak hours (7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.) with a frequency of five minutes. In February 2020, prior to the first wave of COVID-19, BMRCL had a ridership of 4.24 lakh people and earned an average of Rs. 1.19 crore a day. In March 2021, its revenue dropped to Rs. 35.7 lakh with only 1.44 lakh citizens using Namma Metro services. BMTC services were also badly hit by the pandemic, its losses further compounded by a 15-day strike in April. In a bid to make it easier for commuters, BMTC has extended the validity of monthly passes it had issued in April. Commuters who purchased ordinary monthly passes in April can use them to travel till July 8, 2021. Due to a bus strike and the subsequent lockdown, monthly bus- pass holders could not travel in city buses. BMTC has decided to run 2,000 buses on major traffic routes. In addition to that, 17 Vayu Vajra buses will be operated to Kempegowda International Airport from Majestic and Electronic City. City buses will be operated from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. Digital ticketing (QR- code based) system will be provided at all buses. Resumption of city buses will help daily wage workers and people working in factories. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), which will operate 3,000 buses initially, has decided not to run local and inter-district services in Mysuru district and Dakshina Kannada. Inter-State services will resume depending on guidelines of neighbouring States and their approval. According to an official, KSRTC will resume with express services. “We will also operate sleeper and AC buses based on demand. We may operate buses to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in a couple of days,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/buses-namma-metro-to-resume-services-after-55-days/article34875387.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||44.49 lakh doses administered in city||The target set: 30 lakh doses in 30 days. New target: Covering the city’s estimated 91 lakh citizens aged above 18 years over the next four months. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has set itself an ambitious target, but Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, said it is doable. As on June 19 (till 6 p.m.), 44.49 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccinations had been administered in the BBMP limits. Over 37.59 lakh citizens have been administered the first dose. As per population projections, there are 26 lakh citizens aged above 45 years, of whom over 15 lakh have already been vaccinated. There are nearly 66 lakh citizens in the 18-44 age bracket. Over the next 30 days, the civic body hopes to cover 45 lakh citizens across all age groups. The BBMP gets around 8 lakh doses a month from the government, with which around 30,000 vaccinations are administered in government/ BBMP run facilities. Over 70,000 doses are administered in private healthcare facilities. “On an average, around 1 lakh vaccine doses are administered every day in the city,” said Mr. Gupta. With experts predicting an outbreak of the third wave in six to eight weeks if COVID-19 appropriate behaviour is not followed, the civic body is prioritising vaccinating the city’s adult population. Admitting that neither the BBMP nor the State government alone can achieve this objective given the variation in supply of vaccines, the civic body is trying to leverage the strength of the private healthcare sector. Towards this end, BBMP was helping organisations, donors and corporates organise vaccine drives as well as offering customized solutions to multiple stakeholders to ensure maximum coverage. “It’s a win-win situation; while private healthcare players are helping us ramp up vaccinations, it is also a business for them, as they cater to those who can afford to pay. The government/ BBMP is covering citizens of vulnerable sections, along with a few philanthropic organisations, donors, corporates etc.,” said Mr. Gupta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4449-lakh-doses-administered-in-city/article34875390.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restaurants, shops likely to take a week to fully open||The government has allowed all shops to open and restaurants to allow dine-in at 50% occupancy rate from Monday, but the industry is expected to take at least a week to fully open up. One of the biggest problems traders and those in the hospitality sector are currently facing is the shortage of labour, as many who had returned to their hometowns both within the State and outside, are yet to return. “Since there was no guarantee on when we would be allowed to re-open, our employees are not yet back. We have begun the process and it will take at least a week, especially for those outside the State. While Karnataka has eased restrictions further, it may not be the case in other States,” said Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants Federation. However, smaller shops will mostly open up on Monday. “This year most of our employees remained in the city, a majority of shopkeepers have paid them full salaries. So we will open from Monday. And even if there is a labour shortage, small shops can easily manage,” said Sajjan Raj Mehta, a senior trader from Chickpet. Vaccination coverage The other concern weighing heavily on the minds of businesses is vaccination for their workforce. People in the hospitality industry have been considered frontline workers and nearly 50% of them have received the first dose, sources in the industry said. However, that is not the case with traders and proprietors of small shops. “Parallel to unlocking, the government should vaccinate all those working in shops and all other sectors that are opening up on a war footing,” said Rajashekhar, who runs a clothing shop in the CBD area. Manu Chandra, head of Bengaluru Chapter of National Restaurants Association of India, said the present guidelines – 50% occupancy rate, the 5 p.m. deadline to close operations, weekend lockdown, and ban on serving liquor for patrons dining-in – will make things difficult. “We can only open for lunch with no liquor and no air-conditioning on weekdays. Given these restrictions, not many outlets are enthusiastic about rushing to open businesses,” he said. Mr. Chandra, too, appealed to the State government for sops such as waivers of licence fees, excise license renewal fees, rebate in property tax and fixed electricity deposit rates. However, cutting across sectors establishments only see a slow return to normalcy. “Going by our experience from last year, even though we may open shops, it will take time for customers to return. We expect a recovery path of at least three months. But if the third wave hits us by then, we are doomed,” said Purushottam, manager at a home appliances store in Rajajinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restaurants-shops-likely-to-take-a-week-to-fully-open/article34875388.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Experts recommend throat gargle sample test for children||If the recommendations of a 13-member expert committee headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty are implemented by the State government, detection of COVID-19 will just be a throat gargle away for children. In its interim report submitted to the government, the committee, set up by the State government for assistance in controlling an imminent third wave, has recommended that throat gargle samples can be used to detect COVID-19 in children aged 6-14. “It is difficult to collect the throat swabs in children. A studypublished by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also revealed that throat gargle lavage may be a feasible alternative to swabs for sample collection for the detection of SARS-CoV-2,” Dr. Shetty told The Hindu on Sunday. Confirming that the committee has submitted its interim report to the government, Dr. Shetty said the virus was predominantly likely to target children the most during the third wave since most adults may already be infected or immunised by the time it arrives. “As of now, we do not have the required infrastructure to handle paediatric cases. Instead of scrambling at the last moment, it is better to be prepared,” he said. Estimating that nearly 3.4 lakh children aged up to 18 years were likely to be hit by the peak of the third wave in the State, the committee has recommended a slew of measures to combat the possible third wave. Sources in the committee said the demand for paediatric beds at peak level during the third wave was likely to touch 23,804 in hospitals. “While 6,801 ICU/HDU beds may be required to treat the infected children, 43,358 COVID Care Centre beds will also be required,” one source said. A different challenge The committee has highlighted that managing children with COVID-19 in an ICU is completely different to handling adult patients. “Adults can take care of themselves, provided they are given the required support such as oxygen supply. However, children cannot be left alone with the nurses and doctors. There is a need for a separate treatment protocol for children and it may be necessary to allow a parent to stay with the child in the ICU,” one of the members pointed out. P.G. Girish, Director of Medical Education and member-secretary of the committee, said government medical colleges already have paediatric departments and paediatric ICUs. “As experts are predicting that children are likely to be worst hit during the third wave, we have started work on strengthening and upgrading our paediatric departments, paediatric ICUs, and neonatology ICUs in all medical college hospitals.” He said the existing high-end ventilators procured during the first and second waves could be adjusted for paediatric use. “There is not much of a difference, except for the size of consumables and circuits. However, neonatology ventilators cannot be used for both children and adults,” he explained.  C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer of labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said with the third wave expected in October-November, it is highly recommended that vaccination for children should begin at the earliest in the State. “Other countries have already started vaccinating children; it is better to vaccinate all children between 12 and 18,” he said. Besides, the parents of school-going children from Class I to 10 should be vaccinated on priority to prevent transmission from parents to children. A sero survey in children should be done to know what is the percentage of exposure among children, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/experts-recommend-throat-gargle-sample-test-for-children/article34875409.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police probing child sacrifice allegations, five booked||The Nelamangala police have booked five people--two women and three men--for allegedly attempting to sacrifice a 10-year-old girl from their neighborhood to “ward off evil”. However the accused have denied the allegations and said that they had taken the girl to perform a puja for a stone laying ceremony for a temple they were planning to build. No arrests have been made so far. The accused have been detained for questioning. The incident occurred at Gandhi Grama on the outskirts of the city on Monday. The police registered an FIR on Saturday after conducting a detailed probe baked on the complaint lodged by the parents. The five accused have been charged under the Karnataka Prevention and Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Act and also for kidnapping and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code. “The girl was living with her grandmother where she was enrolled in a government school in standard 4. Her parents are labourers and live in Magadi,” said a police officer. The day the incident occurred, the girl’s grandmother was not at home. The victim was alone when two of the accused, Savithramma and her daughter Soumya who live in the area, took the girl out under the pretext of giving her prasada , alleged the girl’s mother, Mala, in her complaint to the police. When the grandmother returned home, she saw that the victim was missing and started searching for her. She found the girl with the accused at a field adjacent to the house. “In her statement, Mala said her daughter was crying incessantly asking the two women to let her go. They had performed some rituals on the girl,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-probing-child-sacrifice-allegations-five-booked/article34875397.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Running buses not financially viable’||Private operators remain sceptical of resuming bus services with many saying it’s not financially viable to run buses at 50% occupancy as operational costs are high in the backdrop of the rising price of fuel. Diesel touched Rs. 93.26 per litre on Sunday. S. Nataraj Sharma, chairman of the Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association, expressed unhappiness with the State government for not waiving taxes. “In April, when RTC employees went on strike, private operators stepped in and cooperated with the State government. At the time, we were promised that quarterly taxes would be waived, but that never happened,” he said. A majority of the bus owners have surrendered permits to the Transport Department to avoid road tax liability. “Buses owners do not have any revenue even to undertake regular maintenance. Buses are parked for months gathering dust. Owners are going through financial distress but the State government doesn’t care,” Mr. Sharma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/running-buses-not-financially-viable/article34875381.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No probe, says Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday rejected the demand to launch a probe into the alleged irregularities in the tenders for the Rs. 21,000-crore Upper Bhadra Project. “There is no need to initiate a probe when Water Resources Department officials have clarified on the allegations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-probe-says-bommai/article34875407.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Union govt. slammed for ‘ignoring Kannada’||Questioning the guidelines followed in the selection of languages to impart training to MPs, legislators from Centrally administered territories, and officials, the Kannada Development Authority (KDA) has expressed disappointment over Kannada being dropped from the list of languages proposed bythe Parliament Secretariat. “What are the parameters followed in the selection of languages? Kannada has a history of over 2,000 years. It is very disappointing,” KDA chairman T.S. Nagabharana said, adding that Karnataka might have to fight by seeking support from MPs who have been elected fromthe State. The noted film-maker is among the many who have criticised the Centre for ignoring Kannada in the selection of languages for training. The Parliamentary Research and Training Institute will start training in six Indian languages and six foreign languages, and Kannada is not on the list despite having classical language status. While Gujarati, Bengali, Marathi, Odiya, Tamil, and Telugu are the Indian languages chosen, French, Spanish, German, Japanese, Russian, and Portuguese are the foreign ones. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said, “Ignoring Kannada is the result of electing 25 MPs who are not passionate about Kannada. Kannada has to be included, otherwise all of us have to reject it [the training].” In a series of tweets, he said, “Only we are raising our voice against it. Voice has to be raised by all against the Centre’s role in discrimination against Kannada.” Saying that the Centre has been ignoring Kannada every time, he said a strict message has to be conveyed to it. He added that despite the “anti-Kannada stance” of the Centre, none of the 25 BJP MPs elected from Karnataka had raised their voice. “People have to understand that the BJP is fundamentally anti-Kannada. If it is not true, then the BJP has to set things right,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-govt-slammed-for-ignoring-kannada/article34875408.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Real estate agency booked for defaulting on bank loan||A real estate development agency that had been booked by the Central Crime Branch police in March 2019 for allegedly cheating many of its investors is once again in trouble, this time for allegedly cheating a bank. The Cubbon Park police have booked Nitesh Estates for cheating Yes Bank for defaulting on a Rs. 712 crore loan. A case was registered against the company and its promoter, Nitesh Shetty, on Saturday based on a plaint by a Mumbai-based representative of Yes Bank. “The promoter and staff have been charged for cheating and criminal breach of trust. The complaint, Mr. Joshi, said the company has its head office on MG Road and opened accounts with a Yes Bank branch on Kasturba Road and also in the Mumbai branch for financial transactions,” said a police officer. In 2016, it availed of a Rs. 712 crore loan for various projects from both the banks. “However after a few instalments, the company defaulted on the loan and despite repeated reminders failed to respond,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/real-estate-agency-booked-for-defaulting-on-bank-loan/article34875394.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccine: BBMP to draw up ‘micro plans’||With a further easing of lockdown restrictions, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) plans to draw up ‘micro plans’ for each zone to ramp up vaccinations. Covaxin vaccine is available and the first dose will be given to those above 45 years, said BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, who held a virtual meeting on vaccination campaign on Sunday. Mr. Gupta directed officials to vaccinate as many eligible beneficiaries as possible in the city by deploying more teams. Zone-wise targets should also be fixed, he said. Special camps will cover street vendors, garment workers, taxi and autorickshaw drivers, vendors in APMC market, bank staff, hotel staff, and construction workers. Marshals will be deployed to oversee the vaccination sites, while senior officials have been directed to inspect the vaccination process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-bbmp-to-draw-up-micro-plans/article34875383.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccine centre set up for those travelling abroad||A vaccination centre will be set up on the Bengaluru University City College premises from July 22 for people travelling abroad. It will operate between 10.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. The gap between the two doses of Covishield vaccine has been revised to 28 days from 84 days for citizens in BBMP limits who are going abroad, following a directive from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. This applies to students, people travelling for work, and sportspersons heading to Tokyo for the Olympics. For more details, citizens can contact Sanghamitra, Deputy Health Officer (East) on 9343793046, Dr. Gayatri, Medical Officer on 9591879025, or Dr. Mohammed Aleef Ali, Medical Officer on 9880037365.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-centre-set-up-for-those-travelling-abroad/article34875391.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Phone tapping: statement of Bellad recorded||The special police team formed to probe the alleged phone tapping case of Aravind Bellad, MLA, recorded his statement as part of initiating probe on Saturday. The police recorded the statement and analysed his mobile phone and the number from where he received the call from a person claiming to be Yuvraj Swamy, who is facing charges of cheating several people, including a retired High Court judge, promising political posting. Yuvraj Swamy was arrested by the CCB sometime ago and is currently lodged in the Central Prison at Parappana Agrahara. Bellad, 51, representing Hubli Dharwad West Assembly constituency, had complained to the Speaker and the State police chief suspecting that his phone was being tapped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phone-tapping-statement-of-bellad-recorded/article34875406.ece
21 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Siddalingaiah Smarane’||The Dr. Siddalingaiah Smaraka Prathistana is organising a programme titled ‘Dr. Siddalingaiah Smarane’” on Monday to pay tributes to the poet who passed away recently. It will be inaugurated by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. It will be live on Facebook:https://www.  facebook.com/Nadoja-DrSiddalingaiah-106774151646473/ ; Youtube:https://www.youtube.com  /channel/UCODtHYg7F_gNl7FP-FrPwfQ; Zoom: Nadoja Dr. Siddalingaiah Smarane Meeting ID: 89179695458, Passcode: sidda||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddalingaiah-smarane/article34875395.ece
21 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman, daughter found dead||A woman, who got married for the second time three days ago, is said to have ended her life after murdering her daughter from her first marriage at Anemahal in Sakleshpur taluk on Saturday. Prajwala (21) and her two-year-old daughter Sadhvi were found dead. Prajwala, a native of Hadlahalli in the taluk, was married to Surendra of Chinnahalli three years ago. A year ago, Surendra died in an accident. Following his death, Prajwala’s parents convinced her of the need for her to marry again and fixed it with Mohan of Anemahal. The two got married on June 16. For Mohan too, it was his second marriage. Within three days after marriage, Prajwala is said to have murdered her daughter and then ended her life. All this happened when her husband was not at home. Sakleshpur Town Police have registered a case. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-daughter-found-dead/article34875536.ece
21 June 2021||Hyderabad,KARNATAKA||UoH opens entrance season for 2021-22||With the virus spread slowing down, the University of Hyderabad (UoH) has decided to conduct its entrance examinations in August and September for the academic year 2021-22. The university will offer new courses from this year — M.Tech (Modeling and Simulation), M.P.A. (Music) and Certificate course in Publishing. The entrance exams will be held both online and offline at 39 centres across the country. The online application forms will be available from June 21 and the last date for submitting the applications is July 20. However, the university will not conduct its entrance exam at those centres where the number of applications is less than 300. There are 2,328 seats on offer in 117 courses and these include 17 integrated courses, 46 PG courses, 10 in M.Tech and 44 Ph.D programmes. The admission to MCA course will be based on NIMCET scores, conducted by NIT Common Entrance Test. The admission to nine M.Tech courses will be through Centralised Counseling of M.Tech (CCMT) of GATE. The admission to five-year Integrated M.Tech (computer sScience) will be through the Central Seat Allocation Board (CSAB) of JEE. Besides, the admission to MBA is through CAT, M.Sc. Biotechnology through GAT-B, conducted by RCB Faridabad and M.Tech (Modeling and Simulation) through GATE scores. The UoH is ranked sixth among universities and overall 15th in NIRF Rankings 2020. One can login to ‘http://acad.uohyd.ac.in’ for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uoh-opens-entrance-season-for-2021-22/article34875396.ece
21 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Timely monsoon helped farmers complete sowing||As the district received widespread rainfall in the last 20 days, farmers have completed sowing on 1,62,794 hectares of land, recording 22 % of the targeted 7,55,130 hectares for Kharif season, till June 19. According to the data provided by the Department of Agriculture, farmers in Chincholi taluk completed 36% of the sowing with 35,489 hectares against the targeted 99,767 hectares of land. Farmers in Afzalpur and Chittapur taluk completed sowing on 30, 819 hectares and 37,490 hectares respectively, covering 31% of the total targeted sowing area in both the taluks. In Sedam taluk, sowing was completed on 19,535 hectares (23%) against the targeted area of 85,930 hectares. Farmers in Aland taluk and Kalaburagi taluk completed sowing on 15% of the total sowing area, and the total sown area in Jewargi taluk was just 6% in the last three weeks. The timely monsoon showers in the district enabled farmers to take up sowing operations, mainly for short-duration crops. They completed sowing of black gram on 16,948 hectares, recording 57% of the targeted 29,800 hectares. The sowing of green gram has covered 30,034 hectares (61%) against the target of 49,100 hectares in the district. The district received 95 mm rainfall from June 1 to June 20. Kalgi taluk received the highest rain of 136 mm, followed by 134 mm rainfall in Jewargi taluk. The rainfall recorded in Yaddrami taluk and Shahabad taluk was 121 mm and in Kalaburagi taluk was 102 mm. Aland, Afzalpur, Chincholi, and Chitapur saw between 72mm to 90 mm. Sedam taluk recorded the lowest rainfall of 72 mm in the last fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/timely-monsoon-helped-farmers-complete-sowing/article34875541.ece
21 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bank debits relief package against auto driver’s home loan||Notwithstanding Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s direction to commercial banks not to deduct the amount credited to people from weaker sections towards the COVID-19 relief package, a bank here has deducted not only the relief amount, but whatever meagre amount was left in a poor autorickshaw driver’s account towards a housing loan EMI. Abdul Basheer, 49, was among thousands of autorickshaw drivers who lost income following the unofficial lockdown announced by the government since April this year. He had bought a house in Surinje village, near Surathkal about four years ago by availing Rs. 14 lakh loan from Canara Bank, Baikampady branch, that had an EMI of Rs. 13,165 and was regular in repayment. Mr. Basheer told The Hindu he inquired with bank personnel last month whether there was any moratorium for EMI repayment as provided last year as his income was severely affected following the unofficial lockdown. The branch manager answered him in the negative but told him he need not worry even if one or two instalments fall due as he was regular in repayment. However, to his dismay, Rs. 2,728 balance in his account was debited on the EMI due date with zero balance in the account. On Friday morning, he was surprised to see two SMSes on his mobile, one was about credit of Rs. 3,000 from CM relief package and another was about deducting the same amount towards housing loan EMI. “My two elder sons who were doing errands too are now jobless because of the lockdown and it is difficult to maintain a family of four children with whatever meagre income I get. I’m now planning to sell off the house to become debt-free,” he told The Hindu.  Mr. Basheer said he was not a wilful defaulter, but was forced to become one only because of the lockdown. The government should have given a moratorium like last year, he said. Even though the bank had given him a moratorium last year, it collected nearly Rs. 7,000 towards penal interest in addition to the regular EMI, he said. Auto-debit procedure Branch manager Umesh Hegde denied Mr. Basheer making any such request and said he should have visited the branch with the request. “As per the auto-debit procedure, amounts get deducted on the due date,” he said. Senior officials of the bank did not respond to messages and calls. Mr. Basheer said he was not aware that money in the account would get debited without even leaving a decent sum under the auto-debit system. “I am ignorant in that matter,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-debits-relief-package-against-auto-drivers-home-loan/article34875538.ece
21 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Buses cannot run till July 5 but autos, taxis will operate with two passengers||Shops selling essential commodities, including grocery, vegetable, fruit, meat, fish, milk, can remain open in Dakshina Kannada from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. from June 21 to July 5. An order issued by Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Sunday said that buses will not be allowed to operate during the period. Parks and gardens will also remain closed. However, autorickshaws and taxis can operate with a maximum of two passengers. The order said that liquor outlets, ration shops, opticians, shops selling construction material, including cement and steel, can do business during the time given. Liquor outlets can sell alcohol only in parcels. The Deputy Commissioner said that night curfew will be in force in the district from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. and there will be weekend curfew from 7 p.m. on Friday to 7 a.m. on Monday, with some exemptions. He said that the offices of the Regional Transport Officers, the Public Works Department, agriculture, cooperation, the Revenue Department of the Union government and NABARD office are allowed to function with 50% staff. He said that movement of people for taking vaccination against COVID-19 is allowed during the weekend curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/buses-cannot-run-till-july-5-but-autos-taxis-will-operate-with-two-passengers/article34875534.ece
21 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New RT-PCR testing centre to come up in Puttur||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has proposed to set up a new RT-PCR testing centre at Puttur to hasten the sample testing for the early diagnosis of COVID-19 and to reduce delay in the announcement test results. “I have asked the engineering division of the Health Department to submit the plan for the new centre at the place identified in Puttur. We hope to have it in shortly,” Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told The Hindu.  Puttur required the government testing facility because of the time taken to reach nasal and throat samples from Puttur, Belthangady and Sullia taluks to the testing centre in Government Wenlock Hospital, which is the only government centre doing the testing during the second wave, in Mangaluru. “It takes nearly a day to bring samples from these taluks to Wenlock Hosptial and hence there has been delay in giving test reports,” Dr. Rajendra said. The district administration is working to ensure that reports are made available within 24 hours as there has been significant increase in testing of primary and secondary contacts, he added. For the last 15 days, swabs from Belthangady, Puttur and Sullia taluks are being tested at the centre in KVG Medical College and Hospital in Sullia. This centre was among the eight ICMR-approved testing centres set up in eight private medical colleges of the district during the first wave. “We have installed additional machines at the centre in Sullia. Additional testing personnel have been trained. Around Rs. 6 lakh from the District Disaster Management Scheme has been used to create this centre at Sullia Ccollege,” he said. On an average, this centre has been testing 1,500 of the total of 6,000 tested every day. “We are now giving RT-PCR reports within 19 hours,” he said. There is significant increase in testing in the last seven days. As many as 10,445 samples were tested on June 19. New cases in 4 GPs Only four of the 18 gram panchayats (GPs), where complete lockdown was imposed between June 14 and 21, reported new cases. The total lockdown was imposed in 18 panchayats that had 50 or more active cases. Naravi GP of Belthangady taluk reported 73 cases on Sunday as against 53 on June 14. Active cases in Mithabagilu panchayat of Belthangady taluk increased to 66 from 57, while in Konaje GP of Mangaluru taluk it increased to 85 from 79 and in Guthigaru of Sullia taluk it increased to 72 from 70. The increase is because of increased testing,” said Dakshina Kannada ZP CEO Kumara. Among the 18 panchayats where active cases decreased, are Aranthodu in Sullia taluk where active cases dropped to 33 on Sunday. In Kollamogaru of Sullia taluk, active cases stood at 37, at 54 in Savanuru of Kadaba taluk, and at 21 in Neermarga panchayat of Mangaluru taluk as on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-rt-pcr-testing-centre-to-come-up-in-puttur/article34875542.ece
21 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Centre releases Rs. 4.36 crore for four foot overbridges||The Union government has sanctioned Rs. 4.36 crore to construct four foot overbridges along the National Highway 66 (Mangaluru-Udupi-Kundapur-Karwar). They will be steel bridges, according to Member of Parliament from Udupi-Chikkamagaluru Shoba Karandlaje. She said in a statement on Sunday that these bridges will be built at Bada Ermal under Kaup Assembly constituency, Aanegudde or Kumbhashi in Kundapur Assembly segment, near Mahesh Hospital and at Ambagilu in Udupi. Each bridge will cost Rs. 1.08 crore. The bridges will be built in these places to enable people cross the highway easily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-releases-rs-436-crore-for-four-foot-overbridges/article34875535.ece
21 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Periodicity of trains extended||The Railways has decided to extend the periodicity of two pairs of fully reserved festival special trains running via Konkan Railway network. A release from Konkan Railway Corporation here said only passengers with confirmed tickets would be allowed to board the trains even as they have to follow all COVID-19 protocol. The trains are: Train No. 06337 / 06338 Okha - Ernakulam Jn. - Okha Bi-Weekly festival special express would run on monsoon timings between July 2 and October 31 and on non-mMonsoon timings till November first week. The train would have one 2-tier AC coach, three 3-tier AC coaches, 14 sleeper class coaches, two second sitting coaches, one pantry car and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Train no. 06071 / 06072 Dadar - Tirunelveli - Dadar Weekly Superfast Festival Special will run on monsoon timings till October 31 and under non-monsoon timetable thereafter till November first week. It will have one 2-tier AC coach, two 3-tier AC coaches, seven sleeper coaches, three second sitting coaches and two generator cars, all LHB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/periodicity-of-trains-extended/article34875539.ece
21 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru grapples with high positivity rate||Confounded by the high Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in Mysuru, which is the only district in Karnataka to continue with the tough lockdown restrictions, public health experts are suspecting mutant variants of the COVID-19 virus, besides gaps in tracing and home isolation strategies as being among the reasons for the high transmission rate in the district. The TPR, which is considered by the State government as a barometer for revising the lockdown restrictions in the State in accordance with the recommendations of its COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), was 12.11% in Mysuru, as against the State average of 4.14% in the seven days prior to June 19. Though the TPR as well as the number of daily infections had come down substantially in Mysuru over the past one month, the rate of decline has been much slower than that in the rest of the State. Consequently, Mysuru has the dubious distinction of being the only district in the State where the lockdown restrictions have not been relaxed. Nanjaraj, Dean and Director of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMC&RI), told The Hindu that samples of COVID-19 patients from Mysuru have been sent to the genome sequencing laboratory at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru. “We will know the variant only when it is announced,” he said. However, Mudassir Azeez Khan, head of Community Medicine at MMC&RI, strongly suspects the “infectious” Delta variant to have played a role in the high transmission rate in Mysuru. “From an epidemiological observation, I can say that the Delta variant may be involved here. But the evidence should come from genomic sequencing,” he said. Dr. Khan described the Delta variant to be “one and a half times” more infectious. “That could be the reason for most family members turning positive when one person turns positive.” Dr. Nanjaraj, who is also the nodal officer of the COVID-19 Trauma Care Centre in Mysuru, said doctors had observed an unusually high spike in glucose levels amongst even non-diabetic COVID-19 patients. “The blood glucose levels reached alarmingly high levels of 600 to 700 in a few patients,” he said, suspecting the mutant variant of attacking the pancreatic cells. Gaps in strategy Gaps in testing, tracing and isolation strategies were also identified by Dr. Khan to be among the reasons for the challenges faced by the authorities taming the transmission rate in the district. The number of tests in the district was brought down from 6,000 to 7,000 daily till April to 3,500 to 4,000 daily in May. But, the number of tests was increased in the first week of June to 6,000 to 8,000 a day. Newly appointed Mysuru District Health Officer K.H. Prasad attributed the high TPR to “qualitative” testing. “We are focussing our testing on a population that has a high probability of COVID-19. Hence, the higher TPR,” he reasoned. But he admitted that the authorities were unable to adequately trace primary contacts. “For each positive patient, there will be at least eight to 10 primary contacts. But on most occasions, the positive patients do not reveal the details of their primary contacts honestly,” he said. Over to CCCs Also, many COVID-19 positive patients who had to isolate themselves at home were not following the instructions, leading to greater transmission of the virus. In view of the complaints about violation of home isolation protocols by many patients, Mysuru District Surveillance Officer Shivaprasad said the authorities we now planning to shift them to COVID-19 Care Centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-grapples-with-high-positivity-rate/article34875405.ece
21 June 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru-Mysuru expressway work likely to continue till Dec. 2022||Work on the much-awaited 10-lane Bengaluru-Mysuru expressway project is expected to be completed only by December 2022, owing to COVID-19. After experiencing delay during last year’s lockdown, the second wave of COVID-19 too saw many workers returning to the safety of their native villages. Besides, work on certain stretches had been hit by the emergency diversion of industrial gas cylinders, which are used for welding purposes, to meet the sudden spike in demand for oxygen to COVID-19 patients. The work on the 117-km long expressway had begun in two packages – about 56 km-long route from Bengaluru to Nidaghatta in Maddur in May 2019 and 61 km-long route from Nidaghatta to Mysuru in December 2019. Buildcon Ltd., which has been entrusted with the project, had been given deadline of 30 months for completion. In view of the pace of work last year, officials had anticipated the expressway to be ready by early 2022, though the deadline was September 2022. “Now, it looks like work will continue till December 2022,” said an official with the National Highways Division of PWD, who is overseeing the project. While work had come to a grinding halt for almost two to three months during the first wave last year and progressed at a snail’s pace for a couples of weeks even after the lockdown was lifted due to labour scarcity, the second wave has also forced several labourers to either stay away from work for reasons such as testing positive and being advised isolation. “Some workers had even returned to their villages,” the official said. The officials, however, are hoping to soon tide over the crisis they are facing on the labour front. Around 8,000 workers have been deployed for work on the 117 km-long stretch between Panchamukhi Temple near the junction of the highway and NICE road in Bengaluru and Columbia Asia Hospital near the junction of the highway and Ring Road in Mysuru. The expressway comprises a three-lane carriage-way on either side of the median, besides a two-lane service road on either side of the access-controlled main carriage-way. The project also includes construction of three elevated corridors besides bypass roads at Bidadi, Maddur, Ramanagaram, Channapatna, Mandya, and Srirangapatna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-mysuru-expressway-work-likely-to-continue-till-dec-2022/article34875393.ece
21 June 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||3D, laser mapping of 125 monuments completed in eight southern districts||The 3D and laser mapping of 125 monuments spread across eight districts in South Karnataka region, under the jurisdiction of the Department of Archaeology and Museums, has been completed. The exercise was taken by the Karnataka State Council for Science and Technology (KSCST) under the Karnataka Digital Heritage project. This entails 3D mapping of 844 protected monuments across Karnataka coming under the State Department of Archaeology. While the report pertaining to105 monuments spread over nine districts coming under Bengaluru division was submitted last year, the report on 125 monuments under the Mysuru division was submitted recently. While seven monuments are in Chamarajanagar district, 12 are in Chikkamagaluru, 30 in Mandya, three in Kodagu, 30 in Hassan, 32 in Mysuru, one in Dakshina Kannada, and 10 in Udupi. Sources in the Archaeology Department said the exercise would help in betterconservation and protection of monuments and in updating the database of heritage structures. The data generated is expected to help in future preservation, restoration and reconstruction of heritage sites and monuments. The Archaeology Department roped in the expertise of the KSCST for the project using geospatial and 3D laser scanning technologies in a phased manner by covering the heritage monuments in the four revenue divisions of Bengaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi and Kalaburagi. The field survey for the 125 monuments in Mysuru division commenced in October 2020, after the restrictions on visiting places of interest and public gatherings were lifted as part of the graded unlocking by the State government. The data submitted to the Archaeology Department included 3D mesh models and CAD drawings of the monuments, along with the generation of 3D and laser maps. All the maps were geotagged.  The prominent monuments covered under the project include Lushington Bridge at Sathegala, a portion of which was washed away in floods three years ago during monsoon. Other monuments include Chennakeshava temple at Marale in Chikkamagaluru; inscriptions of Halebidu in Hassan; Yoga Narasimhaswamy temple, Rayagopura, Kalyani, and Narayanaswamy temple at Melkote in Mandya district; Srirangapatna Fort, Gomateshwara statue at Gommatagiri, Chamundeshwari temple, Mahabaleshwara temple, and Wellington Lodge in Mysuru district; Sri Ananthapadmanabhaswamy temple at Belle in Udupi; Raja’s tomb in Madikeri; and Durgaparameshwari temple at Balpa in Sullia taluk of Dakshina Kannada district. The monuments in Belagavi and Kalaburagi revenue division are now pending and will be covered once the State unlocks fully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3d-laser-mapping-of-125-monuments-completed-in-eight-southern-districts/article34875401.ece
21 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Blood donation camp||The Yadgir unit of the Junior Chamber International India Zone organised a blood donation campaign in Yadgir on Sunday to observe World Blood Donors Day. Paediatrician and president of the unit Prashant Basutkar and others donated blood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blood-donation-camp/article34875531.ece
21 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Crocodile found dead||A female crocodile was found dead in a stream near Yakshinthi village in Wadagera taluk of Yadgir district on Saturday. It is suspected that the crocodile aged two or three may have been killed by miscreants when it came out of water in search of food. However, officials are yet to confirm the cause of death. Deputy Range Forest Officer of Shahapur I.B. Hugar told The Hindu on Sunday that “the carcass was subjected to autopsy and burnt as per procedure.” The cause of death will only be revealed after the post-mortem report is submitted by veterinarians, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crocodile-found-dead/article34875532.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||The normally stolid bureaucracy showed amazing haste in one instance in Mysuru recently. It not only instituted an inquiry panel as demanded, but also set a time frame for the panel to submit its report and made sure the deadline was met. The issue pertained to the allegation of illegal construction of a convention hall by K.R. Nagar MLA S.R. Mahesh(in picture)on a storm-water drain. Stung by the allegation, the MLA demanded that an inquiry be conducted to ascertain the truth. What is significant is that out of a series of observations made by the outgoing Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, Mr. Mahesh cherry-picked one aspect of an oral remark and sought a survey. The pace at which the official machinery worked in compliance with his demand was in great contrast to the usual sluggish response to public grievances. The findings of the panel were released within the stipulated time of three days, and needless to say the MLA received a clean chit.      Aravind Bellad, who has for long been talked about as a “dark horse” who can potentially replace Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa, suddenly became a vocal dissenter over the past two weeks. Mr. Bellad, the youngest son of senior leader and former five-time MLA Chandrakant Bellad, is always known to keep a low profile. However, his patience seems to be wearing thin these days. He first expressed his dissatisfaction openly when he was not inducted into the Cabinet in December 2019. Recently, he made two Delhi trips, apparently to lobby for leadership change, but was snubbed by the BJP high command. Contrary to directions from Arun Singh, who is in charge of party affairs in the State, he issued public statements alleging that his phone was being tapped and that there was a conspiracy to fix him. He was reportedly reprimanded again for these outbursts. “There are many bigger leaders, some within the Cabinet and some others holding key party posts here and in Delhi, lobbying hard to replace the Chief Minister. But they are keeping themselves below the radar. In that scenario, we don’t understand why Mr. Bellad has suddenly become vocal. Today, he keeps the company of Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, C.P. Yogeshwar, and A.H. Vishwanath. This is hurting his image, when big things are hoped for him,” a senior leader said.   The Belagavi Congress unit recently held an event at the party office to induct Priyanka and Rahul as members of the party. Well, they are the names of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president Satish Jarkiholi’s children. The siblings were sworn in as ordinary members and not as office-bearers, Mr. Jarkiholi(in picture)stressed more than once during the function. He told them to do social service before aspiring for power. This marked the formal entry of the second generation of the Jarkiholis into Belagavi politics. Though the children of other Jarkiholi brothers — Ramesh and Lakhan — are active in politics, they are yet to join the parties. Ms. Priyanka, the elder sibling, is an MBA graduate while Rahul is a final-semester student of aeronautical engineering. Their political journeys, however, began when Mr. Satish Jarkiholi contested as Congress nominee in the recent byelections to the Lok Sabha seat of Belagavi. They were seen travelling across the district, meeting Congress workers and leaders and listening to their grievances.  Krishna Kumar   K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj   Rishikesh Bahaddur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article34875412.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rejuvenation of water tanks in State||Sir, — It is good to learn that the State government is going to take up rejuvenation of water tanks in every gram panchayat. It indeed is a good initiative in the interest of agriculture but it also needs to be expedited to ensure that work is accomplished before the end of monsoon. This work should have been started in early summer as that would have made tanks available for better use by now because there would have been enough scope to store water during monsoon. It is better late than never. It has been ages since tanks have been rejuvenated. This programme must also ensure proper removal of silt to increase water holding capacity and also to augment ground water recharge capacity. The government must ensure that this work is completed on a war-footing. Also, the authorities concerned must take action to ensure that gomal land are demarcated in every gram panchayat to allow for grazing purposes. Needless to say water and grazing land are important natural resources for farming. Sujith Sandur, Dharwad     Sir, — The nation is bouncing back to normality from the clutches from the deadly second wave of COVID-19. Now, the economy graph will see a upward trend. Getting vaccinated is the only way out for us to safeguard from COVID-19. It is heartening to note that vaccination is gaining impetus after finding remedy to initial glitches. The State is entering phase two of unlocking starting Monday (June 21). While we are feeling the ecstasy of unlocking, the havoc created by rain is a reason to worry. We are on the threshold of monsoon and there has been heavy rain in the coastal districts as well as in interior districts. The received rainfall is more than average. Rain in neighbouring Maharashtra has also contributed to a flood-like situation. The State has to brace itself for floods being caused by rain. Mudgal Venkatesh, Kalaburagi   Sir, — Government hospitals need medical equipment, fully furnished buildings, doctors and para-medical staff. All taluk government hospitals should be developed soon. Even in rural areas, the Primary Health Centres need to be upgraded. The primary concern of people’s representatives should be to develop the public health system. Zilla Panchayat and district administration should prepare a master plan and submit it to the State and Central governments. A detailed project report to develop government hospitals in a time-bound manner is the need of the hour. A task force should review the ground realities often. S.N. Amrith, Puttur     Sir, — It is heartening to note that our country is in the final of the ICC World Test Championship and the match is being played now in England till June 22. Undoubtedly, a dream has come true for India with Virat Kohli in the forefront to continue the saga and try to take our country to the top slot. New Zealand is the top team in the longer format. It has reached this position in cricket by sheer hard work. However, I am sure our top 11 will rise to the occasion and will come out victorious clinching the first ICC Wold Test Championship. Our best wishes to Virat Kohli and his team. Vishwanath Kotekar, Mangaluru  Readers can email to:   letters.mangalore   @thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rejuvenation-of-water-tanks-in-state/article34875533.ece
21 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Prevent waterlogging in Kuttanad’||People of Kuttanad are facing unparalleled misery, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said. He was speaking to mediapersons after visiting Kanakkassery, Valiyakari, and Meenapally paddy polders in Kainakary ravaged by recurring bund breaches. “The present conditions are not suitable for living. The government should take immediate steps to avoid waterlogging. I can see a lack of coordination among various government departments in Kuttanad. Ministers are giving different statements. Cosmetic measures are not going to yield desired results in Kuttanad,” Mr. Satheesan said. Deepen waterbodies The Leader of the Opposition said the government’s failure to deepen waterbodies in order to increase the water-carrying capacity as suggested in the Swaminathan Commission report had intensified miseries caused by floods. “The government should implement the recommendations in the report without waiting for the new study report. It should implement short-term and long-term projects on a priority basis and in a time bound manner. The AC canal should be deepened along with increasing its length towards Pallathuruthy,” he said. Mr. Satheesan also lended his support to the ‘Save Kuttanad’ forum. “No one is spreading fear in the name of Kuttanad. Forums like ‘Save Kuttanad’ are trying to bring issues to the fore. It is not right to criticise them. We will give the government our full support in its efforts to protect Kuttanad,” he said. Congress and United Democratic Front leaders M. Liju, A.A. Shukoor, K.P. Sreekumar, Anil Bose, Jacob Abraham, and others accompanied the opposition leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prevent-waterlogging-in-kuttanad/article34875696.ece
21 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Hand-chopping case: evidence collected||The Kumili police collected evidence in the case in which a woman Jomol had chopped off the left hand of her neighbour Manu over a dispute over dumping of waste on the house premises at Abakkara on Thursday evening. Th police brought Jomol to the spot where Manu was attacked. The accused had confessed to the police that she did not expect that e things would go out of control though she had the weapon to attack him. Manu is undergoing treatment in Kochi. The police trapped Jomol on Saturday night after she went tried to hide at a neighbour’s house at Nedumkandam. The police contacted a person who was close to her and who advised her to admit herself to a hospital at Nedumkandam. While she came out from the house, the police arrested her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hand-chopping-case-evidence-collected/article34875697.ece
21 June 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Youth’s body fished out of Rayarom river||The body of one of the two youths, who had gone missing while bathing in Rayarom river in Alakode, was fished out on Sunday morning. Joffin, 23, from Vattakkayam and Akshay, 24, from Arangam were swept away after they jumped into the river at Vattakkayam. They, along with four others, had gone to take bath in the river on Saturday evening. Joffin’s body was fished out around 400 metres away from the spot where the youths bathed. Search is on for Akshay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youths-body-fished-out-of-rayarom-river/article34875602.ece
21 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Private bus operators, commuters slam rule to regulate services||The government permitting resumption of operation of private buses only on alternate days, based on their registration number ending in odd or even number, is wholly unscientific and must hence be reviewed, commuters, bus operators and NGOs have demanded. City-based Janakeeya Anweshana Samity is among the NGOs that are on the forefront seeking a rollback of the new norm, which it termed as highly impractical. Its general convener T.N. Pratapan cited the example of 42 Vyttila-city-Vyttila circular-service buses, of which 20 operate through Vyttila-Thammanam-Palarivattom-city-Vyttila route. “Many of the 42 buses had temporarily halted service, citing inadequate patronage due to the pandemic situation and the skyrocketing fuel price. The odd/even rule has further reduced their number and less than eight buses operated trips on Thursday and Friday,” he said. This is wholly insufficient to meet the demand from passengers, especially so since there are four colonies on the Thammanam route where daily-wage earners and domestic helps reside. Operating buses on the basis of odd/even numbers also throw their schedule haywire, affecting reliability of services and forcing commuters to wait on end for a bus, the Samity said, in a letter addressed to the Minister for Transport and the Transport Commissioner. “I also spoke in person to the two people,” Mr. Pratapan, a senior citizen who is a regular bus commuter, said. Rural areas worst hit The new rule will result in a bus being able to operate only 10 days a month, since bus services are even otherwise banned on Saturday and Sunday, said K.B. Suneer, general secretary of Ernakulam District Private Bus Operators’ Association. “It may also lead to crowding in existing bus services during peak hours. The worst hit will be people residing in rural areas which were networked by a bus or two. We have demanded a rollback of the rule and exemption on road tax and workers’ welfare board payment for a year, considering that the price of diesel increased by Rs. 26 a litre during the past 14 months. The State government seems to have forgotten the fact that markets and shops will come alive only if buses resume regular operation,” he said. City-based bus operator George Joseph spoke of how the odd/even number rule came at a time when just over 10% of the 12,000 private buses were operating in Kerala. “The new regulation will further bring down their number. Apart from stifling commuters and bus operators/workers, it will lessen the State government’s income from fuel tax by approximately Rs. 1,500 per day per bus, since it got Rs. 36 directly and indirectly as tax from a litre of diesel that was sold.” Interest-free loan The government must also encourage retrofitting CNG kits in buses, by making available interest free loans from institutions like Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC), since there is a rate difference of around Rs. 40 between a litre of diesel and a kg of CNG. Buses fuelled by CNG cause much lesser air and sound pollution and are also more fuel efficient, Mr. Joseph said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-bus-operators-commuters-slam-rule-to-regulate-services/article34875594.ece
21 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fort Kochi tourism master plan to get a facelift||The tourism master plan of Fort Kochi will be improved upon and sustainable steps taken to ensure protection of the beach front, Minister for Tourism and Public Works Mohamed Riyas said on Sunday following an online meeting of stakeholders that was held to bring the prime tourism locale to its old glory. The master plan will be improved in consultation with the Tourism Director and the District Collector. He directed the Irrigation Department to ready a DPR on the basis of a study report submitted by IIT-Madras on measures that ought to be taken to preserve the beach which has suffered extensive damage due to sea erosion. Chinese nets He directed KITCO to speed up efforts to renovate the iconic Chinese fishing nets that dot the beachfront, by making available lengthy teak logs of specified sizes. A toilet complex of international standards will be readied in the area, in tandem with the Kochi Corporation. District Collector S. Suhas said that stakeholders, including the Corporation, Ernakulam DTPC and Fort Kochi Heritage Conservation Society (which is awaiting reconstitution), would work as a team to ensure cleanliness of the beach. Rest house The Tourism Director will probe whether the PWD Rest House that overlooks the beach can be renovated with the help of the KTDC. Mayor M. Anilkumar and K.J. Maxi, MLA, too participated in the online meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fort-kochi-tourism-master-plan-to-get-a-facelift/article34875588.ece
21 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Post-COVID complication in children remains a concern||Children below 10 years currently constitute around 9% of the active caseload in Ernakulam. Doctors say that children have mostly had mild COVID-19 symptoms so far, though post-COVID inflammatory syndrome remains a worry. Of the 13,839 active cases on Saturday, 1,254 are children below the age of 10, and 1,676 are below the age of 20. Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MISC), a post-COVID complication, can manifest three to four weeks after asymptomatic or symptomatic infection, and early identification is important, according to State government guidelines issued earlier this month. “We have had around six cases of MISC at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) so far, and they have all recovered. While one case was reported in the first wave, the rest were seen during the second,” said Dr. Shiji Jacob, head of the department of paediatrics and neonatology at the MCH. “It has varied presentation in the less-than-19-years age group. Symptoms can include persistent fever, coagulopathy, stomach ache, fall in blood pressure, red rashes over the body, and elevated inflammatory markers in the blood. We had a child here recently who presented symptoms of nephritis, while others have been admitted with diarrhoea and vomiting, or typhoid-like symptoms. Since symptoms are not typical, it is possible that people may miss it,” she said. “If MISC is not identified and treated quickly, it can become life-threatening. It can develop even in children who had no serious COVID-19 symptoms,” said Dr. Peter Vazhayil, associate professor, department of paediatrics and neonatology at the MCH. A paediatric intensive care unit was available at the Government Medical College Hospital, besides facilities at the Ernakulam General Hospital to take care of children who test positive, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. An ICU facility for children was also being readied at the Aluva District Hospital, he said. “In private hospitals in the district, we have seen around two to three cases of MISC so far, and they have recovered,” he said.  Going by the State government guidelines, children who are asymptomatic or with mild COVID symptoms may remain at home. Children with persistent fever or worsening cough beyond five days of illness should be referred to hospitals with a paediatric ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-covid-complication-in-children-remains-a-concern/article34875601.ece
21 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Commuters seek more general coaches in trains||The Southern Railway must add half a dozen general coaches in trains that have resumed service within Kerala, since COVID curbs are being lifted in a phased manner and all commuters are not in a position to reserve tickets and travel, the Thrissur Railway Passengers’ Association (TRPA) has demanded. Curbs are slowly being lifted on different modes of public transport, and more trains are being pressed into service as days pass by. Ordinary people who cannot afford to travel in private vehicles and even in long-distance buses must benefit from this. It is in this context that intra-State trains that operate during day time be allotted five or six general coaches, P. Krishnakumar, general secretary of the association said in a memorandum submitted to the Southern Railway. This will help commuters avail ticket from railway booking counters and travel. Prior reservation is often a hassle for regular travellers and those who need to travel in emergency situations. This insistence on prior booking is a reason for inadequate patronage of many trains in the interim period between the first and second waves of the pandemic. Allotting general coaches will in turn ensure patronage and also increase Railway’s income, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/commuters-seek-more-general-coaches-in-trains/article34875587.ece
21 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A young football fan in search of artificial limb||Kathiravan Ponraj always loved to watch football. Not the high-octane European leagues on television. Rather, the organic and often messy contests in the neighbourhood live. Such a visit to the Ambedkar Stadium in Kochi in March to watch his cousin play changed the 15-year-old’s life forever. A sudden bout of summer showers had him squirrelling for cover under a huge shade tree that tumbled down in the strong wind tragically trapping him under. Over two months of hospitalisation later, the youngster now moves around in a walker with an amputated left leg and a heavily fractured right that has healed just enough. His teachers, old students, and Customs (he was a member of the Customs Cadet Corps) helped in his treatment. Now, he needs a prosthetic leg, which may cost nearly Rs. 5 lakh and is beyond the means of his impoverished parents doing casual jobs. Kathiravan, originally from near Madurai, however, manages to remain upbeat even as he pursues online classes. “I want to complete Plus Two and then decide what to do. My teachers and friends have been very supportive,” he said. Large-hearted people have managed a fixed deposit of Rs. 80,000 for his future use. But without an artificial limb the future looks bleak. “People who had pledged support seem to have backtracked probably because of the impact of the lockdown. We are doing our bit, but that would not be enough,” said Brailey Chandra Balan, a former student and teacher of SRV High School, who has been mobilising resources for the youngster from the very beginning. Rani P.V., a teacher who frequently visits Kathiravan at his rented home at Gandhi Nagar, is desperate to see her ward walk again. “We have been by his side since the tragedy and cannot leave him in the lurch now,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-young-football-fan-in-search-of-artificial-limb/article34875585.ece
21 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam registers 1,461 new cases||Ernakulam recorded 1,461 new COVID-19 cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.9% on Sunday. Thripunithura registered 63 new cases, Keezhmad and Kumbalanghi 48 each, Chittattukara 47, Kalamassery 46, Edakochi 44, Pallipuram 38, Thrikkakara and Palluruthy 37 each, Chellanam 33, and Elamkunnapuzha 30. Kadavanthra saw 29 new cases, while Fort Kochi and Chendamangalam saw 28 each. Payipra recorded 27 cases, Kizhakkambalam 25, and North Paravur 24. Two health workers have tested positive. While 1,186 recoveries were recorded on the day, the active case load is 14,101.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-registers-1461-new-cases/article34875597.ece
21 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Aisha Sultana appears before Kavaratti police||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana appeared before the police at the Kavaratti police headquarters for being questioned on sedition charges for her ‘bio-weapon’ comment against island Administrator Praful Khoda Patel. After questioning, she said that the police had told her that she would be summoned for further questioning if there was any requirement in connection with the case. The filmmaker, facing charges over her remarks, was directed to appear before the police after the High Court of Kerala admitted her prayer for anticipatory bail. Ms. Sultana reached the police headquarters along with her lawyer. During a television discussion early this month, the filmmaker said that the Union government had used a bio-weapon against the islanders. She was participating in discussions on the changes in the islands brought about by the Administrator recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aisha-sultana-appears-before-kavaratti-police/article34875608.ece
21 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Safe Kollam to vie for national award||Safe Kollam, an initiative of the district administration focusing on comprehensive development, has made it to the shortlist of entries selected for the National Awards for e-Governance (NAeG). The only project selected from Kerala, Safe Kollam targets multiple aspects including safe environment, safe water, safe food, safe road and safe children. \A total of seven entries from across the country have been shortlisted for the award instituted by Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG) for excellence in the implementation of e-Governance projects. Conceived by District Collector B.Abdul Nasar, Safe Kollam is a multi-level strategy that includes awareness programmes, regular inspections and strict enforcement. It started off with ensuring the compliance of road safety norms and spreading awareness among children. Since safe roads is a major motto of the project, several initiatives were launched in connection with that. Fishers in the district were given special training enabling them to obtain license while campaigns were held to spread awareness. Sanitation drives were conducted in many places and local bodies were asked to form monitoring committees to ensure conversational measures. The project also addressed issued related to food safety and welfare of children, taking a spate of remedial measures. The long-term plan also has an option to involve public as persons who register on the website and can work as Safe Kollam volunteers. The project uses its network to conduct mass awareness campaigns. Safe Kollam is being implemented with the support of voluntary organisations, youth clubs, cultural organisations, libraries, NSS and NCC units, residents' associations and various departments including Police and Excise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safe-kollam-to-vie-for-national-award/article34875698.ece
21 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,219 new cases in Kollam||Kollam district reported 1,219 new cases of COVID-19 and 805 recoveries on Sunday. While 1,214 patients contracted the disease through contact, the others include one person from another State and four health workers. Kollam district currently has 35,580 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 15,51,584. While 1,764 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 2,69,433 primary and 17,167 secondary contacts of the cases, a pressnote said. Alappuzha The district reported 638 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. It also recorded nine COVID-19-related deaths. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 8.38%. The fresh cases include 624 patients who contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of 14 others remains unknown. Of the 638 cases, 54 were logged from Alappuzha and 26 from Mararikulam South. Meanwhile 844 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 9,269. On Sunday, the police registered 39 cases and arrested 18 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 457 people for not wearing face masks, 351 people for violating physical distancing norms, and six people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 186 vehicles. ( With contribution from Alapp uzha bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1219-new-cases-in-kollam/article34875701.ece
21 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Bodies of two youths recovered||The bodies of Adarsh (24) and Midhun Nath (21), who went missing in a polder near East Kallada on Saturday, were recovered on Sunday. Both the youngsters had drowned when their country boat capsized in the vast polder that has been lying idle for a long while. According to the Sasthamcotta police, Adrash and Midhun Nath rowed into the polder for fishing with their three friends around 5.30 p.m. “During the trip, water seeped in causing the boat to capsize. While three of them swam to safety, the other two drowned,” he said. Though the polder has minimal depth in most parts, the accident might have occurred when they ventured into the middle where the current is strong, he added. The police along with Fire and Rescue Services personnel had searched the area till late in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bodies-of-two-youths-recovered/article34875700.ece
21 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Training in paneer production||Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting a training session in paneer production on June 22. Interested persons can register their names before 10 a.m. for the online session. For more details contact 04762698550, 8075028868.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-in-paneer-production/article34875699.ece
21 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Short sea container shipping service ready for launch||The short sea container shipping service between the Vallarpadam container terminal and the Beypore port will begin on June 24. Carrying coastal and export-import (exim) transshipment containers, Motor VesselChowgule-8owned by Round The Coast Private Limited will be the first to arrive in Beypore through Green Freight Corridor-2. The ship will also deliver containers to the Azhikkal port in Kannur during the trip. By complying with the State government’s shipping policies, the operators have also finalised their weekly service schedule and tariff card. To begin with, there will be two trips a week. The first load is expected to reach the Beypore port on June 25. The availability of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) facility at Kannur and Beypore is expected to be a boon for many stakeholders in north Kerala to ensure speedy and smooth consignment verification by the Customs authorities. Until very recently, they had been depending on facilities at the Kozhikode international airport. At the Beypore port, the port code for freight service will be INBYP01. Henceforth, the place of discharge in Bill of Lading (the document issued by a carrier to acknowledge receipt of cargo for shipment) will be Beypore, which is a long-awaited moment for exporters and importers who were depending on other ports for container movement. Exporters and importers from north Kerala have also called for exploring the option of opening a ship repairing unit near Beypore. A floating dry dock and ship repair facility led by Cochin Shipyard Limited could be set up at Beypore for better revenue, they add. There is also a call to explore coastal shipping services for the safe transportation of petroleum products to the north Malabar region. The functionaries of the Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry point out that the State government can either purchase or lease small product carrier ships for the purpose and thereby reduce the movement of fuel products by road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/short-sea-container-shipping-service-ready-for-launch/article34875596.ece
21 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local bodies in Kozhikode holding mega testing camps||Some local bodies in Kozhikode are found to be holding mega COVID-19 testing camps to reduce the daily test positivity rate (TPR) that will eventually lead to relaxing of the restrictions in force now. According to sources, the local body authorities are now reportedly insisting on COVID-negative certificate for people to open shops and other business firms. The staff and owners will also have to show the certificate to sectoral magistrates, if needed. The norm is also applicable to autorickshaw drivers and migrant labourers. Those who have got both doses of the vaccine need not go for the tests, but produce the vaccination certificate alone. A majority of local bodies in Kozhikode district are in the ‘B’ category, where the TPR is between 8% and 19%. A semi-lockdown is in force in these places, and offices and shops, excluding those selling essential stuff, are allowed to open only three days a week. This, however, has not gone down well with another section of officials, who feel that holding tests on unsuspected persons on a large scale will burn a hole in the pocket of cash-strapped local bodies. Crowds outside such testing centres could lead to spreading of the infection as well, they say. Some other officials cite the new guidelines recently issued for increasing testing, based on average TPR over a week. If the rate is over 30%, the number of tests should be 10 times that of the total cases reported there in the past three days. If the TPR is 20%, the tests would be six times that of the total cases in three days. If the rate is between 2% and 20%, it would be thrice the total number of cases in the past three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-in-kozhikode-holding-mega-testing-camps/article34875598.ece
21 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||World Music Day sans music||There was no answer to the repeated calls. Neither was there a call back. So playback singer V. Devanand sounded a bit irritated when he could finally speak to the man late in the night. Devanand had been trying to contact him all day. He wanted to transfer some money to him on behalf of SAMAM, the association of playback singers. The singer with a small music troupe told him why he didn’t answer the phone. “I had been out all day, along with my wife, trying to catch fish on a country boat,” he said. “If we don’t sell fish, we will starve.” Like him, his wife, also a singer, too used to make a decent living from music before COVID-19 arrived last year. If that was bad enough, a year on, things have become worse for singers and others in the industry. So on this World Music Day (June 21), singers have only sad tunes to sing. “There is hardly any recording and no live music shows, the bread-and-butter for just about any singer today,” says Devanand. “I occasionally get to sing for a video on YouTube, and that’s it.” Shows abroad Like Devanand, Akhila Anand too used to be pretty active on the live-show circuit. “I used to perform in shows regularly abroad too in the pre-COVID days,” she says. “Cinema has long ceased to be the main source of income for the singers. We have become virtually jobless, except for the few who appear in television shows. Since I am not the only earning member of the family, I could survive, but that is not the case with most others.” So many of them are forced to seek fresh avenues. K.K. Nishad has begun teaching online. “I can’t take too many students, as I cannot afford to strain my voice,” he says. “In these tough times, the income from teaching is a huge relief.” It is not just singers who are affected. Composers, who also conduct stage shows, have also been badly hit, along with musicians, technicians, and others like those who provide sound. “I used to compose background for six or seven movies a year, but I haven’t had a single release this year,” says Thej Mervin. “I also conduct stage shows of all kinds, including those by major singers like Shankar Mahadevan.” For the music industry, a happy tune seems to be some distance away still.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-happy-tunes-for-singers-on-music-day/article34875592.ece
21 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Main Udayam campus to be opened||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will launch the fourth and main campus of Udayam project of the Kozhikode district administration on Tuesday. Udayam envisions complete rehabilitation of rough sleepers whom the district administration has been taking care of since the COVID-19 outbreak in the State. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao told reporters here on Saturday that the head office of the project had been set up on the premises of the Institute of Dermatology at Chevayur. Ministers P.A. Mohamed Riyas, A.K. Saseendran, and Ahammad Devarkovil, besides M.K. Raghavan, MP, Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, and District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George will attend the virtual inauguration at 5.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The Collector said Udayam aimed to ensure that there were no rough sleepers in the district. During the initial stages of the project, around 1,400 such people were identified with the help of voluntary organisations and local people, and they were temporarily rehabilitated. Nearly 400 of them were accommodated at Udayam centres at Mankavu, Vellimadukunnu, and East Hill. The main campus can accommodate 150 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/main-udayam-campus-to-be-opened/article34875604.ece
21 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||979 more test positive||As many as 979 people newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Sunday. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 972 cases of local transmission of the infection, and the source of six others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 229 cases of locally acquired infections, Puthuppady 43, and Kunnamangalam 42. A total of 10,119 samples were tested, and the daily test positivity rate is 9.85%. With 1,240 people recovering from the infection, the active caseload stands at 10,623.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/979-more-test-positive/article34875599.ece
21 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Land acquisition for road project to be speeded up||Acquisition of land under litigation is one of the reasons for the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu road project getting delayed despite the State government sanctioning funds. Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, recently said the land acquisition process would be speeded up to complete the project at the earliest. The total area to be acquired is 7.4078 hectares, of which 3.9457 hectares have already been acquired with the consent of landowners. Of the remaining 3.4621 hectares, some plots are owned by merchants in the Nadakkavu area. Besides, land owned by Education, Water Authority and Public Works departments are yet to be handed over. The State government had allotted Rs. 210 crore as compensation to landowners, of which Rs. 163 crore has already been distributed. A few title deeds are being processed by the District Government Pleader to be registered. In addition, the project requires the demolition of structures such as the old LP School building at Nadakkavu, water tank at civil station, and NGO quarters. The Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu Road will be a four-lane stretch with a width of 24 metres. The MLA said the disbursement of compensation would be completed in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-acquisition-for-road-project-to-be-expedited/article34875586.ece
21 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta records sharp fall in crime rate||The COVID-19 induced lockdown has once again succeeded in applying the brakes on criminal offences of serious nature. As per estimates by the Pathanamthitta District Police, the district reported no cases for murder, attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder during the Statewide lockdown. Fewer accidents With fewer people venturing out, the number of road accidents too recorded a sharp decline. According to District Police Chief R. Nishanthini the drop in case came to notice during a comparative analysis of the crime data for the 30 days from May 6 and the previous month. “The number of thefts, cheating and assault cases too recorded a significant decline during the period,” noted the official. For instance, the district police registered just 58 cases for rash and negligent driving during the period while the previous month witnessed seven times as many cases. The number of accident cases too came down to 72 from 182. Rape cases During the lockdown period, four cases were taken for abusing women as against the seven cases reported from April 5 to May 5. The crime against children too witnessed a noticeable slump from five cases to just one during the period. “The number of rape cases came down to two from three while the number of drug cases dropped to three from five. The number of dowry and domestic violence too did not report an increase,” the official added. COVID protocol Official sources said the cases that witnessed a significant rise during the period belonged to the violation of COVID-19 protocols. For instance, as many as 238 people were arrested and 534 vehicles were seized in a span of just four days that ended on June 19. These were in addition to cases registered against 1,258 people and 661 others for violation of the facemask and social distancing norms respectively.  The number of thefts, cheating and assault cases too recorded a significant decline during the period||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-records-sharp-fall-in-crime-rate/article34875702.ece
21 June 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Kisan Jeep offers link between farmers and market||Every time when his jeep rolls to a stop, Praveen Plavilayil rushes out of its driver seat and shouts, “bring in your sacks, hurry up.” The people, who are waiting at these points, suddenly get into action and take turns to stuff the empty space on board with the baggage in their possession. Within minutes, the jeep sets off to its next destination and then goes on to complete a loop of several collection points before returning, mostly by evening. The service, named Kisan Jeep, serves as an important link between the farmers in Athumbumkulam — a forest-fringe division and the market — these days. Run by Mr. Plavilayil, an elected representative of the Konni block panchayat, with the support of a social media collective called Nattuchantha, it facilitates free and direct transportation of the products from the local farmers to their buyers. Pre-booking basis The service, which operates on a pre-booking basis and covers a handful of villages ranging from Manneera to Kokkathidu, has been launched in view of the difficulties experienced by the local farmers in connecting with their markets during the lockdown days. With the restrictions on travel and public life, the farmers here had seen their highly perishable produce rot in the field and were forced to plough it back to dirt. “The lockdown has wiped out the key markets for their produce, leaving farmers with huge volumes of excess. So, getting them to where they are needed most is a new and urgent problem,” explained Mr. Plavilayil. The concept, according to him, is an extension of the barter markets organised in the region during the first phase of the lockdown last year. To ensure a fair and transparent trading of the products, a representative of the local farmers too accompanies the Jeep on each of its service. The amount collected through the sales will be distributed among the contributing farmers on the same day. Next step Besides getting their products to the market, the service also intends to distribute high-quality seeds and fertilizers in the next phase, he added. Besides the local farm produce, including jackfruit and mango, it also facilitates the sale of products rolled out by the women self-help groups in these villages. To make sure that the process continues to work for the farmers, the members of the local vendor community too have been encouraged to join the fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kisan-jeep-offers-link-between-farmers-and-market/article34875610.ece
21 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod to 7 rural LIFE projects||The State government has accorded administrative sanction to seven rural LIFE tower projects, as part of the Livelihood, Inclusion, Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project. Administrative sanction has also been accorded to Rs. 48.77 lakh for the construction of the flat complexes. The seven projects across various districts in the State have a total of 304 housing units. The LIFE tower projects are set to come up at Kattakada in Thiruvananthapuram (28 housing units), Chengala in Kasaragod (44 units), Kanaljoor (32 units), Kadambanad (56 units) and Eravipperoor (28 units) in Pathanamthitta, Edappal in Malappuram (44 units), and Karimba in Palakkad (72 units). Plinth area The total plinth area of the seven towers is 17,613 square metres, with an average plinth area cost of Rs. 27,747 per square metre. The government had earlier sought a clarification from the CEO of the LIFE project on the increase in unit cost of the external work for some projects. In his reply, the CEO has said that the cost of construction depends on type of foundation, which is dependent on type of soil. Cost of external site development works mainly depends on terrain of land, length of compound wall, retaining wall, road development, earth cutting or filling required, and other factors. It varies from site to site and it cannot be directly compared with number of dwelling units. PRICE software Estimates are prepared in PRICE software and hence there is no difference in rates for different items. Only quantity changes according to site conditions, the CEO has said. The work on some other ongoing flat complex projects at different parts of the State are at various stages of completion. Since the construction is using prefabricated technology, the work on flat complexes are now progressing at a faster rate than before. The projects will have livelihood-enabling training centres and other facilities added to it. Identifying enough land for flat projects in urban areas is still a concern for the LIFE mission, as a majority of the flat complexes are coming up in municipalities or panchayats. Scarcity of land as well as the reluctance of land owners to sell at lower prices have contributed to the delays in urban projects. Identified plots The mission had last year identified several plots owned by various departments across the State, for constructing apartment complexes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-to-7-rural-life-projects/article34875629.ece
21 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,600 new cases reported in capital||As many as 1,600 COVID-19 cases and 1,877 recoveries were reported in Thiruvananthapuram district on Sunday. The number of active cases stood at 12,481. While 16,607 people were tested during the last 24 hours, the test positivity rate (TPR) fell to 9.63%. Contact cases While most cases were attributed to contact transmission, the source of infection was unknown in 94 cases. Nine health care workers were among those who were diagnosed with COVID-19. Nine more deaths that were reported between June 16 and 20 have been attributed to the disease. The death toll currently stood at 2,525. The district administration placed 3,143 people in quarantine, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 47,309. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated legal action against 321 people until 4 p.m. for violating pandemic restrictions on Sunday. These included 62 people who were booked under Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 for serious offences. A cumulative fine of Rs. 76,500 was levied from 148 people who failed to wear masks and five others for flouting physical distancing norms.  While 16,607 people were tested during the last 24 hours, the test positivity rate fell to 9.63%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1600-new-cases-reported-in-capital/article34875628.ece
21 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC’s LNG buses from today||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will launch its first Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)-powered bus service on Monday. The first service from the central bus station at Thampanoor here to Kochi will be flagged off by Transport Minister Antony Raju. The daily services will be on the Ernakulam- Thiruvanantha puram and Kozhikode- Ernakulam- sectors. Two air-conditioned buses handed over by Petronet LNG Limited to the KSRTC will operate the services on a trial basis for three months. Technical and feasibility studies will be conducted during this period after taking temporary permits for the buses. The KSRTC has already issued an order to convert 400 diesel bus into LNG. Timings The service from Ernakulam at 5 a.m. will reach the State capital at 11.15 a.m. and the return service from 2 p.m. from Thiruvananthapuram will reach Ernakulam at 8.15 p.m. The service from Ernakulam at 6.30 a.m. will reach Kozhikode at 12.30 noon and the return service at 2.30 p.m. will reach Ernakulam at 8.20 p.m. The Minister said the feedback of commuters, bus crew and mechanical staff would be collected during the trials. After one-month, the KSRTC and Petronet engineers will carry out trial runs in the hilly regions of Munnar with six-tonne load in the bus. Fuel bill reduction Conversion of a diesel bus into LNG will cost Rs. 25 lakh. The KSRTC hopes to bring down the fuel bill by converting the fleet into LNG and Compressed Natural Gas (CNG), as one kg of CNG is equivalent to 1.39 litre of petrol and 1.18 litre of diesel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtcs-lng-buses-from-today/article34875612.ece
21 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Galwan conflict impacts KSEB’s Pallivasal plans||More delays appear to be in store for the Pallivasal Extension Scheme, designed to add 60 MW to the State’s power generation capability, with the soured India-China relations following the Galwan Valley clash hampering the installation of power plant machinery. The Kerala State Electricity Board’s (KSEB) plea for procuring the services of its Chinese supplier for installing the machinery is yet to be cleared by the Department of Promotion of Industries and Internal Trade, Government of India, KSEB officials said. 80% from China Chinese firm Dongfang Electric Corporation (DEC) is the original equipment manufacturer and a consortium partner for the scheme in Idukki district. Over 80% of the power generation machinery, generators and turbines included, have been procured from China. The machinery had arrived in Kerala more than six years ago, but the project was plagued by geological issues and contract-related problems then. After the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government came to power in 2016, the KSEB had awarded fresh contracts. New deadline The State-run power utility had announced a revised deadline for completing this much-delayed project by December 2021 when the new hurdle cropped up. “The Centre has strictly regulated the procurement of equipment and services from China after the Galwan incident. But given the importance of this power project, the Kerala government has written to the Centre to clear the Chinese firm and permit its engineers to either travel to Kerala for installing the machinery or do it online. If we get the clearance now, we can still complete the work by December,” KSEB chairman and managing director N.S. Pillai said. Extensive delays have plagued the Pallivasal Extension Scheme, originally scheduled for commissioning in March 2011. The first stage of the Pallivasal hydroelectric project was completed in 1940 and by 1952 it became full-fledged with a total installed capacity of 37.5 MW. Subsequently, the KSEB designed the 60-MW Pallivasal Extension Scheme (153.9 million units) to fully utilise the available water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/galwan-conflict-impacts-ksebs-pallivasal-plans/article34875615.ece
21 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Epidemic curve stays steady||Kerala’s epidemic curve continues to ride a plateau, recording a high daily average of new cases, which public health experts feel is likely to remain steady and protracted. Hospitalisations in the State, despite a declining trend, have not gone down at a faster pace, with at least 2,300 on an average being hospitalised daily. On Sunday, 2,297 patients were hospitalised. The number of patients in hospitals across the State is 26,906. The State’s active case pool has been stagnating for the past few days at a little over one lakh patients, 1,05,936 patients on Sunday. It continues to report an average of 12,000 cases and as many recoveries daily. Test positivity rate also continues to be steady at a little over 10%, at 10.84% on Sunday, with 11,647 new cases being reported when 1,07,474 samples were tested in 24 hours.  ICU and ventilator occupancy also, despite the declining trend, remains high, with 2,577 patients in ICUs and 1,052 on ventilator support. Another 12,459 recovered on the day. The State added 112 recent deaths to the official list. Most hospitalisations Thiruvananthapuram, which has an active case pool of 12,481 patients, continues to have over 5,000 patients admitted in various hospitals – 5,485 on Sunday. There is no change in the TPR in 16 local bodies in the State, where it continues to be over 30%. Capital on top Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases, at 1,600, followed by Ernakulam 1,461, Kollam 1,219, Malappuram 1,187, Thrissur 1,113, Palakkad 1,045, Kozhikode 979, Alappuzha 638, Kottayam 600, Kannur 486, Kasaragod 476, Idukki 430, Pathanamthitta 234 and Wayanad 179 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/epidemic-curve-stays-steady/article34875620.ece
21 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Naturopath tests COVID positive after death||Mohanan Nair, a self-professed naturopath who died at the house of his relative near Karamana here on Saturday, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 at Government Medical College Hospital here on Sunday. Following a post-mortem examination, the body of the Kottarakara native was taken to his house at Cherthala where he had been staying for over two decades. He had been brought dead to the hospital around 9.15 p.m. on Saturday shortly after he collapsed at a relative’s house at Kalady here.  The naturopath had courted several controversies with his treatment techniques. He was arrested by the Thrissur police last year for allegedly propagating falsehood when he claimed that he could cure viral diseases, including COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naturopath-tests-covid-positive-after-death/article34875614.ece
21 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Talk series on traditional knowledge systems||The International Centre for Kerala Studies under the University of Kerala is organising an online lecture-cum-discussion series on the traditional knowledge systems and cultural practices of Kerala and their potential as a development tool and in building resilience to disasters. The first phase of the multi-disciplinary initiative will focus on traditional knowledge systems in soil, water, air and power while the thrust areas in the second phase will be in the technical and education sectors. The focus will shift to arts and language and literature in the third phase. Director of the Centre C.R. Prasad said the series was aimed at creating a database of traditional knowledge systems in Malayalam so that they could be accessed by the common man. “Some of this knowledge would have been lost while some would have undergone changes with time. It is important to understand how this knowledge can be utilised to address various issues faced by the State today.” The lectures will be handled by university teachers. The first lecture will be on water resources of Kerala while the subsequent ones will deal with marine resources, clean energy, human- animal conflict, environmental pollution, power crisis and landslips. For participation, dial -9447552876 or 9446370168.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talk-series-on-traditional-knowledge-systems/article34875630.ece
21 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTDC to upgrade online booking of properties||Online booking of hotels and resorts of the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) will be upgraded by June end to facilitate quick and hassle-free reservation from anywhere in the world. The upgrading, through the Channel Manager software, is the first major step to connect the prime properties of the State-owned KTDC to global tourism networks. Connecting hotels The system will connect KTDC hotels and resorts with major booking websites such as Booking.com, Agoda and Indian booking engines such as MakeMyTrip, Goibibo, and IRCTC, giving them more visibility globally. The software installation is under way and will be completed by this month end, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said here after reviewing the progress of the renovation works launched by the KTDC. Improved quality The quality and choice of dishes served in KTDC restaurants will be improved, by including local delicacies. Ambience and service of all allied facilities at KTDC hotels will also be enhanced. The KTDC, the largest hotel chain in the public sector, has 29 properties, including seven premium, nine budget and rest economy class, in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktdc-to-upgrade-online-booking-of-properties/article34875632.ece
21 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Doctors’ protest on June 25||Government doctors in the State will boycott specialty OP clinics and elective surgeries ion June 25, in protest against the increasing attack on doctors and the police’s alleged inaction. Outpatient services will be boycotted for an hour from 10 a.m. and protest meetings will be held. However, emergency services and surgeries, inpatient care, labour room service, and COVID-19 care will not be affected. In a statement here, Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) said that though it had been 40 days since a doctor at the Mavelikara district hospital was attacked, the accused was yet to be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-protest-on-june-25/article34875622.ece
21 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pay revision talks in KSRTC today||Talks between the management of Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and employees’ unions for pay revision will commence on Monday. The meeting will be chaired by Transport Minister Antony Raju at the Secretariat. The KSRTC will be represented by Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar and other top officials. Earlier pact The last pay revision agreement signed between the management and unions of the transport utility had expired on February 28, 2016, and there has been no increase in emoluments since then. Mr. Raju said steps were being taken for wage revision after 10 years. The efforts were also to take the employees into confidence for the turnaround initiatives being implemented in the KSRTC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pay-revision-talks-in-ksrtc-today/article34875613.ece
21 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strong winds: advisory to fishermen||The district administration has advised fishermen not to venture into the sea on Monday as strong winds are likely along the Kerala, Karnataka and Lakshadweep coasts. District Collector Navjot Khosa referred to an India Meteorological Department alert which said that 40-50 kmph winds are likely along these coasts till Monday. High waves The district administration has also advised the coastal communities to remain watchful as waves up to 3-3.3-m high are likely to lash Kerala coast till Monday night. Fishermen have been told to secure equipment and boats kept on the beaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strong-winds-advisory-to-fishermen/article34875616.ece
21 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Keralite to study gender connection of Alzheimer’s||After a recent finding by the Cleveland Clinic indicated that the COVID-19 infection has a relationship with conditions such as brain inflammation that happens in Alzheimer’s disease, research on the mode of pathogenesis in Alzheimer’s is gaining critical attention. A Malayali researcher’s work in this direction is being encouraged by the University of Ottawa. Shaarika Sarasija was recently awarded a three-year Canadian Institute of Health Research post-doctoral fellowship to study the role of G-protein-coupled receptors in Alzheimer’s disease. Having joined the lab of Dr. Stephen S.G. Ferguson at the University of Ottawa, she plans to also find out why women appear to be more susceptible to Alzheimer’s disease. Hailing from Thiruvananthapuram, Shaarika Sarasija is the daughter of Malayalam film producer Kireedom Unni. “The number of women showing Alzheimer’s symptoms is twice that of men,” she says. “The increased incidence of the disease in women was initially thought to be a consequence of their longer lifespan. Research showed their vulnerability to the disease even when matched for age and lifestyle of men. This could be due to intrinsic biological differences in men and women.” “A hallmark of this disease is the presence of misfolded proteins called amyloid plaques and decades of drug research has been directed at the elimination of these plaques, with limited success. My research showed that neurodegeneration can occur in the absence of amyloid plaques due to aberrant calcium signalling,” she says. This work has been published in journals such as Genetics , eLife and Aging Cell .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralite-to-study-gender-connection-of-alzheimers/article34875606.ece
21 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Virtual music programme||Kalithattu, the performing arts club of Chetana Media College, will organise a virtual music programme, Ekam, on World Music Day on Monday. Singers Rashmi Satheesh and Nanchamma will be the chief guests. Ekam – music ensemble, prepared by teachers and students of the college, will be the main attraction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-music-programme/article34875603.ece
21 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Course in pest management||Kerala Agricultural University’s Centre for e-Learning has invited applications for massive online open courses (MOOC) on ‘Pest and disease management through biocontrol methods’. This is a free online course useful for those interested in agriculture and farming activities. The programme is offered in Malayalam free of charge. The classes are scheduled to begin on June 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/course-in-pest-management/article34875607.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Turning into wilderness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/turning-into-wilderness/article34875590.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Land no more||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-no-more/article34875634.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||International Yoga Day today||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/international-yoga-day-today/article34875618.ece
21 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate spikes in Anantapur district||The positivity rate in Anantapur district, which hovered around 5% for the past 10 days, went up to 7.21% with 396 samples out of the total of 5,494 collected samples testing positive on Saturday. Kurnool district reported its lowest number of COVID-19 cases during the second wave since March 1, with only 127 cases in the past 24 hours. The district’s active caseload now stands at 1,608 while the death toll stands at 804 after two persons succumbed to the virus in the past 24 hours. The cumulative fatalities in Anantapur were 1,027, including three in the last 24 hours, but the number of active positive cases was only 1,372 as of Sunday with 811 of them being treated at hospital. There were 134 patients in ICU wards, 114 on oxygen-supported beds while the remaining 563 did not need any oxygen support. On Sunday, 80,691 persons were vaccinated on a single day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positivity-rate-spikes-in-anantapur-district/article34875679.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto driver freed in IISc. attack case||Habib Mohammed, 41, an auto driver from Agartala, Tripura, is back home after an ordeal that spanned over four years. In 2017, he was arrested in connection with the 2005 Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) terror attack case. He spent four years and three months in the city prison only to be discharged from the case on June 14, 2021. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) Special Court in its order discharging him from the case pointed to lack of any credible evidence of his involvement in the case. The judge wondered that “he failed to understand why he was arraigned as an accused in the case”. A copy of the order is available with The Hindu.  “I have never been a fundamentalist and have never been involved in any terror activities,” said Mr. Mohammed, speaking to this correspondent from Agartala. “Nearly 12 years after the alleged attack, the police suddenly arrested me, calling me me a terrorist. My family suffered without a breadwinner for over four years. The court has finally given me justice, but nobody will give me back my time in prison and the trauma my family and I were put through for no fault of ours,” he said. His counsel Mohammed Tahir, while welcoming the court’s decision, described the events as a “complete travesty of justice.” “An innocent person had to spend over four years in jail for no reason. We welcome the court granting relief,” he said. Mr. Mohammed was arrested on the basis of a confession statement of one of the accused, Sabahuddin, to the Lucknow police in 2008. He reportedly claimed that Mr. Mohammed helped him and other conspirators cross over to Bangladesh after the IISc. attack. NIA Special Court judge Kasappa Naik rejected an alleged confession statement of Mr. Mohammed in police custody as evidence and also pointed out that the prosecution had failed to gather any corroborative evidence to support the claims in the statement as well. “Thus, there being no sufficient ground to proceed against Accused No.7 [Habib Mohammed], this court cannot frame charges against him, merely because a chargesheet is filed against him,” the judge wrote in his order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/auto-driver-freed-in-iisc-attack-case/article34875330.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Row over removal of Kannada from list||Questioning the guidelines for the selection of languages to impart training to MPs and officials, Kannada Development Authority chief T.S. Nagabharana expressed disappointment over Kannada being dropped from the list of languages proposed by the Parliament Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/row-over-removal-of-kannada-from-list/article34875334.ece
21 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang selling mucor drugs held||The Guntur Urban Police have busted a racket that was allegedly black-marketing essential anti-vial injections used in the treatment of Mucormycosis (Black Fungus), Amphotericin-B, and seized 46 vials of the injection and Rs. 3.04 lakh in cash. Deputy Inspector General, South Coastal Range, Trivikram Varma and Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, K. Arif Hafeez told reporters here on Sunday that a team of police in Old Guntur police station busted the racket and seized the injections, costing between Rs. 1,550- Rs. 4,450 but were sold for Rs. 15,000-Rs. 30,000. “The anti vial Amphotericin-B is being used in the treatment of Black Fungus and is only available with a prescription of the doctor as well as a certificate from a panel headed by the Joint Collector. The accused were working as medical representatives, and formed a gang and have begun selling the injections for a higher price, at Rs. 15,000 per vial. We have formed special police teams to bust the racket,’’ said Mr. Trivikram Varma. The accused, Perikala Vinod Kumar (28), Popuri Koteswara Rao (32) years, Anne Gopi Krishna, Kota Nageswara Rao, (31), Addanki Lakshmi Narayana (34), Telukutla Venkateswarlu (26), Madasu Neelambaram (42), Y. Venkata Rajesh (35), were selling each injection for Rs. 20,000-Rs. 30,000. Police teams working under the directions of DIG and SP, DSP East B. Seetharamaiah and CI, Old Guntur , K. Vasu began investigating the case and seized the injections. The DIG appealed to the people not to fall prey to such gangs selling the injections illegally and take medicines only from government facilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gang-selling-mucor-drugs-held/article34875680.ece
21 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Failure in TS EAMCET may not hurt engg. aspirants’||After declaring all the students in Intermediate second-year pass without examinations, the government is contemplating to make all of them eligible for engineering admissions irrespective of their performance in the EAMCET to be conducted in August. Since the EAMCET or some kind of entrance test is mandatory to decide the merit for admissions into professional courses, officials are also looking into the option of reducing the qualifying marks to lessen the burden on the students. Officials are considering these ideas given the disturbed academic year with literally no physical classes held during the entire year though online classes were held. The decision would not affect the chances of any students in the order of merit or other wise as the admissions into engineering and other professional courses are based on merit in the entrance test both open and reserved categories. The idea is being discussed and will be put before the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Education Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy for consideration, a senior official revealed. Every year thousands of students fail to clear the EAMCET despite getting passed in the Intermediate or vice versa and lose an opportunity to join engineering courses despite the availability of seats. “Since the entire year was disrupted, lots of rural and poor students had little reach to online classes and their inability to adapt from new learning methods as they were exposed to digital learning for the first time. So their inability to clear the EAMCET in the present circumstances should not stop them from studying further,” an official argued. So what is the use of conducting EAMCET in that scenario? Officials remind that admissions into professional courses have to be based on an entrance test for deciding the merit. So conduct of EAMCET is must to meet the criterion and to avoid legal problems. However, the State governments have the liberty to decide the qualifying marks. Moreover, the government, for this year, has also done away with the 25% weightage for Intermediate marks for arriving at the final rank of the candidates. As many as 4,80,555 students are admitted in the second year Intermediate and among these about 2.50 lakh candidates are in the mathematics and science stream. As on Sunday, 2,28,792 candidates have registered for taking the EAMCET of which 1,51,742 registered for the engineering test and 77,050 for the agriculture and medical stream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/failure-in-eamcet-may-not-be-an-impediment-for-engg-aspirants/article34875398.ece
21 June 2021||Hyderabad/Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public transport heralds unlock phase||Telangana and Karnataka prepared to resume public bus services within regulated parameters from Monday. In Karnataka, the government’s decision to allow shops and even dine-in restaurants was greeted with caution by the industry. The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation will run inter-State bus services to Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra as per relaxation during lockdown hours in those States. Buses will be operated between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. in Andhra Pradesh. Except for Bengaluru, the services will run between 5 a.m. and 7 p.m. in Karnataka, except during curfew over the weekends. Telangana’s unlock will cover all public places and services from Monday. Metro rail will operate from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Most of the bars reopened on Sunday but parks, gymnasiums and sports venues could open from Monday. Charminar and Salarjung Museum reopened on Sunday. Metro passengers were asked to strictly follow COVID-19 guidelines. After 55 days, transport corporations in Karnataka and Bangalore Metro Rail were set to resume services. “Like last year, all protocols to contain the spread of COVID-19 will be followed,” said Shankar A.S., executive director (operations and maintenance), BMRCL. Trains will run during the peak hours (7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.) every five minutes. In a bid to make it easier for commuters, BMTC has extended the validity of monthly passes. BMTC will run 2,000 buses on major routes, besides 17 Vayu Vajra buses to Kempegowda International Airport. QR- code based system will be provided for tickets. KSRTC, which will operate 3,000 buses initially, will not run local and inter-district services in Mysuru district and Dakshina Kannada. Karnataka has allowed all shops to open and restaurants to allow dine-in at 50% occupancy from Monday, but the industry could take a week to fully open up. Shortage of labour, as many who had returned to their hometowns were yet to return posed a problem. “Since there was no guarantee on when we would be allowed to re-open, we did not get employees back. While Karnataka has eased restrictions, it may not be the case in other States,” said Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants Federation. However, smaller shops will mostly open up on Monday. Vaccination worry The other concern for businesses was vaccination for their workforce. People in the hospitality industry were considered frontline workers and nearly 50% received the first dose, industry sources said. However, that was not the case with traders and proprietors of small shops. Manu Chandra, head of Bengaluru Chapter of National Restaurants Association of India, said the present guidelines — 50% occupancy rate, the 5 p.m. deadline to close operations, weekend lockdown and ban on serving liquor for dining-in — would make things difficult for recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/public-transport-heralds-unlock-phase/article34875336.ece
21 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress in favour of Tipu statue installation||Expressing support to the move to install a statue for Tipu Sultan in Proddatur, the Congress party has flayed the Sangh Parivar outfits for spewing venom on the emperor. Addressing mediapersons here on Sunday, Congress Minority wing State vice-president Pathan Mohammad Ali Khan said the BJP and other frontal organisations of the RSS were trying to project ‘Hazrat Tipu Sultan’ in poor light and attempting to scuttle the move to install his statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-in-favour-of-tipu-statue-installation/article34875682.ece
21 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. imposes ban on cultivation of five paddy varieties in East Godavari||The State government has imposed a ban on the cultivation of five paddy varieties released by the Andhra Pradesh Rice Research Institute (APRRI) and the Regional Agriculture Research Station (RARS) in East Godavari district from the 2021-22 kharif season, citing poor demand in the market, more broken grain percentage and low cooking quality as the reasons. Located at Maruteru in West Godavari district, the APRRI and RARS of the Acharya N.G. Ranga Agriculture University have been developing several paddy varieties for the Krishna and Godavari region. The paddy variety developed by the APRRI and RARS is known as ‘MTU’. On June 18, the East Godavari District Agriculture Advisory Board (AAB) met here to communicate the decision to the farmers and other stakeholders in the presence of Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu. According to the AAB-East Godavari, the banned varieties are MTU – 3626 (Prabhat – grown in rabi season) which is widely known as ‘Bondalu’, MTU-1010 (120-day rabi crop), MTU-1001 (Vijetha-rabi), and kharif varieties of MTU-1153 and MTU-1156. Released in 1976, the MTU-3626 variety is being preferred by farmers from East Godavari district. Kerala is the only State that consumes the variety. During the last rabi season, the production of the Bondalu variety was 41 % (around 5.5 lakh MT) of the total paddy production of 12.5 lakh MTs in the district. “The five paddy varieties have been banned due to some unfavorable features pertaining to yield and market. Farmers should cooperate with the government to switch over from these five varieties to the ones with better demand in market,” said Mr. Kannababu. In the case of MTU-1153 and MTU-1156 varieties released in 2015, the high percentage of broken rice, low cooking quality, and black spots are the prime factors for the ban. Action plan “The farmers have been warned not even to prefer the Bondalu variety this kharif season to produce seeds. Until now, the marketing of Bondalu variety was in the hands of the rice millers as the variety is consumed only in Kerala,” said Agriculture Joint Director (East Godavari) N. Vijay Kumar. The AAB has banned the MC-13 variety developed by the TATA group on the grounds of ‘poor marketing’. Alternative varieties The AAB has suggested that farmers can shift to new varieties instead of the banned varieties—MTU 7029, 1064, 1061, and 1121 and BPT 5204, RGL 2537, RPBIO 226, and PLA 1100. The government has set a target to complete transplantation of paddy by June 31 and end the kharif season by November 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-paddy-varieties-banned-in-east-godavari/article34875323.ece
21 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister commissions oxygen tank facility at Kakinada GGH||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna, accompanied by Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha, commissioned a 20 kilo-litre medical oxygen tank at the Government General Hospital (GGH-Kakinada) in East Godavari district. Apex Frozen Foods Limited (AFFL) chairman Koraturi Satyanarayana Murthy has funded Rs. 52 lakh for the oxygen tank facility. With this, GGH-K is now equipped with a 50 KL-capacity oxygen storage facility. The AFFL management has also donated Rs. 14 lakh for the ventilation facility at GGH-Kakinada. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna has stated that the infrastructure facilities needed for COVID-19 treatment in the future, would be improved with assistance from the donors including industries as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The Rangaraya Medical College Alumni from North America has donated 20 oxygen concentrators to GGH-K, the Minister said. Speaking to reporters, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that a total of 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine are available at vaccination centres for the mega vaccination drive conducted across the district on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-commissions-oxygen-tank-facility-at-kakinada-ggh/article34875749.ece
21 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||53 people get notice in gold smuggling case||The Customs Department, probing the Kerala gold smuggling case, has issued show-cause notices to 53 people, including prime accused Swapna Suresh, suspended IAS officer M. Sivasankar and two former diplomats in the UAE consulate, Thiruvananthapuram, official sources said. The notices asking why action under the Customs Act should not be taken against them were issued by Customs (Preventive) Commissioner Sumit Kumar on June 16. They have been given 30 days to reply. The case against them involves smuggling of a total of 167 kg of gold 23 times, including the illegal trade of 30 kg gold worth nearly Rs. 15 crore that was seized by the Customs at the Thiruvananthapuram Airport from a diplomatic bag in July 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/53-people-get-notice-in-gold-smuggling-case/article34875322.ece
21 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramco Cements to renovate ancient temple||The Ramco Cements Limited at Kolimigundla in Kurnool district will take up the renovation of the famous 15th century Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple, built by Sri Krishnadevaraya. The company Sr.vice-president Reddy Nagarjuna in a release said that the renovation and rebuilding activities would be launched on Monday at a cost of Rs. 6 crore under its Corporate Social Responsibility(CSR). The 600-year-old temple would be strengthened structurally, without disturbing the original architectural values.Banaganapalle MLA K. Ramireddy will launch the works on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramco-cements-to-renovate-ancient-temple/article34875681.ece
21 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||VHP opposes move to erect Tipu Sultan’s statue||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) State working president Nandireddy Sai Reddysaid the VHP and the Bajrang Dal would block all activities related to setting up a statue of Tipu Sultan in Proddatur town . “Tipu Sultan had massacred Hindus ,” Mr. Sai Reddy said. Staff Reporter from Vijayawada adds: BJP Andhra Pradesh affairs co-incharge Sunil Deodhar said that the BJP would stage protests to stop the installation of the statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vhp-opposes-move-to-erect-tipu-sultans-statue/article34875732.ece
21 June 2021||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 jail staffers test positive despite inoculation||Eleven jail staffers in Kurnool district and nine in Anantapur district tested positive for COVID-19 around three weeks after taking the second dose of vaccine, officials said. All of them suffered only from mild symptoms and subsequently resumed their duties after the end of their mandatory home isolation period of two weeks, it is learnt. Anantapur District Jail Superintendent Narasimha Reddy told The Hindu that none among their staff members were affected by the pandemic during the first wave, but 10 out of their 50 personnel contracted the virus during the second wave. Thankfully, nobody suffered from any major health complications, he said. Four inmates at the COVID-designated jail at Gooty had tested positive and were shifted to hospital. They were sent to the concerned sub-jail only after testing negative, said Anantapur sub-jail in-charge Manohar Reddy. Three jail staff at the Penukonda sub-jail tested positive during the second wave after taking both doses of the vaccine. In all, 30 out of the 62 personnel manning the seven sub-jails had tested positive in both the waves. Kurnool District Jail Superintendent Pocha Varunareddy said seven out of the 30 staff members had tested positive for COVID-19 in the second wave after taking both doses of the vaccine, but all of them had mild symptoms. Dhone has been designated as the COVID-19 jail for testing and those testing positive were sent to hospitals, said sub-jails in-charge Md. Shafiur Rehman. All the jails in both the districts were planning another vaccination drive in the last week so that all the new inmates, who need the first dose of vaccine, and the small number of staff and inmates needing the second dose could complete their schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-jail-staffers-test-positive-despite-inoculation/article34875730.ece
21 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases fall below 9,500 in South Coastal A.P.||New infections and active cases continued to decline while recoveries improved in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh. As many as four patients, including three in Prakasam district, succumbed to the viral disease in the region taking the toll to 1,780 in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. Prakasam district accounted for 892 deaths and SPSR Nellore district for 888 deaths, a health bulletin released by the State government said. The number of active cases came down to 9,400 in the region. As many as 600 persons, including 213 in SPSR Nellore district, tested positive for the disease in the region taking the cumulative tally to over 2.43 lakh. As many as 745 patients, including 306 in Prakasam district, recovered on Sunday taking the overall recoveries to 2.32 lakh. Winding up the State-wide special vaccination drive in Ongole, State Principal Health Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal said the State health administration had upgraded facilities at hospitals and procured the required medicines as part of the preparations to tackle a possible third wave. ‘Health infra strengthened’ The hospital infrastructure in the State had been strengthened further by spending Rs. 300 crore, he added. In Prakasam district, more than 91,000 people were vaccinated on Sunday, said District Medical and Health Officer J. Ratnavalli. In SPSR Nellore district, health staff vaccinated over over 77,000 people till late in the evening, DMHO S.Rajyalakshmi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-fall-below-9500-in-south-coastal-ap/article34875684.ece
21 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||96.69 lakh persons in State got the first dose so far, says Singhal||Andhra Pradesh has set a record by vaccinating over 11.85 lakh people on a single day on Sunday, overcoming whatever “little bit of vaccine hesitancy” among people, said State Principal Secretary, Health, Anil Kumar Singhal. Concluding the vaccination drive at a State-run elementary school at Ramnagar here on Sunday evening along with Ongole MP Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy, Mr. Anil Kumar Singhal said a target of vaccinating 10 lakh people in a day was set by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to prove to everyone the State’s capability to protect its people from the disease. Six lakh people were vaccinated on a day on an earlier occasion. Thanks to the combined efforts of the staff and support from people representatives, as many as 11,85,653 people were vaccinated across the State till 5 p.m. on Sunday, he told mediapersons here. The State had a capacity to vaccinate about one crore people in a month, he said, going by the overwhelming response to the special drive today. The State has vaccinated 96.69 lakh persons with the first dose, with 85% of the targeted age groups already covered. A meticulous planning had gone into the conduct of the drive that covered, among others, mothers of children aged between 0 and 5 and 45-plus people, he explained. “The whole exercise has been carried out in a fool-proof manner,” he added and patted the staff, including ASHAs, ANMs and volunteers up to the grassroots level, for motivating the people and toiling from dawn to dusk while administering the vaccine. In Tirupati In Tiruapti, Mr. Anil Kumar Singhal visited a couple of urban health centres along with district Collector M. Hari Narayanan and MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha. Though the number of cases witnessed a slide, the government stepped up oxygen-supported beds and ICU facilities across the State, he said. Liquid oxygen as well as oxygen concentrators are made available as immediate alternatives. “Tenders have been called for establishing oxygen plants in 100-bed hospitals at an outlay of Rs. 350 crore,” he added. Quoting AIIMS authorities, he said the ‘unwelcome’ third wave would not be as dangerous to children as was being projected. “We have formed State-level committees, including senior practitioners and experts drawn from the field of paediatrics, to observe and handle the situation.” Mr. Hari Narayanan said the district was all set to achieve the day’s target of vaccinating 1.05 lakh persons, with the constituency-level nodal officers, medical, revenue and Panchayat staff working on campaign mode. Mr. Gireesha said the drive was stepped in 34 places across the city to cover 6,000 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9669-lakh-persons-in-state-got-the-first-dose-so-far-says-singhal/article34875688.ece
21 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||As Bengal gram prices fall, farmers turn to govt. for help||Like every year, farmers in the drought-prone district cultivated Bengal gram, an alternative to tobacco, in over 2.25 lakh acres during the rabi in November-December, unmindful of the disaster that was awaiting them. When the second wave of the pandemic struck, the prices of both JJ11 and KAK2 varieties fell by 10 to 15% leaving the farmers in a fix. A few of them, especially tenant farmers, who sold their produce at the time of harvest itself(March-April) were fortunate as the price of JJ11 variety ruled close to the minimum support price of Rs. 5,100 per quintal in the market. The others who did not sell the produce then are ruing their fates as the transactions have come to negligible levels now, said All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district Convenor Chunduri Ranga Rao. Only those are parting with their produce who have no other option but to liquidate the stocks, he said. Now, the price has come down to Rs. 4,500 per quintal while the price of KAK2 dropped to Rs. 800 from the pre-COVID second wave price of Rs. 6,000 per quintal, laments a group of farmers in Inkollu village. While on one hand those who have put the stocks in cold storage units are a worried lot due to the fall in prices, on the other, owners of the storage units are keeping their fingers crossed as some of them had not lifted the stocks idling for 3 years. Untimely rains Untimely rains had also played a spoilsport, which led to the decrease in productivity by about 1 to two quintal, complained a farmer K.Koteswara Rao, who has grown the protein-rich crop in 10 acres. Now that the partial curfew is all set for further relaxation from Monday, the farmers are hoping for the State government to intervene in the market without any loss of time to liquidate the over-11 lakh quintal stock in the district. The State government should ensure at least Rs. 7,000 per quintal to get some decent returns as per the formula evolved by noted Agriculture Scientist M.S.Swaminathan, said Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam District Secretary P.Hanumantha Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/as-bengal-gram-prices-fall-farmers-turn-to-govt-for-help/article34875686.ece
21 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP pledges support for boy orphaned by COVID||Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat has pledged his support for the education of a 12-year-old boy who lost five of his family members, including both his parents, to COVID-19. The boy, Medicharla Sai Satya Saharsa, lost his parents M. Sudheer and Sweta Haritha, as well as both his maternal grandparents and paternal grandfather. Sai Satya is now in the care of his paternal uncle. Mr. Bharat paid the boy a visit after learning about his situation. The boy is a student of Class VII at a private school in Rajamahendravaram city. “The boy will be given financial aid of Rs. 10 lakh as per the existing guidelines. I have assured him of the necessary support to pursue further studies by enrolling him in Kendriya Vidhyala. I have also committed to extending my support in building his career and helping him pursue higher studies,” said Mr. Bharat. If the boy wishes, he would be offered a seat at Kendriya Vidyalaya in the ongoing academic year, Mr. Bharat added. The MP alleged that city-based Subhadra Hospital has charged Rs. 28 lakh for the medical treatment of the boy’s family for COVID-19. “The management of the hospital had collected Rs. 28 lakh towards medical fees without any bill or payment history. I will appeal to the Health Minister and Collector to investigate the case and compensate the family,” Mr. Bharat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-pledges-support-for-boy-orphaned-by-covid/article34875747.ece
21 June 2021||SIDDIPET,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bangaru Telangana will be a reality’||Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday said the government was on a mission to transform the State for the better and Bangaru Telangana would be a reality which no one could stop. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the MLA camp office, Police Commissionerate and Collectorate at Duddeda on the outskirts of the district headquarters town, Mr. Rao said Siddipet would have a great future as it was centrally located in the State and announced establishment of veterinary colleges in the district and in Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal — on four sides of Telangana. “One needs vaksuddhi, chittasuddhi and lakshyasuddhi [sincerity in speech, thought and work] and I am going ahead without bothering about critics. Siddipet has given unstinted support to the first and second agitations for Telangana. We faced several problems for water and Telangana was carved out only for that,” said Mr. Rao. 24X7 power supply “We have focused on round-the-clock power and are happy that three crore tonnes of paddy was produced when Punjab has produced 2.2 crore tonnes. Over 91 lakh tonnes were sold to the Food Corporation of India. As 26 lakh tonnes of fertilizers are being used by farmers, the godown capacity was increased from 4 lakh tonnes to 25 lakh tonnes by Harish Rao. There will be no power or water problem in Telangana. As many as 2,601 Rythu Vedikas were constructed for farmers,” said Mr. Rao.  Farmers of Chinnagundavelli and Bandacharalappy were taken into preventive custody when they protested against digging of Mallannasagar canals through their lands. Villagers of Kuknoorpally staged a dharna on Rajiv Rahadari demanding that their village be declared a mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bangaru-telangana-will-be-a-reality/article34875328.ece
21 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala CPI(M) leaders take on KPCC president||Starkly different accounts of the outcome of a campus brawl between Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran at Brennan College in 1967 provoked a fresh round of sniping between the ruling front and Opposition on Sunday. The economic devastation and public health crisis precipitated by the COVID-19 pandemic appeared to take a back-seat, as the Congress and CPI(M) politicians took potshots at each other on live television. The rhetoric on both sides seemed accusatory, combative and often bordered on the personal. In his official FB page, Mr. Sudhakaran said his foray against Mr. Vijayan was personal. “I have learned to subdue political criminals personally,” he said. Mr. Sudhakaran said he was answering to criticism that he had targetted Mr. Vijayan personally. He also attempted to link Mr. Vijayan to the communal riots in Thalassery in 1971 and the political killing of Revolutionary Marxist Party leader T.P. Chandrasekharan in 2012. He said senior CPI(M) leaders such as V.S. Achuthanandan, K.K. Shailaja and M.A. Baby were victims of Mr. Vijayan’s authoritarianism. The CPI(M) has pulled Mr. Vijayan out of the fray. It does not want to magnify Mr. Sudhakaran as Mr. Vijayan’s political equal and formidable adversary in the Congress. So the party has delegated the task of fending off Mr. Sudhakaran to other leaders. Balan’s charge Former Minister A.K. Balan accused Mr. Sudhakaran of laying the ground for political violence. The CPI(M) had laid the matter to rest. However, Mr. Sudhakaran had reverted to his old ways. His words echoed that of the BJP, which had threatened to jail Mr. Vijayan’s children and attack him at home. CPI(M) leader P. Jayarajan said Mr. Sudhakaran would only threaten and bluster. He lacked the courage to act. Another CPI(M) leader M.M. Mani said Mr. Sudhakaran had attempted to revive the moribund Congress by picking on Mr. Vijayan. Campus fight Mr. Sudhakaran had opened a Pandora’s box of political slighting last week by claiming that he had trounced Mr. Vijayan in a campus fight. The Chief Minister countered by suggesting he was the victor. He accused Mr. Sudhakaran of plotting to kidnap his children in the 1990s, conspiring to murder CPI(M) leaders and profiting hugely from crime.  Rhetoric on both sides seemed accusatory, combative and often bordered on the personal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-cpim-leaders-take-on-kpcc-president/article34875325.ece
21 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Filmmakers see ‘super censor’ in draft Cinematograph Bill||The draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill 2021 put out by the Union government on Friday, seeking public comments, has kicked up a storm with filmmakers criticising a provision which allows the government to order re-certification for a film already certified by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). The new provision is now being seen as a ‘super censor’, adding one more layer of censorship to the process. Coming two months after the government decided to dissolve the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT), a body which used to hear appeals of filmmakers aggrieved by the CBFC orders, the move could be a further curb on freedom of expression, say filmmakers. ‘Why so insecure?’ “The dissolving of the appellate tribunal itself was an undemocratic decision, taken without any consultation. Even now, the filmmakers have not much say in the certification process, with the censor officers implementing the will of the government. The Supreme Court had earlier said that the government has no right to demand re-censorship of a film already censored. Why are they so insecure as to bring back something the court has said no to,” filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan told The Hindu.  Says filmmaker Kamal: “In this era of social media and OTT platforms, this old censorship regime brought in during the British era, is itself outdated. The appellate tribunal was a relief to filmmakers... These latest moves point towards an attempt to ensure that no films criticising the reigning ideology are released. Now, any individual can object to a film, and the government can order re-censoring.” With the implementation of the new rules, films could be held up longer without scope for release, based on random objections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/filmmakers-see-super-censor-in-draft-cinematograph-bill/article34875329.ece
21 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bars to shut shop indefinitely from today||Bar hotels, and beer and wine parlours in the State will down shutters for an indefinite period from Monday to protest against the "arbitrary decision" of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) to steeply hike its wholesale profit margin from 8% to 25%. Bar owners association representative Biju Ramesh said the Corporation's offhand decision had further disadvantaged the hospitality sector already laid low by successive COVID-19 lockdowns. Higher than MRP rate The government has allowed bars to sell liquor as a takeaway at an MRP rate from June 17. However, the purchase rate of alcohol for bars was higher than the MRP. Hence, bars have to sell liquor at loss or risk prosecution under the packaged commodity rules. “The bar purchase rate of the lowest priced rum is around Rs. 611 for a one-litre bottle. However, its MRP is fixed at Rs. 600,” he said. Ordinary buyer hit Another bar owner said Bevco buys the rum for Rs. 53.3 a litre. “It sells the liquor to bars at a wholesale price of Rs. 600, including tax and profit. It is the ordinary buyer who picks up the unjustifiably high tab for cheap liquor finally,” he said. The government had earlier included 28% of the Bevco profit margin in excise duty to avoid huge I-T payments. It had charged a token 8% as wholesale margin. Now, the Corporation has hiked the margin by 17% without consulting stakeholders. The difference between the price on the MRP label and that charged by bars had resulted in quarrels between sellers and customers. The Excise Department has now mandated that bars display the stock and price list prominently near sales counters. Officials said Bevco decision was aimed at driving business to State-run outlets to replenish the public coffers. It had earlier argued against bars to reopen at the current stage of the pandemic. However, Excise Minister M.V. Govindan had shot down the proposal to prevent buyers from swamping liquor outlets and allow the hotel sector to open up cautiously. The closure of bars would also throw hundreds of persons out of work. Unemployment issue Hotels had recalled cashiers and counter staff who were out of work and on unemployment dole for long. It could also cause long queues in front of liquor outlets. Kerala has 730 odd bar hotels.  Bevco decision is aimed at driving business to State-run outlets to replenish the public coffers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bars-to-shut-shop-indefinitely-from-today/article34875326.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||50% of inmates in prisons vaccinated against COVID-19||Half of the inmates in various prisons in the State have been administered COVID-19 vaccines, Mohammad Ahsan Reza, Inspector-General of Police (Prisons and Correctional Services), Andhra Pradesh, has said. The jails are not overcrowded and the inmates are well within the stipulated number to ensure physical distancing, he says. As many as 79 jails including the central prisons, district jails and sub-jails in the State has 7,336 inmates including 6,940 males and 396 females when compared to the authorised accommodation for 8,732 prisoners (7,815 males and 917 females). Less fatalities “We have vaccinated 3,434 inmates with the first dose and eight with second dose. Similarly, 1,589 jail staff have got the first dose of the vaccine while 1,078 have got the second dose,” says Mr. Ahsan Reza. Compared to other States, the number of prisoners who succumbed to COVID-19 during the second wave is negligible. During the first wave, only one inmate died while 1,954 prisoners recovered from the infection. “As many as 493 inmates have contracted the infection during the second wave, of which two died while 420 have recovered. At present, 71 inmates are undergoing treatment,” adds Deputy Inspector-General (Prisons) M. Varaprasad, Kadapa. However, four jail staff members died during the during the first wave while five staff have succumbed to the infection during the second wave. “We are ahead of our target and all set to complete the vaccination drive within the stipulated time,” Mr. Varaprasad points out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-of-inmates-in-prisons-vaccinated-against-covid-19/article34875733.ece
21 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIIT Sri City launches M.Tech in AI, cyber security||In a significant move, the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT Sri City) has launched the much-awaited M.Tech programmes in artificial intelligence & machine learning and cyber security. The courses assume significance in the wake of a dedicated AI plan suggested by Niti Ayog, in response to the widespread discussion initiated by the Union government on the role of AI in India. “The two-year M.Tech aims to bridge the requirement gaps and meet the urgent needs of the industry, besides producing high-end AI scientists and engineers for the society,” explains IIIT-S Director G. Kannabiran. Similarly, M.Tech cyber security is another prospective job-getter course, with financial organisations like banks and insurance companies spending around 10% of their annual IT budget on it. Projects The selected students would also undergo projects in industry and research organisations for a two-semester period, Mr. Kannabiran added. GATE qualified candidates can apply on CCMT 2021 portal at http://www.ccmt.nic.in. Non-GATE candidates will have to undergo a process comprising a written test, coding test and interview. Details at www.iiits.ac.in or mtech.admissions@iiits.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iiit-sri-city-launches-mtech-in-ai-cyber-security/article34875689.ece
21 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More A.P. buses, Telangana services to run from today||With the government deciding to further relax the curfew hours from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., the AP State Road Transport Corporation is all geared up to press into operation additional number of buses from Monday (June 21). The public transport giant, which had operated 2,500 buses till June 10 in view of the partial lockdown, increased the number of buses in operation to 4,000. “Due to further relaxation of the curfew, we intend to mount the number of buses in operation to 7,000,” said K. Brahmanandam, Executive Director (Operations). The RTC opened its advance ticket reservation counters at the Pandit Nehru Bus Station a couple of days ago to enable people to book their tickets. The Telangana State RTC, meanwhile, has also announced its decision to operate buses to Andhra Pradesh from Monday during the curfew relaxation hours. The authorities have, however, made it clear that non-compliance with the COVID-19 protocol will not be tolerated either on the premises of the bus stations or inside the bus. Only people wearing masks will be allowed to board the buses and use of sanitisers will also be mandatory. With a large fleet of buses remaining confined to the depots due to the lockdown, the authorities have come up with an innovative plan to shore up the organisation’s revenues by converting old Palle Velugu and a few other category buses into cargo vehicles. Focus on cargo sector Realising the potential of cargo services, a plan has been drawn to convert 78 passenger service buses into cargo vehicles and utilise them for logistics. Thirty buses have already been redesigned to suit the needs of the cargo services by removing the seats and creating space for loading cargo. Seeking support of the various departments, the APSRTC authorities have tossed the idea of pressing these cargo vehicles into service to supply stocks of books to schools for the Department of Education, rice and essential commodities for the Civil Supplies wing and seeds and other farm products for the Agriculture Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-ap-buses-telangana-services-to-run-from-today/article34875736.ece
21 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister for scaling up energy efficiency steps||Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has emphasised the need to scale up energy efficiency (EE) programmes for providing quality power at affordable rates to consumers. In a stakeholder consultation held by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) with the State Designated Agencies (SDAs) for EE programmes on Sunday, Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said Andhra Pradesh was the only State that ordered all government departments to set up energy conservation cells, and made the Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC) mandatory for commercial buildings. He asserted that the government had come forward to support BEE in expanding the EE programmes in tune with the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) goals . While appreciating the lead taken by A.P. in implementing EE programmes, BEE Director General Abhay Bakre said the Centre laid emphasis on economic development and environment. Accordingly, it was adopting a climate-friendly path to achieving cleaner economic development. The BEE estimated that EE activities would result in a reduction of 557 MT of CO2 emissions per annum by 2030.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-for-scaling-up-energy-efficiency-steps/article34875739.ece
21 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lawyers’ union seeks rollback of IT Rules||The All India Lawyers’ Union (AILU) demanded the withdrawal of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines & Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, terming it an undemocratic legislation that facilitates absolute surveillance, censorship and digital authoritarianism, violates privacy, personal liberty, freedom of expression and other fundamental rights of the users and scuttles the voices of dissent. AILU national vice-president S. Rajendra Prasad said that the Centre promulgated the rules despite objections by various civil society organisations, political parties and NGOs. They alleged that an analysis of the rules illustrates a hidden agendato suppress peaceful expression of democratic dissent, with the support of social media intermediaries. He said Rule 4 (2) – user and information traceability - empowers the government to act on social media intermediaries and break down the end-to-end encryption to trace the ‘first originators’. , in violation of the right to privacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lawyers-union-seeks-rollback-of-it-rules/article34875740.ece
21 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl ‘sexually abused’ on Krishna river bank||A girl who came to the Krishna river bank along with her boyfriend for an outing was allegedly sexually abused by some youth on Saturday night. The victim lodged a complaint with the police on Sunday. According to the police, the accused attacked the couple and tied the hands and legs of her boyfriend before assaulting her. Police suspect that some local vagabonds or blade batch gang (miscreants who attack people with blades and resort to chain snatching and robberies) might have committed the crime. The Tadepalli police registered a case and sent the girl to Guntur Government General Hospital for medical examination. Three special teams had been constituted to trace the accused, the police said. ‘Condition stable’ Guntur Urban SP Arif Hafeez is monitoring the investigation of the case. The health condition of the victim is stable. “Clues teams visited the place on the river bund and collected evidence. We have definite clues in the case and a few suspects are being questioned,” Mr. Hafeez said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-sexually-abused-on-krishna-river-bank/article34875677.ece
21 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Academy to offer free IAS coaching||Takshashila IAS Academy in city will offer free Intermediate-plus-IAS and Degree-plus-IAS coaching to meritorious students in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. At a press conference, the Academy’s founder Director B.S.N. Durga Prasad and Academic Director N. Nageswara Rao said an entrance test would be conducted in online mode from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. on June 26. Students who completed class X are eligible for Inter-plus IAS six-year integrated course and those who are completing Intermediate, are eligible for a 4-year integrated Degree-plus-IAS course. Students who want to appear for the test will have to pay a registration fee of Rs. 100 and enrol their names on the website www.takshasila ias.com on or before June 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/academy-to-offer-free-ias-coaching/article34875690.ece
21 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||False case foisted on Dalit youth, alleges Naidu||Alleging that a false case was registered against Karakata Mallikarjun, a dalit youth from Kammapalem village in Nellore district, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang to lift the case. In a letter to the DGP on Sunday, Mr. Naidu stressed the need for taking action against the police officials who were responsible for the ‘harassment’ of the youth. “The innocent youths from the weaker sections are becoming victims of lawlessness of the YSRCP leaders. The police have opened a rowdy sheet against Mallikarjun without valid proof,” the TDP president alleged. Mr. Naidu, who enclosed a video pertaining to the alleged attack on Mallikarjun with the letter, claimed that the youth was stopped en route to Nellore and attacked by the YSRCP’s henchmen. When Mallikarjun tried to run away, four goons chased and attacked him, Mr. Naidu alleged. Mr. Naidu further said that later the same day, Mallikarjun was arrested by the Kodavalur police and a false case was registered against him. However, he was released on the same day by station bail after many people protested against the highhandedness by the police. Inquiry sought “Mallikarjun had been raising issues pertaining to illegal digging of Paideru drain and transportation of soil by YSRCP leaders. It appears that goons at the instance of the YSRCP leaders attacked Mallikarjun to deter him from opposing their unlawful activities,” said the TDP president. Mr.Naidu appealed to the DGP to take action against the culprits and lift the false cases filed against Mallikarjun. “An inquiry needs to be carried out against the Kodavalur police that attempted to falsely implicate Mallikarjun,” said Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/false-case-foisted-on-dalit-youth-alleges-naidu/article34875734.ece
21 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees’ JAC thanks Jagan||The Andhra Pradesh All Outsourcing Employees’ JAC thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for exempting the posts meant for outsourcing employees in all departments from the job calendar released on June 18. JAC chairman R. Dayakar and secretary general Shaik Baji stated in a press release that the employees were grateful to the Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy for establishing a corporation for outsourced employees and ensuring timely payment of salaries and EPF and ESI benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employees-jac-thanks-jagan/article34875738.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 1.10 lakh people vaccinated in special drive in Visakhapatnam||The special vaccination drive, initiated by the State government to tackle COVID-19, received good response from in the city on Sunday. A total of 1,10,147 people were given the jab at the ward secretariats as part of the drive. People above 45 years of age and women with children below five years of age were vaccinated in the drive. The drive kick-started at 7 a.m. at all the 572 ward secretariats. Doctors, nurses, Health Department officials, ASHA workers, ANMs, ward volunteers and other staff from the ward secretariats coordinated in conduct of the drive. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari inspected the drive at Ward Nos. 11 and 13 at Arilova area. After receiving orders about the drive on Friday, District Collector V. Vinay Chand organised a meet with the officials and directed them to take up the programme. District Immunisation Officer Jeevan Rani said that 578 health officers, 578 vaccinators, as many as 2,890 other health staff and 611 ASHA workers took part in the drive. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao inspected the drive at ward secretariats in Allipuram (Ward No. 32), Priyadarshini Colony (Ward No. 35) and the City Operations Centre (COO). GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana took to social media to congratulate officials for the smooth and successful conduct of the drive. She said that the GVMC aimed at one lakh vaccinations and the team exceeded the target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-110-lakh-people-vaccinated-in-special-drive-in-visakhapatnam/article34875756.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP condemns Vijaya Sai’s remarks against Ashok||The forefathers of Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju have contributed immensely to the cause of education and the people of north Andhra region, and mudslinging on him will not be tolerated by the local people, TDP Parliamentary district president Palla Srinivasa Rao has said. Rajya Sabha Member and YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has accused Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju of indulging in ‘forgery’ and had stated that his arrest was inevitable. The YSRCP general secretary has no knowledge of the Vizianagaram samsthanam and their generosity and should know the history of the ‘great family’ before indulging in ‘baseless allegations’, Mr. Srinivasa Rao told the media here on Sunday. He alleged that the Pragathi Bharati Trust had taken money from industries while the MANSAS Trust had spent the money, belonging to the Pusapati family, for the welfare of people. Mr. Srinivasa Rao challenged Mr. Reddy to take an oath at Simhachalam temple, if the charge was not true. Replying to queries, the TDP leader said that all those who have grabbed lands were liable for action. However, officials have to follow the rules before initiating any action on the violators. He said that he had filed a case in the court against the GVMC, police and the revenue officials with regard to their action on his property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-condemns-vijaya-sais-remarks-against-ashok/article34875750.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district sees 2 deaths, 176 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 176 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning. This takes the cumulative tally to 1,47,367. Two more persons succumbed to the coronavirus taking the toll to 1,007. This is said to be the lowest COVID-19 day-tally since the first week of April. According to the State bulletin, the district recorded the third least day-tally in the last 24 hours after Kurnool (127) and Vizianagaram (155) districts. As many as 502 persons undergoing treatment for the COVID-19 recovered. According to the update released by COVID-19 Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar, the number of active cases has come below the 4,000-mark and stands at 3,915. The number of discharges has increased to 1,42,445.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-sees-2-deaths-176-new-covid-cases/article34875759.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppose property tax hike proposal, corporators urged||CPI(M) leader and 78th Ward Corporator B Ganga Rao has written to all the corporators of the GVMC to seek a discussion over the proposed hike in property tax in the second GVMC Council meet scheduled to be held on June 23. In a letter on Sunday, he said that the GVMC has released a draft notification regarding thehike on June 3 without the consent of the council members and it was totally undemocratic. He sought that the council should demand cancellation of the notification. He added that the proposal to levy tax as per the market value would impose a huge burden on people. He alleged that the GVMC has included several proposals made by YSRCP leader K.K. Raju, who is not an elected representative and added that it was against guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppose-property-tax-hike-proposal-corporators-urged/article34875760.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||False campaign launched against steel plant: CITU||The relay hunger strike being organised by the various trade unions and people’s organisations, opposing the Centre’s decision to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), continued for the 80th day at the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC, here on Sunday. Addressing the participants, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Pedagantyada Zone general secretary K. Appala Raju said that the sacrifice of the displaced persons, who gave their lands for the establishment of the VSP, would not be allowed to go waste. He recalled that people of 64 villages had given their lands with the hope that they and their family members would get employment in the VSP. Mr. Appala Raju alleged that a false campaign was launched against the VSP and it was being countered by the employees. He said that the VSP was presently earning profits and was supplying oxygen to various States, including Maharashtra. He wondered as to why the POSCO Steel Company in Maharashtra had failed to supply the oxygen needed for patients in that State. . Mr. Appala Raju said that though the VSP was not allotted captive mines by the Centre, it was still getting some profits. It would have made huge profits, if captive mines were allotted to it, he added. CITU leaders Ch. Ramudu, G. Simhachalam and Anand were among those who participated. Meanwhile, the relay hunger strike being organised by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee at Kurmannapalem, in the industrial area of the city, continued for the 129th day on Sunday. Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) union general secretary G. Ganapathi Reddy demanded that the Centre revoke its decision on the steel plant. Union president Dommeti Appa Rao demanded that the VSP management extend support to the kin of the workers, who died due to COVID-19. Porata Committee chairman D. Adinarayana spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/false-campaign-launched-against-steel-plant-citu/article34875752.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in accident||A 40-year-old man died in a road accident at Munchingput in the agency area of the district on Sunday. According to sources, M. Uday Kumar, who was going on his motorcycle collided with another person, who was also coming on his two-wheeler, near Munchingputtu. It was learnt that Uday Kumar was working at the Tahsildar office at Munchingputtu. The other motorist, who received injuries, was shifted to Paderu Area hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-in-accident/article34875761.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Some trains cancelled for safety works||The railways have cancelled some trains in view of safety related modernisation works being undertaken between Tuni-Gullipadu stations. The trains cancelled are: 02717 Visakhapatnam-Vijayawada special and 02718 Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam special trains on June 28, 29 and July 5 and 6. Train no. 07239 Guntur-Visakhapatnam special, leaving Guntur on June 27, 28 and 29 and July 4, 5 and 6. In return direction, 07240 Visakhapatnam-Guntur special, leaving Vizag on June 28, 29 and 30 and July 5, 6 and 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/some-trains-cancelled-for-safety-works/article34875751.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wheelchairs donated||Rotary Club Vizag Couples(RCVC) donated two wheelchairs to needy physically challenged children – Santosh and Chandani – who lost their parents to COVID-19. RCVC president Reddy and secretary Pavan thanked the Rotary District Governor for sponsoring two wheelchairs. RCVC past president Rotarian K.R.B. Prakash donated 91 grocery packets worth Rs. 1 lakh in memory of his father Kancharla Ramachandra Rao, on his 91st birth anniversary, for distribution to the physically challenged children of Prajwal Vani Welfare Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wheelchairs-donated/article34875753.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag zoo to organise virtual summer camp from June 28 to July 24||A virtual summer camp – 2021 will be organised by the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) for the students aged from 12 to 18 years from June 28 to July 4. Students will have two hours of classes every day . Interested students should fill applications available on website (www.vizagzoo.com). The last date to fill the application is June 25. Every participant will get an e-certificate, special souvenir kit and one free visit to zoo after the zoo opens. For details, contact 0891 2552081 or 94411 30894 during office hours or visit the zoo website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-zoo-to-organise-virtual-summer-camp-from-june-28-to-july-24/article34875754.ece
21 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to organise seminar on June 24, 25||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, will conduct a two-day seminar on ‘Dynamic Approaches to Strengthen Immunity – Traditional and Modern Methods’ on June 24 and 25 on the occasion of International Yoga Day. Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy released the poster on the programme along with O.S.R.U. Bhanu Kumar and K. Ramesh Babu of the Yoga Village on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-to-organise-seminar-on-june-24-25/article34875757.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees 5,646 new COVID cases||As of Sunday, there were 63,068 active cases in the State. The daily positivity rate of the 1,00,001 samples tested was 5.65% and the overall positivity rate of 2.11 crore samples was 8.75%. District-wise toll Chittoor reported 11 deaths while all other districts reported deaths in a single digit in 24 hours. West Godavari reported seven deaths, Guntur six, East Godavari five, Srikakulam four, Anantapur, Kadapa, Krishna and Prakasam three each and Kurnool and Visakhapatnam two each. Nellore district reported one death while Vizianagaram reported zero deaths. East Godavari reported 1,098 new infections, the highest among the districts. It was followed by Chittoor (890), West Godavari (761), Krishna (441), Srikakulam (396), Prakasam (387), Anantapur (386), Guntur (309), Kadapa (307), Nellore (213), Visakhapatnam (176), Vizianagaram (155) and Kurnool (127). Cumulative count The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,55,351), Chittoor (2,14,188), Guntur (1,59,662), West Godavari (1,56,676), Anantapur (1,52,033), Visakhapatnam (1,46,855), Nellore (1,25,159), Kurnool (1,20,819), Prakasam (1,18,119), Srikakulam (1,16,807), Kadapa (1,04,282), Krishna (98,484) and Vizianagaram (79,233).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-5646-new-covid-cases/article34875744.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Healthy moves||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/healthy-moves/article34875742.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tranquil waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tranquil-waters/article34875332.ece
21 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SCCL to focus on developing parks||To create more green spaces in Kothagudem, the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has embarked on an exercise to demolish some dilapidated staff quarters at Burma camp in the coal town to develop “Prakruthi Vanams” (parks) in these sites. The move is intended to promote greenery, protect environment and beautify the coal town, SCCL sources said. As part of this green drive, the SCCL has drawn up a plan to develop Prakruthi Vanams in the company’s corporate area in a big way to increase greenery and maintain ecological balance in the coal town. The coal mining PSU is vigorously implementing solar energy initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-to-focus-on-developing-parks/article34875580.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Foot over-bridges in city to take longer||Enormous delay plagues the construction of pedestrian facilities such as foot over-bridges (FOBs) in the city, first due to lack of response for tender invitations, and later for delays in utility shifting and other issues pertaining to right of way. The number of FOBs have been trimmed from the earlier 52 which were to be taken up simultaneously by various departments including GHMC and HMDA. Though orders were issued by the government for construction of all the 52, only 36 of them have been taken up in the first phase, at an estimated cost of close to Rs. 120 crore. More than a year after the FOBs were finalised, they are yet to take shape fully. Only half the number have been grounded, officials inform. However, the structures will be fast-tracked henceforth, as the hindrances have been cleared, they assure. Utility shifting has been the major roadblock for construction of the FOBs at several places. Overhead electrical lines, underground cables and drinking water pipelines had to be removed before the work could be started. Objections raised “Besides, several shop owners are raising objections for the construction, as it would distort their shop facades. They are approaching courts and obtaining stay orders,” an official shared. As far as utilities are concerned, the hindrances have been cleared and several of the FOBs could take off in near future, he said. However, FOBs proposed with escalator facility will have to wait further to be fully equipped. “The escalators will have to arrive from Pune, and due to lockdown, it has been delayed. They will be constructed nevertheless, with the scope of installing the escalators at later date. All the FOBs will have elevators,” the official informed. As per the proposal, maximum number of flyovers, 10 each have been planned in LB Nagar Zone, and Serilingampally Zone, which are seeing a lot of development and traffic issues in the city. Five each are to come up in Secunderabad and Charminar zones, four in Khairatabad, and two in Kukatpally zones. Four agencies have been chosen for the project through tenders. From June/July up to October/November this year, GHMC aims to complete construction of 23 FOBs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/foot-over-bridges-in-city-to-take-longer/article34875555.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCB looks to FSI relaxation for cellars, stilt parking and stairs||With a new Director General of Defence Estates, Prachur Goel taking charge in Delhi, there is renewed hope among denizens of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) to get the long pending building bylaws modified to make constructions a wee bit easier. The issue is about including cellars, stilt parking/basements and stairs when calculating the Floor Space Index (FSI). Secunderabad Cantonment Board, spread out in 41 sq.kms with above 300 housing colonies had an FSI of 0.5 for outside civilian areas and ‘1’ for within civilian area. With the private and State government lands within Cantonment being to an extent of about 3,000 acres out of the total 10,000-odd acres and since, it is surrounded by fast growing areas of Malkajgiri, Marredpally, Alwal, Kukatpally, Kapra and others. FSI for areas outside notified civilian areas was raised from 0.5 to 1.5 in 2003, exclusively for SCB, senior officials said. It was made applicable for private housing colonies and the official directive was those already built within the FSI 1.5 can be regularised by paying a composite fee and those violating, should be demolished. Initially, stilt parking and basement was excluded in FSI and later, the permissions were not given to build them! Following representations from elected representatives and others, the defence estate authorities issued orders directing these be calculated within FSI. “This led to several deviations from the sanctioned building plans as the built-up space became less. It put citizens at the mercy of members and engineers concerned. Ever since, we have been lobbying to leave out cellars, stilt parking and stairs outside FSI as it is not the norm in either the National Building Code or part of the model building bylaws. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) had done away with FSI with height of the building calculated on plot size and abutting road width,” explained former SCB vice-president J. Pratap  Mr. Pratap, now lobbying for the single civilian member post in the proposed three-member ‘Varied Board’ after the elected body tenure ended earlier this year, had met the DG and presented a memorandum few days ago on the issue. “The DG had worked here before and is familiar with the “unique” situation in Secunderabad Cantonment, so we are confident of the relaxation orders,” he added. Official resolution Bolstering his plea is an official resolution passed in SCB in 2013 urging the defence estate authorities to exclude stilt floors, cellar/basement, staircases from FSI. Plus, the Delhi Cantonment had also given exemption of common areas like cellar, basement, staircase, lift room, AC unit, pump house and so on from FSI calculation.  The DG had worked here before and is familiar with the “unique” situation in Secunderabad Cantonment, so we are confident of the relaxation orders. J. Pratap, SCB vice-president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scb-looks-to-fsi-relaxation-for-cellars-stilt-parking-and-stairs/article34875553.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily COVID tally down to 1K as tests come down by 35K||New coronavirus cases came down by over 350 and tests by about 35,000 on Sunday from the previous day, as 1,006 new cases and 11 deaths were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Sunday. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department, a total of 87,854 tests were conducted during the day, from over 1.23 lakh the previous day. Reports of 1,319 samples were awaited. The cumulative total of positive cases reached 6,13,202 and death toll went up to 3,567 as of Sunday evening. The case fatality rate is 0.58% in the State as against 1.3% at national level. Another 1,798 infected persons were declared recovered during the day taking their total to 5,91,870 so far. The recovery rate was 96.52% in the State against 96.27% at national level. Active cases in the State stood at 17,765, including 6,599 undergoing treatment in various hospitals and the remaining staying in home and institutional isolation. With the total daily positive cases coming down to only around 1,000, only GHMC region reported cases in three digits (141). In another 24 districts, the cases reported were in double-digit numbers with a highest of 88 reported in Khammam district. In six districts, the cases reported were in single-digit numbers with a lowest of three in Kumram Bheem-Asifabad district. No cases were reported in Adilabad and Nirmal district, for the first time after a gap of over two months. Meanwhile, 1,94,530 doses of vaccines were administered to different categories of recipients till 9 p.m. of Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-covid-tally-down-to-1k-as-tests-come-down-by-35k/article34875557.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR to blame for Krishna water distribution mess: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday held Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao responsible for Telangana being denied the right share of Krishna water by not withdrawing the case pending in the Supreme Court for the last six years because of which Centre could not refer the matter to the tribunal, otherwise there was a chance of getting 650 TMC out of the 1,005 TMC of water. “Mr. Rao failed people of Telangana by not withdrawing the case when it was suggested by Union Minister Gejandra Shekhawat in the Apex Council meeting in October last year. He wasted another eight months on this. This kind of indecisiveness costed us and the legitimate interest of the people got sabotaged by his ‘Tuglak’ behaviour,” said party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar. Thanking Mr. Shekhawat for agreeing to seek legal opinion to refer the matter to the tribunal, he said the party has faith in the Centre and that it would certainly consider the matter and do justice to the people of Telangana. The Brijesh Kumar Tribunal has given its award in 2011 by giving 1,005 TMC to the combined State of Andhra Pradesh but this was not published as the matter is pending in the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, the State was formed in 2014 and the KCR government filed a case in the Supreme Court in 2015 asking that a new tribunal be formed to do water allocation to all four States of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and AP. Ever since the matter is still pending in the SC. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said the Chief Minister has been blaming the Centre all these seven years for not referring to the new tribunal though the matter is before the Supreme Court. “The Chief Minister has been adamant and did not listen to Centre’s advice of withdrawing the case all these years or the matter would have progressed a lot by now,” he said.  Mr. Rao failed people of Telangana by not withdrawing the case when it was suggested by Union Minister Gejandra Shekhawat in the Apex Council meeting Bandi Sanjay Kumar, BJP State president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-to-blame-for-krishna-water-distribution-mess-bjp/article34875571.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Blood donation camp held at Bison Division||A total of 750 soldiers of the Bison division have pledged to donate their organs at an organ donation pledging camp and blood donation camp at Secunderabad Military Garrison on Thursday. The organ donation initiative in the Armed Forces is coordinated by the Armed Forces Organ Retrieval and Transplantation Authority. The conversion rate of organ donation in the Army is among the highest in the country. The blood donation camp in collaboration with Indian Red Cross Society was also held at Secunderabad Military Garrison where a total of 75 units of blood were collected. General Officer Commanding of Bison division, Major General Alok Joshi complimented all participants of the camp for their selfless service in helping the needy in these testing times, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blood-donation-camp-held-at-bison-division/article34875552.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CJI thanks Telangana for a grand reception||Describing his maiden visit to the two Telugu States as a trip arousing emotions, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday thanked Telugu people for showering him with blessings while according an affectionate and grand reception. “The fact that my parents were not in this world to witness my journey of reaching the highest position in Indian judiciary used to pain me. With their blessings and love, Telugu people filled that void,” the CJI said in statement. He thanked profusely the “taintless, progressive Telangana society” for the affection it showed. He said that people from all walks of life greeted and blessed him without expecting any returns. No personal issues were raised. “Strengthening judiciary was all that they wanted. They are symbols of self-less and matured society of Telangana,” the CJI noted. He saluted retired judges who stepped out of their houses during the pandemic to bless him. This symbolised Telangana’s “all are our people only” attitude and mirrored the renowned Hyderabadi style of hosting, the CJI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cji-thanks-telangana-for-a-grand-reception/article34875562.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||With unlock, inter-State bus services resume||Telangana State Road Transport Corporation will run inter-State bus services to Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra conforming to relaxation of lockdown hours in the respective States. The buses will be operated between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. in Andhra Pradesh in tune with the relaxation hours in that State. Except Bengaluru, the services will be operated between 5 a.m. and 7 p.m. in Karnataka. As the State has imposed curfew on the weekends, the buses will not be operated from 7 p.m. on Fridays to 5 a.m. on Mondays. Meanwhile, unlock will unfold in all public places and services from Monday following the State government’s decision to lift lockdown from Sunday. The metro rail will operate services from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Most of the bars reopened on Sunday but parks, gymnasiums and sports venues will most likely be kept open from Monday, it was reported. Tourist places like Charminar and Salarjung Museum opened for visitors on Sunday following COVID-19 protocols. It was also said no decision was taken by managements on reopening of cinema halls. Metro services Hyderabad Metro Rail has announced the rescheduling of operations from Monday with the first train from respective terminal stations to start at 7 a.m. The last train will start at 9 p.m. and reach respective terminating stations by about 10 p.m. Passengers are also advised to strictly follow COVID-19 safety guidelines, including social distancing, wearing of face masks, regular hand sanitisation and thermal screening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/with-unlock-inter-state-bus-services-resume/article34875563.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Withdraw Rythu Bandhu cash from POs||Department of Post has announced that farmer beneficiaries of ‘Rythu Bandhu’ can withdraw cash from their respective bank accounts in their respective villages at no extra cost. For 21-22 Kharif season, Micro ATM services have been arranged at 5,794 post-offices in Telangana for making cash payments to farmers and these can be availed by farmers having Aadhaar linked accounts of any bank from village PO, said a press release. A maximum amount of Rs. 10,000 can be withdrawn in a day. For using a Micro ATM, farmers can visit the nearest post office with his/her Aadhaar card and mobile, linked to any bank account, and withdraw cash by impressing fingerprint and informing the OTP received on his/her registered mobile number to the post master. The Micro ATM service is free of cost and is convenient to all farmers during the pandemic. The facility is very useful to the farmers not in a position to visit bank branch/fixed ATM for withdrawal of Rythu Bandhu money during current COVID-19 pandemic. An amount of Rs. 169 crore was distributed through postal Micro ATM’s during the 20-21 Rabi season. Farmers are requested to adhere to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour while taking cash at postal Micro ATMs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/withdraw-rythu-bandhu-cash-from-pos/article34875578.ece
21 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Security guard killed in road accident||A security guard was mowed down by a speeding truck at Gandhi Nagar on Sunday morning. K. Sudharshan was going to his workplace, Singareni Bhavan, Khairatabad, when the truck hit his bike and ran over him near DBR Mills. He suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. The truck driver ran away from the spot, while the police managed to detain the helper. A case was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/security-guard-killed-in-road-accident/article34875579.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Land handed over for Warangal Jail||Hundred acres of land adjacent to the police battalion and the Police Training College (PTC) at Mamnoor on Warangal outskirts was on Sunday handed over to the Jails Department for construction of a modern open air jail on the lines of Cherlapally jail. The existing central prison in Warangal was recently demolished to facilitate construction of a multi super-speciality hospital as decided by the Cabinet. Over 900 prisoners were accommodated in different jails of the State. The central prison superintendent Santosh Kumar Roy received the documents taking possession of 101 acres of land from the commandant of the police battalion. The land is situated on a bypass road on Warangal - Khammam highway. Mr. Roy told The Hindu that the land given to jail in lieu of the old campus which was only 56.4 acres was well suited for carrying out the correctional, reform and skilling services on prisoners. Its construction will be completed in two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-handed-over-for-warangal-jail/article34875574.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Carbanio ties up with US chemical firm||City-based Carbanio has announced a strategic partnership with US-based custom chemical synthesis company, Neugenlabs LLC located in University of South Florida, for the latter’s expansion plans in India. The US-based company has already set up an office in Bengaluru, and plans to expand in Hyderabad. Neugenlabs specialises in custom synthesis, research and development, development of compounds for pharmaceuticals, agriculture biotechnology and veterinary industries. The partnership will witness Carbanio helping NeugenLabs with arranging raw materials and other custom chemicals through uninterrupted digital process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/carbanio-ties-up-with-us-chemical-firm/article34875558.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MMTS service likely from next week||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy announced that MMTS suburban services, which had been stalled since March last year, will be resumed next week. The decision was taken by the Railways after he met Minister Piyush Goyal and requested him to resume the services as the public transport has been the lifeline for the poor and middle-class along with daily wagers and vendors. The Suburban Train Travellers Association and MMTS Travellers Association had also urged SCR authorities to immediately commence MMTS train services at least during the morning and evening peak hours for the benefit of small businessman, daily wagers and vendors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mmts-service-likely-from-next-week/article34875559.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP faults opening of schools||The BJP questioned the State govt’s motive behind lifting the COVID second wave induced lockdown completely when the ‘Delta’ variant continues to infect the country. “Why did the coronavirus threat vanish completely within a day after implementing strict lockdown in the last few weeks? Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has even begun dist. tours and hosting community lunches as if everything has become normal. If that is so, why are the neighbouring States continuing with lockdowns and restrictions?,” asked leader Vijayashanti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-faults-opening-of-schools/article34875572.ece
21 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Prostitution racked busted||With the arrest of five persons, the Rachakonda police busted an inter-State prostitution racket and rescued a woman. Acting on a tip-off, the team raided Manohar Lodge at Vanasthalipuram and rescued the 26-year-old woman from Mumbai. The arrested were: Jalasuprathu Naga Chandra Sekhar, 26, Baluboyina Guraiah 37, Shilpi Barman, 29, Nampally Rameshwar, 40, and Gattu Ram Mohan, 48.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prostitution-racked-busted/article34875573.ece
21 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New chief for Bison Division||Major General Prit Pal Singh took over the reins of the Bison Division as 35th General Officer Commanding (GOC) here on Sunday. An alumnus of the Indian Military Academy, Maj. Gen. Prit Pal Singh was commissioned into the 62 Cavalry of Armoured Corps in 1989 and in a career spanning over three decades, he was in active combat roles at respective stages of command in the Army. The General Officer brings with him the vast experience of varied military theatres ranging from northern borders, deserts and counter insurgency/counter terrorism operations. He served in United Nations peacekeeping operations in Ethopia and Eritrea, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-chief-for-bison-division/article34875569.ece
21 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Dalit woman killed in lock-up, alleges Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka has demanded that stern action be taken against those responsible for the alleged lock-up death of Dalit woman, Mariyamma, a native of Komatlagudem in the district, under Addagudur police station limits in Yadadri-Bhongir district three days ago. The CLP leader consoled Swapna, the younger daughter of Mariyamma, at her native village in Chintakani mandal on Sunday. Swapna broke down in front of Mr Vikramarka while narrating how her mother, a domestic help at a house in Addagudur, was allegedly beaten up by six “policemen in plain clothes” in the local police station in connection with a theft case registered at Addagudur police station three days ago. Talking to newsmen later, the CLP leader alleged that Mariyamma was picked up from her home in the dead of night and mercilessly beaten up by policemen in plain clothes from Addagudur without the presence of local police. "Without heeding to the pleas of Swapna, they tortured Mariyamma ruthlessly," he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalit-woman-killed-in-lock-up-alleges-bhatti/article34875576.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Old habits die hard||Former minister Eatala Rajender, who switched over to BJP last week after falling out of the grace of TRS leadership was associated with the pink (the colour of TRS party flag) party for over 18 years and leaving behind the experience of the entire journey with the TRS might have been difficult for him even after joining the saffron party. Speaking to newspersons at Huzurabad on Saturday, he inadvertently spoke of the pink flag, albeit by slip of tongue. Although he corrected himself within moments of stating that the pink flag would fly high in Huzurabad constituency, it proved the adage ‘Old habits die hard’ one more time. The “pink” colour seems to be still in his subconsciousness even after severing ties with it for all practical purposes. An ‘unsavoury’ trend The resignation of Eatala Rajender from his MLA post before joining BJP formally has been an unusual trend in the State since the days of combined Andhra Pradesh, at least from 2004. Mr. Rajender is the first legislator to quit his elected post before switching loyalties to a party other than on which he was elected, since 2004. Although it may not have any repercussions in the immediate future, it could prove a thorn in the flesh for those who plan to switch sides politically at least in future. There are umpteen examples of legislators of one party switching over to another, particularly the ruling party, after 2004, 2009, 2014 and 2018 elections to Assembly and none of them quit their elected post, citing one reason or the other. However, Mr. Rajender’s move is likely to have a definite bearing on Telangana politics in the years to come, particularly for those who seek to switch loyalties from one party to another. Relaxation apprehensions The relaxation of lockdown restrictions has come as breather for the people who had to put up with limited activities since past few weeks. But the relief has become equally worrisome for some sections of the medical fraternity. Reason, the ongoing marriage season. People had confined themselves to weddings with limited attendance since the onset for COVID-19 more than a year ago, but with exceptions. Whether the same spirit would be visible with complete lifting of restrictions is the question doing rounds now as several hundreds of marriages are lined up to coincide with auspicious muhurats before commencement of Ashaada masa in July second week. B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/old-habits-die-hard/article34875567.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Crowds reappear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crowds-reappear/article34875565.ece
21 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Asif murder case: citizens’ convention in Nuh protests against communal strife||A citizens’ convention held at Nuh on Sunday resolved to protect the social amity and strengthen the fight for justice, which was sought to be disrupted by certain communal forces in Mewat. Organised jointly by Shahidane Mewat and Nagrik Manch, the convention condemned a congregation held recently at Sohna, which allegedly intended to inflame communal strife for the release of accused in Asif murder case. The convention presided over by a panel of Colonel Arya Aryaveer, a former judge; Usha Saroha, Kale Khan and Raj Singh also wanted the arrest of all police personnel accused of the custodial beating of Junaid who succumbed due to the injuries. Addressing the convention, former Lok Sabha MP Subhashini Ali Sahgal described the attempts of communal polarisation for weakening the emerging unity of farmers and workers as seen in ongoing historical farmers movement. It was announced that a “Kisan Mazdoor Bhaichara” will be organised at the Sunehra border on June 28. Asif, a resident of Nuh, was returning home from a medical store on May 16 evening with Rashid and his friend Wasif in a car when the accused allegedly waylaid them at Atta village and kidnapped him. He was later found dead in Sohna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/asif-murder-case-citizens-convention-in-nuh-protests-against-communal-strife/article34875505.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Parks to reopen today, bars will be allowed with 50% capacity||The Delhi government on Sunday permitted bars to reopen with 50% seating capacity along with public parks, gardens, and golf clubs from June 21 as a part of gradual unlock measures in the Capital. It also permitted outdoor yoga activities to coincide with International Yoga Day. Market places Markets, market places, malls and restaurants that had opened on a trial basis for a week, have been given permission to operate for another week. Bars have been allowed to open between 12 p.m. and 10 p.m. and restaurants between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m. upto 50% of their capacity. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority in its order said that owners of the restaurants and bars shall be responsible for strict adherence to the prescribed SOPs and all instructions/guidelines issued by GOI/GNCTD from time to time as well as compliance with COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to contain the spread of the virus. In case any violation is found, strict penal criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant/bar, it said. “Public parks, gardens, golf clubs, and outdoor yoga activities will be allowed. Apart from the individual, parks/gardens owning agencies (MCDs, DDA, NDMC, DCB, etc.) as well as the concerned RWA, owners/directors of golf clubs, yoga instructors shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour,” the order stated. Those still prohibited Activities that continue to remain prohibited include opening of all educational institutions, swimming pools, sports complexes, cinemas, entertainment parks banquet halls, assembly halls, gyms, spas and yoga institutes. All social, political, sports, academic, religious, cultural and festival related gatherings and congregations are also prohibited. The prohibition on organising any marriage ceremony at public places also continues and marriages may be organised only at court or at home in which not more than 20 people will be allowed to participate. DJ, sound system, catering and other service will also not be allowed for marriage ceremonies, the order said. The DDMA said that a close watch and supervision will be maintained on the overall functioning of markets, market complexes, malls, restaurants and bars. “If it is found that COVID-appropriate behaviour is not being followed or the positivty rate, number of positive cases is increasing, markets, market complexes, malls, restaurants and bars will be closed forthwith without any loss of time so as to completely avoid and prevent any upsurge and likelihood of the next wave in Delhi,” the DDMA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/parks-to-reopen-today-bars-will-be-allowed-with-50-capacity/article34875502.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital records 124 new infections||The Capital recorded 124 new COVID-19 cases and seven deaths on Sunday along with 398 recoveries, according to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. It added that 72,670 tests has been conducted with a positivity rate of 0.17%. Of the total tests conducted, 52,790 were RT-PCR tests. There are 2,091 actives cases in the Capital of which 600 are under home isolation. The total number of cases since the pandemic began now stands at 14,32,292 along with 24,914 deaths. While presenting the vaccination bulletin, AAP leader Atishi said more than 65 lakh people have been vaccinated in Delhi, of which, 49.38 lakh people have been given the first dose and 15.75 lakh people have been given both the doses. Currently, 8.25 lakh vaccines are available in Delhi for 45 and above age group, out of which, five days of Covaxin and 57 days of Covishield are in stock. For the 18-44 age group, 2.65 lakh vaccines are available out of which we have 1 day Covaxin and 13 days Covishield in stock. “On Saturday, 85,000 doses were administered, of which 50,000 doses were administered to the youth of Delhi,” she said. Ms. Atishi also appealed to all the people who haven’t gotten vaccinated till now to step up and get themselves vaccinated. “Getting oneself jabbed is the most important step to save Delhi from the next possible COVID-19 wave,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-records-124-new-infections/article34875501.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crime Branch busts unit manufacturing fake drugs||The Crime Branch of the Delhi Police busted a unit manufacturing fake drugs meant for treatment of COVID-19 and black fungus patients and arrested 10 people, including two doctors, officials on Sunday. The medicines were being black-marketed through WhatsApp, they said. The police said, “The big crackdown on black-marketing of fake ‘’injections’’ used as life-saving drugs in COVID and black fungus led to arrest of 10 people, including two doctors”. According to the police, one of the accused, Mayank Taluja (25), worked as a COVID volunteer for two-three months and came in contact with a salesman named Waseem Khan who worked at Al Khidmat Medicos. Soon, Taluja started advertising his mobile number on various WhatsApp groups that injectable drugs for the treatment of black fungus disease were available with him, they said. On June 17, the Drug Control department notified the police that Taluja was involved in black marketing of drugs meant for the treatment of black fungus patients. The police then arrested Waseem Khan from the Jamia metro station area where he had come to deliver Liposomal Amphotericin-B drug meant for black fungus patient. Based on his disclosure, Al Khidmat Medicos was raided and 10 more vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B were recovered. The owner of Al Khidmat Medicos, Shoib Khan and his two salesmen Mohd Faizal Yaseen and Afzal were also apprehended, police said. Police said Taluja was also apprehended when he came to Medicos, said DCP (Crime) Monika Bhardwaj. An officer said from the recovered articles, sample of five drugs were drawn by the Inspector of the Drug Department and sent for examinations. A laptop with images of printing material of these drugs, two high-quality printing machines and raw material used for printing labels were also seized from the premises, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/crime-branch-busts-unit-manufacturing-fake-drugs/article34875503.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||5 held for running illegal restaurant-cum-bar||Five people were arrested following a raid on an unauthorised restaurant-cum-bar in east Delhi’s Preet Vihar for allegedly organising a party in violation of COVID norms, the police said on Sunday. It was a joint operation carried out on Saturday by district officials led by the sub-divisional magistrate of Preet Vihar and a police team under the local station house officer. The officials said a hookah party was underway at the establishment when the raid took place. They added that liquor was being served to underage people at the bar. The eatery — Scon King Café and Restaurant, which was located on the first floor of the DDA Complex at the New Rajdhani Enclave, did not have a valid license. The place sealed the place. An official said fines were imposed and a detailed inquiry has been ordered. A case was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act at the Preet Vihar police station, a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/5-held-for-running-illegal-restaurant-cum-bar/article34875504.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||Gambhir launches vaccine drive for slum dwellers||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir on Sunday launched a drive for administering COVID vaccines to slum dwellers in East Delhi constituency. The drive began at Shashi Garden slum cluster in East Delhi’s Mayur Vihar in presence of Gambhir and several BJP leaders, including Delhi unit general secretary (organisation) Siddharthan. Mr. Gambhir said free vaccination camps will also be held in other slum clusters in East Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gambhir-launches-vaccine-drive-for-slum-dwellers/article34875499.ece
21 June 2021||Mumbai,||HC gives relief to traffic constable accused of raping policewoman||The Bombay High Court recently granted interim pre-arrest protection to a traffic constable of the Maharashtra Police who was suspended for allegedly raping a policewoman. A single judge Bench of Justice Sandeep Shinde was hearing a plea filed by Madhav Vasave seeking anticipatory bail. On March 17, the sessions court had directed the State not to take coercive action against the accused, but declined to grant him protection from arrest. Mr. Vasave joined the force in 2006 and met the complainant, who was posted at a police station, in 2017. They entered into a sexual relationship, but in 2019 she learnt that he was already married. According to the complainant, the accused told her that his wife was mentally unsound and he wanted to divorce her. The policewoman also said that the accused started abusing her when she asked him to return the Rs. 1.5 lakh he had borrowed from her. She said that the accused threatened to circulate her intimate videos and photos if she left him. The complainant also said her marriage was called off last year after the accused sent objectionable messages to her fiancé and his sister. An advocate appearing for Mr. Vasave said the sexual relationship was consensual and the complainant was aware of his client’s marital status. The advocate argued that Mr. Vasave’s custodial interrogation was not necessary as he had handed over his mobile to the investigating officer (IO) to verify allegations of him recording obscene videos and taking photos of the complainant. The court said, “Taking into consideration the facts of the case and since the applicant [Mr. Vasave] has now been suspended from service, he would be available for investigation. Further, he has handed over his mobile phone to the IO for analysis. Prima facie, I am of the view that the case is made out for granting interim pre-arrest protection to the applicant.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-gives-relief-to-traffic-constable-accused-of-raping-policewoman/article34875512.ece
21 June 2021||Pune,||Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut takes jibe at Congress on contesting polls alone||Stating that the Shiv Sena was always ready for an electoral battle at any given time, party MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut, in a thinly veiled jibe at coalition ally Congress, said that such parties must first emerge out of their confusion and then decide whether or not to contest polls alone. “Some political parties in Maharashtra are speaking of fighting polls on their own. That is their lookout. But let there be no confusion on this count. One leader [State Congress chief Nana Patole] of that party says that it will fight on its own, while other leaders of that party say the opposite. So, such parties must first come out of their own confusion and then talk about how to fight the election,” Mr. Raut said, in a stinging riposte to the Congress without naming the party. As far as the Shiv Sena was concerned, Mr. Raut said that the party’s chief and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address to party workers on the occasion of the party’s 55th foundation day on Saturday, had clearly spoken on the saffron party’s self-reliance and its ability to fight the elections on its own. Mr. Raut’s remarks, which follows a day after Mr. Thackeray’s potshots at the Congress, come in the wake of Mr. Patole’s recent statements hinting that his party could go it alone in the 2024 Assembly election and are indicative of the inherent friction within the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition of the Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). In a recent address to party workers, Mr. Patole had further expressed Chief Ministerial ambitions by urging party workers to get the Congress on the top in the next State election which would enable him to be CM. On Saturday, Mr. Thackeray slammed the Congress’ talk of ‘going it alone’, saying that people would reject those who spoke only of contesting elections alone without offering solutions to people’s problems. “If a party says that it wants to contest elections on its own without joining hands with others, it should first generate confidence among the public of its ability to provide jobs,” the Chief Minister had said. Earlier, NCP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had rebuked Mr. Patole’s Chief Ministerial aspirations as well, stating that while there was nothing wrong in someone expressing their desire to become CM, the magic figure of 145 MLAs was imperative to become one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shiv-senas-sanjay-raut-takes-jibe-at-congress-on-contesting-polls-alone/article34875515.ece
21 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra reports 9,361 new COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 9,361 new COVID-19 cases and 9,101 recoveries, taking its active case tally to 1,32,241, and the total case tally to 59,72,781 A total of 605 deaths were added to the State’s progressive death toll, of which 415 were part of the State Health Department’s ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process. As many as 124 deaths occurred during the last 48 hours, and 66 occurred during the past week. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,17,961, with the case fatality rate rising to 1.97%. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 57,19,457, with the recovery rate at 95.76%. “Of 3,95,14,858 laboratory samples tested thus far, 59,72,781 (with the average case positivity rate falling incrementally to 15.12%) have returned positive, with over 2.02 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune recorded more than 1,100 new cases, taking its total cases to 10,44,156. As per State Health Department figures, 15 deaths were reported as the toll rose to 16,173. As per district authorities, the active case tally has dipped below the 10,000 mark, while the total death toll has reached 17,468. Mumbai reported 747 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,20,013, while the active case tally stands at 18,591. As many as 19 fatalities took the toll to 15,298. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra recorded more than 1,000 new cases, taking its total case tally to 1,41,403, of whom 10,264 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-reports-9361-new-covid-19-cases/article34875514.ece
21 June 2021||Pune,||Nana Patole’s riposte to Sena: MVA alliance not permanent fixture||After Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut indirectly criticised the Sena’s coalition ally, the Congress, for its talk of contesting polls alone, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Sunday said that the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance comprising the Sena, the NCP, and the Congress, was for a period of five years and not a permanent fixture. “We formed this alliance (in 2019) for a period of five years [till the next Assembly election] with the objective of stopping the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)… This is a not a permanent state of affairs. Every party has the right to strengthen its organisation,” said Mr. Patole, while detailing the Congress’ COVID-19 relief efforts. On Saturday, Mr. Thackeray, in his capacity as president of the Shiv Sena and speaking on the occasion of the party’s 55th Foundation Day, took a thinly veiled jibe at the Congress by saying that the public would “beat with footwear” those [parties] who only talked about contesting polls alone without offering concrete solutions to people’s problems. Mr. Patole, however, refused to be drawn into making a direct riposte at Mr. Thackeray’s comments, remarking that there was “no clarity” in Mr. Thackeray’s speech as to which party he was referring to. “Even the BJP has spoken of contesting elections independently while previously, all the four major parties — the Congress, NCP, BJP and Sena — had contested the local bodies and Assembly polls independently,” the Congress chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nana-patoles-riposte-to-sena-mva-alliance-not-permanent-fixture/article34875517.ece
21 June 2021||Pune,||Heavy rain continues to batter western Maharashtra||Heavy rain continues to lash parts of western Maharashtra, Raigad and Thane districts with more than 60 barrages submerged in Kolhapur district. The rain has been particularly heavy in Satara and Kolhapur for the last three days. The water level in the Panchganga river in Kolhapur has risen by nine feet in the last couple of days. A discharge of 1,200 cusecs of water is on from the district’s Radhanagari dam. While Pune recorded intense rain in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, Sunday was relatively milder with only isolated parts like ghat areas witnessing intense bouts. Authorities said since Saturday, the intensity over the city had generally reduced. On Saturday, State Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil had said that the Karnataka government had decided to set up a real-time data acquisition system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/heavy-rain-continues-to-batter-western-maharashtra/article34875518.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||China vaccinations cross 1 billion||China has now administered more than one billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines, its National Health Commission (NHC) said on Sunday, with the vaccination campaign stepped up in recent weeks amid a small cluster of cases reported in southern China. The renewed vaccination push saw 500 million doses administered in the past 28 days — more than 17 million doses across the country every day — according to the NHC’s figures. It took more than three months for China to administer its first 100 million doses with its vaccination campaign beginning in December. It took 25 days to reach 200 million, a landmark reached on April 21, and 17 days to then reach the 300 million mark. The initial slow speed was attributed to a combination of vaccine hesitancy and the widespread perception that vaccinations were not needed as COVID-19 had been broadly under control in China since last summer. China has avoided a second wave with continuing tight curbs on international travel that have remained in place since last year, among few countries to keep in place stringent measures that severely limit the number of international arrivals, all of whom also have to undergo mandatory 21 days centralised quarantine. Stringent lockdowns and mass testing and tracing have been deployed to quickly squash subsequent local outbreaks that have been linked to overseas arrivals or port cities, as has happened in recent weeks in southern Guangdong province which reported cases of the Delta variant. The Guangdong cases, coupled with cases also reported in the northeast, have pushed many to get vaccinated, with State media showing long queues of residents lining up, some waiting overnight in Guangdong to receive their shots. Around 40% of the population will be fully vaccinated by the end of June, with 70% expected to be fully covered by the end of the year, authorities have said. China’s Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines have been approved by the World Health Organisation for emergency use. While there have been questions about the efficacy of the vaccines, a May 26 study based on phase 3 trials of two of Sinopharm’s vaccines conducted in the UAE and Bahrain placed their efficacy at 72.8% and 78.1%, respectively, in preventing all infections, lower than mRNA vaccines but similar to the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine’s reported efficacy. Most significantly, the trial found the vaccines to be fully effective in preventing severe infections with the trial reporting zero severe cases among the vaccinated group. A Beijing-based immunologist told the Communist Party-run Global Times on Sunday the next step, after vaccinating most of the population, would be “to improve the vaccines so that they can handle virus mutations as well as make them safe for the elderly.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-vaccinations-cross-1-billion/article34875261.ece
21 June 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to probe ‘Army attack and humiliation’ of Muslims||A widely-shared image on social media, showing a row of men kneeling in front of soldiers for reportedly violating the Sri Lanka’s current lockdown, has prompted the army to probe the incident. Issuing a media statement on Sunday, the Army said “it immediately removed” the personnel from their duties, “after an alleged improper conduct of a few army personnel” in Eravur, a Muslim-majority town in Batticaloa district. Initial investigation has begun, the Army said, pledging “strictest action”. The Sri Lankan Army, along with health professionals, helms the country’s pandemic response, although government critics have slammed military involvement in addressing a public health crisis. Army Commander General Shavendra Silva heads the ‘National Operation Centre for Prevention of COVID-19 Outbreak’. The incident on Saturday — which came to light after the photograph of kneeling men went viral online — has heightened fears in Eravur, locals said. It also comes at a time when there is growing domestic and international — including UN — concern over “targeted attacks” on Sri Lanka’s Muslims, who constitute about 10% of the country’s nearly 22 million population. Forty-four-year-old daily wage earner Mohammed Ismail Marzook of Eravur was already going through a rough patch with his income shrinking during the pandemic, whose third wave the country is experiencing. The last thing he expected was to be “beaten and humiliated”. “I just went on my bicycle to buy my diabetes medicines at our local pharmacy, and a little bit of rice nearby. I even showed the empty box of my pills, but the soldiers forced me to kneel down right there along with some others, with my hands raised,” he told The Hindu . “I explained to them in Sinhala that I am a patient, and that I stepped out only to buy medicines, which is allowed. But they wouldn’t listen, and kept beating me, like they would beat a cattle,” he said. ‘One country, two laws’ Batticaloa MP Shanakiyan Rasamanickam, who put out a tweet juxtaposing a photograph of a vehicle pile-up on a Colombo road during the lockdown, and the photograph from Eravur, said the incident showed yet again that it is “one country two laws for this government.” Responding to the Army’s statement that they would probe the incident, the legislator told The Hindu that the Army was “forced to acknowledge” the incident and investigate it, since the image had gone viral on social media. “If they can investigate this matter now, why can’t they do the same in regard to the Tamils’ long-pending concerns about alleged crimes against humanity by the army at the end of the war? Do they mean to say not even one army member could have committed any wrong?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-probe-army-attack-and-humiliation-of-muslims/article34875268.ece
21 June 2021||Riyadh,||Saudi Arabia seeks religious reset as clerical power wanes||Muezzins issuing high-decibel calls to prayer have long been part of Saudi identity, but a crackdown on mosque loudspeakers is among contentious reforms seeking to shake off the Muslim kingdom’s austere image. Saudi Arabia, home to the holiest Muslim sites, has long been associated with a rigid strain of Islam known as Wahhabism that inspired generations of global extremists and left the oil-rich kingdom steeped in conservatism. But the role of religion faces the biggest reset in modern times as Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, spurred by the need to diversify the oil-reliant economy, pursues a liberalisation drive in parallel with a vigorous crackdown on dissent. Chipping away at a key pillar of its Islamic identity, the government last month ordered that mosque loudspeakers limit their volume to one-third of their maximum capacity and not broadcast full sermons, citing concerns over noise pollution. The move triggered an online backlash with the hashtag “We demand the return of mosque speakers” gaining traction. It also sparked calls to ban loud music in restaurants, once taboo in the kingdom but now common amid liberalisation efforts, and to fill mosques in such large numbers that authorities are forced to permit loudspeakers for those gathering outside. But authorities are unlikely to budge, as economic reforms for a post-oil era take precedence over religion, observers say. “The country is re-establishing its foundations,” Aziz Alghashian, a politics lecturer at the University of Essex,said. “It’s becoming an economically driven country that is investing substantial effort in trying to appear more appealing — or less intimidating — to investors and tourists. ”In what was once unthinkable, some shops and restaurants now remain open during the five daily Muslim prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-arabia-seeks-religious-reset-as-clerical-power-wanes/article34875273.ece
21 June 2021||Vienna,||Iran, world powers adjourn nuclear talks||Iran and six world powers have adjourned nuclear talks for consultations in their capitals, the European Union’s envoy to the negotiations said on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, Enrique Mora gave no indication when the talks would resume, but said progress had been made and that the participants would have a clearer idea of how to close a deal when they return. He added that he expected the international nuclear watchdog and Tehran to reach an agreement on extending a monitoring deal of Iran’s nuclear activities that ends on June 24. U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said there are still disagreements between Iran and the world powers on key issues, including on sanctions and on the nuclear commitments that Iran has to make.” Earlier, Israel PM Naftali Bennett condemned the victory of hardline judge Ebrahim Raisi as Iranian President, saying his would be a “regime of brutal hangmen” with which world powers should not negotiate a new nuclear deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-world-powers-adjourn-nuclear-talks/article34875269.ece
21 June 2021||Addis Ababa,||Ethiopia’s poll board says ready for election today||Twice delayed, hobbled by the pandemic, violent insecurity, and planning chaos, Ethiopia’s electoral board said it was ready for Monday’s crucial vote and assured it will be credible. “We’re actually very confident about it,” the National Election Board of Ethiopia (NEBE) spokeswoman Solyana Shimeles said. It is not optimism shared by all, with serious doubts remaining over the vote Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed promised would be the most competitive yet in the country. Voting will not proceed on June 21 in about one-fifth of the country’s 547 constituencies due to unrest and logistical problems. Those constituencies will mostly vote in September, but no ballot is scheduled in Tigray, a war-torn region of six million. In some areas where voting will proceed, opposition boycotts have further undermined claims of inclusivity and competition. The majority of national parliamentary seats up for grabs in Mr. Abiy’s native Oromia — the country’s most populous region — are being contested by a single candidate, election data shows. Three of Ethiopia’s 49 registered parties are not contesting the poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ethiopias-poll-board-says-ready-for-election-today/article34875262.ece
21 June 2021||Moscow,||Russian envoy returns to Washington||The Russian Ambassador in Washington flew back on Sunday to the U.S., saying he hoped to build “equal and pragmatic” ties after a U.S.-Russia Summit in Geneva aimed at reducing tensions. The plane transporting Ambassador Anatoly Antonov, who was recalled in March for consultations, took off at 0620 GMT from Moscow, Russian news agencies reported. “Given the results of the meeting between the two Presidents, I am counting on constructive work with my American colleagues to build equal and pragmatic relations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russian-envoy-returns-to-washington/article34875271.ece
21 June 2021||Brussels,||Five dead in Belgium school collapse||Five building workers were confirmed dead on Saturday, a day after a school construction site partially collapsed in the Belgian city of Antwerp. The last two bodies were pulled out the rubble on Saturday afternoon, Antwerp's fire department said, meaning that all the missing victims were now accounted for. King Philippe of Belgium visited the scene on Saturday accompanied by Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/five-dead-in-belgium-school-collapse/article34875263.ece
21 June 2021||London,||Former UK speaker Bercow denounces Johnson and defects to Labour||The colourful former Speaker of Britain’s House of Commons John Bercow said he has left the Conservatives to join the opposition Labour Party, saying the country is “sick of lies” under Prime Minister Boris Johnson. In an interview with the Observer newspaper, the former MP said the Conservative Party under Mr. Johnson was “reactionary, populist, nationalistic and sometimes even xenophobic”. Mr. Bercow said he joined the Labour Party a few weeks ago because he shared its values.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/former-uk-speaker-bercow-denounces-johnson-and-defects-to-labour/article34875265.ece
21 June 2021||Washington,||France: Afghan President Ghani to visit Washington on Friday: White House||U.S. President Joe Biden will meet Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah, chairman of Afghanistan’s High Council for National Reconciliation, on June 25, the White House said on Sunday. The meeting comes as fighting between Afghan forces and militants has surged.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-afghan-president-ghani-to-visit-washington-on-friday-white-house/article34875266.ece
21 June 2021||New York,||US marks slavery's end on new 'Juneteenth' national holiday||With marches, music and speeches, Americans on Saturday celebrated “Juneteenth,” the newly declared national holiday that marks the end of slavery and which comes a year after George Floyd’s murder sparked anti-racism protests. Hundreds of events were held across the country. On June 19, 1865, it was in Texas coastal area that the Union army — victorious after the Civil War — announced to African Americans that, even if some in Texas were trying to ignore it, enslaved people were now free.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-marks-slaverys-end-on-new-juneteenth-national-holiday/article34875274.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The comrades and their divergent perspectives||Russian President Vladimir Putin has recently asserted that both the Indian Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, and the Chinese President, Xi Jinping, are “responsible” enough to solve issues between their countries, while underlining the need to debar any “extra-regional power” to interfere in the process. The implications of Mr. Putin’s advice for India are numerous and far-reaching as Moscow expects New Delhi to ignominiously give up all efforts to reverse Beijing’s encroachment strategies. The Russians may have their reasons to remain blind to China’s growing aggressiveness, but the Indians have learned to expect at Chinese hands an unremitting effort to undermine India’s global position — to destroy their confidence in themselves and the confidence of others in them — and to reduce India to a state of isolation and impotence in global affairs. The Quad factor Mr. Putin’s remarks can only be seen as reinforcing China’s claim that the Quadrilateral or Quad (comprising India, the United States, Japan and Australia) is aimed at containing Beijing’s influence in the Indo-Pacific region. In fact, Mr. Putin’s assertion is the logical extension of views expressed by Russia’s Ambassador to India, Nikolay Kudashev. Sometime ago, he had advised New Delhi to take a “larger look at Chinese foreign policies”, while describing the Indo-Pacific strategy as an effort to revive the Cold War mentality (https://bit.ly/3gL0VBY). Russia’s Foreign Minister, Sergey Lavrov, has frequently, and quite acerbically, lashed out at the Quad. Notwithstanding the cataclysmic changes in the global and regional politico-security environment, India has been able to maintain amicable ties with Russia. Yet, Russia’s continued criticism of the Indo-Pacific and the Quad give ample evidence of the divergent perspectives of New Delhi and Russia on how to deal with China’s rise to global prominence. Russia has rejected the Indo-Pacific construct in favour of the Asia-Pacific on the ground that the first is primarily an American initiative designed to contain both China and Russia. Obviously, India thinks otherwise since Russia’s simplistic advice is not sagacious enough to solve its China problem. India’s External Affairs Minister, S. Jaishankar, in a virtual discussion with his Australian and French counterparts, had recently asserted that no country can have a veto on India’s participation in the Quad (https://bit.ly/3cXDDaV). This assertion was an indirect counterpoise to what Mr. Lavrov had termed the Quad — as “Asian NATO”. In an unmistakable indication of India’s attempt to reimagine a new geostrategic maritime role for itself, Mr. Jaishankar had further observed that incorporation of the Indo-Pacific concept in Indian diplomacy means that India can no longer be confined between the Malacca Strait and Gulf of Aden.  Though the recent diplomatic romance between Russia and Pakistan has generated some unease in India, it is Russia’s uncritical advocacy of China’s global vision that seems to have left New Delhi overly confounded. For many policymakers and people in our country, the Russian attitude toward China’s growing power and influence will be the touchstone of Russia’s relations with India. While the Sino-Indian relationship has experienced a sharp downward trend since the Galwan clashes in June 2020, New Delhi has become particularly concerned with Moscow downplaying China’s display of coercive military pressure against India. With the catastrophic rise of populist nationalism amidst the bankruptcy of globalisation, the resolution of the Sino-Indian boundary dispute appears a hopeless dream in the absence of a miracle. India is confronted in Ladakh with a situation far uglier and more recalcitrant than is generally recognised. Beginnings of looking West It need not be necessary to remind us again that the decade following the disintegration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) was a period of great turbulence in global politics. A bewildered India soon realised Russia was much weaker than the erstwhile USSR and incapable of helping New Delhi balance potential threats from Beijing. This does not mean that India completely abandoned external balancing strategies; it began to diversify its sources of external balancing. On the other hand, Russia began to cast Moscow as the leader of a supposed trilateral grouping of Russia-India-China against a U.S.-led unipolar world. Leaving behind the bitterness and mistrust between Moscow and Beijing during the Cold War, Russia became an early proponent of the ‘strategic triangle’ to bring together the three major powers. Aware of the emerging international system as an expression of western expansion, India’s fear of the unipolar moment too made it easier for New Delhi to become part of this initiative. But China’s dismissive attitude toward Indian capabilities, coupled with an emerging China-Pakistan nexus, prevented the success of this trilateral. India, instead, invested its diplomatic energies in rapprochement with the United States. Unlike Russia, which tried to build an alternative international economic architecture, India decided to get integrated in the economic order it once denounced. Economic liberalisation also allowed New Delhi to buy sophisticated weapons from a wider global market that included suppliers such as Israel and France. Both were keen to sell weapons technology to India, and this also boosted New Delhi’s bargaining capacity with Moscow. As the logic of intensive engagement with the West was effectively established, strategic partnership with the U.S. was a logical corollary. India’s cooperation with the U.S. has strengthened still further, in part against the perceived terrorism threat, but also in light of China’s growing assertiveness whose undesirable impacts are now being felt across the world. However, Russia’s ability to influence the India-China relationship has become doubtful. India has been searching for other major powers to balance against China as it does not have the sufficient means for hard balancing. Adding options to its statecraft toolbox, India has deepened its ties with Japan and Australia in a way that is close to soft balancing. Nevertheless, among all of India’s balancing efforts, the stupendous growth in ties with the U.S. has been the greatest source of concern for China which views the India-U.S. rapprochement as containment. While India needs Russia’s partnership for its defence needs, New Delhi cannot endorse the Russian perspective on the Indo-Pacific and the Quad. For New Delhi, it would be self-defeating to accept that the Indo-Pacific is an American construct. With the first-ever summit of the four leaders in the ‘Quadrilateral framework’ in March this year, the Quad is being formalised into a functional strategic alignment. Maritime structures The real ‘strategic triangle’ in the maritime domain will be that between New Delhi, Washington and Beijing. While other powers such as France, Australia, Japan and Russia will have an impact on the emerging maritime structures of the Indo-Pacific region, it is the triangular dynamic between India, China and the U.S. that is going to be the most consequential. Russia is yet to realise that it will gain immensely from the multilateralism that the Indo-Pacific seeks to promote, and being China’s junior partner only undermines Moscow’s great-power ambitions. But the Putin regime is making things unnecessarily hard for Russia as well as for India; and it is clear that those responsible for Russian policy have arrived at a flawed assessment of the current situation. As the Kremlin’s policymakers are obsessively preoccupied with Russia’s ‘status’ rivalry with the U.S., Russia’s view of India-China relations seems understandable. But there is an inherent danger in permitting it to harden into a permanent attitude as an increasingly pro-Beijing Russia might adopt more aggressive blocking of India’s policy agendas. That is why India is particularly interested in a normalisation of relations between Washington and Moscow as it will help it steer ties among the great powers. and also diminish Moscow’s propensity to closely coordinate its South Asian policies with Beijing. India-China ties There is no doubt that shared identities and beliefs in the principle of non-alignment, painful memories of colonial subjugation, opposition to great-power hegemony, and strong beliefs in sovereignty and strategic autonomy have been the key influencers in shaping India’s and China’s engagement with each other as well as the western world. But this has begun to change as Beijing is asserting its hegemony over Asia. In such circumstances, multilateral forums such as the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping and BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) have little practical value for Indian diplomacy. Without China’s reciprocity, options before India are limited. India’s concessions, whatever their form, must meet with some form of positive response from China. The response cannot be just symbolic or rhetorical. The absence of any material evidence of reciprocity is bound to doom an attempt at Sino-Indian rapprochement. Beijing seems to be acting as though it is immune not only to the strategic consequences for its actions but also to all the conventional rules of international politics. China is undoubtedly the most powerful actor in its neighbourhood but it cannot simply have its way in shaping Asia’s new geopolitics. Beijing’s policies will still be constrained and altered in fundamental ways by India which cannot be expected to adopt a hopeless stance of remaining peripheral in its own strategic backyard. Vinay Kaura is Assistant Professor in the Department of International Affairs and Security Studies, Sardar Patel University of Police, Security and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur, Rajasthan. He is also a Non-resident Scholar at the Middle East Institute, Washington DC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-comrades-and-their-divergent-perspectives/article34875248.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Focus on COVID-19 estimated deaths||In India, even before the COVID-19 pandemic, around 85% of all deaths were registered and only one-fourth of the registered deaths were medically certified for the causes of death. There have been wide variations among States and within them, in rural and urban areas. Understanding the causes of death is essential for health sector planning and optimal allocation of health resources. In the absence of robust data on the causes of death, governments rely on estimates. Reporting COVID-19 deaths The World Health Organization has estimated that world over, COVID-19 deaths could be two-three times the officially reported numbers. Public health experts, disease modellers, and research institutes which specialise in morbidity and mortality data have estimated that COVID-19 deaths in India could be in the range of three to 14 times the officially reported number of deaths. As per ground reports, there has been under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths during the second wave of infections in India. In April and May 2021, crematorium and burial grounds had long queues, dead bodies were floating in rivers, more cremations were being done following the COVID-19 protocols than the officially reported number of deaths, and everyone had a few people in their social circle who had succumbed to COVID-19. All of these have been captured in media reports from various settings, including major cities and a number of States. Each of these cities and States has reported excess deaths (comparing two similar periods in different years) that are twice to even 30-40 times higher than the officially reported COVID-19 numbers. Rural India is known to have a weak death registration system; however, there is corroborative evidence of excess deaths. At an existing death rate of seven per 1,000 people, an average village of 1,000 people should report around one death every two months. But most Indian villages have experienced deaths at a far higher rate in the two months of the second COVID-19 wave. The Union and State governments have always been quick to deny estimates. Their core argument has been that COVID-19 deaths cannot be hidden. However, the biggest counter to this position has come from the reconciliation of COVID-19 deaths in Bihar and Maharashtra. Following reviews and audits, these States showed a nearly 75% increase in COVID-19 deaths over the officially reported deaths for the specified periods. The reconciliation from Bihar and Maharashtra was attributed to under-reporting in private hospitals, in home isolation, in transit to the hospitals/facilities and those who died with post-COVID-19 complications. In some of the districts, the revision resulted in the increase being twice or thrice the number of reported deaths. Therefore, it is logical to conclude that if and when other States initiate similar exercises, they are likely to report an upward shift in COVID-19 deaths. In fact, the majority of the current analyses of excess deaths has come from urban settings and large municipal corporations, known for a relatively better functioning death registration system. The challenges in death reporting in rural areas are very different and far bigger. During the second wave, access to COVID-19 testing services and treatment facilities was limited in rural India. Pandemic-related restrictions, lack of transport and the health-seeking behaviour of citizens indicate that many people from the villages did not come in contact with the formal health system, which is concentrated in urban settings. Very few rural health facilities were providing services for COVID-19 care. Many people were admitted in the healthcare facilities without a RT-PCR test, and on the basis of clinical symptoms. As many ground reports have shown, deaths in these sub-groups did not make it to officially reported COVID-19 deaths. One of the core objectives of the pandemic response is to reduce mortality. Therefore, COVID-19 deaths are a good surrogate indicator of the health system’s performance at the State and district levels. This is a more focused indicator of the response of the health system compared to process-oriented indicators such as daily tests conducted or dedicated COVID-19 beds added. If realistic estimates of COVID-19 deaths by city, rural settings, districts and States are known, a more targeted response could be mounted to the pandemic. The death estimates could be very useful to plan for the next wave of the pandemic (in the short term) and to strengthen the Indian health care system (in the long run). Refining estimates There are at least four approaches which can help us refine the estimates: death audits; excess death analysis; death surveys followed by verbal autopsies; and decadal Census, which is due in India. First, every State should get death audits done to correctly classify all the deaths that occurred during the pandemic. The audits should focus on all the health facilities, in the public and private sector, as well as deaths in homes. The process of death audits needs to be institutionalised. The experiences of Bihar and Maharashtra show that this can be done quickly. Second, the excess deaths in the pandemic period should be analysed more systematically. For urban settings and those States which have a relatively high death registration, such analysis can be done in a short period of time. Third, rural areas and smaller towns require additional data collection. The death registers at the village level can be utilised and panchayats can provide this data in real-time, which can be collated by the administration. The sample registration system teams functioning under the Registrar General and Census Commissioner in India and the booth-level officers used in elections can be mobilised to collect additional information on deaths reported in April and May 2021. This can help the government in getting more realistic death estimates in the next few months. The Jharkhand government completed one such survey, focused exclusively on rural areas, which found 43% excess deaths than the comparable period before the pandemic. The State surveyed two-third of its population with the help of the existing workforce, in 10 days. Such surveys should be planned by all States, followed by verbal autopsy, to assign the causes of deaths. Fourth, there is an urgent need to initiate the decadal Census in India. The U.S. and China conducted their census in 2020 during the pandemic. India should urgently plan for the Census, which would provide useful data for all sectors. Inter-censal growth will provide an important insight into the excess mortality. The political leadership and health policymakers seem to be taking solace in the fact that India has not yet reported the highest number of COVID-19 deaths in the world. However, there is bigger merit in developing realistic COVID-19 death estimates, which could be more helpful in policy formulation, planning, resource allocation and health system strengthening. Therefore, the governments at all levels (Union, States and districts) should work to come up with the estimated number of COVID-19 deaths. That kind of granular data on deaths along with other health data will help India fight the pandemic and plan for the post-pandemic period more effectively. Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a public policy and health systems expert and co-author of ‘Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 Pandemic’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/focus-on-covid-19-estimated-deaths/article34875257.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||In Kerala, the need to budget for the future||Kerala, under duress from the novel coronavirus pandemic, is passing through a recessionary phase, shrinking by about 3.8% during 2019-20. Disease containment measures, including intermittent lockdowns, have stalled the livelihoods of many, probably the entire 66% of the workforce who are either self-employed or casual labourers. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) estimates Kerala’s unemployment rate at a high of 23.5% for May 2021. The extent of wage loss is uncertain, though primary surveys indicate substantial wage reduction. The pandemic and welfare Social priorities for financial planning under such a crisis must appear straightforward. The Budget of the newly elected government of Kerala presented by Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal weighed the priorities right, keeping the pandemic in focus. The free vaccination policy, despite a drastic decline in public revenue by 18%, positions the Government as one that prioritises its people. Unemployment and employability find mention early in the Budget reiterating its inclinations. Setting aside Rs. 8,900 crore for an income transfer scheme would be a rescue line for the poor and the vulnerable. Such an infusion will also stimulate the economy by boosting consumption demand. High unemployment Beyond the immediate crisis, Kerala is undergoing a transformation grappling with structural issues. For decades, the State has recorded one of the highest open unemployment rates in India — around 10%. Further, the labour force arguably suffers from the problem of ‘employability’, alluding to poor skills and incompetence. With the youth bulge in Kerala’s age structure, a large share of the population entered the labour force. This coincided with the structural transformation of the economy, i.e., the share of output shifting from agriculture to service. However, this large rise in the labour force could not be absorbed in the emerging sectors that were less labour intensive causing structural unemployment. The economy now needed to grow at faster rates to absorb the new entrants. Concurrently, high reservation wages owing to international remittances, institutional wage setting and the State’s welfare programmes implied that jobseekers sought jobs with decent wages as well. Low wage sectors are filled with inter-State migrant workers, remaining unattractive to the locals. Open unemployment is thus a problem of economic growth and distribution. Knowledge economy This Budget’s focus on tackling unemployment is through the knowledge economy mission, initiated by the outgoing Government. With Kerala’s reasonably high levels of an educated workforce, global exposure and its fragile ecosystem, a globally-linked knowledge-based economy has the potential for ecologically sustainable high economic growth. However, upon close reading, it seems that the mission addresses the wrong side of the problem. Instead of enhancing production in the knowledge-based economy, it envisages to increase the supply of skilled workers, through skilling programmes and matching demand and supply. The fundamental problem is not of labour market mismatch or supply of educated workforce, but that of poor labour demand. The above view is often countered by the argument that poor labour demand is due to poor employability. Part of the knowledge economy frame is to improve ‘employability’ by improving skills and skill certification. Improved skills may enhance immediate employment chances. But the notion that skill is static and once acquired, the worker is employable is misplaced. Skill is dynamic, especially in the knowledge economy. The skill requirements are continuously being redefined. The knowledge economy is distinguished by its ability to innovate in short time spans. As innovations take place, the skill requirements also evolve. For firms to remain competitive in the knowledge economy, they must recognise skill obsolescence and re-skill their workers. In fact, lifelong learning is a well-known feature of the knowledge economy. Under such circumstances, firms would want to reduce this complex phenomenon into a deficiency in workers, labelling it as poor ‘employability’ and arguing it as State failure in skilling. In fact, what labour market participants lack is the skill requirements that are ever changing in firms. Firms are best placed to know what skills are needed, and not the State. Firms are best placed to train the workers, not the State. Firms are the prime gainers in skill training, not the public. The Government could at best facilitate producers to undertake skill training. The innovative German programme on skilling can inform us. State of traditional industries Meanwhile, industrial transformation has pushed many into frictional unemployment, due to their inability to move from one sector to another. Even while Kerala entered a high-growth trajectory in the 1990s driven by the services, the traditional industries and agriculture sectors remained stagnant. These traditional agro-based industries are now competing in the global markets with not only competitor firms but even substitute products — for instance, coir with its plastic variant. Many such industries, such as cashew, are either moving out from Kerala or are being out competed in export markets. Having joined these sectors at an early age and worked throughout their lives, workers in these sectors are trapped in these ‘sunset’ industries, surviving on subsistence incomes and welfare support. With shrinking incomes and no alternative employment, these households are being driven to penury. The State must devise mechanisms to survive their lives with dignity. Small and marginal farmers, and petty service providers suffer from poor incomes despite their efforts, a form of underemployment. Effective interventions can encourage collectivisation to overcome size-related diseconomies. New forms of collectives such as Kudumbasree and the new initiative of the Cooperative Initiative for Agriculture Infrastructure in Kerala (CAIK), are encouraging. Nevertheless, history must guide us to steer clear of the cooperative failures in the past, marred by poor incentive structures, rent seeking and political intervention. Vinoj Abraham is Professor, Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-kerala-the-need-to-budget-for-the-future/article34875251.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||An invitation for a virtual conversation||In 2012, when I was appointed the Readers’ Editor (RE) of this newspaper, I came up with different working methodologies to fulfil the various strands of the mandate under the binding Terms of Reference. One of the tasks assigned to the RE was “to look for ways of improving the paper’s work and performance, in the broadest sense, by collating and analysing readers’ concerns, ideas, and suggestions and identifying possible new or alternative courses of action and ways to develop the paper for the benefit of its readers and the paper itself”. Reaching out to the newspaper There are three conventional forums through which readers reach out to the newspaper: they write letters to the editor, letters to the RE, and express their opinion in the below-the-line comment section of the web edition of the newspaper. A careful analysis of these comments brought out a simple truth starkly: readers comment on specific news reports and not on the newspaper as a whole. A newspaper is a jigsaw puzzle, where each piece is tied to another in an organic manner. Editorial judgment is the suturing tool which brings these pieces together. The idea that a responsible newspaper is an interlocking public flows from this. In 2013, we organised the first Open House for The Hindu ’s readers in Chennai. Even while inviting readers for this event, I made it clear that a newspaper is not a consumer product; it is a public institution, a common good, and a public sphere despite its private ownership. Over a period of time, I have argued that the legacy media, such as The Hindu , can retain the space for the classical four ‘d’s’ of democracy — discussion, dissent, debate and, finally, informed decision. I have also written that digital platforms, despite all the possibilities they offer, often tend to become ideological silos, where common ground is elusive. Based on this premise, I managed to host several Open House discussions across cities. These paved the way for a free and frank exchange of ideas between the editorial team, led by the Editor himself, and a vast cross-section of readers. These meetings brought together the various expectations that readers have of the the newspaper in different cities. It helped us realise that a one-size-fits-all approach is not only a bad policy for governance but also for a multi-edition newspaper. The last Open House was held on February 1, 2020, in Vijayawada. As I had mentioned in my column, ‘The language of grief’ (March 23, 2020), we had to call off the Open House that we had planned to celebrate 50 years of this newspaper in Bengaluru. Virtual meetings While the news cycle moved to being distinctly digital, with virtual meetings becoming the norm, I was still holding on to my belief that a physical meeting is more ideal for dialogue than the virtual space. I was desperately hoping that the pandemic would soon become endemic and we could meet each other for a hearty exchange of views and ideas. But I am not a Luddite to shun the possibilities afforded by science and technology. In fact, as early as in 2015, we hosted a virtual Open House to mark The Hindu ’s digital presence. Though we gained a lot from our distant interactions with our readers, it certainly lacked the compact of a physical meeting. However, the severity of the pandemic has changed the dynamics of conversation. More people are now comfortable talking to each other virtually. The lockdown-imposed reality has forced us to reach out to each other in the cyberworld. And so, we have decided to host a virtual Open House on July 17, a Saturday. We solicit readers to write to us a brief note about themselves if they are interested in attending the virtual Open House. Though technology permits any number of participants, we would like to limit participation to 100 readers in order to have an effective conversation. Your personal note will help us invite people from different parts of India and ensure wider participation. We propose to have the session between 11:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. The objective of the Open House remains the same: to listen to readers closely to find out what they are interested in and to explain some salient features of the newspaper’s working. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-invitation-for-a-virtual-conversation/article34875254.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Hope and promise||Signalling a revival of the political process in Jammu and Kashmir, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to meet 14 party leaders from the Union Territory on June 24. Mr. Modi’s outreach is taking place nearly two years after the State of Jammu and Kashmir was stripped of its special constitutional status and dismembered into two Union Territories through an unprecedented exercise of the Centre’s powers. This demonstrates a desirable flexibility in his approach towards resolving the Kashmir issue. Considering the absence of an agenda for the meeting and the prevailing sense of betrayal among Kashmiris, any hope of a quick resolution to the frozen political questions is not realistic. Discontinuing the special status of Kashmir was a core agenda of Hindutva nationalism for decades, which was achieved after the second parliamentary victory of Mr. Modi in 2019. There has been a concerted campaign to undermine political parties and leaders of the Valley by the BJP and the Centre. Since 2014, the BJP has worked under a premise that the PDP and NC were impediments, not facilitators, to a solution in Kashmir. The BJP’s short-lived alliance with PDP, far from building bridges, created more hostility between the parties and de-legitimised both in the eyes of the public. The leaders of mainstream parties, including former Chief Ministers, were jailed after 2019. The Centre’s idea to incubate a loyal political class made little progress. The political environment has changed, meanwhile. The Joe Biden administration is eager to end the U.S. entanglement in Afghanistan and resist China’s attempts to dominate the world. India is in a stand-off with China on the border. The Biden administration is publicly disapproving of India’s Kashmir policy, while wanting to strategically embrace it. Pakistan is trying to reclaim its strategic advantage. The mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic has dented India’s global image and triggered new political challenges domestically. All these make rigidity less rewarding in India’s Kashmir policy. All the same, by creating an opportunity to explore a way forward, the Centre has acted wisely, regardless of its reasons. It must engage the political parties in good faith and with an open mind. Kashmir’s governance challenges are not managerial, and corruption investigations, legitimate as they may be, must not be used to debase politics itself. Efforts to tackle corruption and pilferage should not amount to furthering instability in J&K. The Centre appears to have done some groundwork, though it has not revealed any plans yet. The meeting must be a beginning towards a durable and democratic resolution of the Kashmir question and not an exercise in managing the Centre’s image.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hope-and-promise/article34875242.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The rise of Raisi||With the election of Ebrahim Raisi, a hardline cleric, as Iran’s President, the Islamic Republic’s ruling clergy have tightened their grip on all institutions of power — the military, Parliament, the judiciary, and the presidency. In Iran’s unique political system, effectively controlled by the Supreme Leader, Presidents, who run the day-to-day affairs, have an important role to play. In the past, the country had seen tensions between moderate/reformist Presidents and the Supreme Leader. While the reformists, a powerful constituency, have pushed for gradual reforms by rallying behind leaders like Mohammad Khatami and Hassan Rouhani, the conservatives always pushed back. In this tussle for power, Mr. Raisi has been the popular face of the establishment for years. He had contested the 2017 presidential elections, but lost to Mr. Rouhani, who was seeking a second term. Believed to be close to Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, Mr. Raisi was appointed the Chief Justice in 2019, which kept him in the top echelons of power till the presidential elections. There were allegations that the June 18 election was rigged in favour of Mr. Raisi even before the first ballot was cast. The Guardian Council, which vets potential candidates, had rejected almost all major reformists, leaving him the only prominent figure on the ballot. This led to opposition activists calling for an election boycott, which seems to have had an impact on the voting — the turnout was 48.8%, an all-time low. Mr. Raisi won 62% of the vote, while blank ballots came second at 14%. Mr. Raisi is a controversial figure. The U.S. has accused him of serving in the “death commission” of 1989 that implemented Ayatollah Khomeini’s secret decree to execute thousands of political prisoners. At home, he has presided over a harsh campaign against “corruption”, which critics say had targeted political rivals. And he assumes the presidency at a time when Iran is facing daunting challenges. The revolution seems to be ageing — the country has seen protests in recent years; the push to reform the system from within, a long-time promise of the reformists, has not made much progress and the economy is in a shambles. When Mr. Rouhani won the presidency in 2013, he promised a new beginning. But his attempts to open a new chapter with the West through diplomacy were set back by Donald Trump, and his policies at home were resisted by the conservatives. Mr. Raisi, who has supported reviving the nuclear deal, might also bank on sanctions being removed to reboot the economy. And there is growing discontent in society and desperate calls for reforms and liberties. For now, Iran’s tactical response to these challenges is repression. Mr. Raisi, as President, should understand that repression will not solve any of Iran’s problems. A member of the clerical establishment, he should use his clout and the election victory to push for gradual economic and political reforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-rise-of-raisi/article34875243.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A matter of dress and discipline||The Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation, Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, recently directed all officials in the agency to dress in formal clothes while on duty. This means that all the male officers should wear collared shirts, formal trousers and shoes and all the women officers should wear sarees, suits, or formal shirts and trousers. Casuals are a strict no-no. Until a few decades back, there was no need to issue such an order. Police officers are normally trained to maintain decorum in office. But over the years, there has been more indiscipline, which has led to this situation. The enforcement of discipline originates from the top. The head of the organisation may himself be observing a proper dress code. But enforcement of discipline needs to flow down the line to the last man. Such enforcement builds up a culture and an ethos within the organisation. When I joined the Central Reserve Police Force for my basic training in Neemuch, most of my batchmates who wore printed shirts were asked to pack them and never to be seen in them again. Only plain, striped, or checked shirts were to be worn. The barber turned us into easily recognisable trainees by giving us crew cuts. All this instilled a sense of pride in us. Image of the police Decorum isn’t about clothes alone. The Director General (DG) of Bihar Police, S.K. Singhal, issued instructions recently to all personnel to not use their mobile phones while on duty, except in exceptional cases, as it “affects the image of the police”. A strict enforcement of this order will not only enhance the image of the police but will go a long way in improving the efficiency of the force. Alertness, the hallmark of efficiency in a police force, will produce the desired results. When the police are seen chatting on mobile phones while on duty, it tends to tarnish the image of the police. They are seen as being negligent and inefficient in the performance of their duties. The responsibility largely devolves on the junior officers to check their subordinates from using mobiles. A few years ago, the then DG of Bihar Police issued orders that police personnel should not sport any religious symbols on their uniforms or body that would indicate their religious leanings. The order was issued because many were sporting a ‘tilak’ on their foreheads while in uniform. As per regulations, policemen are debarred from wearing any religious marks on their face or uniform. Only Sikh personnel are permitted to wear turbans and grow a beard and moustache. There can be no compromise in projecting the secular nature of the police forces of the country. The Police Commissioner of Delhi, S.N. Shrivastava, recently raised objections to civil defence volunteers donning the khaki, an exclusive preserve of the police. A civil defence volunteer was recently arrested for posing as a sub-Inspector and prosecuting those who were violating COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. The matter is being taken up by the Ministry of Home Affairs. When the police are smartly dressed and conduct themselves in a professional manner, they command the respect of the general public. Pot-bellied policemen project a bad image of the force. The Central Armed Police Forces rightly introduced the concept of an annual medical examination in the late nineties for all the personnel. This has not only kept them trim and fit but has also ensured that they are always in good health. Any medical deficiency can result in their losing promotions. Once the pandemic ends, it is hoped that the health sector shows drastic improvement. It would be a step in the right direction if medical examinations are introduced in all government departments. If this is done, health issues can be detected in the initial stages and treated early. The Central and State governments should issue orders as part of the conduct rules that all employees must be in formal wear when attending office. When private companies can enforce a dress code, there is no reason why government services shouldn’t. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-matter-of-dress-and-discipline/article34875258.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Mediation on Bangla Desh||The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, said to-day [June 20] that “butchery in Bangla Desh” would have to stop first before India took part in any mediation efforts on the issue. She was answering questions on developments in Bangla Desh and the resultant problem of six million refugees on Indian soil at a 30-minute news conference here [Srinagar] at the conclusion of her visit to Kashmir valley. On recognition of Bangla Desh, the Prime Minister made it clear that the time for it “has not come yet.” It was for the Government to decide what was good for the country, she added, and not what some people said or demanded. India, said Mrs. Gandhi, would continue to watch the situation as it developed in Bangla Desh. Just now it had no specific solution to the problem. She went on: “I only know that we are not going to allow them (refugees) to stay on here — neither shall we allow them to be butchered there.” Asked what India planned to do if Pakistan failed to respond to Indian pleas, she replied: “We will see what the situation is” and went on to add in a lighter vein: “as I love the press, I do not think I shall tell them first.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mediation-on-bangla-desh/article34875252.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.Please tell me about the best health insurance policy for a family of 4 with a monthly income of Rs. 35,000?  MUHAMMAD ASIF RAO A.You haven’t said how old your family members are, so let us go by the assumption of a couple in the late 30s and two children in the 10 to 12 years’ range. A basic hospitalisation policy with a family floater sum insured of at least Rs. 5 lakh would be good to begin with. This would cost between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 12,000 a year. The premium amount could make one hesitate, but a floater sum insured is cost-effective and the coverage is value-for-money as you are protected against harsh hospital expenses. Having said that, if you have the option of an employer medical insurance scheme that should be your first option. You can cover your spouse and children and, depending on the scheme, your parents as well. As to what cover to choose, check a policy called Arogya Sanjeevani. It is a standardised policy that each general insurance company or health insurance company ought to offer. Every insurer’s Arogya Sanjeevani policy will have the exact same policy benefits but with different premium rates. You can do an Internet search and see what this policy premium works out to for your family and choose the best option. Q.I have been married for three years. My wife is pursuing her Ph.D. and doesn’t have any regular income. I am looking for a life insurance plan for her as I already have a term policy in my name. No insurer would provide any term plan as she did not have regular income. Please advise. SANTHOSH GEORGE A.Life insurance is an income protection for the dependents of the life assured. From that point of view, insurance companies base the amount of insurance they will offer on the earning capacity of the prospective life assured. An income is also the basis of verifying whether the prospect can afford regular premium payment to keep the policy alive. These would be the reasons why you have found it difficult to get your wife a term insurance policy. This is not to say that it is not possible for her to buy life insurance. Please talk more in detail with the company that gave you your term insurance policy and set out the details of your family finances and future career prospects after she finishes her doctoral studies. Past employment history, if any, would also help establish her prospects in the employment market. Investments, earnings from investment and property belonging to your wife will give them comfort on premium paying capacity. One way to make a breakthrough may be to try to buy a small policy. You can always add further sum assured by way of additional policies later. Q.I had taken an annuity policy with a premium-paying period of 10 years. I discontinued premium payment in early 2020, having paid Rs. 10 lakh in two years. As per the policy terms and conditions the policyholder may surrender his policy after a period of five years from the commencement of the policy and the fund value under the base policy (including top-ups) less applicable discontinuance charges, if any, will be paid to the policyholder according to the following options: 1. To commute to the extent allowed under Income Tax Act (0 to 33.33%) and the balance must be applied to purchase immediate annuity from the same insurer which shall be guaranteed for life, at the prevailing annuity rate or 2. To utilise the surrender value either to purchase a single premium deferred pension product of the same type from the company, if any. I request you to explain how to assess these options are worked out.  C. SATISH A.Any annuity plan requires you to use the bulk of the fund value/ maturity value on the vesting date or on surrender to buy an annuity policy from the same life insurance company. You have the option of taking up to 33.33% of the fund value as a commutation and this will be tax-free. The remainder of the fund value has to be used to buy an annuity. Here, you have two options. An immediate annuity, which means your pension amount from this policy will start immediately and be paid at the frequency you opt for through the rest of your life. You may have a few options to consider on that such as return of purchase price and so on. The other is a deferred annuity, which means you make the purchase now and opt for an annuity to start on a date of your choosing, a.k.a. the vesting date. They would have options on how late that vesting date can be depending on your age. Deferred annuity would give you a better annuity amount than an immediate annuity simply due to the future value of present money. As for information from the company, please ask them in writing for clarifications and they are bound to give you the information you require. You can also read your policy bond and read up information about this specific policy on the company’s website. Since your policy can be surrendered by 2023, you have time to do the research.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article34875233.ece
21 June 2021||SOUTHAMPTON,||Jamieson show puts New Zealand on top||New Zealand’s Kyle Jamieson completed an impressive five-wicket haul before India’s bowlers starred on the third day of the inaugural World Test Championship final at Southampton on Sunday. An absorbing day of high-quality cricket, cut short by bad light despite the floodlights being on full beam, ended with New Zealand 101/2 in reply to India’s first innings 217, a deficit of 116 runs. Conway falls New Zealand opener Devon Conway fell for 54 shortly before stumps — his third score of over fifty in just five Test innings following the 29-year-old left-hander’s stunning 200 on debut against England at Lord’s this month. Jamieson is also in the early stages of his Test career yet the towering paceman still had a miserly return of 5/31 in 22 overs, including 12 maidens. The 26-year-old’s fifth five-wicket haul in just eight Tests included the prize scalps of India captain Virat Kohli and Rishabh Pant. In a match marred by weather interruptions —-- Friday’s first day was washed out without a ball bowled —-- India resumed on 146/3. Kohli was 44 not out and Ajinkya Rahane unbeaten on 29. But Kohli failed to add his score when Jamieson got a full-length delivery to nip back and strike the star batsman on the front pad. Kohli reviewed Michael Gough’s lbw decision but the English umpire’s ‘out’ verdict was upheld to end a stand of 61. The usually free-scoring Pant needed 20 balls to get off nought, with a four through midwicket off Jamieson. Two balls later, however, Jamieson dismissed the wicketkeeper when Pant, drove loosely outside off stump and was well caught at second slip by Tom Latham. Rahane had batted in composed fashion. But, one run shy of a fifty, the vice-captain was cramped trying to pull a Wagner short ball and lobbed a simple catch to Latham, now at midwicket. India’s 211/7 at lunch became 213/9 soon afterwards when Jamieson dismissed Ishant Sharma and Jasprit Bumrah with successive deliveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jamieson-show-puts-new-zealand-on-top/article34875344.ece
21 June 2021||Hyderabad,||TCA’s threat to HCA||Telangana Cricket Association, which has been organising inter-district tournaments in different age groups and whose request for affiliation is under consideration with the BCCI, will take serious action against Hyderabad Cricket Association in making any moves in districts, according to TCA general secretary Guruva Reddy. Guruva Reddy, in a statement on Sunday, said that anything HCA does in the districts without consulting TCA and the BCCI would be illegal. “First of all, HCA president Mohd. Azharuddin is no longer the HCA president as per their Apex Council. And, the HCA itself is not supposed to make new moves in districts without BCCI’s written consent since TCA has already successfully claimed, proven and established the fact through courts and BCCI meetings,” he said. TCA is in control “The TCA has been controlling the BCCI format of cricket in the districts for the last seven years. And, HCA has no presence outside Hyderabad for the last 75 Years,” he said. “Even more, the newly-formed districts are not part of the HCA Constitution. The TCA has a clearly defined jurisdiction, claimed and considered by the BCCI, over all the districts outside Hyderabad,” he said. “Hence, the letters and appointments issued by Azharuddin (naming representatives of districts in the HCA) are irrelevant and do not Comply with the BCCI Constitution. “TCA Affiliation is in the final stages of approval in BCCI procedures. Azhar’s announcements are null and void in terms of plans or activity with HCA name for or in Telangana Districts,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tcas-threat-to-hca/article34875548.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||India women present a strong case for more Tests||The great escape to draw on Saturday at Bristol is the latest chapter in the fascinating, and increasingly popular, story of Indian women’s cricket. Here was a team, with five debutants, playing its first Test in seven years against a far more experienced host. Here was a team staring at defeat, following on and just 75 runs ahead. There were only two wickets in hand and plenty of overs to bat with two debutants at the crease. Between them, Sneh Rana and Taniya Bhatia had lasted 22 balls in the first innings. So England must have been hoping to get the last two Indian wickets quickly. In no mood to oblige Sneh and Taniya, however, were in no mood to oblige. They blunted, tormented and attacked the formidable England line-up, as they stayed firm for more than 30 overs. Their unbroken 104-run stand for the ninth wicket gave India a draw that captured the imagination of cricket lovers. So much so, Sneh was trending on Twitter. The unbeaten 80 wasn’t her only contribution; she had taken four wickets with her off-spin in the England innings. She was making a comeback to international cricket after five years, and two months after losing her father. Sneh, though, is only one of the success stories for India from Bristol. There is Shafali Verma, the 17-year-old who scored 96 and 63. She had been thought of so much as a T20 specialist that she wasn’t even given an ODI cap. It was remarkable how the likes of Shafali and Taniya — the 23-year-old wicketkeeper known for her smart stumpings — adapted to the demands of a Test match despite playing little to no red-ball cricket. All-rounder Deepti Sharma, also making her debut, impressed with both bat and ball. She took three wickets in the England innings, including the big one of skipper Heather Knight. Deepti remained unbeaten in the first innings, and promoted to No. 3 in the second, she delivered with a gritty half-century. Multi-day cricket is a rarity on India’s domestic circuit. As for Tests, before Bristol, the Indian women had won three in a row (2006, Taunton; 2014, Wormsley and Mysuru). Getting noticed India’s heroics and the exciting cricket on all four days would surely have won new followers for the women’s game. There is a pink-ball Test to come later in the year in Australia. Captain Mithali Raj and Co. want to play more Tests. Certainly not at a rate of one in seven years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-women-present-a-strong-case-for-more-tests/article34875339.ece
21 June 2021||Chennai,||Kohli’s journey to world-beater||When Virat Kohli walked into the ground in Southampton on Sunday, it marked, to this day, exactly 10 years for him in Test cricket. And the transformation in him since his Test debut has been remarkable. In fact, this writer was at the press box in Sabina Park, Kingston, Jamaica, 2011, when a young Kohli played his maiden Test. And, soon after he began his first Test knock, Kohli became an object of mirth with the West Indian scribes. Fidel Edwards, deceptively quick with a nasty short ball, got Kohli to hop around with a short leg in place. Uncomfortable And Kohli was clearly uncomfortable, often jumping awkwardly to keep these deliveries down instead of going for the hook or the pull or swaying away, or ducking. And we heard voices. “He cannot play the short ball, maan,” said one of the local scribes. Edwards fired out Kohli early in both the innings; in the second he fell to a delivery aimed at his ribs. During the practice sessions on the tour, Kohli would have tennis balls bounced at him. He had to keep his feet on the ground, watch the ball. And when India toured Australia in 2011-12, the fiercely determined Kohli turned things around. At the lively Perth pitch, he hooked and pulled, coming up with scores of 44 and 75. Then he conjured a magnificent 116 in the Adelaide Test. Kohli had arrived on the big stage. Now he is a giant in the game with 70 international hundreds, 27 of them in Tests. From a tentative start to a world-beater, it has been a spirit-lifting journey by Kohli with a perfect 10 for dedication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohlis-journey-to-world-beater/article34875342.ece
21 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Milkha’s achievements are incomparable: Jyotirmoyee||Olympians from Bengal paid tribute to Milkha Singh, who passed away in Chandigarh on Friday night. Jyotirmoyee Sikdar, who won two gold medals in the 1998 Bangkok Asian Games, said Milkha’s achievements were incomparable. “Now athletes are getting so many facilities. Even we got some. But think of the time when a few years after independence, Milkha shone in international events without any facilities,” Jyotirmoyee told The Hindu on Saturday. “I remember getting a call from him when I won the two golds. I met him twice. When I introduced myself, he said, ‘Oh! You are Jyotirmoyee. Who does not know you?’ “Good that a film was made on him. Once I attended a school sports event and was delighted to see kids encouraging their friends by shouting ‘Bhag Milkha, Bhag.’ The film inspired the younger generation. He was a great athlete and it’s a sad day for Indian sports,” said Jyotirmoyee.  Another Olympian Soma Biswas, an Asian Games silver medallist, remembered Milkha as a legend who encouraged youngsters. An idol, says Soma “I met him for the first time during the 2001 Ludhiana National Games. He was an idol for all athletes. A few words of encouragement from him were enough for up-and-coming athletes like me. His death is a great loss to Indian sports,” said Soma. Gurbux Singh, a 1964 Tokyo Olympics gold medal-winning hockey player, remembered his contemporary Milkha. “In 1959, we had our hockey camp at the Yadavindra Singh Stadium in Patiala, where Milkha trained for the 1960 Olympics. Our captain Leslie Claudius was friendly with him. “Later, we both participated in the 1964 Olympics. Milkha was a great icon of Indian sports and had a long and fruitful life,” said Gurbux.  Think of the time when a few years after independence, Milkha shone in international events without any facilities— Jyotirmoyee   We both participated in the 1964 Olympics. Milkha was a great icon of Indian sports— Gurbux Singh,former hockey player||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkhas-achievements-are-incomparable-jyotirmoyee/article34875417.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Milkha’s Hyderabad connection||‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh had an emotional connect with Hyderabad City! The sight of the legendary athlete kissing the ‘hallowed ground’ of the EME Artillery Centre on November 29, 2014 (his last visit to the City) would have been frozen in the memory of all those assembled there on the occasion. Milkha Singh, 86 then, was in the City as brand ambassador of the Hyderabad 10K Run. He recalled the support he received from everyone at the EME Centre when he was a fresh Army recruit in 1952. “How can I forget this place! It was here in 1952 that I was encouraged to take up athletics by my coach Havaldar Gurudev Singh,” Milkha Singh said then. Getting emotional “ Yeh to mujhe Gurudwara samaan hai (this EME Stadium is equivalent to a Gurdwara to me),” he said struggling to control his emotions. “I never knew about 200m or 400m when I started running. A group of 10 of us was made to run five km every day with the promise that the best would represent the Indian Army and the country in the competitions. And, I topped the group,” he recalled with a big smile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkhas-hyderabad-connection/article34875414.ece
21 June 2021||HALLE,||Humbert triumphs||France’s Ugo Humbert pulled off a surprise 6-3, 7-6(4) win over World No. 7 Andrey Rublev to claim his maiden ATP 500 title on the Halle grasscourts on Sunday. Humbert stepped up his Wimbledon preparations by producing a clinical display, winning 85% of his first-serve points and hitting nine aces to extend his perfect record in ATP Tour finals to 3-0. Meanwhile in London, Italian top seed Matteo Berrettini marked himself down as a genuine Wimbledon threat after beating Britain’s Cameron Norrie 6-4, 6-7(5), 6-3 to win the Queen’s Club title on Sunday. The 25-year-old used his huge serve and forehand to great effect once again to claim his fifth career title and become the first Italian champion at the prestigious event.  Other results (final): German Open: Ludmilla Samsonova bt Belinda Bencic 1-6, 6-1, 6-3.   Birmingham Classic: Ons Jabeur bt Daria Kasatkina 7-5, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humbert-triumphs/article34875374.ece
21 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||A dream come true for youngsters||For the 20-odd shuttlers from the Suchitra Academy it is a dream come true. They are part of Team Sindhu as the world champion prepares for next month’s Tokyo Olympics. These boys and girls, handpicked by head coach Pradeep Raju at the academy, have been sparring partners for P.V. Sindhu for the last three months at the Gachibowli Indoor Stadium where she has been training under the Sports Authority of India-appointed Korean coach Park Tae Sang. Training “I am training on my own under the guidance of Park and with these huttlers as sparring partners,” said Sindhu. These inexperienced but talented shuttlers have graduated from junior level to senior after being ranked in the top four in their respective age groups. Enjoying it “Thanks to Pradeep sir, I am getting the right kind of sparring partners every day and I am enjoying the simulated match conditions being programmed by Park,” Sindhu said. Pradeep Raju sends a different set of two to three players daily for Sindhu’s training. For instance, if she wants to improve her attack, the best defensive player will be there and if the choice of Sindhu is to focus on defence, the most aggressive young talent will be there. “We know Sindhu’s requirements pretty well. And, it is not just sparring alone. We do a lot of video analysis also to ensure that the necessary corrections and improvements are made,” said Pradeep.  “It is mutually beneficial as these young shuttlers also gain great experience by playing against her,” he added. Twenty-year-old Abhyansh says it is a once in a lifetime opportunity to train with a world champion and in the process of helping Sindhu, he is definitely improving his own game. “There is so much to learn even as we help her,” he said. Pleased Pradeep said that sending these shuttlers is in sync with Park’s programme and that he was really pleased with the variety of players available. “The objective of everyone involved in the whole programme is to ee Sindhu clinch gold in Tokyo,” he signed off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-dream-come-true-for-youngsters/article34875547.ece
21 June 2021||PARIS,||Indian women archers fail to bag team quota||India lost to Colombia 6-0 in a second round match of the final archery qualifying event for the Tokyo Olympic Games and failed to earn a women’s team quota place here on Sunday. The trio of Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat gathered 1992 points to place second behind Mexico (1993) in the ranking round. India got a bye in the first round, but lost to 15th-ranked Colombia — comprising Ana Rendon, Valentina Giraldo, Maria Sepulveda — in the next round. Colombia won 55-54, 51-49, 53-52 to collect six set points and advance to the quarterfinals. India has bagged a men’s team quota place and Deepika the lone individual spot for the Tokyo OLympic Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-women-archers-fall-short/article34875366.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Team MRF Tyres wins Pohjanmaa Ralli||Team MRF Tyres’ Emil Lindholm and Reeta Hamalainen won the Pohjanmaa Ralli, the fourth round of the Finnish championship, on Saturday. The first win for MRF Tyres in the competition comes on the back of multiple podium finishes for Lindholm and Hamalainen. MRF Tyres’ success here follows its maiden win in the Italian Gravel Championship earlier in the month. “It is amazing to win here. This result shows the pace of development from the entire team at Team MRF Tyres and we should all be proud of our work,” said Lindholm. “Coming into the weekend, I was aiming for a good result but never dreamt of a victory. But the car and the tyres felt great all weekend. This rally is very fast, with some stages having an average speed of more than 120km/h. Today [Saturday], we took four stage wins and two-second places. It is a great result,” added Lindholm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-mrf-tyres-wins-pohjanmaa-ralli/article34875372.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Olympic organisers working on safe stay of Indian athletes’||The Tokyo Olympic organisers are working on how to ensure safe stay and seamless training of the Indian athletes inside the Games Village, according to a letter they have sent to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA). The Indian athletes and officials travelling for the Olympics have been asked by the Japanese government to undergo daily COVID-19 tests for a week prior to their departure and not to interact with anyone from another country for three days upon arrival, strictures that have left the IOA fuming.  Terming the rules as “unfair and discriminatory”, the IOA had written to the Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic Games (TOCOG). In its reply, TOCOG said: “Tokyo 2020 is working to define how athletes of your NOC as well as from other 10 countries and all other 195 NOCs can stay safe in the Villages and have training. “We hope to provide you with those information and discuss together as soon as possible,” the Games organisers said in a letter to the IOA. The IOA, on its part, said that its president Narinder Batra and secretary-general Rajeev Mehta were in discussion with TOCOG and seeking clarifications on the conditions imposed on the Indian contingent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-organisers-working-on-safe-stay-of-indian-athletes/article34875422.ece
21 June 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI lends support to India’s Olympic campaign||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Sunday approved upto Rs. 10 crore as support for India’s Olympic campaign. The BCCI apex council approved the proposal in an emergent meeting after it received a request from the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports.  The Hindu understands that, in line with the BCCI rulebook, the council has decided to release Rs. 2.5 crore as liquid funds and a maximum of Rs. 7.5 crore for running a promotional campaign in the lead-up to the Games, which start on July 23. “The BCCI has always been supportive of India’s sporting movement. We are happy to help the national sports fraternity,” an apex council member told The Hindu . “The liquid component will be utilised for logistical requirements of the contingent whereas the remaining funds will be used to create a buzz for the Olympic campaign.” “Since the BCCI constitution doesn’t allow more than Rs. 2.5 crore to be released as cash for such a cause, the remaining amount will be directed towards the agencies that will run the marketing campaign.” Earlier on Sunday, the BCCI office-bearers briefed select State associations about supporting the Olympic contingent. Compensation package Meanwhile, the apex council also formed an 11-member working group to decide on the compensation package for scores of domestic cricketers and officials who are waiting to be compensated for the loss of matches due to the pandemic. The group includes office-bearers and a representative from each of the BCCI zones. In December last year, the BCCI AGM had decided to form a group to work on the compensation package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-lends-support-to-indias-olympic-campaign/article34875340.ece
21 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chess Kerala donates fund to CMDRF||Chess Kerala has donated Rs. 3,46,106 to Kerala Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) from the proceeds of the Chess Kerala Covid Vaccine Challenge Grand Prix 2021 series.   Chess Kerala vice-president and former international player Joe Parapilliy handed over the amount to Kerala Higher Education minister R. Bindhu in Thrissur on Sunday. Chess Kerala has been organising the eight-leg grand prix series from from May 30 to July 18 to gather funds to support State government’'s effort to provide free vaccination for all. The tournament, whose fourth leg will be played on Sunday, has attracted more than 250 players who have contributed a minimum of Rs. 300 towards the cause. Notable contributions have come from GM P.V. Sasikiran, IM Varugeese Koshy, IM Ravi Hegde, IM Anup Deshmukh, former junior national champion Gurpreet Pal Singh; former State champions Sethu Varma, Sreedevi Varma, P.V. Lalitha, K.S. Preetha and from veteran chess player K.K. Praveen Kumar. Last year Chess Kerala had contributed Rs. 4,55,078 to CMDRF from the proceeds of Checkmate Covid-19 international blitz event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chess-kerala-donates-fund-to-cmdrf/article34875581.ece
21 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Chhetri signs new two-year deal with BFC||Sunil Chhetri has signed a new two-year deal to keep him at Bengaluru FC (BFC) at least until 2023, the club announced on Sunday. Chhetri, 36, will now extend his stay with Bengaluru into a 10th season, having first put pen to paper back in 2013. Chhetri has made 203 appearances for the club, scored 101 goals and has led the club since its inception. Under him, BFC won the I-League title in 2013-14 and again in 2015-16, with the Federation Cup (2015, 2017), Indian Super League (2018-19) and Super Cup (2018) being the other pieces of silverware. “I’m really happy to have signed on for two more years at Bengaluru FC. The city is home now, and the people at this club are like family to me. It feels like just yesterday that I signed for the first time here, and I have to say the journey has been nothing short of special,” a media release quoted Chhetri as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chhetri-signs-new-two-year-deal-with-bfc/article34875368.ece
21 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Top TN athletes for National inter-State meet||A few of the prominent athletes who will represent Tamil Nadu in the 60th National inter-state athletics meet to be held in Patiala from June 25 to 29, according to a press release from Tamil Nadu Athletic Association here on Sunday. In total, 31 athletes (17 men & 14 women) will participate from the State.  The top athletes:   Men: S. Arokia Rajiv (200m & 400m), T. Santhosh (400m), P. Naganathan (400m), K. Elakkiyadasan (100m, 200m), Nithin (200m), Dhanalakshmi (100m, 200m); Women: Archana (100m, 200m), Subha (400m) and Revathi (200m, 400m) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-tn-athletes-for-national-inter-state-meet/article34875416.ece
21 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Sindhu’s salute||The legendary Milkha Singh was a great inspiration to generations of Indian athletes, said P.V. Sindhu. Sindhu said she had spent some time with him at an awards ceremony and shared thoughts on the contemporary sports scenario. “He was such a humble person despite his stature. It was an unforgettable meeting and it is sad that he is no longer with us,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhus-salute/article34875413.ece
21 June 2021||EUGENE,||Richardson wins 100m||An emotional Sha’Carri Richardson surged to 100m victory at the US Olympic track and field trials in Oregon on Saturday, punching her ticket to Tokyo in 10.86 seconds. The 21-year-old Texan streaked over the line at Hayward Field and moments later revealed that her win came after a week in which she learned of the death of her biological mother. Javianne Oliver finished second in 10.99s while Teahna Daniels was third in 11.03s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/richardson-scorches-to-100m-victory/article34875483.ece
21 June 2021||Gros Islet,||West Indies skittled out for 149||Heavy morning showers resulted in the first session of the third day getting washed out as umpires called early lunch on Sunday in the second Test between West Indies and South Africa. On the second day, South Africa’s bowlers backed up a solid batting performance to put the Proteas in a command. Kagiso Rabada, Lungi Ngidi and Anrich Nortje crashed through the West Indies’ top and middle order while Wiaan Mulder took three wickets for one run to wrap up the tail as South Africa bowled out the home side for 149 in exactly two sessions. South Africa made 298 in its first innings. Shai Hope made 43 and Jermaine Blackwood scored 49.  The s cores:   South Africa 298 vs West Indies 149 in 54 overs (Shai Hope 43, Jermaine Blackwood 49, Wiaan Mulder 3/1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-skittled-out-for-149/article34875346.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tejaswini beats Riddhi, stays ahead||G, Tejaswini defeated Riddhi Patel to maintain her all-win record and stayed in the lead after seven rounds of National girls’ (under-14) online rapid chess tournament on Sunday. Aahana Pachchigar and M.S. Harshavardhini (6.5 points each) shared the second spot after comprehensive victories over top seed Shivika Rohilla and third seed Mrittika Mallick (5.5 each), respectively. Four rounds remain in the event that has attracted over 300 players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tejaswini-beats-riddhi-stays-ahead/article34875369.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gurpreet remembers Milkha’s advice||“Tumhe rukna nahi hai (you cannot stop)”, these words from Millkha Singh still inspires Indian football goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu who says Milkha’s advice helped him fight challenges during his European stint. “He told me ‘Hard work has no replacement. I even used to vomit blood at times after training but you cannot stop!” he said in an AIFF release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gurpreet-remembers-milkhas-advice/article34875419.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 09:44 IST,||Sudoku — June 20, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-20-2021/article34876239.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||An idea whose time has gone?||If you have lived through the result seasons of the Class 10 and 12 board exams, you know what a mark obsessive culture is. In theory, marks indicate a student’s unbiased performance; but, in practice, it tells very little about the person. At best, it informs how well the student has remembered the content within a time limit. Researches tell a different story. The grading culture Three decades ago, Ruth Butler explores three types of feedback: scores alone, comments alone, and scores with comments. It turned out that those who received scores alone either became complacent if they had performed well, or were unmotivated if they did badly. Students who received scores with comments focused more on scores, and not the comments. The third group who received comments alone significantly improved their performance Of late, neuroscientists have been questioning our understanding of exams and unified grading. In an article last year, neuroscientist Jared Horvath and educator David Bott said that the practice of marks and grades inflates some aspects of reality. And we all do not see reality in the same way. In a 2012 meta-analysis of around 800 studies by John Hattie, students’ self-assessment emerged as the most likely effective intervention, and not an externally validated score. Competition is touted as the main reason behind exams and grading. Contrarily, the works of Alfie Kohn in the last three decades have shown that competition in education results in curtailed creativity and reduced performance. While we need to train to collaborate to live in a resource-constrained future, we are doing the opposite through exams and marks. So, what sort of learning the traditional exams are promoting? Disposable learning Exams have never created good entrepreneurs, artists, or scientists, but have distracted many from real learning. The culture of grading obstructs real-world learning and limits student autonomy leading to disposable learning. While we applause diversity, marks promote monoculture mindset. Manish Jain of Shikshantar Andolan identifies the root of monoculture creation in schooling practices. Then, why do we depend on traditional exams and marks? Marks are convenient to measure and plot in a bell curve making it comparable for educators and employers. We pretend the process is transparent and fair but the core reason remains convenience, not learning improvement. By reducing learning to an average of marks, we ignore the richness of feedback and rigorous iterations required in authentic learning. While marks tangibilise the abstract like learning through exams, we mistake it for assessment. Assessment alternatives There are ways to assess the students without exams. Students need personalised assessments for improvements, not judgemental marks. So, what are those alternatives? Apply collaborative methods such as cooperative experiences, peer reviews, and simulations. Adopt portfolios and a variety of writing practices. Use qualitative rubrics with detailed comments, instead of numerical rubrics. Craft Open Methods such as open-net and take-home examinations. Then, the student becomes more transparent, and understands success more flexibly and contextually. The idea is to converse regularly with the students on their progress and construct their own learning. Exams and marks, as the core of the educational practice, are overrated. They are prescriptive, unfortunate, unviable, and unnecessary for the future world. As the hangover of the Industrial Age, they are rooted in archaic carrots and sticks. We need alternative evaluation methods. To begin with, if we permit and support our teachers and students to go beyond the traditional tests and experiment with internal assessments, there can be a dawn of alternative forms of evaluations. This is a demanding yet practical proposition. The evolving domain of evaluation science can aid this. Marks should neither be the driver nor the target of learning. At best, they may be a by-product of learning. As Joe Martin says, no teacher has ever had a former student return to say that an exam conducted by the teacher changed his life.  Disclaimer: Views expressed in this article are personal.  The writer is Education Officer, with University Grants Commission.  The culture of grading obstructs real-world learning and limits student autonomy leading to disposable learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/an-idea-whose-time-has-gone/article34875230.ece
21 June 2021||June 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The remote food photographer||In April 2020, wellness consultant Ishani Vellodi Reddy, one of photographer Sumanth Kumar’s long-time clients, approached him with a unique assignment. “She wanted me to photograph a few dishes for her website and social media,” he says. While this might sound like any other photoshoot, what set it apart was the fact that Vellodi is now based in the U.K. and Kumar in Chennai. “She sent me reference images of her dishes, such as the five-ingredient tomato feta sauce, vegan chocolate truffles, and tahini maple overnight oats,” says Kumar, who could only source the bare minimum cutlery during lockdown and relied on YouTube videos to make the dishes himself. “I failed miserably,” he admits. “Only my recreation of the sauce was approved, and Ishani almost dropped me from the project,” he added. So, Kumar — who quit a career as a news photographer in 2012 to take up freelance photography — went all out with the props and even got a chef to pitch in. “I bought all the cutlery and crockery I could lay my hands on at IKEA. My friend, Indrani Singh in Puducherry, dabbles in pottery and as she wasn’t getting a lot of work during the pandemic, I asked her to make stoneware plates, bowls and cups.” With experts on board, he gave the shoot a second chance — and it worked. Vellodi’s project was one of the first at his remote photography studio, Picture Palate. The lockdown initiative set up last year was an addition to his existing kitty of freelance projects with ITC Hotels, Hyatt Hotels, and the like. In May 2020, he landed his second assignment, for advertising firm 78 Design. “I shot their entire project on food ingredients over Zoom with art director Namashvi Desai,” Kumar says. The idea of a remote studio is “to be able to order pictures of food online, like you’d order food on a delivery app”. The only requirement from potential clients is reference pictures. And specific props, if any. While restaurants send images of dishes prepared during R&D, bloggers often send reference shots off the Internet. In the last year, he has shot images remotely for Vellodi; Dindigul Thalappakatti Restaurant; DANK, a restobar in Chennai; KSM Ashwagandha, and is in talks with an author in Pune for her new cookbook. From cocktails and shawarma platters to delicate desserts and even raw food shots, Kumar, 38, has done it all. While images shot for restaurants always use fresh ingredients (as digital menus can easily reveal detailing, that is, mock food), he says artificial products go into banners and book covers. “We use engine oil, shoe polish for glazing, half-cooked ingredients, silicone ice cream, acrylic ice cubes, and the like [to make the food pop],” says the artist. Lessons from the past While setting up a business during a pandemic can be risky, Kumar says it wasn’t as difficult for him — he’d had his first brush with remote photography five years ago with a cocktail book project (Westland) for Tulleeho Wine and Spirits Academy in New Delhi. “With the art director in Delhi, and a low budget, we decided to work remotely,” says Kumar, who hired a bartender, and sourced barware for it. “We created a WhatsApp group with the art directors, who’d improvise on my shots. We were done in 10 days,” he says. While Kumar was certain back then that this could be a possible career path, he had a tough time breaking into the market. “I wasn’t taken seriously, and people wouldn’t trust their projects with remote photography. So, in a way, the pandemic helped as it forced people to think from a remote state-of-mind.” Kumar’s studio, which he set up in three months in an independent house in Valasaravakkam, where he stays with his cat, is where the magic happens. The food is cooked by a team of chefs, home cooks, bakers, and food stylists, and then shot aesthetically. “I decided to use all the props from earlier shoots that I had tucked away. In the last year, I’ve spent almost Rs. 1 lakh to add planters, glassware, and artificial flowers to the inventory.” A majority of the garnishes come from the garden to ensure “the frame is fresh”. “I grow basil, rosemary, coriander, lemon, curry leaves, tomatoes and chillies, and will soon plant vegetables like radish and baby carrots,” says Kumar, who has brushed up his cooking skills over the last year too. “I make a great raw mango pickle now!” he says. A market abroad The photographer admits that there are times when working ‘in-person’ seems simpler. “It’s easier with an art director or client in your studio telling you to move the spoon by an inch to the right, or tuck the napkin more neatly under the plate,” says Kumar, who is also working on a recipe channel for his YouTube page, a cross-exchange of sorts. “Home bakers who don’t have a professional set-up can avail my services and, in turn, I will showcase their recipes on my feed,” he says. Since most hotels have in-house photographers, and food bloggers double up as photographers, I ask him where he sees his business heading. “I’m aiming for Indian restaurants across the globe. Not well-established ones, but hotels and cafes that can’t afford professional photographers,” he says. Now in talks with an international Andhra restaurant chain, a Sri Lankan restaurant in Australia, and a home baker in Dubai, he adds, “At the end of the day, food bloggers aren’t food photographers. We bring an elevated sense of quality, professionalism, and appeal. It’s almost like asking you to allow us to become a salesman for your restaurant!” Rs. 35,000 per day, for eight shots. Details: picturepalate.com and sumanthkumar.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-remote-food-photographer/article34875623.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Only 8% inmates inoculated in Delhi jails’||Only around eight per cent of the total inmates at Tihar jail, considered the largest prison in Asia, has been vaccinated against COVID-19 so far. Overall, too, the total number of inmates inoculated in the Delhi’s prison system so far, is a meagre eight per cent, according to the Delhi prisons administration. A senior officer said the vaccination drive among inmates has suffered due to scarcity of vaccines. Since the inoculation drive started, jail officials have put in a lot of efforts to convince prisoners to get vaccinated. Prison officials said that 1,615 persons over the age of 45 have been completely vaccinated so far in the three prison complexes, including Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli. Of over 20,000 inmates in Delhi jails, only 3,738 have received jabs that includes completely vaccinated and the inmates who received only the first dose. Vaccination for the 18-44 age group started at Tihar prison complex on May 18. A total of 1,991 inmates under the category have received the first dose of vaccination as of June 19. The officer added that dedicated staffers have been deployed to assist and complete the required paperwork of inmates for vaccination. Registration process The official is coordinating with family members of inmates to get a copy of their Aadhaar card to complete the registration process. Many inmates have voluntarily come forward for vaccination and also helped to convince their fellow inmates. Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said they are in constant touch with the authorities concerned over vaccination of inmates. “The vaccination drive is in full swing as per the protocol. Medical teams keep visiting jails for vaccination. We are in the process of making the process more smooth and quick,” said Mr. Goel. A senior officer said that there are over 20,000 inmates in Delhi prisons and the capacity of prisons is a little over 10,000. However, the jail administration said that they are making all possible efforts to keep the inmates safe and have been following all COVID-related protocols. “It is tough to maintain hygiene and COVID protocols in such a congested space. However, inmate wards are regularly sanitised and senior citizens are kept in separate wards for safety,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/only-8-inmates-inoculated-in-delhi-jails/article34875509.ece
21 June 2021||Ballia (U.P.),||Rajbhar in talks with AAP, TMC to form front||The president of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Om Prakash Rajbhar, on Sunday said that he is trying to bring Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, Aam Aadmi Party convener Arvind Kejriwal and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on a common platform, and form an effective front to counter the BJP. The SBSP had contested the 2017 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in alliance with the BJP but later parted ways. The Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are slated for early next year. Meeting with AAP leader “Yesterday, I met AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh, and his approach was positive. He has given in-principle approval to be a part of the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha. The final decision about joining the Morcha will be taken by Mr. Kejriwal. In this regard, there will be a meeting with Mr. Kejriwal in Delhi next week,” Mr. Rajbhar told PTI. When asked whether Mr. Kejriwal was ready to join the Morcha despite the presence of Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, the SBSP chief said, “The need of the hour is to stop the BJP. If the BJP can join hands with Mehbooba Mufti, then Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Owaisi too can come on the same platform to stop the BJP.” ‘TMC and Shiv Sena’ Mr. Rajbhar said, “My effort will be to bring TMC chief Ms. Banerjee and Shiv Sena president Mr. Thackeray on a platform, and form an effective front to counter the BJP.” The SBSP chief said he has already held talks with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and a general secretary of the TMC. Mr. Raut’s visit “Mr. Raut is likely to visit Lucknow soon, and decisive talks in this regard will be held with him,” Mr. Rajbhar said. In the 2017 Assembly elections, the SBSP contested eight seats and won four. Mr. Rajbhar was made a Cabinet Minister but he resigned later.  The need of the hour is to stop the BJP. If the BJP can join hands with Mehbooba Mufti, then Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Owaisi too can come on the same platform to stop the BJP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajbhar-in-talks-with-aap-tmc-to-form-front/article34875498.ece
21 June 2021||FARIDABAD,||We are not encroachers but victims, say Khori Basti residents||The husband and son of Bimlesh, a 48-year-old resident of Khori Basti here, had been in and out of work for a year now due to the pandemic. Pushed to a hand-to-mouth existence, the family, owning a small home in the colony, however, never had to worry about rent. But soon, arranging the rent every month could be their biggest concern once their home is demolished in adherence to a Supreme Court order. The woman and her husband, a private security guard, had borrowed money from their relatives and put all their life’s savings to buy the plot for around Rs. 3 lakh a decade ago. The couple was happy to finally have a roof over their heads. But the court order earlier this month to demolish the illegal houses in the forest area has turned their world upside down. “The people in the basti have lost their sleep and appetite over the fear of demolition. Just when the lockdown was being lifted and the people were gradually getting back to work, the administration pasted notices asking us to vacate our homes. Most of the people have been without work in the colony for a year now and are not left with any savings. The third wave of the coronavirus is around the corner. We don’t have enough to even rent a room. Where does the administration expect us to go in this situation?,” asked Bimlesh, in a choking voice. ‘No money’ Echoing her views, Nema Devi, sitting next to her, added that many had take rooms on rent in the neighbouring areas and shifted their expensive belongings such as refrigerators and television sets, and staying put in the colony with bare minimum essentials. She said rooms were hard to find and the landlords were quoting exorbitant rents – ranging from Rs. 6,000-Rs. 7,000 – to take advantage of the situation. “It is very difficult for us to arrange this money since we have been out of work for almost a year,” said Ms. Devi. The residents said the local administration had been making regular announcements asking them to vacate and two deadlines for demolition — June 9 and 15 — had already expired. The next deadline, said the residents, is June 21. “We have heard of at least three deaths connected with the demolition so far. While two people died by suicide out of fear of demolition, one suffered a heart attack,” claimed Bimlesh. The residents said the power connections to their homes were snapped a week ago and now even water tankers were not being allowed inside the colony. Mukesh, a rickshaw-puller, said the residents were fetching water from neighbouring Prahaladpur in bottles and bucket for their daily need. “There are children, elderly and pregnant women in the colony. It is really getting difficult for them to survive without power and water,” he said. The local property dealers with political clout allegedly sold plots to the residents, mostly migrants working as rickshaw-pullers, security guards, auto-rickshaw drivers, plumbers and masons, with powers of attorney and the promise of basic amenities. Saddam Hussain, a plumber, said he bought the plot hoping that it would also be regularised like Sangam Vihar in Delhi. “The plots were available at affordable rates. We are poor people. We could not get land at such cheap rates at any other place in the National Capital Region. So we bought a plot in partnership with my brother for Rs. 5 lakh,” said Mr. Hussain. He, however, blamed the administration for allowing the colony to develop on forest land and not doing anything to stop it for two decades. ‘None came to rescue’ “Be it the local police, the forest department officials or the civic body staff, all would come to us seeking bribe to allow construction. It was this ‘consent’ of the government officials which made us feel even more confident that our homes were safe. The property dealers also provided us power connections through private meters and would charge Rs. 14-Rs. 15 per unit,” said Pawan, a mason. He said local politicians would come to them seeking votes during election, but no one had come to their rescue in this hour of crisis. ‘Rehabilitate us’ Faced with the threat of losing all their life’s savings in a single stroke, the residents are now demanding that action must be taken against the land mafia for duping them into buying forest land and that they be rehabilitated. “We have not encroached upon the land. We have bought it. We have been duped. We are victims. The government should bail us out and rehabilitate us. We are ready to be shifted to any corner of the city, but not rendered homeless,” pleaded Mukesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/we-are-not-encroachers-but-victims-say-khori-basti-residents/article34875496.ece
21 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘If over 20 people wish to learn yoga, govt. will give them free instructor’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said yoga helps in cultivating high immunity and could not only help preventing people from getting COVID but also in dealing with post-COVID complications. He was speaking at the inauguration of the Delhi government’s Centre for Meditation and Yoga Sciences that has been set up in collaboration with the Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University (DPSRU). “The psychological and emotional needs aggravate quite a lot post-COVID. Hence, exercise and meditationare key to fighting the infection. COVID affects our lungs the most. For patients who have recovered from the virus, if we teachpranayamato them then they will benefit from it. In the COVID crisis, Yoga has a significant role to play in our lives,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The Chief Minister said it has been his dream to make yoga reach each and every house of Delhi and a specific budget was allotted for the purpose. “If a group of more than 20 people call up, saying that they wish to learn Yoga, then the government shall provide an instructor to them for free. I felt that this is the easiest way to drive our people towards yoga and provide them the means to practice it,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that by October 2, the government would be in a situation to provide instructors free-of-cost. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the government has started training around 450 yoga and meditation instructors, who in three months, will be able to go to different regions to teach people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/if-over-20-people-wish-to-learn-yoga-govt-will-give-them-free-instructor/article34875511.ece
21 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC not to interfere with order to ‘live-in partner’||The Delhi High Court has declined to interfere with a lower court’s interim decision to order a married man to pay Rs. 10,000 per month as maintenance to a woman with whom he allegedly had a live-in relationship for over six years. Man’s contention The court’s direction came even as the man contended that the woman, when they met way back in 2009, knew that he was married to somebody else, which barred her from claiming any relief under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence (DV) Act. “The question as to whether the respondent [woman] herein has been duped by the petitioner (man) or whether she was a party to an adulterous and bigamous relationship or not and whether her conduct would not entitle her for any protection under the DV Act can be determined only after the evidence is led,” Justice Subramonium Prasad settled. The case stems from a complex set of circumstances, which began with an application moved last year by the woman before a local court under the DV Act, seeking grant of interim maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-not-to-interfere-with-order-to-live-in-partner/article34875506.ece
21 June 2021||Guwahati,||Policemen in net as anti-drug drive intensifies||In May 2020, the police in Arunachal Pradesh’s West Kameng district arrested a Postmaster named Kalido Pertin for providing Rs. 1.15 lakh to procure 12.5 gm of heroin from Assam’s Tezpur. They also arrested an Indian Reserve Battalion constable who helped two drug-traffickers cross the Bhalukpong check gate on the Arunachal Pradesh-Assam border. The arrests confirmed what the State government had been suspecting for a long time — drug addiction among government employees. This culminated in the Pema Khandu government asking its employees to report their addiction to senior officers by July 31 this year for a rehabilitation programme, or face legal action. But the anti-drug drive in the State since May has led the security forces to their own. Less than a fortnight ago, Home Minister Bamang Felix said 25 out of 143 people booked in 100 drug-related cases were police personnel, two of whom have been dismissed from service. “Some police personnel in districts such as West Kameng, Papum Pare, Lower Subansiri, East Siang, Namsai, Changlang and Tirap are under the scanner,” he said almost a week after two Indian Reserve Battalion personnel posted in Arunachal Pradesh were arrested by the Assam police near the inter-State border. Constable peddles drug On June 13, a constable named Chillong Techi was arrested in Arunachal Pradesh’s Naharlagun with two others on suspicion of drug-peddling. The police recovered 68.24 gm of suspected heroin from them. More people were arrested after the constable confessed to having misused his uniform to peddle drugs into Naharlagun and State capital Itanagar from a kingpin operating from Banderdewa bordering Assam. Among the first persons in uniform to have been arrested this year for allegedly facilitating drug-trafficking was Sub-Inspector Musaddique Hussain of the Assam police’s Special Branch. Two drug dealers arrested from a Guwahati hotel in March had squealed about him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/policemen-in-net-as-anti-drug-drive-intensifies/article34875493.ece
21 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Scheme for children launched||The Naveen Patnaik Government on Sunday launched a special scheme, Ashirvad, under which Rs. 2,500 will be given every month to children who have lost their parents. Under the comprehensive package announced by the State government, beneficiaries have been divided into three categories — children who have lost both parents, loss of a single parent or loss of earning parent. “The State government is committed to providing a safe environment for holistic development of these children who need special care of the society,” said Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik here on Sunday. The State government would encourage relatives to take care of children who have lost their parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scheme-for-children-launched/article34875494.ece
21 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Haryana govt. extends curbs till June 28||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the COVID-19 lockdown in the State by another week till June 28, but eased restrictions imposed on weddings and funerals, and allowed corporate offices to operate with full attendance. According to an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan, up to 50 guests can now attend weddings and funerals or cremations, up from 21 earlier, subject to strict observance of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and social distancing. Corporate offices can now open with full attendance but there has to be strict observance of social distancing, COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and regular sanitisation, it said. Weddings can now take place in courts but processions are not allowed, the order said. It, however, said swimming pools and spas in the State would continue to remain closed. Club houses, restaurants and bars of golf courses are allowed to open with 50% seating capacity from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-govt-extends-curbs-till-june-28/article34875491.ece
21 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha govt. targets 3 lakh jabs per day||The Odisha government has directed all districts and civic body authorities to achieve 3 lakh vaccinations per day. As the Centre is revising the vaccine strategy from June 21 and has offered to supply vaccines to the State based on rate of consumption and wastage, more vaccine doses are likely to be available for disposal. Since January 16, the State has administered 93.73 lakh doses. However, only 17.97 lakh citizens have received two doses. “The average daily coverage is less than 1.5 lakh doses across the State. The vaccination drive must be expanded in all blocks and urban local bodies from June 21,” said Pradipta Mohapatra, Additional Chief Secretary (Health).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govt-targets-3-lakh-jabs-per-day/article34875492.ece
