22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks govt. decision on ex gratia payment||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the government whether it has taken a “decision” to not pay ex gratia to families who lost their loved ones to COVID-19. “Is there any decision taken that there is no need to pay ex gratia? Is there a decision or is it a case of ‘no decision’,” Justice Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. “Where is the decision that there is no need for ex gratia?”Justice M.R. Shah, the other judge on the Bench, also enquired. He even asked whether the government, by maintaining that COVID-19 was not a “one-time disaster”, was inferring that the Disaster Management Act would not apply to the pandemic. The questions from the Bench came even as the Union government clarified that it had money, but the focus was on utilising funds for food, medical care, oxygen, vaccination and pumping up the economy rather than pay a one-time compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each to families of people who died of COVID-19. ‘Twisted on Twitter’ “It is not that we do not have money… It is that our focus is rather on expenditure for other things [like public health interventions, social protection and economic recovery for the affected communities],” Mr. Mehta submitted. He said the contents of the government’s June 19 affidavit, explaining its financial priorities for COVID-19 management, was “twisted” and misrepresented on Twitter. Justice Shah said the government need not defend itself in court against what was said on Twitter. He, however, agreed that Mr. Mehta was right to clarify. “To say that the Centre has no money has wide repercussions,” he observed. Senior advocate S.B. Upadhyay, for the petitioners, said, “But if they do have the money, why should they not comply with their statutory obligation under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act to provide ex gratia to COVID-19 victims?” The government had itself declared COVID-19 a national disaster, he submitted. The petitioners have highlighted a 2015 notification, which requires the government to pay an ex gratia of Rs. 4 lakh each to victims’ families under Section 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-seeks-govt-decision-on-ex-gratia-payment/article34897315.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Record 82 lakh shots given in a day||More than 82 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered on Monday, the highest-ever in a day since the inoculation drive began in India. A total of 82,70,212 doses were administered across the country, including the first and second shots, till 9 p.m. According to the Union Health Ministry, the sharp spike was due to the “new phase of universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination which commenced from Monday”. As per the revised guidelines, the Centre will buy 75% of the doses from vaccine makers and give it to the State governments for free to inoculate all adults. Earlier free doses were provided by the Centre only to vaccinate the elderly and the frontline workers. The revision in the vaccination policy came after the number of doses administered daily started declining in May. Between May 11 and 20, only 15.7 lakh doses were administered on an average daily. The daily rate reduced due to a shortage of vaccines as most major States used 90% of all doses supplied to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-82-lakh-shots-given-in-a-day/article34897318.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Optional exams between Aug. 15 and Sept. 15: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) informed the Supreme Court on Monday that optional exams for Class 12 students unhappy with their assessment will be held “anytime between” August 15 and September 15. It clarified that results after the assessment would be declared by July 31. The Board, in a short additional affidavit, told the court that Class 12 exams for private/patrachar/second chance compartment candidates would also be conducted between August 15 and September 15 in accordance with the assessment policy for the academic year 2019-2020. “Their examinations shall be conducted in such a manner that they will fall within the Assessment Policy for the Academic Year 2019-2020 as approved by this court…,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/optional-exams-between-aug-15-and-sept-15-cbse/article34897313.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Ahead of Oppn. conclave, Pawar meets Kishor||A day before hosting Opposition leaders at his Delhi residence, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Monday met election strategist Prashant Kishor, triggering speculation that a Third Front is taking shape ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha election. Mr. Pawar’s meeting with Mr. Kishor — their second in 10 days — intensified speculation of a front where regional parties such as the NCP and the Trinamool Congress will play a key role in taking on the Narendra Modi government, without according primacy to the Congress. Mr. Kishor, however, denied that Tuesday’s meeting was being convened at his suggestion and clarified that he would not be part of it. The proposed meeting will take place under the banner of Rashtra Manch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ahead-of-oppn-conclave-pawar-meets-kishor/article34897316.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Warangal to be health, education hub||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao asserted that the government has taken steps to convert the historic Warangal city into a hub of health and education as well as industrial activities. Mr. Rao participated in several events involving laying of foundation stones and inaugurations during his day-long visit to the district on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/warangal-to-be-health-education-hub/article34897533.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Indian team met Taliban: Qatari official||Indian officials made a “quiet visit” to Doha to speak to the Taliban’s political leadership based there, said a senior Qatari official, in what appears to be the first official confirmation of recent reports that New Delhi has engaged the Taliban directly. “I understand that there has been a quiet visit by Indian officials to speak to the Taliban,” said Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani, Special Envoy of the State of Qatar for Counterterrorism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indian-team-met-taliban-qatari-official/article34897611.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Nobel laureate in economic advisory panel||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to constitute an Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister, comprising leading experts, including Nobel laureate Esther Duflo, to chalk out a path for rapid and inclusive economic growth in the State, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said on Monday. Besides Ms. Duflo, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), the council would have former Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan, former Chief Economic Advisor to the Government of India Arvind Subramanian, development economist Jean Drèze and former Union Finance Secretary S. Narayan. “Based on the recommendations of the council, the government will revitalise the State’s economy and ensure that the benefits of economic growth reach all segments of society,” Mr. Purohit said in his address to the Assembly. Economic crisis Explaining the reason for the decision, a government order issued later in the day said the State was in the midst of a serious economic crisis induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. The fiscal situation was also precarious, with persistently high revenue and fiscal deficits and a large overhang of debt. At the same time, the people had high expectations of the government in terms of delivering on faster economic growth, social justice and equity through new programmes, projects and enhanced service delivery. “In this context, the government requires expert advice from the best economists available globally, who are familiar with Tamil Nadu, its economy, society and polity, and also the trends in the Indian and the global economy,” the G.O. said. The council would provide general guidance on economic and social policy, social justice and human development-related issues, especially matters related to ensuring equal opportunities for women and the well-being of under privileged groups. It would also provide suggestions on boosting economic growth, employment and productivity and offer guidance on improving the overall fiscal health of the State. It would provide advice on improving the State’s capacity to deliver better services to the people; act as a “sounding board for new ideas” or on possible solutions to intransigent road blocks; and analyse and provide advice on any issue of economic and social policy referred to it by the Chief Minister or the Finance Minister. Secretariat of council The Finance Department would be the Secretariat of the Council and S. Krishnan, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance), would be its convener, the order said. It is learnt that Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, an alumnus of MIT, played a role in getting Ms. Duflo to join the council. Earlier, the Governor said the government would make all-out efforts to reverse the slow economic growth and usher in a period of rapid economic growth, taking full advantage of the available limited window of demographic dividend. Mr. Purohit pointed out that there would be no social justice when there was high economic inequality and stratification. “Inclusive growth is thus the priority of this government. Growth and progress must benefit all of society and not just the top of the economic pyramid,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nobel-laureate-in-tn-govts-economic-advisory-panel/article34897375.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian officials met Taliban: Qatari official||Indian officials made a “quiet visit” to Doha to speak to the Taliban’s political leadership based there, said a senior Qatari official, in what appears to be the first official confirmation of recent reports that New Delhi has engaged the Taliban directly. “I understand that there has been a quiet visit by Indian officials to speak to the Taliban,” said Qatar’s Special Envoy of the State of Qatar for Counterterrorism and Mediation of Conflict Resolution Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani, speaking at a web conference on Monday. The statement comes after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar stopped over in Doha to meet the Qatari leadership twice in the past two weeks. The MEA declined to comment on Mr. Qahtani’s statement, and did not respond to questions about what level, if any, contacts with the political leadership of the Taliban based in Doha would have been at. In response to a question from The Hindu during the discussion, Mr. Qahtani said the reasoning behind the meeting was that the Taliban will have a “key” role in Afghanistan’s future. “Not that everybody thinks the Taliban is going to dominate and take over, but because it is a key component of the future of Afghanistan,” he added. “So, I see this as the reason behind having a dialogue or talks and reaching out to all parties in Afghanistan,” he added. Dr. Qahtani was speaking at a conference organised by the Arab Centre in Washington and Centre for Conflict and Humanitarian Studies in Doha, on “Looking towards Peace in Afghanistan after the US-NATO Withdrawal”. (http://arabcenterdc.org/events/looking-towards-peace-in-afghanistan-after-the-us-nato-withdrawal/). Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani, who is set to meet U.S. President Joseph Biden this Friday in Washington, to discuss the situation developing ahead of the US-NATO troops pull-out, will also address the 3-day conference. “It is important to keep in mind that we are in a critical stage at this time, and if any meetings happen at this time, it should be to encourage the (Afghan-Taliban) parties to solve their differences by peaceful means. This is a golden opportunity for all them to get back [to talks]. Nobody including Qatar is going to recognise any group that is going to take a country by force,” Mr. Qahtani went on to say, in a reference to concerns that the Taliban could attempt a violent takeover in Afghanistan after the U.S.-NATO troop pull-out in September this year. To a question about whether any talks between India and Pakistan are linked to the Afghan reconciliation process, Mr. Qahtani said, “Afghanistan as a country should not become a place for a proxy [fight] for other countries.” “It is in the Interest of Pakistan and India to have a stable Afghanistan. Pakistan is a neighbouring country. India is a country that we know has assisted a lot economically in Afghanistan and they want it to be peaceful and stable,” he added. It is unclear from Mr. Qahtani’s statement when the Indian delegation is believed to have visited Doha for the talks, and a request for more details on the talks did not elicit a response. The MEA declined to comment on Mr. Qahtani’s statement. In response to previous media reports that had pointed to a new, direct reach out by the Modi government to the Taliban, after years of refusing to recognise the militant group accused of terror attacks in Afghanistan, the MEA spokesperson had said that New Delhi is “in touch with various stakeholders in pursuance of its long-term commitment towards development and reconstruction in Afghanistan.” Last week, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had visited Doha during two brief stopovers during his travels to Kuwait and Kenya, where he had met with the Qatari Foreign Minister and the National Security Advisor, as well as U.S. Special Representative on Afghanistan reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad. “As Qatar is involved in the Afghanistan peace process, the issue of Afghanistan was also discussed during EAM’s conversations. U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad happened to be in Doha during this period of EAM’s visit, and called on EAM to brief him on the recent developments regarding Afghanistan,” the MEA spokesperson said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indian-officials-met-taliban-qatari-official/article34897309.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No dissent on Covishield gap’||The Centre has refuted claims that there was dissent among members of an expert panel over increasing the interval between Covishield doses. The decision was unani- mous, it said in response to an RTI application.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-dissent-on-covishield-gap/article34897310.ece
22 June 2021||BENGALURU,||Businesses open but most see low footfall||The city opening up was clearly evident in the return of traffic snarls on the streets on Monday morning. Businesses re-opened after nearly two months, but most sectors reported very low footfall, though they were hopeful that business will pick up gradually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/businesses-open-but-most-see-low-footfall/article34897353.ece
22 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Dushyant Chautala faces ire of farmers||The leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP regime, including Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, faced the ire of farmers during their official programmes in three places across Haryana on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dushyant-chautala-faces-ire-of-farmers/article34897461.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP abandoned me when I needed them: Chirag||Beleaguered president of Lok Janshakti Party Chirag Paswan said on Monday no one from BJP has contacted him. This, he said, hurts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-abandoned-me-when-i-needed-them-chirag/article34897613.ece
22 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Transit anticipatory bail for Rana Ayyub||The Bombay HC granted four weeks’ transit anticipatory bail to journalist Rana Ayyub in a case filed by the Uttar Pradesh police for allegedly spreading fake news and creating communal tensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/transit-anticipatory-bail-for-rana-ayyub/article34897656.ece
22 June 2021||Srinagar,||3 LeT militants gunned down||Three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants, one of them a “foreigner”, were killed in an overnight operation in Sopore of north Kashmir on Monday. “All the three slain militants were commanders. Among them, Mudasir Pandit [a local] was the top-most commander, who was known by different names. He has been the LeT commander since June 2019. He was involved in several killings, including four civilians, nine security forces, two ex-militants, three sarpanches and two belonging to the Hurriyat and separatist cadres,” Director-General of Police, Jammu and Kashmir, Dilbag Singh said. One of the three militants was identified by the police as Asrar aka Abdullah, a foreigner. Mr. Singh said, “The trio was involved in the Sopore attack on June 12, which left two policemen and two civilians dead. Earlier, they attacked a municipality building in Sopore on March 29 and killed two councillors and one policeman.” The police said they recovered two AK-47s, one AK-56, a pistol and ammunition from the slain militants. The security forces have killed two foreign militants in Kashmir this year, which is comparatively lower than in the previous years. “After the abrogation of Article 370, Pandit was among the militants who tried to suppress the voice of people,” Mr. Singh stated. There was a good number of foreign militants present in Kashmir and they were lying low, he noted. The fresh ceasefire pact between India and Pakistan last February had helped check infiltration to a large extent. “We welcome that,” he added. General Officer Commanding, Kilo Force, Maj. Gen. H.S. Sahi, appealed to the local youngsters who have picked up guns to shun the gun culture and return to national mainstream. “If they do not wish to return to the mainstream, I assure that they will meet the same fate as was in the store for the three militants killed in the encounter,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-let-militants-gunned-down/article34897246.ece
22 June 2021||Srinagar,||J&K parties seek durable steps||Jammu and Kashmir regional parties which are not part of the Gupkar alliance held deliberations on Monday to discuss the upcoming meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and called for “durable and democratic solutions” to the challenges in Kashmir. The J&K People’s Conference, whose chief Sajjad Lone chaired a meeting in Srinagar, said there was a need for the political class to play a constructive role in ending the prevalent logjam and finding durable and democratic solutions to all the challenges facing the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “The participants expressed their appreciation for the initiative of the Prime Minister and hoped that this engagement would evolve into something much bigger and facilitate a return to democracy and empowerment of the people of J&K. There is a need for creative thinking to address the pain and suffering of the people of J&K and hope that the engagement will be positive, decisive and result-oriented,” PC spokesman Adnan Ashraf Mir said. The participants, according to Mr. Mir, unanimously emphasised the scripting of a new social contract between Delhi and the people of J&K to address the aspirations of the people of J&K. “It is imperative to restore the credibility and sanctity of the institution of dialogue. There are many harsh ground realities that the Prime Minister should be aware of. Post August 5, there is a dire need for scripting a new social contract between Delhi and the people of J&K,” the PC spokesman said. Altaf Bukhari, who heads the J&K Apni Party, also chaired a meeting of the party leaders. “We welcome the initiative of the PM. Political parties of J&K have also realised now that dialogue is the only way to resolve any issue,” he said. Both Mr. Lone and Mr. Bukhari have been invited by the PM for the meeting to be held in Delhi on June 24. Senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Saif-ud-din Soz on Monday said the Centre’s intention to restore the statehood “will not yield any advantage”. “.The real issue is the J&K special status,” Mr. Soz said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-parties-seek-durable-steps/article34897260.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Simplify COVID-19 death certification process: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Union government what it plans to do in cases of COVID-19 patients whose death certificates cited some other reason for the cause of death. “What is the remedy in the case of COVID patients who have already been issued death certificates showing some other reason as cause of death?” Justice M.R. Shah, who accompanied Justice Ashok Bhushan on the Bench, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The court suggested that the government should simplify the process for certification COVID-19 deaths. It asked the government whether the reason of death could be given as COVID-19 in the certificate if the family could produce a COVID-19 report, no matter whether the patient died in a hospital or outside. The court pointed out that some patients were not even given their medical records. Mr. Mehta reiterated the government’s stand that any lapse in stating COVID-19 as the cause of demise in a death certificate would have penal consequences for those found responsible, including the certifying doctor. In its affidavit on Sunday, the Centre said: “It is mandated that any death resulting from COVID-19 shall have to be so certified i.e. as COVID death, failing which, everyone responsible, including the certifying doctor, shall be responsible for penal consequences.” The government stated that deaths with the diagnosis of COVID-19, irrespective of comorbidities, have to be certified as pandemic deaths. The only exception to the rule was when there was a clear alternative cause of death, for example, accidental trauma, poisoning, etc. The Supreme Court recently told the Centre that the death certificates of those who died of COVID-19 often did not reveal that fact. “The death certificates of persons who die from COVID-19 in hospitals show the reason as lung or heart problem or something else,” Justice Shah had told Mr. Mehta. “All deaths with the diagnosis of COVID-19, irrespective of co-morbidities, are to be classified as deaths due to COVID-19,” the Centre had clarified in the affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/simplify-covid-19-death-certification-process-sc/article34897280.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Yoga a ray of hope amid COVID’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday termed yoga a “ray of hope” and a source of strength in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. He was addressing a programme to mark the 7th International Yoga Day where he also spoke of the M-Yoga application, in collaboration with the World Health Organisation (WHO). The app will have videos of yoga training based on a Common Yoga Protocol and will be available in different languages. “This will help us in making the ‘One World, One Health’ motto successful,” he said. “At a time when the whole world is fighting the coronavirus pandemic, yoga remains a ray of hope,” Mr. Modi said. “Despite the lack of major public events in countries around the world and in India for around a year and a half, the enthusiasm for Yoga Day has not diminished,” he noted. Enthusiasm up For most of the countries of the world, Yoga Day is not their age-old cultural festival and in this difficult time, people could have forgotten about it and ignored it, but on the contrary, people’s enthusiasm for yoga had increased, he said. “When the unseen coronavirus knocked on the doors of the world, no country was prepared for it in terms of resources, capability and mental state. We all have seen that in such difficult times, yoga has become a great source of inner strength,” he said. Yoga shows us the way from stress to strength and from negativity to creativity, he asserted. He expressed confidence that yoga would continue playing its preventive as well as promotive role in healthcare of masses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yoga-a-ray-of-hope-amid-covid/article34897243.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||No dissent on Covishield doses interval: Ministry||The Union Health Ministry has said there is no document available in the COVID vaccination cell about “data concerning the effects of a gap beyond 12 weeks” for Covishield vaccine. The Ministry, in response to a Right to Information appeal by Shivangi Malhotra, said the decision on increasing the interval is based on the fundamental scientific reason regarding behaviour of adenovector vaccines, and refuted any claims that there was dissent by any member of the COVID-19 Working Group and Standing Technical Sub-Committee (STSC) of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI). Releasing minutes of the meeting, it said that records clearly show that the recommended 12-16 weeks dosing interval for Covishield was a unanimous decision. The RTI response said that “in view of the emerging scientific evidence the interval between two doses of Covishield was revisited by the COVID working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization and subsequently by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) in its meeting held on May 12. NEGVAC recommended revision in the schedule of Covishield to administer a second dose at intervals of 12-16 weeks after the first dose. This recommendation was admitted by the Central Government.” Working group The Health Ministry said, “It may be noted that the decision of increasing the gap is based on the scientific reason regarding behaviour of adenovector vaccines and has been discussed thoroughly in meetings of COVID-19 Working Group and Standing Technical Sub-Committee (STSC) of NTAGI with no dissent from any member,” the Ministry said. “The 22nd meeting of COVID-19 Working Group of NTAGI was held on May 10, 2021. This COVID-19 Working Group considered a proposal for a change in dose interval for Covishield used under the National Vaccination Policy. It recommended that based on the real-life evidence, particularly from the United Kingdom, the COVID-19 Working Group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield Vaccine,” noted the Health Ministry. It added that this recommendation of COVID-19 Working Group was further taken up for discussion in the 31st meeting of Standing Technical Sub-Committee (STSC) of NTAGI which was held under the joint chairpersonship of Secretary, Department of Biotechnology Renu Swarup and Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research, Balram Bhargava.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-dissent-on-covishield-doses-interval-ministry/article34897271.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Corpses did not add to Ganga pollution: Centre||The dumping of bodies in the Ganga, allegedly of those who died of COVID-19, did not increase pollution in the river, the Jal Shakti Ministry has said. The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) had solicited reports in May from the Centre, the State Pollution Control Boards of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and the Central Water Commission on whether the disposal of corpses in the river had affected water quality. Data for April-June suggested that the water quality in terms of pH, DO (dissolved oxygen), BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) conformed with the bathing water quality criteria except “marginal deviations at few locations” and these were not dissimilar from the water quality observed in previous years. They may not be attributed to incidents of floating bodies, the NMCG said in a report based on responses from these departments. The Hindu has viewed this report. On May 14, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had asked the Centre and the Bihar and the Uttar Pradesh State governments to furnish a report following a complaint by a private citizen that several unclaimed or unidentified, unburnt/ partially burnt bodies were found floating in the “sacred” river Ganga. Some of the bodies were suspected to be of COVID-19 victims. The complainant alleged that the disposal of bodies in and around the river would not only pollute the river but also seriously affect all those persons who are dependent on the river. Sample study Along with assessing water quality, the Secretary, Jal Shakti Ministry decided after a meeting with the Chief Secretaries of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on May 18 to study if the river water was contaminated with SARS-CoV-2 from the bodies being disposed in it. They also wanted to know if the virus could spread and infect those who came into contact with the water. The ICMR-National Institute of Virology was approached to study water samples from the river but they declined to take part in the study. The CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), Lucknow has now been entrusted with the project. Results awaited They have collected samples from burial sites (Kannauj, Unnao, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Ghazipur districts) in Uttar Pradesh and Buxor and Saran districts in Bihar though results of the analysis are not yet public. Previous studies from the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad have shown that the coronavirus can be found in sewage and wastewater, and these have been used to estimate the prevalence of the infection in other urban locations. The NMCG, a Jal Shakti Ministry body, is the nodal agency tasked with coordinating the over Rs. 20,000 crore initiative to clean the Ganga, a flagship programme of the government. One of the measures employed is to discourage a practice of disposing bodies in the river. To this end, the NMCG had funded projects to improve crematoria along the banks of the river in riparian States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/corpses-did-not-add-to-ganga-pollution-centre/article34897273.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||PF trusts await clarity on advance||Three weeks after the government announced that Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) members can take a second COVID-19 advance from their retirement savings accounts, companies managing their own EPF trusts are reluctant to process requests from employees who have sought the advance. Over 76 lakh COVID-19 advance claims worth Rs. 18,698 crore were cleared since the special withdrawal provisions to cope with the pandemic were introduced in March 2020. EPF members were permitted to make non-refundable withdrawals to the extent of basic wages and dearness allowances for three months, or up to 75% of their EPF balance, whichever is less. On May 31, the Union Labour and Employment Ministry said a second such advance was being allowed ‘considering the urgent need of members for financial support in these trying times’, referring to the second COVID-19 wave as well as the emergence of the ‘mucormycosis’ or ‘black fungus’ epidemic. “Several employees have been asking us for this advance to cope with the second wave’s medical costs and fresh income losses in their households. But there is no official notification or circular from the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation that is hindering establishments with their own PF trusts from implementing the fresh COVID-19 advance,” said the finance head of a leading employer with over 5,000 employees that manages their EPF accounts in-house. While EPFO’s regional offices have made a modification in their software to allow the advance, companies managing EPF accounts on their own cannot proceed simply on the basis of a press release, said an industry compliance adviser. “We are hoping that the EPFO will resolve this soon with a clear communique,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pf-trusts-await-clarity-on-advance/article34897278.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Surveys on learning losses by month-end, panel told||The Centre is assessing how badly school students have been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, and will collect States’ surveys on digital education access and learning losses by the end of this month, the School Education Department told a parliamentary panel on education on Monday. The panel asked the Centre to also assess the impact of its own guidelines and interventions, as well as the impact of schools which were reopened in some States during the lull between the two waves of the pandemic. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports, chaired by Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, also held its last round of consultations on textbook reforms, hearing from right-wing think tank Public Policy Research Centre (PPRC), which was previously headed by Dr. Sahasrabuddhe himself when he was BJP vice-president. According to a member of the committee, the PPRC presentation complained that Mughal history is glorified in Indian textbooks, while there is an insufficient understanding of ancient Indian history. It compared history textbooks from Gujarat, Kerala and the National Council of Educational Research and Training, arguing that the latter two give too much importance to the Mughal era. The Committee has heard from 8-10 such groups — including at least four others with similar views — and is likely to submit its report in a month’s time, another member said. School Education Department Secretary Anita Karwal briefed the committee on the learning gap caused by the pandemic and efforts to bridge it. A survey of Classes 8-12 in centrally run schools last August showed that 80-90% of students were dependent on mobiles rather than laptops for digital schooling, while 30% were affected by electricity supply disruptions. States were then asked to do a similar mapping of access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/surveys-on-learning-losses-by-month-end-panel-told/article34897262.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘BJP abandoned me when I needed them’||Days after the coup spearheaded by his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, beleaguered leader of the Lok Janshakti Party Chirag Paswan speaks on role of the JD(U) and the BJP and betrayal by loved ones, insisting that most of the party is still with him.  Do you regret your decision to go it alone in the Bihar Assembly election in 2020 and campaign against JD(U)? Not at all. The kind of support I am getting from people of my State is only because I contested that election alone. Everybody wanted an alternative to Nitish Kumar. The LJP was only offered 15 seats in the alliance. Had I agreed to it, by the time of the next election, the only option left for the LJP would have been to merge with a regional or a national party. Moreover, you cannot go ahead with someone who doesn’t respect your ideology. Nitish Kumar wants to dictate his agenda without giving space to any other ally. And most importantly how could I go with someone who has humiliated my father, tried to defame, defeat and destroy him? This is not the first time he is breaking my party. He did it in 2005, when he poached the LJP MLAs. This time, he took away the lone LJP MLA who won from Matihani. Today whoever is claiming that Nitish Kumar is the “Vikas Purush” is actually betraying my father and going against his policies. Let them remember that LJP has never been in alliance with JD(U), except for 2019. And that too is because the JD(U) decided to return to NDA. Our alliance was with the BJP Who do you hold responsible for breaking away from the LJP? Is it the BJP or JD (U)? It is an ironical question. How can I blame anyone when my own family members deserted me? They stabbed my back — my uncle (Pashupati Kumar Paras), my brother (Prince Raj)... my brother was like a son to me. But as I said, JD(U) has always been inclined to break parties. And especially, the JD(U) has always been after dividing the Dalit leadership. They were after my father and now against me. They divided Dalits and Mahadalits, making a sub-division among Scheduled Castes. They cannot accept that a Dalit is in such a strong position. I got 25 lakh votes and 6% vote share. This when I only contested on 135 seats . But didn’t your calculations go awry? Your campaign affected the NDA’s tally and benefited RJD. Don’t you think the BJP has abandoned you just for this reason? Yes, I do feel that they have abandoned me. No one from BJP has contacted me. This hurts, because me and my father Ram Vilas Paswan wholeheartedly supported Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior leadership of the BJP. Nobody was ready to join hands with Narendra Modi ji. My father was the first one to cross over and hold Mr Modi’s hand. Nitish Kumar, one must remember, left him. We stood by him whether it was Ram Mandir, Article 370, CAA, Triple Talaq. I doubt that JD(U) has stood with them on all these issues. Today, when I need them, I expected them to at least reach out to me. So far I haven’t heard from them. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla recognised Pashupati Nath Paras’ claim as parliamentary leader without any delay. Doesn’t this clearly indicate BJP’s hand in the coup? I would not want to read between the lines. I met Mr. Birla on Saturday and I explained the LJP’s process of selecting the parliamentary leader. I did tell him that he should have at least spoken to me before making this decision. Even the rule book of the Parliament defines this very clearly, that the parliamentary party leader has to be decided by the party, not by the members. The charge against you by the Paras group is that you are autocratic and you were impervious to advice. Your reaction? Had I been autocratic I wouldn’t have had the support of 66 members of LJP’s National Executive. Only nine members of the national executive, including the five MPs, left the party. Out of 135 candidates, 114 have submitted an open letter of support to me. Only four district presidents in Bihar have gone with them. If I was autocratic, then why did so many of them decide to stay back with me. What is the way forward for you? I will go back to the people of Bihar. I need their blessings now that my own elders have betrayed me. I am ready to fight this battle to the end. I will not concede my party symbol or name. I have all legal evidence to support my claim. I will not leave the party that my father built with his sweat and blood. These people have not betrayed me, they have betrayed my father.  I will not leave the party that my father built with his sweat and blood||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-abandoned-me-when-i-needed-them/article34897265.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||CDS to chair meet on theatre commands||Extensive studies have been undertaken and discussed over the last two years before arriving at a broad plan to create four integrated triservice commands, an official said on Monday. However, the IAF still has major reservations on the issue, said the official. Air defence and maritime theatre commands, integrated eastern theatre and integrated western theatre commands are being planned, the official said. As part of the ongoing deliberations, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat is scheduled to chair a meeting on Tuesday with the Vice-Chiefs of the three services, the Chief of Integrated Defence Staff and the representatives from the Ministries of Defence, Home and Finance. “After studying Indian and western models of war fighting for over two years, table top exercises and war games were conducted and operational discussions were held to come up with the best model suited for us,” the official said. The commands will have Indian characteristics, ethos and way of fighting, the official stated. Detailed parleys have also been held with the veteran community and think-tanks to brainstorm on the far-reaching decisions, the official said. The plan has been cleared at the highest levels of the government and the Army and the Navy are fully on board with it, two officials independently said. The IAF opposition is based on an incorrect understanding of the concept, the first official cited earlier said. “Current IAF stance of retaining most assets and operational control under the Air headquarters and the Air Chief goes against the very essence of integration and jointmanship.” The IAF insecurity that it will lose control over its assets and operations is unfounded, the official said. “All air bases, squadrons and air assets will continue to function under IAF officials.” A committee was recently set up comprising the Vice-Chiefs of the three services, the Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, the Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee, and representatives from the Ministries concerned after issues like bringing in paramilitary forces under the purview of the theatre commands as well as financial implications were raised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cds-to-chair-meet-on-theatre-commands/article34897239.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi HC reserves order on WhatsApp, Facebook plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday reserved its order on a fresh plea by Facebook and WhatsApp seeking to put on hold a notice issued by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) asking them to submit certain documents in relation to the probe being conducted on WhatsApp’s new privacy policy. A Vacation Bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said, “We will pass an order. The matter will be listed on July 9.” The court said it was sitting on a Vacation Bench, and hence did not want to go into the merits of the case. The fresh application was made in a pending case filed by Facebook and WhatsApp challenging the CCI’s March 24 direction ordering a probe into WhatsApp’s controversial new privacy policy. Facebook and WhatsApp, in the fresh application, sought the intervention of the court to stay the CCI’s June 4 notice asking them to furnish certain information for the purpose of inquiry conducted by it. Counsel for the social media giants submitted that the last date to respond to the notice was June 21. The CCI, represented by Additional Solicitor-General (ASG) Aman Lekhi, opposed the application on the ground that furnishing of information would not lead to any order by the CCI at this stage of inquiry. The ASG said no threat was looming over the head of WhatsApp till the report on the inquiry was submitted with the competition watchdog. WhatsApp had said its new privacy policy came into effect from May 15. It also clarified that it would not start deleting accounts of those users who have not accepted it and would try to encourage them to get on board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-reserves-order-on-whatsapp-facebook-plea/article34897248.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Use electronic machines to weigh rations’||The Centre wants States to start linking the electronic Point of Sale devices (ePoS) used at ration shops to electronic weighing machines to promote transparency and reduce foodgrain leakages. It wants States to pay for these machines by using the Rs. 17 per quintal margin already provided for Fair Price Shops (FPS) for installing and using ePoS machines, according to an amendment of the National Food Security Act rules last week. According to the rules, Rs. 17 per quintal of foodgrain sold through ePoS is provided as “Fair Price Shop dealers margin” and is meant to go “towards the cost of purchase, operation and maintenance of the point of sale device, its running expenses and incentive for its use.” The amendment, notified on June 18, adds the words “and any savings if accrued could be utilised for purchase, operations and maintenance of electronic weighing scales and their integration with the Point of Sale device”. When asked how savings could accrue from money paid as an incentive to FPS dealers, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey clarified that the additional margin is only being paid to States according to actual expenditure. As technology is evolving fast, it is now cheaper to operate ePoS than it was earlier, and States which are able to cut operating costs can now use the extra money to integrate weighing machines, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-electronic-machines-to-weigh-rations/article34897276.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army to get indigenous LUHs in December 2022||The Army, which is facing a huge shortage of light utility helicopters with the ageing fleet of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters, will receive the first batch of six indigenous Light Utility helicopter (LUH) by the end of 2022, a defence source said. The helicopter was designed and developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL). In a separate development, Lt. Gen. Ajay Kumar Suri took over as the Director-General (DG) and Colonel Commandant of the Army Aviation on Monday. “The acceptance in principle was received two months back. The Army will receive the first batch of six LUHs by December 2022,” the source stated. The LUH is meant to replace the ageing Cheetah and Chetak helicopters along with the Russian Ka-226T helicopters. Since November 2019, Lt. Gen. Suri, then as a Major General, had been the Additional Director-General officiating as the Director-General of Army Aviation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-to-get-indigenous-luhs-in-december-2022/article34897238.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police send another notice to Twitter||The Ghaziabad police on Monday sent another notice to Twitter India’s head to appear before it in the case of a video of an elderly Muslim man who claimed he was beaten up and made to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. The notice to Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari asked him to appear by 10.30 a.m. on Thursday or face appropriate action under law. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja said Twitter’s response to the first notice sent on June 17 to appear at the Loni Border police station had been to offer a video call instead. The police had lodged an FIR against Twitter and several journalists for sharing the video and allegedly trying to spread discord between communities. Twitter India’s head of policy communications Pallavi Walia had “no comment” to give when asked about Monday’s notice. In its notice, the police said Mr. Maheshwari’s June 18 reply showed that he was not cooperating with the police investigationThe allegations in the video had been denied by the police and it was in Twitter India’s power to delete the tweets sharing the video, which it failed to do. The police asked Mr. Maheshwari, as well as Twitter’s interim resident grievance officer for India Dharmendra Chatur, through a notice on Monday, to appear at the Loni Border police station by 10.30 am on Thursday under section 41 A of the Criminal Procedure Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-send-another-notice-to-twitter/article34897240.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Left, Congress wary of Sinha’s ‘Rashtra Manch’||Despite being invited along with a host of prominent civil society leaders and politicians, leaders of the Congress and Left parties are unlikely to attend the Rashtra Manch meeting, convened by former finance minister and Trinamool Congress member Yashwant Sinha, at the Delhi residence of NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday. The Manch is a front founded by Mr. Sinha, to discuss the “national scenario”. Though the list of invitees was not known, sources said the Manch had sent invitations to prominent Opposition leaders from across the spectrum including Farooq Abdullah (National Conference), Sitaram Yechury (CPI-M), D. Raja (CPI), Sanjay Singh (Aam Aadmi Party), Manoj Jha (RJD) and Congress parliamentarians like Manish Tewari, Vivek Tankha and Kapil Sibal. Sources told The Hindu that neither Left leaders like Mr. Yechury and Mr. Raja, nor the Congress MPs would be attending the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-congress-wary-of-sinhas-rashtra-manch/article34897249.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian delegation met Taliban: Qatari official||Qatar’s Special Envoy of the State of Qatar for Counterterrorism and Mediation of Conflict Resolution Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani was speaking at a web conference on Monday. The statement comes after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar stopped over in Doha to meet the Qatari leadership twice in the past two weeks. The MEA declined to comment on Mr. Qahtani’s statement, and did not respond to questions about what level, if any, contacts with the political leadership of the Taliban based in Doha would have been at.  In response to a question from The Hindu during the discussion, Mr. Qahtani said the reasoning behind the meeting was that the Taliban will have a “key” role in Afghanistan’s future. “Not that everybody thinks the Taliban is going to dominate, but because it is a key component of the future of Afghanistan,” he added. “So, I see this as the reason behind having a dialogue or talks and reaching out to all parties in Afghanistan,” he added. Dr. Qahtani was speaking at a conference organised by the Arab Centre in Washington and Centre for Conflict and Humanitarian Studies in Doha, on “Looking towards Peace in Afghanistan after the US-NATO Withdrawal”. Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani, who is set to meet U.S. President Joseph Biden this Friday in Washington, to discuss the situation developing ahead of the US-NATO troops pull-out, will also address the 3-day conference. To a question about whether any talks between India and Pakistan are linked to the Afghan reconciliation process, Mr. Qahtani said, “Afghanistan as a country should not become a place for a proxy [fight] for other countries.” Afghan peace “It is in the Interest of Pakistan and India to have a stable Afghanistan. Pakistan is a neighbouring country. India is a country that we know has assisted a lot economically in Afghanistan and they want it to be peaceful and stable,” he added. In response to previous media reports that had pointed to a new, direct reach out by the Modi government to the Taliban, after years of refusing to recognise the militant group accused of terror attacks in Afghanistan, the MEA spokesperson had said that New Delhi is “in touch with various stakeholders in pursuance of its long-term commitment towards development and reconstruction in Afghanistan.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-delegation-met-taliban-qatari-official/article34897250.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Optional exams from Aug. 15 to Sept. 15: CBSE||“Their results shall be declared in accordance with the said Assessment Policy. Their examinations shall also be conducted anytime between 15.08.2021 to 15.09.2021, subject to conducive situation,” it added. The CBSE affidavit said it had issued a ‘Policy for Tabulation of Marks for Class XII Board Examination 2021’ to ensure standardisation of marks. In a hearing on Monday before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is arguing for the conduct of physical exams, said there should be uniform criteria for assessment for CBSE and ICSE marks. But Justice Khanwilkar said apples and oranges cannot be mixed. He referred to how school performance in past years would also influence marks, saying students’ performances should be based on their own work and not of past batches. Mr. Singh said the current assessment policy of the CBSE was complicated and physical exams should be held as the COVID-19 situation was getting better. But Justice Khanwilkar said the future of students cannot be rendered uncertain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/optional-exams-from-aug-15-to-sept-15-cbse/article34897251.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||SC seeks govt. decision on ex gratia payment||Senior advocate S.B. Upadhyay, for the petitioners, said, “But if they do have the money, why should they not comply with their statutory obligation under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act to provide ex gratia to COVID-19 victims?” The government had itself declared COVID-19 a national disaster, he submitted. The petitioners have highlighted a 2015 notification, which requires the government to pay an ex gratia of Rs. 4 lakh each to victims’ families under Section 12. The Centre cannot cite financial constraints to elude its statutory duty to pay compensation now, Mr. Upadhyay contended. Justice Shah, highlighting the petitioners’ argument for framing uniform guidelines on disaster compensation, reasoned that disasters and pandemics varied in impact. One relief cannot fit all tragedies. But Mr. Upadhyay persisted that “financial constraints” or the excuse that payment of compensation would dry up the Central government’s and the States’ resources could not be made a ground by the government to avoid its obligation under a statute to pay ex gratia.  Mr. Mehta said Section 12 was only “recommendatory” in nature. He argued that the Disaster Management Act had moved away from one-time cash reliefs to larger issues of wider impact such as preparedness, risk management, mitigation, rehabilitation and reconstruction. “Instead of giving one-time relief, we have gone for a multi-pronged approach. We have prioritised on preparedness. This is not a one-time disaster,” he submitted. Mr. Mehta referred to the 15th Finance Commission report for 2021-2026 to argue that the funds for disaster management and their allocations were already fixed. Justice Shah asked, “So, the Finance Commission fixes Rs. 15,000 crore on disaster management. Then COVID-19 happens. You need Rs. 25,000 crore on disaster management. Can you say that you will only spend Rs. 15,000 crore?” Mr. Mehta replied, “We will have to go back to Parliament. It will have to be ratified by Parliament.” Justice Shah stated, “Remember, a Finance Commission report cannot override a statutory provision [Section 12]. You just need to keep in mind the broad aspects of the Finance Commission report while framing further guidelines [for COVID-related funding].” The court reserved the petitions for judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-govt-decision-on-ex-gratia-payment/article34897252.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Record 82 lakh shots administered in a day||The daily rate reduced due to a shortage of vaccines as most major States used 90% of all doses supplied to them. The daily rate of vaccination improved to 34 lakh doses between June 11 and June 20. If India is aiming to fully vaccinate all adults by 2021, 82.1 lakh daily doses are needed daily. Around 24.9% of adults in India, 44.7% of people above 45, and 47.8% of those above 60, have been administered at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Monday. While 17.1% of the country’s population has received at least one dose, only 3.7% are fully vaccinated. India recorded 41,207 new COVID-19 cases and 1,126 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Monday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,99,75,590 cases and 3,89,291 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/record-82-lakh-shots-administered-in-a-day/article34897253.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC panel to probe violence in Bengal||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday set up a committee to investigate complaints of post-poll violence in West Bengal in accordance with a Calcutta High Court order on June 18. NHRC chairperson Justice Arun Kumar Mishra constituted the committee headed by NHRC member Rajeev Jain, a statement said. National Commission for Minorities vice-chairperson Atif Rasheed, National Commission for Women member Dr. Rajulben L. Desai, NHRC Director General (Investigation) Santosh Mehra, West Bengal State Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Pania, West Bengal State Legal Services Authority member secretary Raju Mukherjee and NHRC DIG (Investigation) Manzil Saini would be the other members of the committee. According to the court’s directions, the committee would examine all cases of post-poll violence for which complaints have already been received by the NHRC or which may be received, the NHRC statement said. It would also look into the complaints to the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-panel-to-probe-violence-in-bengal/article34897255.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A devotee is rewarded||The life and works of Appayya Dikshitar reflect his multi-faceted personality. He had authored many spiritual texts of great value and carried on the tradition of Advaita Vedanta established by Adi Sankara. He chose to live in Chidambaram and prayed to Siva to grant him the boon of just meditating on Him with no other desire. That is, he only longed to attain Siva Pada. This strong yearning was already expressed in his powerful hymn Atmarpana Stuti, said Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. Herein he had pointed out that it is possible for a jivatma to be blessed to remember God at the last moments and attain liberation if only God chooses to grace him. This wish is granted to him when God makes true his prayer and takes him in His fold in the presence of a host of devotees on one Chitra Pournami day in Chidambaram. It happened when the early morning ‘deepa aradhana’ was being performed for the deity Nataraja. Overwhelmed by the experience of the vision of the effulgence of the Lord’s feet which appeared to him as bright and shining like the young rising sun, Appayya Dikshitar began to compose a verse. At that instant all present were wonderstruck by the extraordinary spectacle that unfolded. Appayya Dikshitar had merged with the Lord’s jyoti. What better reward for such devotion than being thus embraced and enveloped in the divine grace and compassion of the Lord? It is said his eldest son completed the verse his father had begun. He compares the jivatma’s tryst with samsara to dark night where old age and death are pisachas that take the hold on people. The jivatma who continues in this dreadful state in every birth is released from this situation when the grace of Lord like the suryodaya puts an end to the dark night of samsara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-devotee-is-rewarded/article34897267.ece
22 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Transit anticipatory bail for Ayyub||The Bombay High Court on Monday granted four weeks’ transit anticipatory bail to journalist Rana Ayyub in a case filed by the Uttar Pradesh police for allegedly spreading fake news and creating communal tensions. The bail period will not be extended. The FIR relates to a video that went viral on social media of an elderly man in Ghaziabad being beaten up and his beard cut. He was also allegedly told to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram.’ Senior advocate Mihir Desai, representing Ms. Ayyub, appeared before a single bench of Justice P.D. Naik seeking interim protection from arrest. The court said it was learnt that there was a transaction between the assailant and the victim. Mr. Desai said the FIR was registered on June 15 and Ms. Ayyub deleted the tweet on June 16 after she knew of the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/transit-anticipatory-bail-for-ayyub/article34897233.ece
22 June 2021||CHANDIGARH / NEW DELHI,||Amarinder talks to AICC panel again||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh arrived in Delhi on Monday to meet a panel of the AICC for resolving the factionalism in the State. He will hold talks with the panel comprising Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC general secretary (Punjab) Harish Rawat and J.P. Aggarwal on Tuesday morning for the second time in two weeks. Insiders say party workers are worried that the squabble between the CM Navjot Singh Sidhu will dent the party’s electoral prospects in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-talks-to-aicc-panel-again/article34897263.ece
22 June 2021||Srinagar,||Amarnath Yatra not to be held this year||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday decided to cancel Amarnath Yatra, the annual pilgrimage in the Valley, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The 56-day yatra was scheduled to start on June 28. “Shri Amarnathji Yatra has been cancelled in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision was taken after a discussion with the Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board members. The yatra will be symbolic only. However, all the traditional religious rituals shall be performed at the holy cave shrine as per past practice,” Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said. Mr. Sinha, who is also the chairman of the Board, had detailed deliberations with Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Mehta, Director General of Police Dilbag Singh, Principal Secretary Home Shaleen Kabra, and Nitishwar Kumar, Principal Secretary to the Lt. Governor, on Monday. “It’s important to save people’s lives. So, it is not advisable to conduct this year’s pilgrimage in the larger public interest. The Board shall continue live telecast of the morning and evening aarti from the holy cave shrine,” the Lt. Governor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarnath-yatra-not-to-be-held-this-year/article34897274.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Procure wheat in U.P. till July 15, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a letter to U.P. CM Yogi Adityanath on Monday, demanded that the State government guarantee wheat procurement while flagging several problems faced by farmers. She said there should be a guarantee that wheat would be procured till July 15. “The procurement started from April 1, but as the wheat started reaching the centres, procurement was reduced to half.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/procure-wheat-in-up-till-july-15-says-priyanka/article34897463.ece
22 June 2021||Aizawl,||Cash prize announced for number of children||Mizoram Sports Minister Robert Romawia Royte has announced a cash incentive of Rs. 1 lakh to a living parent with the highest number of children in his constituency to encourage population growth among the demographically small Mizo communities. His declaration comes at a time when several States are advocating a population control policy. On the occasion of Father’s Day on Sunday, Mr. Royte announced that he would reward such a person with a cash incentive, a certificate and a trophy.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cash-prize-announced-for-number-of-children/article34897466.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Over 50% of workers at Parliament site vaccinated’||More than 50% of the workers involved in the construction of the new Parliament building had received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said on Monday. Many had got their second dose as well. A total of 2,180 workers, on and off site, were contributing to the project, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-50-of-workers-at-parliament-site-vaccinated/article34897235.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||ED seizes assets of Pune-based businessman, family under FEMA||The Enforcement Directorate has seized assets worth Rs. 40.34 crore of Pune-based businessman Avinash Bhosale and his family members under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The attached assets include equity shares and preference shares held in Classic City Investment Private Limited (Pune), which owns Hotel Westin (Pune), Hotel Le Meridian (Nagpur) and Hotel W Retreat & Spa (Goa), it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-seizes-assets-of-pune-based-businessman-family-under-fema/article34897236.ece
22 June 2021||Ahmedabad,||Get vaccinated as soon as possible, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday visited vaccination centres in his parliamentary constituency Gandhinagar and urged the citizens to get their jabs as soon as possible as the country has stepped up efforts to vaccinate all eligible citizens by the end of this year. He also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for launching the world’s largest inoculation drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/get-vaccinated-as-soon-as-possible-says-amit-shah/article34897241.ece
22 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Journalist, 2 others booked for levelling ‘baseless’ charges against VHP leader||The Bijnor police have filed an FIR against a journalist and two others after they allegedly accused Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Champat Rai and his brothers of grabbing land from a gaushala. Senior journalist Vineet Narain, his associate Rajneesh and Alka Lahoti, whose land Mr. Narain claimed was allegedly grabbed by Mr. Rai’s family, were named in the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/journalist-2-others-booked-for-levelling-baseless-charges-against-vhp-leader/article34897244.ece
22 June 2021||Mumbai,||Sarnaik letter exposes harassment of MVA MLAs by Central agencies: Sena||A day after a letter from Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting him to patch up with the BJP to avoid harassment by Central investigative agencies, his party said the missive has raised a serious issue. Mr. Sarnaik is being probed by the ED for alleged corruption. Responding to the letter, Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said, “An MLA has written to the Chief Minister. What should I say about this? However, he has, if the letter is authentic, raised a very important issue that MLAs of MVA are being harassed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sarnaik-letter-exposes-harassment-of-mva-mlas-by-central-agencies-sena/article34897254.ece
22 June 2021||Lucknow,||Central leadership will decide next CM in U.P., says Minister||A Cabinet Minister in the Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh has said that the Chief Minister would be decided by the party’s central leadership if the BJP wins again in the 2022 Assembly polls. The comment by State Labour Minister Swami Prasad Maurya on Sunday reflects the reported difference of opinion within the State BJP regarding the leadership of Yogi Adityanath. The BJP had contested the 2017 polls without a CM face and largely on the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-leadership-will-decide-next-cm-in-up-says-minister/article34897257.ece
22 June 2021||Lucknow,||2 from Delhi arrested by U.P. police under anti-conversion law||Two men from New Delhi have been arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police’s Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) on the charges of mass conversion of people into Islam through inducements such as marriage, job and money and mental pressure. The two were identified as Mohammad Umar Gautam and Mufti Qazi Jahangir Alam Qasmi. The arrests were announced in Lucknow by Prashant Kumar, ADG Law and Order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-from-delhi-arrested-by-up-police-under-anti-conversion-law/article34897258.ece
22 June 2021||Kolkata,||TMC files complaint against BJP MP over demand for north Bengal State||Days after a BJP MP from north Bengal raised the demand for a separate State or Union Territory for north Bengal, another BJP MP on Monday demanded that a separate State be carved out of the Jangalmahal region. BJP MP from Alipurduar John Barla had last week raised the demand of separate state for north Bengal while Saumitra Khan on Monday said that Jangalmahal could well be a separate State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tmc-files-complaint-against-bjp-mp-over-demand-for-north-bengal-state/article34897266.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||in brief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-brief/article34897465.ece
22 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to enact a Right to Services Act||The Tamil Nadu government will enact a Right to Services Act, Governor Banwarilal Purohit announced on Monday. In his customary address to the Assembly, Mr. Purohit said the Act will streamline the delivery of various public services by government agencies. The Governor said providing a clean administration was the top priority of the government, and the Lok Ayukta would be revitalised and empowered to deal with complaints against public authorities, including elected representatives and government officials. “The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) will be energised and pending complaints dealt with expeditiously,” he said. The Governor said the fiscal health of the State was a cause of concern, and the government would focus on improving the fiscal position and bringing down the debt burden. “As a first step, a report (White Paper) detailing the true state of Tamil Nadu’s finances will be released in July,” he said. The government believed that accurate data should support all decision making. “Data-based decision making will also increase transparency of the government’s functioning in the citizens’ eyes. Projects will be undertaken on the same basis, including some funded by international financial institutions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-to-enact-a-right-to-services-act/article34897428.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State continues to record steady decrease in new COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu continued to record a slow and steady decline in fresh COVID-19 cases. On Monday, the State registered 7,427 COVID-19 cases and 189 deaths, taking the case tally to 24,29,924 and toll to 31,386. Coimbatore, Erode, Salem, Tiruppur, Chennai, Thanjavur, Namakkal and Chengalpattu continued to account for more than 300 fresh cases a day. A day after its daily caseload dropped below 1,000, Coimbatore reported 891 fresh cases followed by Erode with 795 cases. In Chennai, the daily count saw a small dip as 439 persons tested positive. There were 388 cases in Thanjavur, 314 in Namakkal and 310 in Chengalpattu. The fresh cases dipped to below 100 in 12 districts, with Perambalur having the least number of cases at 37. Chennai’s active caseload stood at 1,343. Of the 189 fatalities, Chennai recorded 25 deaths followed by Coimbatore with 23 deaths. There were 16 deaths in Vellore and 12 in Tiruchi. A total of 151 of them had co-morbidities. This included a 27-year-old woman from Coimbatore who had diabetes. She was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on June 14 and died on June 19 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 15,281 persons were discharged after treatment. Till date, 23,37,209 persons were discharged. A total of 1,70,923 samples were tested, taking the total sample count to 3,13,40,264. Individuals-wise, a total of 3,05,23,529 persons were tested so far. Monday marked the State’s highest daily vaccination coverage so far as 3,96,351 persons received the COVID-19 vaccines. The number of active cases of the disease in Coimbatore district fell below the 10,000-mark on Monday. According to the Health Department, the district had 9,566 patients under treatment in different hospitals, COVID Care Centres and also in home isolation. The active cases included 891 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore on Monday. Meanwhile, 2,104 persons recovered from the disease on Monday. The district’s death toll increased to 1,911 after 23 more persons died of COVID-19. Tiruppur district reported 458 new cases, taking the overall tally to 79,182. The Health Department reported three new deaths, taking the overall tally to 699. Active cases in the district declined further as 3,341 patients were reported to be undergoing treatment for COVID-19. A total of 1,575 patients were reported to have recovered on Monday, taking the total number of recovered patients in the district to 75,142. The district administration announced that vaccination drives for all above 18 years would continue on Tuesday at the designated schools throughout the district and only in corporation limits on Wednesday. Erode district reported 795 new cases, taking the tally to 84,453. While 2,042 persons were discharged, 7,070 continue to be under treatment. Nine persons died, raising the death toll to 555. As many as 511 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 483 cases were indigenous and 130 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. A total of 28 patients have returned from other places like Namakkal, Erode, Dharmapuri, Kalakuruchi and Tiruchi. As per bulletin, nine deaths were reported in Salem, including five women patients. In Namakkal, 314 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Four deaths were reported in the district. In the Nilgiris, 166 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 27,324. The number of deaths in the district increased from 146 to 150 on Monday while 1,634 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-continues-to-record-steady-decrease-in-new-covid-19-cases/article34897393.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No clarity on NEET: PMK||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Monday said that lack of clarity in the Governor’s address on how NEET will be abolished is a disappointment. He, however, welcomed the proposal of a separate agricultural budget and Right to Services Act. In a statement, he said a separate budget for agriculture had been a demand put forward by the PMK for the last 13 years. “I welcome the forming of an economic advisory committee composed of those like Raghuram Rajan, and that a white paper on Tamil Nadu’s financial matters will be presented,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said the NEET had emerged as the biggest problem for Tamil Nadu. “While the Governor has said that the consent for the law exempting Tamil Nadu from NEET will be obtained from the President, the law passed by the previous government was sent back by the Centre. There is no mention of how the State government will ensure that the President’s consent for the law will be obtained,” he said. While it was a welcome move to give priority to children who study in government schools during recruitment, there was no mention about filling 3.5 lakh vacancies in various departments and creating 2 lakh government jobs. The PMK leader pointed out that there was no assurance that 10.5% reservation for Vanniyars within the MBC quota would be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-clarity-on-neet-pmk/article34897410.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 16,000-cr aid for Tangedco hangs in balance||The Centre is holding up the release of around Rs. 16,000 crore to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) under an assistance programme following its differences with the State government over the implementation of certain conditions. Sanctioned Rs. 30,230 crore in October last year under the Special Long Term Transition Loan to Discoms (Distribution Companies) as part of the Centre’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Tangedco is to get the assistance through the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and the REC, both coming under the control of Union Power Ministry, at concessional rates in two tranches. According to officials, the Tangedco has been given Rs. 14,000 crore in the first instalment. Centre’s rider There are two broad conditions that have come in the way of the disbursement of the funds, according to officials. Both as a pre-requisite to availing itself of the assistance and as a condition at the time of release of the second instalment, the power utility should have filed a tariff revision petition with the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) for 2020-21. As this condition has not been fulfilled in the light of the previous AIADMK regime not willing to take any risk in an election year, the Central agencies have conveyed to the State government that the latter has to bear the losses to be suffered by the power utility during 2021-22. Last year (2020-21), the Tangedco’s cash losses were estimated at about Rs. 18,000 crore. As the power utility is said to be suffering an average loss of about Rs. 2.2 per unit, its losses are expected only to go up this year too when the economy is reeling under the impact of the second wave of the pandemic, which is regarded as being more virulent than the first. The State government’s position is that it is willing to absorb 50% of the losses as agreed to when it had decided to join the Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY) in early 2017. At that time, it was decided that the State utility should achieve break even in three years, failing which the State government would step in to bail out in the fourth year by way of 50% absorption of losses. While the State government feels that the 50% stipulation can be stretched to one more year in the absence of any such reference on 100% absorption, the Central authorities are saying that what is applicable for the fourth year cannot be applied to the fifth year (2021-22). Besides, Tamil Nadu is not being treated differently from other States under similar circumstances as the conditions have been framed, keeping the entire country in mind, explains a senior official of the PFC. However, Tamil Nadu, whose “fiscal health is precarious with persistent high revenue and fiscal deficits,” as stated in a Government Order issued on Monday, cannot afford the 100% absorption of the Tangedco’s losses. Conscious of the difficulties being faced by his new government, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in his memorandum submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, sought his intervention in getting the second tranche released by relaxing the conditions. Meanwhile, the State authorities are about to award a contract for conducting a study of finances and governance structure of the Tangedco and the Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-16000-crore-aid-for-tangedco-hangs-in-balance/article34897407.ece
22 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Previous AIADMK government gave me a clean chit, says Velumani||Former Municipal Administration and Rural Development Minister S.P. Velumani has argued before the Madras High Court that the previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government had dropped all further proceedings against him in a case alleging irregularities in award of corporation contracts and therefore the present Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) regime could not take a different stand. Appearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi said that non-governmental organisation Arappor Iyakkam and DMK Rajya Sabha member R.S. Bharathi had moved the High Court in 2018 seeking a Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) probe into alleged irregularities in civil contracts awarded by Greater Chennai and Coimbatore Corporations. Passing interim orders on those petitions in 2019, a Bench led by Justice M. Sathyanarayanan (since retired) ordered a preliminary inquiry and specifically named Superintendent of Police R. Ponni to head the probe. Accordingly, the officer conducted a preliminary inquiry and submitted an exhaustive report to then DVAC Director on December 18, 2019 stating that no case had been made out for registration of a First Information Report (FIR). The DVAC Director approved the report and forwarded it to the Vigilance Commissioner on January 13, 2020. The Commissioner too endorsed the report on January 18, 2020. Thereafter, on January 22, 2020, the government accepted the report and dropped all further proceedings on the complaints against the Minister. “Now merely because the government is changed, it can’t make any difference,” Mr. Rohatgi said. He also claimed that nothing remains to be adjudicated in the present petitions pending since 2018. Not in agreement with him, advocate V. Suresh, representing Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam , said that the issue was not as simple as it was being projected before the court and that he would prefer to argue the case whenever physical hearing resumes since the issue involves reliance on voluminous documents. Accepting his request, the judges adjourned the hearing of the two cases by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-govt-gave-me-a-clean-chit/article34897456.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State to present separate Budget for agriculture||The Tamil Nadu government will introduce a separate annual Budget for agriculture with the objective of increasing agricultural productivity and protecting farmers’ welfare, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said on Monday. [ The Hindu reported about the proposal earlier this month.] According to Mr. Purohit, since Tamil Nadu was a water-deficient State, legislation to regulate groundwater use would be enacted to protect the interest of farmers and common people dependent on groundwater. “Farmers are the backbone of the country. In recognition of their role and importance, this government has renamed the Department of Agriculture as the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare,” he said in his address to the Assembly. Mr. Purohit said the emphasis would be on new technologies, new methods of cultivation and modernising agriculture with the active participation of farmer-producer groups, Uzhavar Nala Sangams (farmers’ welfare associations) and experts. “To increase farmers’ income, allied activities like animal husbandry, value-added farming, organic farming and cultivation of horticultural crops will be promoted,” he said. The government would take steps to achieve the target of 125 metric tonnes of food production in 2021-22. “Desilting a length of 4,061 km of channels has been taken up, and is being carried out on a war-footing to ensure that water reaches the tail-end areas,” he said. The Governor said Uzhavar Sandhais (farmers’ markets) established by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi would be revitalised, and more such markets would be created. Besides, rural markets would be created under government supervision to protect farmers. “The initiative of supplying vegetables and fruits to people at their doorstep through vehicles during the COVID-19 lockdown was well-received, and will be continued and expanded,” Mr. Purohit said. Reiterating the Tamil Nadu government’s commitment to protecting the State’s interest in inter-State water issues, the Governor urged the Centre to reject the Mekedatu project proposed by Karnataka, as it was in violation of the judgment of the Supreme Court. “The [Tamil Nadu] government will request the Centre and the Kerala government to grant clearances quickly for carrying out the remaining works to strengthen the Mullaperiyar dam,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-present-separate-budget-for-agriculture/article34897426.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MTC resumes bus operations in city, occupancy remains low||After many weeks, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) resumed operations of its bus services in Chennai on Monday, after the State governmentannounced several relaxationsduring the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. The State government has allowed public transport operations (non air-conditioned buses) for Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur with 50% seating occupancy. Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan, who inspected the central bus depot on Pallavan Salai along with senior transport officials on Monday morning, said that MTC was operating more than 50% of the fleet of 1,792 buses. The Villupuram State Transport Corporation would be operating 750 buses to cater to the residents of the three districts including Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur, where MTC buses are not available. Based on the patronage, bus operations would be increased in the coming days, he added. Little crowd A senior official of the transport corporation said though more than 1,792 buses were being operated covering all routes, most of the bus stops had little crowd and the occupancy was also not up to 50% in several buses. The MTC is also taking all COVID-19 preventive measures of disinfecting buses, and allowing only those commuters wearing masks to board. The MTC, using the lockdown, has also taken steps to vaccinate more than 85% of the bus crew of drivers and conductors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-resumes-bus-operations-in-city-occupancy-remains-low/article34897389.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PWD to construct new Collectorate building in Mayiladuthurai district||In a few months, the Public Works Department will begin constructing a collectorate building at the newly formed Mayiladuthurai district. The department has recently floated a tender for the Rs. 114-crore project. Officials of the PWD noted that a 21-acre site has been identified for the new collectorate building at Mayiladuthurai. This would house offices of all government departments, including revenue, education and PWD, in the same premises. Work is in progress to construct collectorate buildings at four other districts - Tirupathur, Chengalpattu, Ranipet and Tenkasi. Most of the government departments in these districts are functioning in temporary premises and would be shifted to new buildings by April or May next year. Each of these projects have been taken up at a cost ranging between Rs. 110 crore-Rs. 120 crore each. Of the four projects, the ones at Chengalpet and Ranipet may be completed faster. Nearly 50% of the work to build the four-storeyed collectorate in Chengalpattu district has been completed so far. Spread over a space of 2.91 lakh sq.ft, the upcoming building at Venbakkam would accommodate government offices, including Animal Husbandry, Agriculture and District Employment Office. However, the fifth project in Kallakurichi district has been temporarily halted owing to a court case. It may be recalled that the project to build the new collectorate at Veeracholapuram, Kallakurichi district was started in October last year after land belonging to Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department was allotted. Meanwhile, there is also a delay in finalising this fiscal’s schedule of rates, which is essential to prepare cost estimates particularly for government projects. Officials noted that the department was analysing market rates of construction materials. The cost of construction materials like cement, steel and M-sand have soared to a new high recently. The schedule of rates is normally revised by a minimum of 10% every year. Various factors are being analysed for fixing the schedule of rates. “We plan to release the new schedule of rates by the month-end. The new rates will be applied for the upcoming projects,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-to-construct-new-collectorate-building-in-mayiladuthurai-district/article34897677.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Priority for Tamil-medium students in jobs||The Tamil Nadu government will ensure that native Tamils, especially those who studied in Tamil-medium and government schools, are given priority in recruitment for government jobs, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said on Monday. “The requisite changes to undo past orders which are contrary to this intent will be undertaken at the earliest,” Mr. Purohit said in his address to the Assembly on Monday. He said the government would also urge the Centre to ensure that people from Tamil Nadu were given priority in appointments to Central government and public sector undertakings in Tamil Nadu. Pointing out that the reservation policy of Tamil Nadu was 100 years old and had stood the test of time, delivering social justice, Mr. Purohit said the 69% reservation policy would be continued and protected. Tamil Nadu would urge the Centre to remove the income criteria for determining the creamy layer for the Union government’s reservation for OBCs and, in the interim, raise the current income ceiling of Rs. 8 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh. “This government will also ensure that the authority of the State governments to determine the backwardness of different communities is not compromised in any way,” Mr. Purohit added. The Governor also announced a special recruitment drive to clear the backlog of vacancies for Adi Dravidars and Scheduled Tribes in government jobs. Stating that the Chief Minister retaining the portfolio of Welfare of the Differently-abled was proof that the government accorded importance to the group, Mr. Purohit said the provisions of the Rights of the Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, would be implemented with greater effectiveness. He said the Department of the Differently-abled Welfare would be significantly strengthened and have greater field presence to ensure that the benefits of various programmes reach them. Transpersons’ welfare The Governor said skills training for increasing job opportunities and self-employment would be provided to transpeople to improve their livelihoods. Announcing the government’s commitment to giving a fillip to sports and enabling sportspersons to win medals in the Olympics and other international competitions, Mr. Purohit said recruitment of sportspersons under the sports quota in government departments would be effectively implemented.  The Chief Minister retaining the portfolio of Welfare of the Differently-abled is proof that the government accords importance to the group Banwarilal Purohit Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priority-for-tamil-medium-students-in-jobs/article34897413.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crack down on unauthorised buildings in Chennai, other urban localities: HC||The Madras High Court on Monday impressed upon the need for the State government to crack down on unauthorised constructions in Greater Chennai Corporation limits, as well as other urban localities, and prevent disorganised development due to the unholy nexus between the real estate mafia and the officials. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the High Court Registry to forward a copy of their interim order to the Municipal Administration department as well as Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner so that some order could be maintained with regard to constructions. “It must not be lost sight of the fact that this is a prime area where unwanted elements are involved and there is a nexus between persons in positions of authority with realtors and even with mafia and large amounts of money exchange hands. Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram is available and there is no doubt that the State will address the obvious malaise with the degree of seriousness it deserves,” the judges wrote. The interim orders were passed on a public interest litigation petition that was filed last year complaining about the inaction of the corporation officials against illegal constructions and buildings that had been constructed in violation of sanctioned plans in Zone V of Greater Chennai Corporation. After the filing of the case, the corporation identified 5,523 unauthorised constructions in the zone and listed out the action initiated against them. Focus on pandemic After recording the details on February 5 this year, the court had granted six months time for the corporation to undertake a similar exercise in all other zones. However, when the matter was taken up again on Monday, the Chief Justice said that the civic body might not have been able to concentrate on this issue because of its preoccupation with the fight against COVID-19. Hence, he granted eight more weeks to carry out the exhaustive exercise and said: “It is made clear that the court may ultimately come down heavily on the illegal constructions. The matter must receive the attention of the highest officials.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crack-down-on-unauthorised-buildings-in-chennai-other-urban-localities-hc/article34897394.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Asked for better pay structure, not allowances’||A section of government doctors are disappointed with the State government’s move to grant them allowances instead of their long-pending demand to address pay disparity and compression of pay band-4 (PB-4) on completion of 12 years of service. Doctors of at least five associations — Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association, Service Doctors and Postgraduates Association (SDPGA), Doctors Association for Social Equality (DASE), Tamil Nadu Medical Students Association and Service Doctors Welfare Association — have registered their objection to Government Order 293 on granting allowances to medical officers. For several years, doctors have been demanding compression of PB-4 to 12 years by reviewing G.O. 354. The latest G.O., however, rules out implementation of Dynamic Assured Career Progression (DACP) and PB-4 at 12 years of service, and instead, grants allowances after categorising doctors. A number of doctors said the G.O. completely neglected those working in rural areas, Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and government hospitals in peripheral areas. SDPGA questioned why this order was issued in a hasty manner. It granted graded allowances based on specialties, selected specialties and rare specialties and a functional classifications based on the place they worked. It said that doctors in every directorate have unique job functions and responsibilities, and one cannot discriminate between their services. “In a nutshell, this G.O. is nothing but what the previous government offered us which the Federation of Government Doctors Association rejected as it is a threat to dismantle our strong public health care. Now, the entire government doctors community is in a state of shock. This has demoralised all of us,” A. Ramalingam, State convenor of FOGDA, said. “Right now, we want the government to revoke the order that does not reflect the work productivity. The ultimate demand is to review G.O. 354 that was given by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi in 2009. It gave us DACP at 8, 15, 17 and 20 years of service and to compress promotion at 4, 9, 11 and 12 years. Once this pay disparity is addressed, then we can discuss allowances,” he said. G. R. Ravindranath, general secretary of DASE, said the government should withdraw this order. The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association has welcomed the G.O. K. Senthil, its president, said this issue has dragged on for 4.5 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asked-for-better-pay-structure-not-allowances/article34897398.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to set up Chennai Metro Flood Management Committee||Tamil Nadu government would establish Chennai Metro Flood Management Committee to devise flood control methods and design stormwater drains to reduce the detrimental impact of floods, Governor Banwarilal Purohit announced in the State Legislative Assembly on Monday. It would comprise experts in environment, urban planning and disaster management. In his customary address in the House, Mr. Purohit said a new model for enhanced urban governance capability, citizen-focused service delivery in key areas, including mobility and water supply, and to enhance the resilience of cities would be established. The preparation of the Third Master Plan for Chennai in consultation with all stakeholders would be completed well before the due year of 2026, he said. Contending that there were still gaps in the basic infrastructure in 42 local bodies adjacent to Chennai, which were included within the boundaries of the Chennai Corporation, the Governor said ‘Singara Chennai 2.0’ programme would be launched to provide modern world-class infrastructure and services in Greater Chennai Corporation. “Necessary steps will be taken to expedite the Maduravoyal to Chennai Port elevated road project, which was needlessly stalled,” he said. The Governor said that the government would ensure the speedy completion of the phase II of Metro Rail Project. “We urge the government of India to accord early approval for equity participation on 50:50 sharing basis as was done for Phase I,” he said. The Central Institute of Classical Tamil in Chennai would be revitalized and the State government would impress upon the Centre to preserve its autonomy and not affiliate the Institute to any other university. Feasibility of MRTS The Governor said that feasibility studies for Mass Rapid Transit Systems (MRTS) for Madurai, Tiruchi, Salem and Tirunelveli would be taken up. Mr. Purohit also said that satellite towns would be developed in sub-urban areas with modern amenities to decongest large cities in the State. Regional plans will be prepared to cover the entire State.  We urge the government of India to accord early approval for equity participation on 50:50 sharing basis as was done for Phase I Banwarilal Purohit, Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-set-up-chennai-metro-flood-management-committee/article34897400.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Study on finances of Tangedco||In an effort to address the severe financial crisis suffered by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) and the Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation Limited (Tantransco) due to “mismanagement” in the recent years, the government will carry out a detailed strategic study of the finances and governance structure of these bodies, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said on Monday.  One of the foremost objectives of the State is to ensure uninterrupted power supply, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/study-on-finances-of-tangedco/article34897420.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress praises move to form economic panel||The constitution of an Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister comprising Nobel laureate Esther Duflo, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan, former Chief Economic Advisor to the Centre Aravind Subramanian, Development Economist Jean Dreze and former Union Finance Secretary S. Narayan was the right move to take Tamil Nadu ahead on the path of growth, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said on Monday. Welcoming the committee announced in the Governor’s address in the State Assembly, Mr. Alagiri said the advice of these eminent persons would go a long way in helping the growth of the State in all sectors. “The Governor’s address has laid out very clearly the vision of how Tamil Nadu is going to go on the path of growth” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-praises-move-to-form-economic-panel/article34897404.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools asked to form student safety panel||The School Education Department has called for all schools in Tamil Nadu to constitute a student safeguarding advisory committee (SAC) which will continually review, monitor and recommend steps at the institutional level on all aspects of student safety. This is a part of the guidance document issued for schools in Tamil Nadu on student safety and protection from sexual violence. The SAC should comprise of the principal, two teachers, two members of the PTA, a management representative, a non-teaching staff member and an optional external member. After several allegations of sexual harassment, abuse and misconduct surfaced on social media against faculty members in schools in the city, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had called for forming a committee by the School Education Commissioner for issuing guidelines regarding online classes. The guidance for schools issued as a part of a government order from the School Education secretary Kakarla Usha, cover a number of aspects with regard to student safety both on campus as well as online and have detailed the complaint mechanisms to be set up as well as audit tools for safety checks. As was announced by the Chief Minister, it states that schools are expected to record all online classes and random audits of the same should be carried out periodically by a member of the student safeguarding advisory committee. Both students and faculty members are to follow a dress code suitable for classroom settings during online classes as well. Complaint centre A State level “Central Complaint Centre (CCC)” with a hotline facility as well as a dedicated e-mail ID to enable receipt of all school-based complaints of sexual abuse against students, from anyone will be set up by the department. In the case of complaints received at school through any mode of communication, the SAC will immediately inform the CCC. The purpose of the CCC is to offer an alternative complaint mechanism and provide appropriate guidance on the protocol to be observed so that all complaints were addressed. For the hotline and the e-mail ID, a trained multidisciplinary team drawn from different fields will guide callers/complainants regarding the protocol to be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-asked-to-form-student-safety-panel/article34897403.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID announces contact details to lodge complaints of sexual abuse||The Crime Branch-CID (CB-CID) police investigating the sexual harassment charges against Siva Shankar Baba has announced exclusive telephone numbers and e-mail ID to enable victims to register their complaints. Based on the complaint of the victims, three cases had been registered under Pocso Act and T.N. Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act by the All Women Police, Mamallapuram, against Siva Shankar Baba for sexually harassing students in the school he founded on the outskirts of the city. He was arrested by the CB-CID last week in New Delhi and brought to Chennai and remanded in judicial custody. Subsequently, another accused Sushmitha, who allegedly aided Baba, was arrested on Thursday. In a press release, the CB-CID said if there were any further complaints in this regard, victims could approach the investigation officer/Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Gunavarman at 98405 58992 and Inspector Renukadevi at 98406 69982 or through email idinspocu2@gmail.com. Victims can contact the CB-CID control room which runs round-the-clock via telephone nos: 28512500/28512510.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-announces-contact-details-to-lodge-complaints-of-sexual-abuse/article34897390.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metrowater launches desilting of sewer network||Chennai Metrowater launched a mass desilting programme of its sewer network across the city on Monday. The exercise would be carried out till June 30 as precautionary maintenance work ahead of the northeast monsoon. The sewer pipeline network and maintenance holes in 801 densely-populated streets have been identified for silt removal. This is expected to allow the network to take additional load during the rainy season and also avoid sewage blocks or overflow. Many Members of the Legislative Assembly flagged off the programme in their respective constituencies across the city. While Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma.Subramanian inaugurated the exercise in Saidapet, Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin flagged off the operation at Venkatarangam Pillai Street, Triplicane. On an average, the city generates nearly 553 million litres of sewage daily. The sewer network has been laid for a distance of about 4,800 km in non-bus route roads alone. Metrowater Managing Director C. Vijayaraj Kumar, who inspected the works, instructed the officials to complete the desilting work on schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metrowater-launches-desilting-of-sewer-network/article34897396.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine allocation by Centre inadequate: Purohit||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday reiterated its request for adequate supply of COVID-19 vaccines to the State, even as the country was preparing to face the third wave of COVID-19. In his address in the Assembly, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said: “We urge the Union government to ensure that adequate vaccine supplies are made available to ensure that the entire adult population of India is vaccinated against COVID-19 before this year-end.” As medical experts have warned of a third wave, the State government would take all necessary measures to counter it, he said. “Health infrastructure is being further strengthened. All ongoing construction projects in the health sector, including that of eleven new medical colleges, are being expedited for early completion,” he said. The DMK government will staunchly stand in defence of the rights of the States and constitutionally oppose any infringement of them, he said. “At the same time, we will maintain a cordial relationship with the Union government, as partners in the process of nation building, in line with our policy of extending our hand in friendship, even as we speak up for our rights,” he said. A new 500-bed multi-specialty hospital will be constructed on the King Institute’s campus in Chennai at Rs. 250 crore, he said. “Oxygen storage and production capacities are being further augmented in many government hospitals,” he said. So far, Rs. 335.01 crore had been received as contributions to CMPRF, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-allocation-by-centre-inadequate-purohit/article34897423.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools mull alternative platforms||With the School Education Department announcing on Monday that all online classes will have to be mandatorily recorded and periodically checked by a member of the Student Safeguarding Advisory Committee, schools are planning to develop additional infrastructure to store lessons and online resources being sent to their students. Many schools have been using a mix of live classes and recorded videos to take lessons for their students. “We have decided to increase the number of live classes over recorded videos for the students for the 2021-22 academic year. We will have to take a decision on picking a platform for online classes which will ensure ease of recording, and can be accessed through mobile phones, laptops and tablets,”said B. Purushothaman, correspondent, Everwin Group of Schools. This is the case in several schools where not all students and teachers use laptops and that the platform they choose has to work well on all devices. “We will have to think about how to store all the recordings and have to make arrangements with the school’s admin and IT team,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-mull-alternative-platforms/article34897402.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘It is DMK’s job to get NEET exemption’||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Monday said the State government has a big responsibility to make Tamil Nadu NEET-free. In a statement, Mr. Balakrishnan welcomed the Governor’s address mentioning of a law to ensure that the students are not adversely affected by the entrance test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-dmks-job-to-get-neet-exemption/article34897405.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS says no information suppressed on fiscal health||Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday said there had been no suppression of information with regard to the fiscal health of the previous AIADMK regime. Answering a question on the present government citing the financial condition of the government as the reason for not reducing the prices of petrol and diesel, Mr. Palaniswami said at the time of the presentation of the [interim] Budget [in February], the position was made known to people through the media. But the DMK, knowing this fully well, went on making the promise during the election on the reduction of the fuel prices, and it included the assurance in its election manifesto. Pointing out that Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan was “not unaware” of the situation, Mr. Palaniswami, who termed as “disappointing” the Governor’s address to the Assembly, said the refusal of the DMK government to lower fuel prices had shown that the party would have one stance before and after the poll. AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam said after the DMK government assumed office, the prices of petrol and diesel had gone up by Rs. 5 and Rs. 4 a litre. He said there was no reference in the Governors’s address to the restoration of the monthly billing cycle for domestic consumers of electricity. In a couple of tweets, AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said one had to watch how the DMK government, which was “struggling to act constructively” in various matters, would implement the announcements in the Governor’s address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-says-no-information-suppressed-on-fiscal-health/article34897414.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New health insurance for govt. officials, pensioners||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Monday announced that the State government would implement a new health insurance scheme for government officials and pensioners with substantially enhanced benefits. In his address in the Legislative Assembly, the Governor said the welfare of government officials and pensioners would be fully protected. “This government fully recognises the important role that government officials play in ensuring that the benefits of government schemes reach the people,” he said. ‘Thorough overhaul’ The Governor also said the present model of human resources management needed an overhaul. “This government feels the current model of human resources management, backbone data systems, and audit and oversight functions need a thorough overhaul,” he said. A simplification of methods and processes, while retaining and enhancing accountability, will lead to improved impact for citizens for every rupee spent by the government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-health-insurance-for-govt-officials-pensioners/article34897418.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Advisory panel for major temples||Reiterating its commitment to promoting transparency and accountability in temple management, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday said the assets, lands and properties of temples would be protected. In his address to the Assembly, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said the State’s Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act was a model legislation for the entire country. He announced the constitution of a State-level advisory committee for major Hindu temples to enhance facilities for devotees, improve maintenance and advise on related issues. Mr. Purohit said the lands of the Wakf Board would also be protected through necessary administrative action. “The government will act on the basis of the Sachar Committee recommendations and more effectively implement schemes for educational advancement, economic empowerment and greater access to housing for minorities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advisory-panel-for-major-temples/article34897424.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi hands over relief fund||Glovis India Private Limited contributed an amount of Rs. 1 crore to the CMPRF and the cheque was presented by the Chief Financial Officer S.H. Jung to the Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat recently. Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin presented a cheque to Mr. Stalin for Rs. 61 lakh collected during his tour to Coimbatore and Salem. The members of the Tamil Nadu Retired Government Employees Association gave a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh and a similar sum was given by St. Joseph College of Engineering and St. Joseph Institute of Technology. The cheque was given by Chairman B. Babu Manoharan. Thilagam Enterprises proprietor R. Lakshminarayanan donated Rs. 25 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udhayanidhi-hands-over-relief-fund/article34897391.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free online coaching for UPSC interview||Manidhaneyam Free IAS Coaching Centre will launch free online coaching for personality test of UPSC civil services examination on June 26. According to a press release from Manidhanaeyam Trust chairman Saidai Duraisamy, candidates will get free coaching for the personality test with mock interview sessions. Candidates seeking to avail of these services must e-mail their mains examination hall ticket and passport size photograph to manidhanaeyam @gmail. com before June 25. For details call 044-24358373 or 044-24330095 or 8428431107||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-online-coaching-for-upsc-interview/article34897395.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scrap NEET: Pa. Ranjith||Neelam Panpattu Maiyyam founder and filmmaker Pa. Ranjith on Monday urged the State government to take steps to remove NEET for admission to medical courses in Tamil Nadu without any delay. “The students who are in Tamil medium and State Board schools want to express their intellect and it is their right. In such a scenario, introducing new policies and entrance tests will cause confusion in the minds of the students and they might start questioning their own abilities,” he said. In a society that is unequal, attention must be given to the needs and national tests cannot be allowed in a country that is pluralistic, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scrap-neet-pa-ranjith/article34897397.ece
22 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Residents get to see more snakes in Coimbatore during lockdown||The last three days have been busy for final year law student V. Chithran from Singanallur, a novice into snake rescuing. He rescued two spectacled cobras from houses at Singanallur and Ondipudur on Saturday and Sunday. On Monday, he got a call from a gated community at Singanallur where a rat snake had slithered in. “The place where the gated community is situated used to be a sugarcane field. Now, more snakes are being spotted at the place,” he said. Debris and waste dumped near residences are attracting snakes where rat population is likely to be high. Biologist J. Peter Prem Chakravarthi attributes the arrival of the South-West Monsoon as the main reason behind increased sightings of snakes now. “The monsoon triggers the growth of vegetation due to which the population of insects, frogs and rodents like rats increase. Movement of snakes is more during the period due to increased availability of food and also for mating,” he says. According to him, this cycle happens every year, but people come to notice the movement and presence of snakes more these days as they spend more time around home due to lockdown restrictions. Seasoned snake rescuers in Coimbatore A.R. Ameen Badusha, R. Sanjay and K. Santhosh Kumar say that they got more rescue calls during the lockdown period last year and this year. “Improper management of food waste is another reason as it will naturally lead to an increase in the number of rats which are fed by snakes,” says Mr. Badusha who takes care of reptiles at the Coimbatore Corporation’s VOC Park Zoo. His assistant Anand rescued a common kukri, a non-venomous snake, from Cheran Ma Nagar on Saturday. “Snakes like the common kukri were widely seen in Coimbatore in the past. Their sightings have come down now,” he adds. According to Mr. Sanjay, various snakes have their mating season between January and June. People come to notice the movement due to the lockdown. “Venomous snakes like cobra, russell’s viper and krait were rescued from many residential areas,” he says. Mr. Kumar reused around 100 snakes from urban and rural areas in the ongoing lockdown period of the second wave of the pandemic. According to M. Senthil Kumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests, 1,209 rescues of animals, snakes, birds and lesser known species were made in the Coimbatore Forest Division in 2020. Of these, more than 500 rescues were of snakes, says the officer. The data on rescues made in the limits of the seven forest ranges in the division this year is yet to be collated. The Forest Department can be reached for the rescue of non-domestic animals, birds and snakes at 0422 2456922 and +91 1800 4254 5456.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-get-to-see-more-snakes-in-coimbatore-during-lockdown/article34897438.ece
22 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. suspends water supply work||Coimbatore Corporation has suspended the work to lay a new drinking water pipeline on State Bank Road. The suspension is notwithstanding the request from the State Highways Department to complete the work at the earliest. Sources in the civic body said that it had paid around Rs. 55 lakh to the department in August 2020 before taking up the work to lay the pipeline from Avinashi Road, Uppilipalayam, through the Old Post Office Road and State Bank Road to Lanka Corner for 600m. The work was a part of the 24x7 drinking water supply scheme the corporation had taken up under the Smart Cities Mission. The pipeline to be laid on both sides of the road was to convey water to Puliakulam and Town Hall. At present, the corporation supplied water through a pipeline that runs below the Government Arts College Road. The new pipeline would replace the old pipeline and take care of water supply to the two areas until 2047. The corporation had started the work at the Avinashi Road end of the stretch but suspended the work, a few months ago. At present, the corporation had completed the work till the Collectorate and not taken it further south. The reasons were workers’ migration during the lockdown, Assembly election and the misinformation about the project in the present dispensation. A senior officer, on condition of anonymity, said the DMK having promised annulment of the 24x7 drinking water supply project contract that the corporation had signed with the contractor, Suez India Pvt. Ltd., and as local party leaders campaigned vigorously against the project, the corporation had at present decided to suspend the work until it obtained fresh political clearance. The issue had come up during Municipal Administration and Water Supply Minister K.N. Nehru’s visit to the city, the officer said and added that the corporation was hoping to obtain the clearance at the earliest. Meanwhile, the Highways Department had asked the corporation to complete the work at the earliest, particularly during lockdown, because the restoration of the road would be easy with fewer vehicles on road. The officer said the corporation had received department’s request and would resume the work at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-suspends-water-supply-work/article34897446.ece
22 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||13 mentally challenged persons rescued||The district administration has identified 13 mentally challenged and shelter-less persons and taken them to the rehabilitation centre at the old municipality office in Mettupalayam. A release from the district administration said it had established the centre on June 10 this year to rehabilitate not only mentally challenged persons but also provide home and medical care to shelter-less persons, physically challenged and those uncared for. The centre was to function under the direct supervision of District Collector. The NGO that the administration had engaged to run the shelter would appoint administrative officer, nurses, persons providing psychological help, psychiatrists, nurses and care takers. Collector G.S. Sameeran reviewed the centre’s functioning on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-mentally-challenged-persons-rescued/article34897447.ece
22 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines issued for weddings||The district administration has issued guidelines for solemnising weddings during COVID-19 pandemic. In a release issued here on Monday, Collector G.S. Sameeran said for weddings held in temples or any other places of worship, wedding halls, community halls or clubs the following procedure would apply. The tahsildar concerned should be informed of the wedding; those participating in weddings should wear masks; hand sanitisers and thermal scanners should be in place and the same should be recorded in notebooks. Based on the information given to the tahsildar, officials would conduct surprise checks and on finding violation they would initiate action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the release said. Mr. Sameeran said those conducting the wedding or the management of the venue should inform the tahsildar concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-issued-for-weddings/article34897431.ece
22 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault on minor girl||A 34-year-old man from Tirunelveli was arrested by the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore east, on Monday on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl, the daughter of a woman with whom he was living together near Ondipudur. He was arrested based on a complaint lodged by the woman, police said. According to the police, the man had separated from his wife. He later developed an affair with a woman from Tenkasi who was living with two daughters aged 10 and eight after getting separated from her husband. The woman along with her daughters moved to Coimbatore in February this year and started living with the man in a rented house near Ondipudur. Her complaint said that the man did not go for work from April and he sexually assaulted her elder daughter. The girl revealed the ordeal to her mother on Sunday after which she approached the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article34897449.ece
22 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance works at Ukkadam sub-station , there will be no power supply on June 22 from 10 a.m. to noon in the following areas: Vysial Street, Big Bazaar Street, Karuppa Gounder Street (Part), Thomas Street, Edayar Street, Pavalam Street, Raja Street, T.K. Market and R.G. Street. H.M.T.R Street, Perumal Koil Street, Eswaran Koil Street, Town Hall and Five Corner Street will have no power supply from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.   Seeranaickenpalayam sub-station, June 23, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.  Padma Nagar, Yamuna Nagar, Kalappanaickenpalayam, Somayampalayam, Ezhil Nagar, Kasthurinaickenpalayam and GCT Nagar Phases I and II.  Madampatti sub-station from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.  Madampatti, P.G. Pudur, Theethipalayam, Kalampalayam, Aavin Nagar, Siruvani Main Road, Sakthi Nagar, Postal Colony, Pachapalayam and Moolakarai. The power shutdown will be from 9 a.m. to noon for SPIC Company and K.G. Mills.  Keeranatham sub-station from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.  Keeranatham, Varathaiyangar Palayam, Idigarai and Athipalayam.  Coimbatore sub-station from 10 a.m. to noon  Alagesan Main Road, Mettupalayam Main Road, Murugan Mill Quarters, Forest Road, Bharathi Park Road 1,2,4 and 5, Ramana L.O 1,2 and 3, Raja Annamalai Road, Narayana Guru Road, SRP Nagar, NSR Road, Nandagopal Street, PKN Street, Thiruvalluvar Street, Bharathiyar Road, Dr. Balasundaram Road, Central Bus Stand, ATT Colony and Jail Quarters. For Subrayan Road, SNS L/O, Coimbatore North, Brooke Bond Road and Mill Road, there will be no power from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.  Ram Nagar, Nanjappa Road and Nehru Stadium will face power shutdown from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.  Avarampalayam Road, Nandagopal Street 2 and 3, Women’s Polytechnic College, N.G.N. Street, S.N.R. Street 1 to 5, Kandasamy Layout and Mettupalayam Road will have no power supply from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.   Sulur sub-station from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.  M.G. Pudur, Sengonda Gounden Pudur, Kaliapuram, Ravathur, Trichy Road, K.G. Palayam, Ranganathapuram, Amarjothi Nagar, Thendral Nagar, T.M. Nagar, Bhagat Singh Nagar, Ravathur Pirivu, Sandfit Industries, Narasimha Mill Units 1 to 3, Government Hospital, Kalangal Road, Sulur, Kasigoundenpudur, SKK Nagar and Kalangal.  MG Road sub-station from 10 a.m. to noon  Amman Nagar, M.G. Road (part), J.J. Nagar, Ganga Nagar, SIHS Colony, Thamarai Nagar, Nethajipuram, SIHS Colony Road and TNHB Quarters.  ERODE  Power supply will be disrupted in the following areas on June 22.   Sanitorium line, 10 a.m. to noon  Kandampalayam, Kandampalayam Pudur, Periyar Nagar, Pasumai Nagar, KMC Hospital, VRL Nagar, Chettithoppu, Thai Nagar, Thiruvengadampalayam, Bhavani Road, Kadapalayam and Thiruvengadampalayam Pudur.  Sipcot line, 10 a.m. to noon  Sipcot Industrial area, Kadappamadai, Saralai and Murugampalayam.  Anjur, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. J.J. Nagar, Karavalasu, Porasapalayam, Soriyampalayam, Dadarakadu, Poolavalasu, Valliyampalayam, Muthugoundanpalayam and Chinna Thandampalayam.  Vallipuram, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.  Muthaiyanvalasu, Karakattuvalasu, Kallipalayam, Perumparappu, Thattampalayam, Kottaikattuvalasu, Kolandampudur and Mariamman Kovil Pudur.  Sivagiri, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.: Chinniyampalayam Colony, Ceylon Colony, Ellapalayam, Kumaravalasu and Kagam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34897435.ece
22 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for award||The district administration has invited applications from women for Kalpana Chawla Award for acts of valour. According to a release, the State government willl confer the award on one woman for acts of valour and enterprise. Eligible applicants may hand over their biodata with a list of achievements and duly filled form to the District and Youth Welfare officer, Sports stadium, Appavu Nagar, Dharmapuri. The last date for submission of applications is June 25., it said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-award/article34897432.ece
22 June 2021||DINDIGUL/PARAMAKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister’s effigy burnt||AMMK cadre burnt the effigy of former Minister and AIADMK MLA Natham R. Viswanathan here on Monday. The former Minister had said in a meeting held here on Saturday that Ms. Sasikala was a liability and the AIADMK should not entertain her any more and any attempts to destabilise the party would not be tolerated, the protesters said. The police arrested the AMMK cadre. In an unrelated development, some miscreants set the car of Vincent Raja, a former MGR Youth Wing functionary, on fire at Mela Kavanoor near Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district in the early hours of Monday. Mr. Raja had spoken to Ms. Sasikala over phone a few days ago. As the message went viral in the social media, the AIADMK high command removed him from the party. Mr. Raja, who owns a bitumen plant here, stayed on the plant premises on Sunday night. Around 2.45 a.m. on Monday, some miscreants set his car on fire. In his police complaint, Mr. Raja mentioned the names of a few AIADMK members, including a former Minister based in Madurai, as suspects. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-ministers-effigy-burnt/article34897630.ece
22 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Wildlife monitoring begins in STR||The bi-annual six-day pre-monsoon wildlife monitoring exercise to estimate carnivores, herbivores and vegetations began at the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) here on Monday. Over 400 personnel comprising forest rangers, forest guards, forester and anti-poaching watchers began the exercise at Sathyamangalam and Hasanur Forest Divisions here. Each team comprising four to six members will be involved in direct sighting of animals and recording of pug marks, dung, carcass of animals and tree bark peelings. They will also record herbs and tree species and study the vegetations in the particular area. They will carry out line transect surveys and the collected data will be used for analysis by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wildlife-monitoring-begins-in-str/article34897457.ece
22 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Parents allege private school forcing them to pay 100% fees||The parents of children studying in a private school in the city have submitted a petition to the district administration alleging that the school was forcing them to pay 100% fees during the COVID-19 pandemic, which was against the Madras High Court order that directed schools to collect only 75% fees. In a petition submitted at the Collectorate here on Monday, the parents said that the court had for the academic year 2020-21 asked schools to collect only 75% fees and conduct only online classes. “We have paid 50% of the total fees and are ready to pay the balance 25%. But the school is demanding 100% fees,” the petition said and added that the school had also hiked the fees by 15%. They alleged that the school had withheld the final examination results of students who did not pay the full fees. A complaint was lodged with the Chief Educational Officer and the school initially accepted the CEO’s order. But later the school demanded 100% fees and failed to promote students to the next class. Their petition added that online classes for 2021-22 had begun and only those students who had paid full fees for the last academic year were provided the link for the classes. “Our livelihood has been affected due to the pandemic and we are unable to pay the fees,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-allege-private-school-forcing-them-to-pay-100-fees/article34897458.ece
22 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Call to regularise jobs of outsourced workers||Members of the Erode District Medical Department Workers’ Association, affiliated to the AITUC, have urged the State government to regularise the jobs of outsourced workers in various government hospitals. In an email sent to Ma. Subramaniam, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare, the association president S. Chinnasamy welcomed the government decision to recruit workers directly and stop outsourcing jobs. He also hailed the government announcement that wage issues of outsourced workers would be taken up by the District Collectors concerned. He said that the outsourcing system, which was anti-labour, was introduced by the previous government in government medical colleges and hospitals. The email urged the government to regularise the jobs of all eligible outsourced workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-regularise-jobs-of-outsourced-workers/article34897444.ece
22 June 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Elephant tramples man to death||A 63-year-old farmer was trampled to death by an elephant at Ulipenda village in Denkanikotttai here on Monday. The victim, Gundappa, was at his farm for night watch, at the time of the incident. According to the police, a lone elephant that was sighted around Ulipenda reserve forest over the last few days had attacked Gundappa and killed him in the spot. His body was spotted by the villagers on Monday morning. The Forest Department staff from Thally arrived at the spot and held an inquiry, before retrieving the body for autopsy. The department handed over Rs. 50,000 as first part of the solatium to the bereaved family. The remaining Rs. 3.50 lakh would be given to the family of the victim. In the wake of the farmers’ death, Madakkal panchayat handed over a petition to the Forest Department seeking intervention to prevent human deaths. They demanded that the forest department dig up elephant trenches, and erect solar fences to ward of animals venturing into farm lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-tramples-man-to-death/article34897448.ece
22 June 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Online grievance day meet held||The Karur district administration on Monday reached out to people by conducting an online grievance redressal meet to avoid crowding and prevent the chances of spread of COVID-19. The weekly grievance day meeting, which was supposed to resume after the withdrawal of model code of conduct in the State by the Election Commission, had been remained suspended. It had prevented the people, particularly the poor, from meeting the officials to represent their grievances at the Collector Office on Mondays. To solve the problem to an extent, Collector T. Prabhu Shankar, who assumed office a few days ago, roped in the services of National Informatics Centre (NIC) to conduct the grievance day meeting online. The petitioners were asked to download the Bharat VC App on their mobile to connect with the Collector and other officials on Mondays. It received good response from the people on Monday. Several people connected with the Collector through video conferencing by scanning the QR code and meeting ID. The meeting lasted for three hours between 11 am and 2 pm. A total of 51 petitioners came on online to air their grievances. The online redressal meeting would be conducted regularly on Mondays until further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-grievance-day-meet-held/article34897683.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Exclusive 3-week run for Marakkar||Actor Mohanlal’s multi-crore project Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham will have an exclusive three-week run in over 600 screens in Kerala from August 12 under an agreement reached between the Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK) and the Kerala Film Producers’ Association (KFPA) to revive the ailing Malayalam film industry hit hard by COVID-19. The decision not to release any other movies during the three-week exclusive window for the Priyardarshan-directed film has been taken based on the belief that a major film is needed to bring back audience to cinemas once the pandemic situation eases. Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham has been made under the banner of Aashirwad Cinemas at a reported budget of about Rs. 100 crore. However, the trade bodies will not place any demand for an immediate reopening of the cinemas before the government, as they feel that the situation is not yet favourable. “Cinemas will not be able to reopen full scale now as many districts continue to have containment zones. We hope that the situation will ease in the coming weeks. The cinemas are expected to turn active once again with the release of the big-budget Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham ,” says K. Vijayakumar, president, FEUOK. Two-year delay M. Renjith, president, KFPA, says the movie deserves an exclusive run as it has been delayed by over two years. “The censoring was completed in 2019 and it was getting ready for release in March 2020 when the lockdown came.” Even though the production house demanded a hike in their revenue share for the much-delayed movie, film exhibitors have declined to alter the current revenue formula of 60:40 (producer: exhibitor share) in the first week of collections followed by 55:45 in the second and 50:50 in the third week respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exclusive-3-week-run-for-marakkar/article34897291.ece
22 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MGNREGS: protest against Centre’s letter to States||Members of All India Agricultural Workers' Union and Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front on Monday staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here, condemning a recent letter from the Centre to prepare caste-wise data of workers under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). A letter from the Union Ministry of Rural Development asked State governments to prepare caste-wise data on expenditure on wages paid to workers under MGNREGS. Union district secretary S. Pandian said such an announcement would not be beneficial to people from the Scheduled Caste and the Scheduled Tribe. The Centre stated that there was no data on SC/ST population in the country as reason for the move. “There is concern that the data on SC and ST population may affect the budget allocated for them,” said Mr. Pandian. The MGNREGS was for rural people. For families who had enrolled in the programme, 200 days of work and Rs. 600 as minimum wage must be paid. There was need to ensure that the wages were paid on time as there was increase in arrears, he pointed out. The new order would further create a complex system of paying wages to the workers. Hence, the Centre must stop proceeding with the order, added Mr. Pandian. In a similar demonstration in Dindigul, the members demanded that the Centre immediately issue a circular to all State governments to stop collecting the data. The agitation, which was held in front of the Collectorate, urged the Centre to pay wages properly and also enhance the number of days due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Giving work for 100 days was insufficient, the protesters pointed out. There were so many issues concerning the SC/STs to be implemented. Such circulars to collect caste-wise data only complicated or diverted the main issues from being redressed, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgnregs-protest-against-centres-letter-to-states/article34897650.ece
22 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Demand for investigation into ‘mishandling’ of COVID-19 relief||Members of Visually-Impaired Rehabilitation Welfare Association on Monday petitioned the Collector here, urging him to take action against the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer for allegedly mishandling COVID-19 financial assistance of 2020. Led by association president P. Kumar, the members claimed around Rs. 40 lakh was handed to the department to provide COVID-19 financial assistance to the differently abled in the district. But the officer, Jeyaseeli, mishandled the funds. The officer did not procure relief material in compliance with government rules. Also, relief materials were given to only 2,500 people. When the members asked for distribution of relief to those who were left out, she promised to provide them in the second phase. However, the promise was not fulfilled. “With the money allocated to the district, relief material can be provided to around 4,500 beneficiaries,” said Mr. Kumar. Hence, a full inquiry must be conducted on the issue, he added. Responding to the allegation, Ms. Jeyaseeli said the members were levelling false accusations against her. “I have discharged my responsibilities and distributed all relief materials properly to beneficiaries.” Ms. Jayaseeli suspected that an officer from the department who was transferred last year could be spreading fake news and instigating the visually impaired persons to protest against her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-investigation-into-mishandling-of-covid-19-relief/article34897646.ece
22 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on vaccinating husbands of antenatal mothers: health official||The public health department is giving special focus on administering COVID-19 vaccination for lactating mothers as well as the husbands of antenatal mothers. Speaking to The Hindu , Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said they had priority groups while vaccinating those aged between 18 and 45 years. “Husbands of antenatal mothers and lactating mothers fall under this category. There are now guidelines issued which permit vaccination of lactating mother.” Apart from them, differently abled persons, transport staff and workers of various industries are also given priority. A total of 4,80,682 persons had been administered COVID-19 vaccines in the district. Two days ago, around 24,000 additional doses of vaccines were sent to the district. There were 20,450 vaccine doses available in the district now. Mr. Arjun Kumar said separate plans were made every day regarding vaccination in the district. On Tuesday, COVID-19 vaccines would be administered in 76 places in rural areas including primary health centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-vaccinating-husbands-of-antenatal-mothers-health-official/article34897640.ece
22 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Be kind to children: HC||“The education authorities need to show more sympathy and understanding while dealing with students, particularly during this pandemic period,” observed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. The remark came while issuing a direction to the State to declare a Class X student as ‘pass’. He was denied the relief on the ground that he did not have adequate attendance. The court was hearing a petition filed by D. Suresh Kumar of Theni district. He challenged the communication issued by the Directorate of Government Examinations that informed the petitioner that his son was not entitled to be declared ‘pass’ as announced by the State as he did not satisfy the attendance criteria. Quashing the communication, Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that school children were facing a new challenge. They were asked to attend classes online and for the academic year 2020-2021, no physical classes were conducted. The entire year was spent only through online classes conducted by schools. The government found that it was impossible to conduct examinations and expose students to COVID-19. Therefore, a policy decision was taken to declare as ‘pass’ all students in Class IX, X and XI. The government order showed that the only requirement was that the students must be enrolled with the school. The order nowhere stipulated that the benefit would accrue to a student only if he fulfilled the attendance requirement. It was not known from where the Directorate of Government Examinations gathered such a requirement in the government order. It could not add something when it was not available in the order. There was already a surge in the number of cases of children being taken to psychiatrists for counselling during the pandemic period. Their energy was getting dissipated due to confinement inside the house. This had been going on for more than a year and society needed to find a solution to the problem by being kinder to children and not add more pressure on them, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-kind-to-children-hc/article34897648.ece
22 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea over DPC site dismissed||Coming across yet another case of dispute over location of a direct purchase centre in Pudukkottai district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that it would not hesitate to close the DPC but would not do so as it would affect the public and traders. The court was hearing a petition filed by M. Sumathi of Pudukkottai district. The petitioner was Rangiyanviduthi Village Panchayat President. She wanted the DPC in the village to be reopened in a particular place, based on her representation. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi took note of a dispute over location between the petitioner and Mala Rajendran, chairperson of Karambakudi Panchayat Union. Surprised over the dispute between the two elected representatives, the judges wondered as to how they could dictate terms over location of the DPC. They were elected to serve the people. The State informed the court that a committee was constituted by the Collector to look into the issue of the location of the DPC and it had been shifted to a government poramboke land in the village. The court dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-over-dpc-site-dismissed/article34897647.ece
22 June 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||200 kg ganja seized||Arumanai police have seized 200 kg ganja from a house and are on the lookout for the owners, a couple who were smuggling it to Kerala. Police said surprise check was conducted in a house at Andukodu near Arumanai in the district on Monday following information about stocking of banned products in the house. During the raid, 200 kg ganja packed in small packets was seized. Dung the investigation, police found that Mohamed Ajaz, 50, from Karamanai in Thiruvananthapuram and his wife Shalini, 45, who were living in the house for the past four months went to Kerala everyday in their bikes via rural roads connecting the two States. Hence, it was suspected that they smuggled ganja to Kerala in two-wheelers by taking the rural roads where there would be no vehicle check. Special teams had been deployed to nab the couple and identify their agents in Kerala, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/200-kg-ganja-seized/article34897651.ece
22 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Collector visits COVID-19 ward donning PPE kit||District Collector Shreya P. Singh visited the COVID-19 treatment ward at Tiruchengode government hospital donning PPE kit and interacted with patients on Monday. Ms. Singh reviewed the various treatment facilities and also other emergency services at the hospital. Along with senior doctors, she visited the COVID-19 ward and interacted with patients. According to doctors, there are about 28 patients under treatment at the Hospital. Ms. Singh enquired about the health condition of patients, details of medicines provided, food and other arrangements. She also visited the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit and enquired about the health condition of children under treatment. The officials also visited the vaccination centre at the hospital. Later, reviewing the COVID-19 containment measures in Tiruchengode, Ms. Singh said gatherings at weddings and funerals were found to be major reasons for spread of disease in the district. She advised officials to ensure that guidelines issued by the government were strictly followed at such events. She also advised the public to undergo testing at the earliest so that if they experienced any symptoms, they could avoid complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-visits-covid-19-ward-donning-ppe-kit/article34897440.ece
22 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||233 new cases in U.T.||New COVID-19 cases dropped to 233 at a test positivity rate of about 3% in the Union Territory on Monday even while three deaths took the toll to 1,726.  The government has extended the lockdown till midnight of June 30. In a further easing of curbs, shops, bars and restaurants can be open till 9 p. m. All places of worship are allowed to be open till 5 p.m. Public parks, beaches and gardens will be open from 5 a.m. to 9 a.m. The Excise Department has been asked to expeditiously issue instructions for door delivery of liquor only in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/233-new-cases-in-ut/article34897409.ece
22 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with severe disability to be vaccinated at doorstep||Collector Kavitha Ramu on Monday said that steps had been taken to administer COVID-19 vaccine to persons with severe disability at their respective residences. Similarly, persons with disabilities accommodated in the rehabilitation homes would be administered the vaccine at the homes. Presiding over a meeting regarding the progress made in vaccinating persons with disabilities in the district, Ms. Kavitha Ramu said vaccine had been administered to 1,025 out of the 5,867 persons with disabilities in the district. Medical camps were being conducted at all Government Primary Health Centres in the district and at places which were closer to persons with disabilities to administer the vaccine to them. Steps had been taken to ensure that all persons with disabilities got themselves vaccinated without fail, the Collector said. District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan and officials participated, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-with-severe-disability-to-be-vaccinated-at-doorstep/article34897688.ece
22 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Misuse of PDS card alleged||A differently-abled person has demanded action against ration shop staff for not delivering him the card. M. Raju, in a petition to District Collector on Monday, said that though he had applied for the ration card three years ago it was yet to be delivered. He said that Aadhaar card of his family members was already attached to a ration card when he tried to make a fresh application. Raju said that when he contacted Civil Supplies department authorities they told him that the card was in use for the past two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/misuse-of-pds-card-alleged/article34897453.ece
22 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sago unit owners demand open tender process||Sago manufacturers demanded that the Sagoserve should conduct open tender process at Sagoserve instead of e-tender which is in practice at present. A meeting of Sagoserve was held here on Monday. N. Tamilmani, Chairman for Sagoserve, J.E.Padmaja, Managing Director and Namakkal MP A.K.P.Chinraj took part in the meeting and heard grievances of manufacturers. Hearing the grievances, Ms.Padmaja said measures would be taken to address the grievances of sago manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sago-unit-owners-demand-open-tender-process/article34897454.ece
22 June 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Raja hails land retrieval||Thanking the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P. K. Sekar Babu for retrieving 9.58 acre land belonging to Sri Gowri Vinayagar Temple here swiftly, Bharatiya Janata Party leader H. Raja said that the court directives were more than sufficient to retrieve the temple lands in Tamil Nadu. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, he said that the High Court had, through various judgments, spelt out the need for the HR & CE department to retrieve temple lands. The Minister, who was in Sivaganga on Sunday, told reporters that the DMK government would take action to retrieve temple lands, if BJP leader Mr. Raja gave the details. In response, Mr. Raja said that the records were very clear on donors who had gifted thousands of acres of lands and buildings for the temples across Tamil Nadu. The government should focus on retrieving the temple lands and not indulge in politics. There were temple lands encroached in Kancheepuram, Chennai City (Adyar) and so many other locations, Mr. Raja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raja-hails-land-retrieval/article34897633.ece
22 June 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Office-bearers resign||Condemning BJP leader H. Raja, many office-bearers of the party here have tendered their resignation here on Monday. The party functionaries said that Mr. Raja, who had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha election in 2019 and the Assembly poll in April, had attributed his defeat to non-cooperation of some office-bearers. Irked over this, office-bearers in Karaikudi, Sivaganga and other places handed over the resignation letters to BJP district president Selvaraj, who himself had submitted his resignation to the high command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/office-bearers-resign/article34897634.ece
22 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Prevent building of dam at Mekedatu’||The Uzhavar Aran and the Cauvery Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu (Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee) have urged the Tamil Nadu government to act swiftly to prevent the construction of a dam across the Cauvery river at Mekedatu. In statements issued, the organisations have exhorted the Tamil Nadu government to learn from the history of how the upper riparian State built dams across the Cauvery and its tributaries in its domain in the past. The dams – Hemavathi, Herangi and Kabini – have come up in the past when the Congress was in power both at New Delhi and at Bengaluru, they pointed out and warned that a similar situation prevailed now also. Hence, the Tamil Nadu government should initiate necessary actions immediately to check the Karnataka government and get even the excess water that gets drained into Cauvery during good monsoons, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-building-of-dam-at-mekedatu/article34897678.ece
22 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||A section of farmers feels let down||At a time when farmers were supposed to be enthusiastically engaged in cultivation of `kuruvai’ crop in view of the release of water for irrigation from Mettur dam on the scheduled date of June 12, farmers dependent on surface water for cultivation in a couple of areas on the outskirts of Thanjavur town feel let-down by the officials. The Puthur Main Canal branching of from Vadavar river near Ammapet remain heavily silted with wild growth at Vadakku Thoppu Puliyakudi area hampering the flow of water into the channels branching off from this canal to the villages such Nadupatti to Pallavaroyanpettai. After repeated pleas to desilt the canal at Vadakku Thoppu Puliyakudi have not evoked positive results, the farmers led by the Ammapettai Union secretary of Communist Party of India, R.Senthilkumar, made a final attempt to draw the attention of the officials by submitting a memorandum to the PWD Assistant Executive Engineer, Vennar Division, and to the Panchayat Union Commissioner, recently. Similarly, the irrigation channel branching off from the Grand Anicut Canal at Keezhavasthachavadi and passing through Vaiyapuri Vanniyar Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Mariamma Rajapriya Nagar to irrigate hundreds of acres had been encroached at several places, according to the Thanjavur district secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to the CPI(M), N.V.Kannan. This channel apart from fulfilling the irrigation needs of the fields also serve as an inlet channel for a tank located at heart of Keezhavasthachavadi hamlet, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-section-of-farmers-feels-let-down/article34897679.ece
22 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 15 crore allocated||The State government has allocated Rs. 15 crore to Thanjavur district for implementing `kuruvai’ package scheme. Disclosing this in a press release, the Collector, Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, said that under scheme certified seeds would be distributed to the farmers at 50 per cent subsidised rate and green manure under 100% subsidy through the Agriculture Extension Centres. Further, two bags of urea, a bag of DAP and 25 kg of potash would be distributed at 100% subsidy through the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Banks. Farmers desiring to avail the `kuruvai’ package scheme could submit the required details through `Uzhavan’ mobile application or by presenting their applications at the Agriculture Extension Centres or at the office of the Block (Agriculture) Assistant Director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-15-crore-allocated/article34897675.ece
22 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for illicit brewing||Three persons were arrested on the charges of brewing illicit liquor on Monday. According to Peravurani police, they came to know illicit liquor was being brewed at a grove at Melamanakkadu hamlet. Hence, a team raided the grove, seized the materials used for preparing arrack and arrested Ayyappan of Melamankkadu, Selvaraj of Rettaivayal and Ganesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-illicit-brewing/article34897680.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||Whale ambergris seized||Police have seized Rs. 2 crore-worth whale ambergris, a waxy substance secreted by sperm whale, from six persons. Whale ambergris is used in perfumes. The police said a team led by Tiruchendur Inspector M. Gnanasekaran, which was checking vehicles on Taluk Office Road on Monday following information about smuggling of banned products, stopped a car with six occupants and interrogated them. The passengers told the police that they were searching for potential buyers to sell 2 kg of whale ambergris. They were identified as P. Elangovan, 52, of Palayapatti in Thanjavur district, R. Ramkumar, 27, Vamapuram near Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district, J. Mohamed Aslam, 33 of Aliyoor in Nagapattinam district, I. Raja alias Raja Mohamed, 34, of Ariyamangalam in Tiruchi district, K. Venkatesh, 48, and A. John Britto, 48, both from Thanjavur district. After seizing whale ambergris, banned under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the police alerted Tiruchendur ASP Harsh Singh who, in turn, informed Thoothukudi SP S. Jayakumar of the seizure. The SP handed over the ambergris and the detained persons to Tiruchendur Forest Range Officer Ravindran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whale-ambergris-seized/article34897639.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Market reopens||Both wholesale and retail traders resumed business at the Gandhi Market here on Sunday night after a gap of about six weeks. In the wake of second wave of COVID-19, the market was closed in the second week of May. The operations were shifted on West Boulevard Road from Kamaraj arch to Marakkadai corner. While wholesale traders carried out business in night, retail traders were asked to transact business from 6 to 10 am. Though there were no major issues for the traders until the intense lockdown was in force, the retail traders started facing problems after the standalone shops were allowed to reopen their businesses two weeks ago. The owners of hardware, sanitaryware and furniture showrooms on West Boulevard Road had urged the authorities to shift the vegetable traders immediately citing overcrowding, chaos, confusion and congestion on the road. Consequently, Collector S. Sivarasu permitted the wholesale traders to resume their operations from Sunday night. Tiruchi City Corporation authorities opened the main gates of the market. Soon after the opening of the gates, wholesale traders began their trading as usual. Though the retail trading was not officially allowed, retailers too reopened their shops and started transacting business from Monday morning. According to sources, a senior official of the Tiruchi Corporation, who visited the market on Sunday night, had told the wholesale traders to wind up the trading within 3 a.m. on Monday. He reportedly asked the retail traders not to reopen their shops as they were not permitted. But the retail traders refused to listen to him and continued their trading during the day. They threatened to stage a protest by dumping the vegetables and fruits on the road if they were not allowed to trade. However, flower traders heeded to the instructions and decided to wait for one more week to resume trade at the Gandhi Market. Sources said that business was dull on Monday as many people were not aware of the reopening of the market. Business was expected to be on a full scale from Tuesday. A section of traders have suggested opening all 10 gates of the market so as to ease restrictions on entry and exit of the customers and traders. M.K. Kamalakannan of the Gandhi Market Viyabarigal Munnetra Sangam said that the customers could quickly go out or gain entry if all gates were opened. Opening of just six gates of the market would restrict free movement of customers and traders, thereby leading to overcrowding. Moreover, there should not be any restriction on the timing of trading, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhi-market-reopens/article34897682.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||1,169 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in central districts||The central districts on Monday reported 1,169 fresh cases of COVID-19. Thirty-seven more patients succumbed to the viral infection in the region. Twelve patients succumbed to the viral infection in Tiruchi district. Thanjavur recorded eight deaths, while Pudukottai reported six. Nagapattinam reported four deaths, while Ariyalur reported three. Two patients succumbed to COVID-19 in Tiruvarur, whole one person each died in Karur and Perambalur. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 388 patients reporting positive. However, the district has continued to report a marked dip in the number of fresh cases over the last couple of weeks. In Tiruchi district, 251 patients tested positive, while Nagapattinam reported a marked dip with 120 fresh cases. Tiruvarur reported 103 fresh cases, while Karur 101. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had only 16 ICU beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had increased its ICU- bed vacancy to 87. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 229 and 156 ICU beds vacant, respectively. Pudukottai reported 86 fresh cases, while Ariyalur recorded 83. Meanwhile, Perambalur district reported 37 fresh cases, a sharp dip over the last few days. Pudukottai had only seven vacant ICU beds, while Perambalur had 35. Ariyalur district had 15 vacant beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1169-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-central-districts/article34897687.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Suspension of elective surgeries affects patients, medical students||Doctors at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital say patients are affected due to suspension of elective surgeries due to COVID-19 lockdown. While the doctors say it would resume soon, patients continue to reach out to them requesting they hasten the process, medical students too, are losing out on important training, they said. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior official of the TMCH said that the operation theatres have been closed down and a majority of the workforce, including postgraduate students, have been diverted to the COVID-19 wards or related duties. "What has happened is that the students are deprived of proper training. Medical Sciences cannot be taught through online classes. Once classes reopen we will have to rush through the training," the doctor said. A doctor from the Department of Surgery said that most surgeries for cancers and hernias are considered 'elective.' "Hernias are of the most common elective surgeries we conduct, but if ignored, obstructions can occur, which is an emergency surgery," the doctor said. While there are non-COVID beds at the hospital, not too many patients occupy them. The ward, however, cannot be closed down. "There is a sense of fear prevailing among the people. They think if they go to a COVID-19 treating hospital, they will catch the infection, because of which they stay home until it is too late," a doctor said. Despite a low number of patients, all COVID-19 protocol must be followed. The academic implications on the students are also a pressing effect, the doctor said. Dean, TMCH, S. Ravikumar said that Thanjavur was among the 11 districts which have a heavy caseload and lockdown relaxations are not applicable to our district. "We are yet to get clearance from the Department of Health to resume other services," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspension-of-elective-surgeries-affects-patients-medical-students/article34897684.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp for those with overseas plan||The Tiruchi City Corporation on Monday organised a special vaccination camp for people who need to travel overseas. Only the second dose of the vaccine would be provided at the camp for travellers who provide relevant documents including proof of travel. The Periyamilaguparai Primary Healthcare Centre would only inoculate people who have travel plans. A total of 400 doses have been allocated for this purpose. "The reason for travel might be anything from a job offer to studying in a university or even a pilgrimage trip, however, relevant documents have to be shown as proof," the doctor in charge said. On Monday, 25 people received the jab, after documents were verified. "Many countries abroad require vaccination certificates to travel, and so these special camps were arranged," an official of the civic body said. A. Vellaiappan, who works in Dubai had queued up at the PHC to get the second dose of the vaccine. "I had taken the first dose in Dubai when I was working there. I'm now waiting to return to work and am looking to get the jab," he said. Some people who had lined up to get the vaccine at other vaccination centres in the city had returned home upset after the stock ran out. "Only 1000 doses are given to us per day. At least 2,000 people line up per centre. Until the number of vaccines supplied to us increases, providing vaccines to all those who line up will be difficult," a senior official of the civic body said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-for-those-with-overseas-plan/article34897686.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at 90.44 feet on Monday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 672 cusecs and the discharge 10,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34897691.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen generator work on at GH||Installation of an oxygen generator with a capacity to produce 500 litres of medical-grade oxygen a minute commenced at Koodankulam Government Hospital on Monday. With this Rs. 1.50 crore-worth plant imported from Turkey, 720 cubic metres of oxygen can be generated every day and supplied to COVID-19 patients. On the direction of the district administration, the plant has been imported by Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project under its Corporate Social Responsibility programme. After experiencing the crisis during the recent COVID-19 second wave when all government and private hospitals with oxygen-supported beds were overflowing with critically-ill patients, Collector V. Vishnu took steps to augment the availability of medical-grade oxygen. While the oxygen supplied by Mahendragiri-based Indian Space Research Organisation’s Propulsion Research Complex (IPRC) met the demand to some extent, the Indian Railway’s oxygen express trains came to the major rescue of the patients. Though an unexpected technical snag in Sterlite Copper’s oxygen plant affected medical-grade oxygen production, it was rectified by technicians and IPRC experts. Consequently, there is no dearth for medical-grade oxygen in Tirunelveli region now. However, anticipating a severe ‘third wave,’ steps have been taken to augment the medical-grade oxygen generation in the district. While efforts are on to ensure the generation of 2,400 cubic metre oxygen from a plant at Sethurayanpudur near Tirunelveli, another plant on Gangaikondan SIPCOT Industrial Promotion Centre is expected to produce 1,680 cubic metres of oxygen in the next two weeks. Meanwhile, the KKNPP has started installation of the oxygen generator at Kudankulam Government Hospital on Monday, which is expected to be completed within a couple of days. With all these facilities, 4,800 cubic metres of medical-grade oxygen and 683 oxygen cylinders will be available in Tirunelveli district in the next two weeks. “We have established 11 COVID Care Centres across the district with 4,500 beds. Of this, about 2,000 beds are oxygen-supported, and we’ve deployed 600 oxygen concentrators to save the lives of COVID-19 patients. The district is fully prepared to face the ‘third wave,’ if at all there is one,” said Mr. Vishnu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-generator-work-on-at-gh/article34897636.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tribal people get vehicle to transport their produce||The Kani tribe’s age-old wish to have a goods carrier of thier own to transport their produce to consumers living in the plains has been fulfilled with a gift from NABARD. The Kani tribes who live near Papanasam and Servalar dams in the Western Ghats cultivate pepper, tapioca, gooseberry, jackfruit, lemon and collect minor forest produce such as honey. They sell these products to the public, particularly to traders in the plains. In some cases, they have to bring these produce to the plains in buses to sell them. Whenever transport operations were suspended in the past and during this lockdown, head-load was the only option available to them to sell the small quantity of their produce to buyers and it had badly affected their already small income through which they eke out a living. Now, the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), under its Tribal Development Programme, has come to their rescue by providing them a goods carrier to transport their produce to buyers living in the plains and return home within the next few hours after selling it at the right price even as their consumer base would get widened. Collector V. Vishnu handed over the vehicle to Kani tribe representatives Velusamy and Ganesamurthy on Monday. Assistant General Manager of NABARD Saleema, Deputy Director (in charge) of Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve’s Ambasamudram Division Gowtham, and Madhan of Sister Nivedita Trust, a non-governmental organisation working for the welfare of Kani tribes were present. Space for selling Mr. Vishnu promised them to provide sufficient space in the ‘Pon Bharani’ complex near the new bus stand in Tirunelveli, an easily accessible spot situated on the busy road, to sell their produce, all organic products. “We are working on getting ‘organic products’ certificate for the farm produce of Kani tribes. Moreover, efforts are on for the value addition of jack fruit, gooseberry and fig, which will ensure more revenue for these people,” said Mr. Madhan. Kani tribal people were also vaccinated for COVID-19 on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-people-get-vehicle-to-transport-their-produce/article34897638.ece
22 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||New measures to prevent overcrowding at vaccination centres in Tiruppur||To prevent overcrowding in COVID-19 vaccination centres, the district administration introduced new measures from Monday wherein vaccination was carried out only in schools after issuing vaccine tokens based on the electoral roll. District administration officials said that the government and private schools that were designated as polling stations will be used, henceforth, to conduct the drive. Primary health centres (PHCs) will no longer be used for vaccination campaign in the district. The school premises will also help the public to maintain physical distancing norms better than the PHCs due to the space available, the officials added. Around 18,000 Covishield doses were available at the vaccine centres in the corporation and district limits on Monday. The decision to revamp the vaccination drive was taken following a meeting convened by District Collector S. Vineeth on Friday with officials from the Health Department, Tiruppur Corporation and Revenue Department, the officials said. The Collector had said in a statement that the vaccine tokens will be issued to the public on a rotational basis based on the electoral roll and that the concerned local bodies will announce the vaccination centres every day. At all the schools, details such as available vaccine stock, number of tokens issued and the details of vaccination centres for the next day will be displayed. Those who have received the tokens alone must visit the vaccination centres, Mr. Vineeth said. However, a few residents hailing from other districts complained that they did not receive the vaccine tokens as their names were not present in the district’s electoral roll. At the Iduvampalayam Corporation High School in corporation limits, minor commotion occurred on Monday morning as some residents from other districts demanded tokens for vaccination. District officials said that the priority will be to ensure vaccination for those in the electoral roll and alternative arrangements for others would be announced soon. Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar said that the new measures will help the Health Department to further expand the vaccination coverage in Tiruppur district. “Depending on the supply [of vaccine doses], we are stepping up our coverage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-measures-to-prevent-overcrowding-at-vaccination-centres-in-tiruppur/article34897434.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Black flag stir against Mekedatu issue||The Tamizhaga Anaithu Vivasayigal Sangangalin Orunginaippu Kuzhu and Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam staged a black flag demonstrations across the State on Monday condemning the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) for not preventing Karnataka’s attempts to build a dam across Cauvery at Mekedatu. The demonstrators holding black flags raised slogans against the project and urged the CWMA to halt the project. Talking to reporters at Mannargudi after staging the demonstration, the coordination committee president, P.R.Pandian alleged that the Karnataka government was attempting to construct the dam illegally and claimed it was supported clandestinely by the Central government. Urging the CWMA chairman not to bow to the Centre on this issue, Mr.Pandian alleged that the Central government and Karnataka government have come together to usurp the powers of the Authority, “which had remained inactive for the past 12 months.” Exhorting that the Authority should be allowed to act independently, he called upon the CWMA Chairman to ensure that Tamil Nadu’s due share of water in Cauvery river for the month of June was released to save the standing crop in the Cauvery Delta districts of Tamil Nadu. Demanding that the Authority should declare the attempts to construct a dam at Mekedatu by Karnataka as illegal at the meeting to be held on June 22, Mr.Pandian wanted the Authority to take up the issue with the Supreme Court if Karnataka refuses to budge. If the Authority failed, then the Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam would approach the Supreme Court to thwart the construction of the dam, he added. Mr.Pandian also called upon the DMK government in Tamil Nadu to not allow the Prime Minister or the Central Water Resources Ministry to intervene in the activities of the CWMA and ensure that it functioned as an independent Constitutional Authority. Meanwhile, at Kumbakonam, members of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association led by the general secretary, Sundara Vimalanathan immersed an effigy of the Karnataka Chief Minister, B.S.Yediyurappa in Cauvery river as a mark of protest against the construction of a dam project at Mekedatu proposed by his government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/black-flag-stir-against-mekedatu-issue/article34897674.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Desilting almost completed, says Collector||Ninety-six per cent of the works taken up under the special desilting scheme in the district has been completed, Collector P.Gayathri Krishnan has said. Disclosing this in a press release on Monday, the Collector said that 155 out of 174 works taken up at a total cost of Rs. 1,634.25 lakh have been completed and the remaining works will be completed in about a week to ensure the water released for irrigation reached the tail-end areas. Earlier, she inspected desilting of Sothiriyam irrigation canal at Kavanur in Koothanallur block. After inspecting the desilting work she made a surprise visit to the public distribution shop at Kavanur. The Collector after inspecting the direct sowing of paddy using a machine at a field in Pazhayakudi hamlet in Thiruthuraipoondi taluk last Friday said that the sustained efforts by the Agriculture and allied department officials resulted in 38% coverage of the targeted 97,000 acreage of `kuruvai’ cultivation in Tiruvarur district so far. So far paddy seeds were sown on 11,895 acres through direct sowing method, on 21450 acres under SRI and in 4165 acres through normal transplantation method. `Kuruvai’ cultivation is expected on another 59,490 acres in the district, she said and added that seedlings had been raised on about 694.50 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-almost-completed-says-collector/article34897676.ece
22 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||MTR forest rangers allege intimidation from environmentalists||Forest rangers from Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) have submitted a petition to the Nilgiris district police against a man claiming to be an environmentalist. The officials said that they are being intimidated by the person. According to officials, the environmentalist in question, a member of the now defunct Nilgiri Wildlife and Environment Association (NWEA), has repeatedly threatened to have forest rangers and staff, who do not grant him access to protected forest areas, transferred. The person claims to be a close friend of a State Minister. Recently, forest rangers from MTR submitted a complaint to the district police urging them to take action against the person. Forest officials did not wish to comment on the issue, only confirming that a complaint was submitted to the police. N. Sadiq Ali, founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT), has submitted a complaint to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell with similar allegations against two persons claiming to be conservationists. One of the two men is based in the Nilgiris and the other in Coimbatore. When contacted, Nilgiris district superintendent of police, Ashish Rawat, said that the issue is being investigation but added that no FIR has been lodged. “We have asked for more documents from the complainants to verify the authenticity of the claims,” said Mr. Rawat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtr-forest-rangers-allege-intimidation-from-environmentalists/article34897452.ece
22 June 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||NGT hikes compensation to Achankulam victims||The National Green Tribunal, New Delhi, has awarded higher compensation of Rs. 20 lakh to the families of each of those who died in the fire that broke out at the Sree Mariyammal Fireworks at Achankulam in Virudhunagar district on February 12. Twenty seven persons were killed and 26 were injured in the fire. The State government had given a compensation of Rs. 3 lakh to each of the families of the deceased and Rs. 1 lakh to each of the injured from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Holding that negligence or incompetence of officials of different departments of the State government responsible for the tragedy, the tribunal, in its order, of June 11, directed the State government to pay the compensation through the Virudhunagar District Magistrate within one month. Entrusting the disbursal of compensation to the Chief Secretary, it has directed the State Legal Services Authority to provide legal aid to ensure that payment was made to genuine heirs of the deceased and to the injured without undue hassle. The compensation has been awarded based on the recommendations of an eight-member committee formed by the NGT to look into the cause of the accident, extent of damage and to suggest remedial steps. The committee was headed by the former Judge of Punjab and Haryana and Madras High Courts Justice K. Kannan. With regard to the compensation, the NGT fixed Rs. 20 lakh in respect of each of the dead and Rs. 15 lakh to each of those who sustained more than 50% burns. It ordered Rs. 10 lakh compensation each to those who sustained 25% to 50% burns and Rs. 5 lakh for those who sustained 5% and 25% burns. Victims who were treated as outpatients and who had minor degree of burns or other forms of simple injuries should each be paid Rs. 2 lakh. The committee had found that leasing out of the unit by the license-holder to five others and allowing more than the permitted number of workers and using more quantity of chemicals led to the fire that brought down 14 sheds and partially damaged 25 sheds. It revealed the absence of a certified foreman, as mandated by Explosives Act, 2008, to supervise safety. While use of “incompletely dried” colour pellets for making aerial crackers triggered the fire, leaving chemicals, semi-finished and finished goods strewn all around the unit allowed the fire to quickly spread making it impossible for the workers to escape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-hikes-compensation-to-achankulam-victims/article34897412.ece
22 June 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Four killed in blast at illegal cracker unit near Sattur||Four persons were killed in a blast in an illegal fireworks unit at Thayilpatti near Sattur on Monday. Police identified the deceased as A. Selvamani, 33, and her son Regabiya Solmon, 5, Karpagam, 34, and T. Surya, 25. One R. Solaiammal, 60, suffered a fracture in her leg. The explosion was reported at 8.30 a.m. in a house where the family members of Surya were involved in making crackers illegally, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian said. Stocking of huge quantity of finished/semi-finished goods might have caused the strong impact of the blast, in which two houses were razed to the ground and three others suffered partial damage, the police said. While three persons were killed on the spot, Surya, who had sustained 70% burns, succumbed to injuries at Sivakasi Government Hospital. All the four bodies were kept at the hospital. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Vembakottai and Sivakasi put out the flames. Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police M. Manohar inspected the spot. Another accident In another accident reported at Chidambaram Fireworks at Tiruvengadapuram near Sivakasi around 4.30 p.m., V. Gurusamy (45) was killed. The police said friction while handling chemicals led to the fire. The worker, who sustained 90% burns, later succumbed at Sivakasi GH. Maraneri police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-die-in-cracker-unit-explosion/article34897408.ece
22 June 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Active cases fall below 1,000-mark in Virudhunagar||The number of active cases in Virudhunagar fell below 1,000-mark for the first time since April 24 with 859 patients being under treatment or in quarantine. The district reported 106 new cases and 264 discharges on Monday. It also registered two fatalities, which took the death toll to 513.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-fall-below-1000-mark-in-virudhunagar/article34897642.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mass yoga sessions mark International Yoga Day||Various events including mass yoga sessions marked the observance of the International Yoga Day across the districts here on Monday. COVID-19 patients who are undergoing Siddha-based treatment, medical professionals and volunteers took part in a yoga session held at the COVID-19 Care Centre set up at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex in Coimbatore. District Collector G.S. Sameeran visited the facility and inquired District Siddha Medical Officer C. Dhanam about the care given to patients. The Collector was told that yoga sessions, especially breathing exercises, were being conducted for the patients. The Department of Yoga and Naturopathy organised the session ‘Yoga for wellbeing’ for the staff at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, which had Patanjali Eeshwaran from Ruthambara Foundation as chief guest. Patanjali Yog Samiti, Tamil Nadu, conducted a yoga session at R.S. Puram in which around 10 persons participated. The session was held as per the COVID-19 safety protocol. In a post on Twitter, Coimbatore South MLA Vanathi Srinivasan said that she participated in a virtual yoga session with women leaders from the State BJP unit to mark the International Day of Yoga. A press release from the Madras Regimental Center in Wellington, Udhagamandalam, stated that 750 military personnel and their families performed asanas, yogic kriyas and pranayams at the Srinagesh Barracks. A qualified yoga instructor explained the benefits of the practice in preventing obesity, high blood pressure and stress. The Commandant of Madras Regimental Center stated that yoga was a vital part of physical fitness regimen of a soldier and regular practising of yoga helps in living a healthy and successful life. In Salem, patients under treatment at a COVID-19 Care Centre near Mulluvadi gate took part in a yoga session organised by A.M. Sudhakar, Head of Yoga and Naturopathy at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH). Separate yoga sessions were held for the Corporation staff and the doctors at GMKMCH. The Railway staff and members of the Railway Protection Force took part in a session at the Salem Railway Divisional office. Yoga sessions were also held at multi-disciplinary divisional training institute at Erode. Essay writing, quiz and yoga contests were conducted virtually for the students of the Railway Higher Secondary School in Erode, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mass-yoga-sessions-mark-international-yoga-day/article34897451.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nobel laureate in economic advisory panel||At the same time, the people had high expectations of the government in terms of delivering on faster economic growth, social justice and equity through new programmes, projects and enhanced service delivery. “In this context, the government requires expert advice from the best economists available globally, who are familiar with Tamil Nadu, its economy, society and polity, and also the trends in the Indian and the global economy,” the G.O. said. Providing guidance The council would provide general guidance on economic and social policy, social justice and human development-related issues, especially matters related to ensuring equal opportunities for women and the well-being of under privileged groups. It would also provide suggestions on boosting economic growth, employment and productivity and offer guidance on improving the overall fiscal health of the State. It would provide advice on improving the State’s capacity to deliver better services to the people; act as a “sounding board for new ideas” or on possible solutions to intransigent road blocks; and analyse and provide advice on any issue of economic and social policy referred to it by the Chief Minister or the Finance Minister. The Finance Department would be the Secretariat of the Council and S. Krishnan, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance), would be its convener, the order said. It is learnt that Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, an alumnus of MIT, played a role in getting Ms. Duflo to join the council. ‘Usher in growth’ Earlier, the Governor said the government would make all-out efforts to reverse the slow economic growth and usher in a period of rapid economic growth, taking full advantage of the available limited window of demographic dividend. Mr. Purohit pointed out that there would be no social justice when there was high economic inequality and stratification. “Inclusive growth is thus the priority of this government. Growth and progress must benefit all of society and not just the top of the economic pyramid,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nobel-laureate-in-economic-advisory-panel/article34897430.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two killed as car plunges into pond||A car plunged into a roadside pond near Karungal in Kanniyakumari district on Monday, killing a man and his 18-year-old daughter. Police said that rubber sheet trader Rajendran, 55, of Vellancode near Arumanai and his daughters Shalini, 20, and Shamini, 18, were travelling in the car. When they were crossing Chellankonam, Rajendran, who was behind the wheels, lost control of the vehicle which plunged into the Chemmankulam brimming with water. While Shalini could swim to safety after opening the door of the car, Rajendran and Shamini drowned in the pond. In Tirunelveli A man and his son, who were taking bath in the Tamirabharani in Tirunelveli on Monday, drowned. Police said Swaminathan, 50, of Sankarankoil in Tenkasi district and his son Sankara Subramanian, 20, had come to participate in the ‘10th day rituals’ of a relative from Sannaasi village. After performing the rituals in the Tamirabharani, Swaminathan and Sankara Subramanian were taking bath in the river. As Swaminathan was washed away after he moved to the deeper part of the river, Sankara Subramanian and others tried to save him. However, Sankara Subramanian was also washed away. But before Fire and Rescue Services personnel could arrive at the spot, the body of Swaminathan was retrieved and the fire brigade continued its search for Sankara Subramanian. The search was called off in the dusk and is expected to resume on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-as-car-plunges-into-pond/article34897631.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Yoga break||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yoga-break/article34897297.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Beginning||Governor Banwarilal Purohit commenced his speech at 10 a.m. and completed it by 10.54 a.m. Assembly Speaker M. Appavu read out the Tamil translation of the Governor’s address to the House, and completed it by 11.42 a.m. The sitting on Monday started with the Tamil Thai Vaazhthu and concluded with the national anthem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beginning/article34897415.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM||The Assembly’s Business Advisory Committee, which met on Monday, decided to hold the ongoing session till June 24. On the last day of the session, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is expected to deliver his reply to the Motion of Thanks on the Governor’s Address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm/article34897416.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eager||About 20 minutes into his speech, Governor Banwarilal Purohit realised that the ruling party MLAs were not eager to thump their desks for any new announcement. He stopped his speech to gesture them to thump their desks for his announcements in the House. Most of them did oblige eventually, but not the legislators at the Opposition benches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eager/article34897417.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Safety first||In addition to the masks that they wore, all members of the House were provided additional masks and hand sanitisers. But bureaucrats and members of the media present in the House had to manage on their own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-first/article34897419.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi Stalin (Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni) maybe a first-time MLA, but he found his allotted seat next to the Chief Government Whip. After the Chief Minister and the seniority of Ministers and Deputy Speaker K. Pitchandi, sits the Chief Government Whip. Mr. Udhayanidhi was seated first among the ruling party MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udhayanidhi/article34897421.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Businesses open up across city, but most report low footfall||The city opening up was clearly evident in the return of traffic snarls on the streets on Monday morning. Businesses re-opened after nearly two months, but most sectors reported very low footfall, though they were hopeful that business will pick up gradually. Some market pockets like S.P. Road situated in the narrow bylanes saw big crowds, raising concerns. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants’ Federation, said footfall was very low and business had not improved from the ‘only takeaway days’. “People seem to fear having a meal in a restaurant. We need to build confidence, which will take time. So, we have made a rule that only staff who have been vaccinated will be posted on duty at our restaurants,” he said. Footfall was low in jewellery, garments, books and home appliances segments. “Coming out of a lockdown of nearly two months, people won’t have disposable income to go shopping. They will obviously buy only what is absolutely essential. Going by our experience from last year, it will take at least a month for business to pick up. So, we did not have high hopes for day one,” said Sairam, a jeweller from North Bengaluru. Trader Sajjan Raj Mehta said footfall in the Old Pete on Monday showed a lot of promise. “People who have marriages in their families have slowly started trickling in to buy clothes and other material. Footfall will gradually improve,” he said. Medical appointments Dentists, ophthalmologists and other medical practitioners too reported good footfall. “We had a long queue of patients consulting us over phone. Many were due for a physical examination. They have booked appointments. But many medical practitioners are wary, and not everyone has opened up,” said Dr. Anis Ali Khan, an orthopaedist. BBMP Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the response to the unlocking was good in Bengaluru. He pointed out that most people were wearing masks and following COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour, but added there will be no let-up in the enforcement of regulations. CM’s appeal Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa tweeted appealing to people to be vigilant. “As we enter into another phase of relaxation of lockdown, it is crucial to be vigilant and stay protected from the virus. I urge everyone to wear masks, ensure hygiene and sanitation, maintain social distance and get vaccinated,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/businesses-open-up-across-city-but-most-report-low-footfall/article34897357.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. seeks HC nod to set up panel to resolve school fee row||The State government has sought permission from the High Court of Karnataka to set up a committee, headed by a retired judge of the High Court, to look into the issue of fixation of fee for all types of private schools in the State for the academic year 2021-22. The State government filed an application in this regard on the petitions filed by a large number of associations of private unaided schools challenging the Government Order of January 29, 2021, asking all private unaided schools, including those affiliated to ICSE and CBSE, to collect only 70% of the tuition fee, collected in 2019-20, for the academic year 2020-21 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, before whom the petitions filed by the schools came up for hearing on Monday, adjourned further hearing granting time to the petitioners to file their objections to the government’s proposal. Without prejudice to the rights of the parties in the petitions, pending adjudication, it is being proposed to constitute a high-powered committee, chaired by a retired judge of the High Court, to make recommendations after eliciting views of parents, school managements and other stakeholders to resolve free crisis, which has created a deadlock in the matter, the government said in its application. The proposal to set up the committee was made citing the apex court’s judgment in the TMA Pai Foundation case, in which the Supreme Court had ordered for setting up of a committee to fix fee for unaided and minority professional colleges to ensure that the institutes do not charge fee resulting in either profiteering or charging of capitation fee. The court in March this year had directed the government not to take coercive action against ICSE and CBSE schools for not following direction to collect only 70% of the tuition fee as their petitions on applicability of certain provisions of State’ Education Act to them is pending adjudication. Also, the court had asked the managements of CBSE and ICSE schools to voluntarily notify parents that they would consider the grievances of individual parents on payment of the full fee for the 2020-21 academic year. Further hearing has been adjourned till June 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-seeks-hc-nod-to-set-up-panel-to-resolve-school-fee-row/article34897365.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Quota for students from agricultural families up||The State Cabinet on Monday increased the reservation for children of farmers and agricultural labourers in admission to Diploma in Agriculture, B.Sc. in Agriculture and equivalent degrees from 40% to 50%. Briefing presspersons on the decisions taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Minister for Home and Parliamentary Affairs Basavaraj Bommai said children from agricultural families would benefit from the decision to hike the reservation in admission to agricultural courses at agricultural colleges, universities, and allied institutions in the State. The Chief Minister had announced the proposal in the State Budget for 2021-22. The Cabinet also approved a Rs. 110-crore proposal for the construction of academic, administrative and other buildings of Rani Chennamma University, Belagavi. It approved the Karnataka Contingency Fund (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, to increase the fund from the existing Rs. 500 crore to Rs. 2,500 crore for management of COVID-19. The Ordinance would be issued soon to utilise the fund. The Cabinet also approved the revised estimate of Rs. 10.27 crore for the construction of a central library building and examination hall at Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences, Bidar. It approved the revised estimate of Rs. 154.44 crore for the construction of a super-speciality hospital in the purview of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, Mysuru, Mr. Bommai said. Approval has been given for the construction of a Directorate of Medical Education, Karnataka Nursing Council, Nursing Examination Board, and Para Medical Board at a cost of Rs. 75 crore. The Cabinet also approved the construction of 100 police stations at a cost of Rs. 200 crore in different parts of the State, the Home Minister said. The Karnataka Land Grants (Amendment) Rules, 2021, have been approved for regularising landlocked government land after survey shows that there were no lakes or tanks for the past 10 years on said land. Karnataka Municipalities (recruitment of loaders and cleaners in city municipal councils, town municipal councils and town panchayats) (Special) Rules, 2021, would be amended for regularization of services of loaders and drivers, numbering more than 1,000, Mr Bommai said. Airport The Cabinet has also approved Rs. 196.35 crore for a greenfield domestic airport in Hassan. It has decided to set up a Cabinet sub-committee for drafting the Karnataka State Water Policy 2021, focussing on utilisation of water in different sectors. A sum of Rs. 415 crore has been approved for filling 94 tanks in Gavinakovi and Hanumasagar villages of Honnali taluk in Davangere by lifting water from the Tungabhadra river. Also approved is Rs. 167 crore for a lift irrigation project at Sasivehalli in Honnali taluk of Davangere district. The Cabinet has given approval for using Rs. 670 crore for filling 74 tanks in Kudligi Assembly constituency in Ballari district by lifting water from Tungabhadra river. A Rs. 32-crore proposal has been approved for increasing beds from 100 to 250 at a government hospital in Shikaripur, Shivamogga district. Scheme for dams The Cabinet also approved the World Bank-aided Rs. 1,500-crore Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Phase II and Phase III in respect to 58 dams in the State. The World Bank is to provide Rs. 1,050 crore, while the State government would contribute the remaining amount under the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quota-for-students-from-agricultural-families-up/article34897377.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC, KSRTC, Namma Metro resume services||After a gap of 55 days, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) resumed services, and both BMTC as well as Namma Metro reported higher patronage than last year’s post-lockdown resumption. The BMTC operated more buses on the first day of resuming services, indicating that more people are venturing out. It operated a total of 3,154 buses on Monday. Last year, around 2,000 city buses operated on the first day of resuming services. “There are various factors for increased ridership, such as city buses running after one week of partially lifting of norms. Movement of people was already happening as more trains were being used even during lockdown and after the lifting. This was not the case last year. Moreover, people had started coming to the city even before the lifting of the lockdown in private vehicles,” a BMTC official said. Long wait in the morning Many were seen at Majestic in the morning. Commuters waited for hours to board a bus. Gurumurthy, a passenger, said, “Due to the lockdown, I could not consult my doctor. On Monday, I got an appointment. I reached the bus stand very early and waited for an hour for a bus to Bannerghatta Road. The BMTC should have operated more buses, as they are allowing a limited number of passengers. Besides, no passenger is allowed to stand even if all the seats are taken.” As per guidelines of the government, only 50% of seats in buses can be filled. A BMTC official said that Monday being the first day, deployment of bus crew took some time. “We allowed crew who had received double doses of COVID-19 vaccination and those who received the first dose and submitted COVID-19 negative test reports. Scrutinising the certificates took some time. In the morning, there was some rush at Majestic bus stand. Many trains had arrived at KSR Bengaluru in the morning, bringing passengers who headed to Majestic to board a bus to Bengaluru and nearby places. This could be one of the reasons for the rush,” they said. 24,602 metro travellers Namma Metro services too received more patronage on the first day compared to last year. As announced, the BMRCL operated trains during the peak hours. On Monday, a total of 160 trips were operated on the purple and green lines. Shankar A.S., executive director (operations and maintenance) of BMRCL said, “Last year, around 11,600 passengers had travelled on the first day, but this time, ridership crossed over 24,000. We followed all the protocols to contain the spread of COVID-19, that included screening, social distancing inside the train and on the platform.” Last year, the metro services were resumed in phased manner. Resumption of metro services came as a big relief for people travelling to the CBD and those who work in Whitefield by travelling till Baiyappanahalli metro station. “In the absence of the metro or bus services, I was spending a huge amount on taxis and autorickshaws for commuting. Resumption of public transport is a relief for the general public,” said Keerthana N. 1,809 buses The KSRTC resumed local as well as inter-district services, but officials said ridership was poor. Prabahakar Reddy, Chief Traffic Manager of KSRTC, said, “Barring Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada, we have resumed services in all districts under the jurisdiction of the KSRTC. On Mysuru route, we are running buses up to Srirangapatna. Buses going via Mysuru to other destinations will not allow passengers to board or disembark in Mysuru.” The KSRTC also operated night services. Inter-State services The official said from Tuesday, the KSRTC will run inter-State services to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh by filling 50% of the seats, while services to other neighbouring States will be resumed depending on guidelines there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-ksrtc-namma-metro-resume-services/article34897361.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Record 10.52 lakh vaccinated in a single day||As many as 10.52 lakh people were vaccinated in Karnataka on Monday, the highest number of jabs administered on a single day. With this, the total number of vaccines administered in the State touched 1.95 crore. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa flagged off the Vaccine Maha Abhiyan on Monday. K. Sudhakar, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister, who was present at the event, said Karnataka aims to vaccinate every eligible citizen by the end of December and make the State free from COVID-19 infections. Dr. Sudhakar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had suggested organising an accelerated vaccination drive to mark Yoga Day. Although the target was to innoculate about seven lakh people in a single day, the State exceeded its target. As of 7.30 p.m. on Monday, Karnataka had administered the second highest number of doses after Madhya Pradesh, which had vaccinated 14.7 lakh people. BBMP figures As on 9.30 p.m. on Monday, Bengaluru Urban recorded 41,996 doses of vaccines administered and BBMP limits recorded 1,72,713 doses of vaccines administered. This makes a combined total of 2,14,709 doses of vaccines administered, making it the highest for a district in the country. Meanwhile, as many as 4,867 new cases were reported in the State on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases to 28.11 lakh. Of the 4,867 cases, 1,034 were from Bengaluru Urban. A total of 8,404 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 26.54 lakh.  Deaths recorded As many as 142 COVID-19 deaths were reported in the State on Monday, taking the total number of fatalities to 34,025. As many as 1.23 lakh cases in the State are active cases. The positivity rate for the day stood at 3.25% and the case fatality rate at 2.91%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/record-1052-lakh-vaccinated-in-a-single-day/article34897369.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KV schools asked to display banners thanking Modi for free vaccination||After drawing flak for asking students to tweet ‘Thank You Modi Sir’ for cancelling CBSE board examinations, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) regional office, Bengaluru, has now asked its schools to put up ‘Thank you PM Modi’ banners and hoardings on gates and in suitable places for free vaccines for all. The office has sent an email to principals of all 51 schools. The mail, sent by the Department of School Education and Literacy, Ministry of Education to different sections, asks them to send screenshots of the same. “You are requested that necessary directions may kindly be issued for their wide display and propagation in the form of banners, hoardings etc. on the gates and other suitable places in the office premises as well as that of PSUs and other departments/institutions/attached offices under your administrative control,” the mail states. Authorities have been instructed to post the banner in the regional language or in Hindi, and that free vaccines are available for all those above 18 in government centres from June 21. The move has been criticised by a section of parents and staff . The parent of a KV school student in the city said: “It is a pity that school campuses are being used to praise the Prime Minister for all his programmes. Schools should not be forced to give free publicity for the Prime Minister. Why should students’ fees be used to put up such hoardings ?” The principal of a KV said they do not want to put up the poster, which also includes the photograph of the Prime Minister. “We have no choice but to comply as they have asked us for an action taken report. We are sad that government schemes are being projected as an effort of an individual,” said the principal. Sirimala Sambanna, Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru regional office, KVS, said the mail came from the Ministry and therefore was forwarded to the schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kv-schools-asked-to-display-banners-thanking-modi-for-free-vaccination/article34897367.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State identifies 50 children who lost both parents to COVID-19||Karnataka has identified 50 children who lost both their parents to COVID-19 during the second wave of the pandemic. “The government will provide Rs. 3,500 per month under the Bala Seva Yojane and free education to them,” Minister for Women and Child Welfare Shashikala Jolle told reporters in Bengaluru on Monday. Karnataka has decided to provide Rs. 1 lakh to girls above the age of 21 who lost their parents, the Minister said. If the extended family members are unable to look after children who lost both parents, they will be made a part of the adoption scheme. “If philanthropists come forward to take the responsibility of such children, the government will work as a platform,” she added.  Explaining the measures taken to protect children in the anticipated third wave, the Minister said that government has set up separate COVID-19 Care Centres for children in all taluks across Karnataka. Identifying paediatricians “We will enable the mother to be with the affected child while a separate centre will be set up for girls and physically challenged children,” she said. The government is in the process of identifying paediatricians in every taluk centre, children specific medication, masks, and ventilators, she added. There are suggestions to start paediatric COVID-19 Care Centre in Bengaluru. A decision would be taken after consulting the Chief Minister, she said, adding that 1,419 beds, including 141 ventilator beds and 430 HDU beds, had been identified to provide care for children in BBMP limits in Bengaluru. Her ministry is yet to get a copy of the technical advisory report on reopening of schools. “The Chief Minister will send the report to the department. Regarding re-opening of schools, discussions are being held with the Primary and Secondary Education Minister,” she added. She attributed the short supply of eggs to children to high cost of the commodity. “This was solved after directions were issued to distribute eggs through gram panchayats,” she added. 51 children died The Minister said that around 2.38 lakh children in the State were infected by COVID-19. These include 67,687 children in the age group of 0-9 years, and 1,70,565 children in the 9-18 age group. In Bengaluru, 51 children died due to the pandemic. As many as 30 children were part of vaccination experimentation in Karnataka, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-identifies-50-children-who-lost-both-parents-to-covid-19/article34897370.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: What action will you take against corpn. for not enforcing waste management rules?||Observing that prima facie Mangaluru City Corporation has failed to implement Sold Waste Management (SWM) Rules 2016, the High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the State government what action it would take against the corporation for not enforcing environmental law. A Division Bench issued a direction after going through reports submitted by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) on the status of waste sold waste management and Pachhanadi landfill in Mangaluru . Observing that the government must dissolve the elected body of the corporation for failing to enforce waste management rules framed under the Environment (Protection) Act, the Bench wondered why the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district, who held a meeting on June 16, did not invite senior officers of the CPCB and the KSPCB to it. The Bench was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) complaining about the Pachhanadi landfill slip incident of August 2019 and non-implementation of the Solid Waste Management Rules. Earlier, appearing for KSLSA, advocate Sridhar Prabhu told the Bench that the reports of the pollution control boards have clearly pointed out that waste is neither collected or disposed of in the manner prescribed under the Rules. The CPCB report pointed out that due to lack of segregation of solid waste, plastic waste formed part of all three types of waste — wet, dry and mixed waste. And, percentage of plastic in wet waste is 20%-25% and it is 15%-20% in mixed waste. “A majority of recyclable and non-recyclable fractions of plastic waste, especially in wet waste and mixed waste collected on a daily basis is still diverted for land filling and a huge gape exists in the generation and proper disposal of plastic waste,” the CPCB report said. Considering the quantity of plastic waste generated in the city, an average of 50 tonnes-60 tonnes per day and the available capacity of baling machines in the processing plant being only 6 tonnes-7 tonnes per day, it can be inferred that only a very meagre quantity of plastic waste is getting properly segregated and disposed of in a scientific manner, the report pointed out. The report also stated that the even this process of segregation and recycling of plastic waste from dry waste has been discontinued since April 4, 2021 after a fire incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-what-action-will-you-take-against-corpn-for-not-enforcing-waste-management-rules/article34897520.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown norms relaxed in six more districts||The State government on Monday relaxed norms in six more districts following a fall in COVID-19 positivity rate to less than 5%. An order to this effect stated that Udupi, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Ballari, Chitradurga, and Vijayapura districts have been brought under Category 1, which meant that these districts were now eligible for relaxations in lockdown. The order stated that the decision was made considering the consistent declining trend and the weekly moving average positivity rate. Earlier, on Sunday, Dharwad district had been moved to Category 1 along with 16 other districts in Karnataka where commercial activities have been permitted. Eight districts continue to report a positivity rate above 5%. This includes Mysuru, which has been clocking a TPR above 10%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-norms-relaxed-in-six-more-districts/article34897383.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farm lending in co-op. sector to be increased||Karnataka has increased the target for agricultural lending in the cooperative sector by about 14% this financial year over 2020-21 to help farmers who are in distress because of the COVID-induced lockdown. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on Monday that Rs. 20,810 crore would be lent to nearly 31 lakh farmers during this year — an increase of 13.97% over 2020-21 when a total of Rs. 17,901 crore was disbursed to about 26 lakh farmers. The Chief Minister explained that while 30.26 lakh farmers would receive Rs. 19,370 crore in short-term loans at the rate of 0% interest, about 60,000 farmers would receive Rs. 1,440 crore mid-term and long-term loans at 3% interest. He was speaking at Raitha Spandana in Bengaluru, at the launch of a agriculture loan disbursal scheme organised by Bengaluru District Central Cooperative Bank. In 2020-21, agricultural loans amounting to Rs. 17,901 crore were disbursed — 114 % times the target. While about 25.6 lakh farmers received about Rs. 16,641 crore as short-term loans, about 52,000 received Rs. 1,260 crore as mid-term and long-term loans. “We have kept a higher target keeping the COVID-19 situation in mind. We are a pro-farmer government. Agriculture, health and education are priority for us,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. The government had set a target to provide Rs. 1,400 crores in loan to about 40 lakh self-help groups, of which about 6,700 groups had received Rs. 233.33 crore by the end of May. The government, Mr. Yediyurappa said, was aware of the problems of farmers and other groups on account of COVID-19. “That is why the repayment period in the cooperative sector has been extended by three months. This will benefit 6.17 lakh farmers and about 8.15 lakh members of 65,000 SHGs,” he said. He also said that 930 godowns across Karnataka, managed by Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society (PACS), were being repaired at a cost of Rs. 316 crore under Atmanirbhar Bharat programme. As much as Rs. 6.4 crore has been approved to build godowns with a storage capacity of 2,500 tonnes in 18 PACS in Ramanagaram, Bengaluru Rural, and Bengaluru Urban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-lending-in-co-op-sector-to-be-increased/article34897384.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Granting of TDRs simplified||The State Cabinet on Monday decided to promulgate an ordinance amending the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act of 1961, for eliminating survey of lands by multiple agencies for granting Transferable Development Rights (TDRs) for those who agree to hand over lands for various development and infrastructure projects of the government. Briefing on the Cabinet decisions, Minister for Home and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Basavaraj Bommai said the amendment had been effected to prevent delays in granting TDRs. Existing regulations mandated surveys by project implementing agencies such as BBMP and BMRCL followed verification surveys by BDA, and other urban development authorities before TDR was issued. Survey of land under TDR by multiple agencies led to delays of 4 to 5 years in granting TDR. To simplify the process, BDA planning authorities would issue TDRs based on the survey carried out by the project implementing agency, such as BMRCL. The rights would be issued within 90 days of the recommendations made by the planning authority, failing which the TDR would be considered as deemed. Currently, owing to involvement of many agencies, there were delays in fixing rates and issue of TDRs in the city. With this amendment, the BDA has to issue TDRs on surveys made by the executing agency of infrastructure projects, Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/granting-of-tdrs-simplified/article34897356.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP, volunteers fed 1.91 lakh dogs during lockdown||With most eateries and streetside food carts shut for business, stray dogs were among the worst affected during the lockdown. Probably pushed to complete starvation, a pack of strays was suspected to have killed and partly eaten a homeless woman on the city’s outskirts on May 16. However, this changed in June as the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) started a volunteer-led stray dog feeding programme across the city at a budget of Rs. 15 lakh. A total of 173 volunteers fed over 1.91 lakh dog meals over the last twenty days across the city. Arun Prasad, one of the volunteers who initiated the programme, said the BBMP assisted volunteers by giving them dry ration like rice and chicken, which volunteers and organisations cooked at homes and served the strays in their designated areas. A total of Rs. 11.6 lakh has been spent on the programme till now, the BBMP said. Nandini Subbarao, a resident of Sanjaynagar, and a volunteer in stray dog sterilisation and vaccination programme, worked for the last two weeks feeding strays in her area. BBMP sources aid there won’t be distribution of food to volunteers again, but volunteers will continue to feed the dogs till they exhaust the ration they presently have.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-volunteers-fed-191-lakh-dogs-during-lockdown/article34897358.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Truck driver assaulted||A gang of three armed men beat up a truck driver and stole his phone and cash before fleeing with the truck loaded with raw mangoes on the outskirts on Friday. The victim, Shivaji Chitrangad Lokhar, 41, from Aurangabad, was returning to his hometown with the load from Malur. Shivaji was a driver with an Aurangabad-based transport company and had come to Bengaluru to drop machinery spare parts load from Hosur. On the way back, he picked up a raw mango load to Aurangabad. Around 2 a.m., he stopped to wash his face as he was feeling sleepy. Three men following the vehicle in an autorickshaw intercepted him, and beat him with iron rods, accusing him of transporting smuggled items. They took away his phone and cash of Rs. 2,150. One of them got into the truck and drove off. The other two escaped in the autorickshaw. With the help of passersby, Shivaji reached the K.G. Halli police station and filed a complaint .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/truck-driver-assaulted/article34897359.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘30% students deprived of academic activities’||A survey by the Department of School Educational Research and Training (DSERT) has revealed that 30% of students were deprived of academic activities after the outbreak of COVID-19. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the outcome of the survey needs to be considered seriously and asked teachers to take measures to actively involve students in the current year. On Monday, he reviewed DSERT activities and asked it and other institutions in the educational field to prioritise research activities in the wake of the National Education Policy (NEP) getting implemented in the State. The Minister said that classes for 1 to 10 will be telecast on Chandana channel from July 1. It will be held for Kannada, English and Urdu-medium students between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. For Marathi- medium students, online classes will be uploaded on YouTube. ‘Poor internet network’ Meanwhile, with reports emerging of poor internet network hampering academic activities of students in rural areas, the Minister asked Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to resolve the issue by calling a meeting with network operators. In his letter, Mr. Kumar said due to the pandemic, online education has become a necessity. On June 16, The Hindu carried an article “Monsoon makes attending online classes harder for rural students”, narrating difficulties faced by students in attending online classes in Malnad region due to poor mobile network during the rainy season. A photo of a girl attending online classes amidst heavy rain while her father held an umbrella, in Sullia taluk, went viral on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/30-students-deprived-of-academic-activities/article34897366.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kushal Kosha app launched||To provide employment opportunities to artisans and help the public with essential services, Kushal Kosha, a mobile application, was launched by Minister for Youth Empowerment, Sports and Planning K.C. Narayana Gowda here on Monday. The Minister said the app would help identify skilled persons easily while also creating employment opportunities. Launching the app on International Day of Yoga, he said yoga trainers can register in the app so that members of the public interested in yoga can find them easily. Skilled workers such as painters and carpenters can register as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kushal-kosha-app-launched/article34897382.ece
22 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||More relaxations in Shivamogga from today||The State government has included Shivamogga in the list of districts with the test positivity rate less than 5% and with that, lockdown restrictions have been relaxed in the district. Now, the guidelines meant for districts named under Category I will apply to Shivamogga as well. The fresh regulations come into effect on Tuesday. As per the revised guidelines, all production units/industrial establishments/industries are permitted to function with 50% of their staff strength. All shops without any distinction between essential and non-essential will be allowed to function outside the containment zone between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m. However, air-conditioned shops, air-conditioned shopping complexes and malls are not permitted to open. All hotels, restaurants, eateries, bars and clubs are allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. for dining-in with 50% capacity and no liquor will be permitted to be served while dining-in. Only outdoor film/television-serial related shooting is permitted. Parks are permitted to open between 5 a.m. and 6 p.m. for walking and jogging. Non-air-conditioned gyms are permitted to function at 50% capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-relaxations-in-shivamogga-from-today/article34897525.ece
22 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two children injured in gelatin sticks explosion||Two children suffered injuries when gelatin sticks they were handling exploded at Channahalli in Alur taluk on Monday. The children picked up gelatin sticks found on the ground taking them for crackers and tried to burst them with the help of boulders. Abhishek and Krithika, who were playing on the ground, suffered injuries. Both are aged around 12. Locals then called an ambulance and shifted the injured to a private hospital in Hassan. The children are undergoing treatment. Senior police officers visited the spot. A few months ago, the construction of a canal as part of the Yetinahole Project was taken up at the site. Workers are said to have used gelatin sticks for blasting purposes. The police suspected that the workers may have left behind some sticks at the site and the children spotted them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-children-injured-in-gelatin-sticks-explosion/article34897511.ece
22 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shops: Curbs to continue in Hassan||The Hassan district administration has decided to continue with allowing shops that sell essential items to do business only three days a week. This is even after the State government allowing shops and establishments to do business on all days of the week up to 2 p.m. in districts where test positivity rate is above 5%. Hassan belongs to this category. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish issued a notification allowing shops that sell essential things to do business only between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. This will be in effect till July 5. Parks are to be kept open for walkers only up to 10 a.m. Liquor shops will do business only between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. on these three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shops-curbs-to-continue-in-hassan/article34897527.ece
22 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||People should not hesitate to take vaccine, says Shettar||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that as per the assurance given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the biggest vaccination drive has been launched in the State and people should not hesitate to get themselves inoculated against the pandemic. Speaking after formally inaugurating the vaccination drive for family members of policemen at Old CAR Grounds in Hubballi on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that there was a lot of misinformation on the vaccine after the first wave. “However, after the second wave caused a lot of damage, people woke up and are now coming forward to get vaccinated. After initial confusion about who should take up the vaccination drive, the Union government has come forward to get everyone above the age of 18 inoculated,” he said. 201 vaccine centres Mr. Shettar said that 201 vaccine centres have been set up in the district and there is good response from the people. The district has received 50,480 doses of vaccine and the plan is to inoculate 27,000 people. “I have received two doses of the vaccine and there is no side effect. The vaccine protects us from getting infected with the pandemic,” he said. Lauding the arrangements made by a team led by Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil and others, Mr. Shettar said that as per the demand of the Police Commissioner, vaccine doses are being given to family members of police officials and personnel. MLC Pradeep Shettar, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant, District Health Officer Yashwanth Madinkar and others were present. Meanwhile, a special drive to get physically challenged persons inoculated against the pandemic is being carried out by the district administration. On Monday, the vaccination drive was formally inaugurated by District Welfare Officer for the Disabled D.N. Moolimani at the School for the Visually Impaired on Siddaroodh Mutt premises. Similarly, elected representatives and senior officials inaugurated vaccination camps at various places in the district, including those held in the taluk centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-should-not-hesitate-to-take-vaccine-says-shettar/article34897513.ece
22 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Campaign launched to sensitise farmers||Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil launched a State-wide Farm Campaign aimed at sensitising the farming community about the facilities and benefits being extended to them from the department in Haveri on Monday. Addressing presspersons after launching the campaign in Haveri on Monday, Mr. Patil said that the objective of the campaign is to spread the message to all farmers in villages. Three-day programmes will be held at the hobli level for the purpose. The campaign is also aimed at emphasising the need for the use of new farm technologies so as to make farming more viable, he said. The Minister said that adequate publicity has already been given about crop insurance. A crop insurance survey will be held as it had been done last year. He urged farmers to use mobile application to upload details. He said that there is adequate storage of seeds and fertilizers across the State. Listing out various steps taken by the State government to help farmers, he said that multi-cropping will help farmers increase farm revenue. He also released publicity material, including pamphlets, on the occasion. Mentioning about the review meeting held by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Mr. Patil said that in the wake of a possible flood-like situation in the State in the forthcoming days, officials have been directed to make effective use funds available funds under NDRF and SDRF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campaign-launched-to-sensitise-farmers/article34897524.ece
22 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Yoga helpful in maintaining physical, mental health’||“Yoga is helpful in protecting and maintaining good physical and mental health,” Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said. Participating in the International Yoga Day programme at Pyramid Meditation Hall in Hubballi on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that after United Nations declared June 21 as International Yoga Day, crores of people across the globe are now celebrating the day and are regularly practising Yoga. Elaborating on how Yoga is helpful in maintaining good health, Mr. Shettar said that practising Yoga will make one’s mind more calm. He said that because of the pandemic, the Yoga Day is being held on virtual mode this year with the theme “Be With Yoga, Be At Home”. The Minister said that it should not be just a one-day exercise. Those who want to be fit physically and mentally, should practise Yoga daily and teach their children also, he said. Along with Mr. Shettar, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B. Susheela, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Hubballi Tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal and other officials participated in the Yoga Day programme by performing various asanas. Yoga instructor Sangamesh Nimbaragi demonstrated various Yogasanas as per the international protocol and elaborated on the various benefits of different asanas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yoga-helpful-in-maintaining-physical-mental-health/article34897519.ece
22 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi will get more vaccine doses: Basavaraj Bommai||Home Minister and Udupi in-charge Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that the supply of COVID-19 vaccines to the district will be increased from an average of 5,000 doses per week to about 10,000 doses to 12,000 doses a week. Speaking at a video conference on COVID-19 control from Bengaluru, the Minister said that the authorities concerned will be instructed to increase vaccine supply to the district. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha urged the Minister to increase the vaccine quantity for the district. The Minister asked the district administration to take all steps for reducing test positivity rate to less than 5%. The government has relaxed lockdown restrictions in the district on this condition, he said. Mr. Bommai asked the administration not to permit any religious and political functions during the relaxation period. ILI and SARI cases should be identified at the earliest and treated. He also asked the administration to ensure that the construction of oxygen plants is completed at the earliest. Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner issued an order on Monday detailing the relaxation guidelines in the district. Accordingly, buses can operate with 50% of their seating capacity and passengers are not allowed to travel standing. There will be night curfew from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. and weekend curfew from 7 p.m. on Friday to 5 a.m. on Monday. Shops selling essential and non-essential commodities are allowed to do business from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hotels, restuarants, bars and pubs can also remain open during this period with 50% occupancy and without switching on air-conditioners. Autorickshaws and taxis can operate with a maximum of two passengers. Parks and gardens can remain open for people to use them for walking purpose from 5 a.m. to 6 p.m.  The Minister asked the district administration to take all steps for reducing test positivity rate to less than 5%, as the government has relaxed lockdown restrictions in the district on this condition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-will-get-more-vaccine-doses-basavaraj-bommai/article34897515.ece
22 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Truck falls into sea at port, two dead||A truck overshot a berth in the New Mangalore Port and fell into the sea that resulted in the death of two persons, including the truck driver, on Sunday night. The Mangaluru Traffic North Police gave the name of the deceased as Rajesab (26) and Bhimappa (22), both from Bagalkot district. The sunken truck has been retrieved, the police said. According to the police, this truck was among those deployed by Chettinad Company to shift iron ore from a ship, Vinalines Sunrise, in Berth No 14. The driver of the empty truck, the police said, did not turn towards the ship but drove straight only to fall into the sea at 10.30 p.m. The pilot of the ship and personnel on a tug boat, which was nearby at the time of incident, informed the Central Industrial Security Force control room. A search operation was immediately launched by involving the CISF Quick Reaction Team, CISF patrolling boat and the tug boat. At around midnight, Rajesab was rescued. He was taken to a private hospital nearby where doctors declared him brought dead. It was on Monday evening that the body of Bhimappa was found after the sunken truck was retrieved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/truck-falls-into-sea-at-port-two-dead/article34897517.ece
22 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two more arrested||The police arrested two persons, including a Nigerian national, in connection with illegal distribution of MDMA and other narcotic drugs in Dakshina Kannada and also Kasaragod district of Kerala. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Stanely Chima of Abuja in Nigeria and Mohammed Rameez of Uppala in Kasaragod district of Kerala. These two were the main accused in a case of illegal distribution of drugs in the two States. The two were arrested in connection with two cases registered in Konaje Police Station here. The police have arrested five persons and recovered 235 grams of MDMA, two cars and nine mobile phones in this case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-arrested/article34897518.ece
22 June 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sugarcane farmers demand a higher FRP for 2021-22||Sugarcane farmers in the State have sought an increase in the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) for the crop commensurate with the cost of cultivation for 2021-22. The FRP for the current year is yet to be announced, but cane cultivators say they are in dire straits owing to the increase in input and cultivation cost per tonne of sugarcane. The cost varies from Rs. 3,200 to Rs. 3,500, against which the FRP for 2020-21 was Rs. 2,850, which is perceived to be grossly inadequate. The State is among the top sugarcane producers in the country, after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. During 2021, the State brought more than 5.69 lakh hectares under sugarcane cultivation and produced 400 lakh tonnes, as per government statistics. It has been proposed to increase the area to 6.68 lakh hectares in the current year. But farmers say it would be difficult to meet the target unless there is incentive by way of an assured price which at least meets the cost of cultivation. “There are labour issues owing to the pandemic in rural areas and this will have a bearing on both sowing and harvesting in the next cycle, unless the government announces a price which is both fair and remunerative,” said Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association. He said the price fixation based on sugar recovery per tonne of cane crushed was also not in favour of the farmers in the absence of a transparent mechanism to ascertain the veracity of the statistics put out by the sugar mills. “The mills tend to under-quote the actual recovery of sugar to avoid additional payment,” he said. The second wave of the pandemic saw a surge in COVID-19 cases in rural areas and people are being advised to be cautious of a possible third wave, which can result in labour problems during harvesting, fear farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sugarcane-farmers-demand-a-higher-frp-for-2021-22/article34897379.ece
22 June 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||7,500 health personnel to be recruited soon||The State government will soon recruit 7,500 health personnel including doctors to bolster the medical infrastructure. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who also heads the State COVID-19 Task Force, said the recruitment is part of its preparedness to face any future exigencies including “third wave” of COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Narayan visited the Vivekananda Memorial Hospital at Sargur in H.D. Kote near here on Sunday evening to inaugurate a 19-bed COVID-19 Care Centre and launch a vaccination campaign for tribals living in the region. He said the government will focus on upgrading the medical infrastructure and facilities in rural areas by upgrading the community and primary health care centres, besides taluk and district hospitals. Towards this end, the government will soon recruit Group D employees, nurses and other paramedical staff, besides doctors. Use of technology and installation of global standard medical equipment will be part of the initiative to upgrade the medical infrastructure. Wherever necessary, buildings to house health institutions will be constructed and dedicated oxygen plants will be set up. The State COVID-19 Task Force has already passed a resolution on upgrading the infrastructure and recruitment. Recommendations in the regard have been communicated to the Health Department for further action.. Mr. Narayan said there was no need to panic about the third wave as all preparations were being made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7500-health-personnel-to-be-recruited-soon/article34897362.ece
22 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Work at DC’s residence: State govt. orders probe||The State government has ordered a probe into the renovation work taken up at Jala Sannidhi, the heritage structure housing the official residence of the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru. Acting on a complaint lodged by former Minister and JD(S) MLA S.R. Mahesh against the renovation work at Jala Sannidhi during the tenure of IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri as Deputy Commissioner, the Principal Secretary to the Revenue Department has written to the Regional Commissioner of Mysuru to inquire into the claim that the renovation work was taken up without the approval of the Heritage Conservation Committee. In a letter dated June 18, he has asked the Regional Commissioner of Mysuru to submit a report on the matter to the government within seven days. The letter refers to a complaint, dated June 5, by Mr. Mahesh alleging that vitrified tiles were laid in Jala Sannidhi where renovation work was taken up without the approval of the Heritage Conservation Committee. The probe against renovation work at Jala Sannidhi follows another inquiry ordered by the State government against the construction of a swimming pool and a gym inside the official residence of the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-at-dcs-residence-state-govt-orders-probe/article34897381.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Yoga Day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yoga-day/article34897387.ece
22 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kuttanad’s outer bunds to be firmed up: Prasad||Priority will be given to strengthening outer bunds of paddy polders in Kuttanad, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. He was speaking after visiting Rani, Chithira Kayal, Marthandam Kayal, and R Block in Kuttanad on Monday. Mr. Prasad said steps would be taken to resolve issues that needed urgent attention. “The State government is committed to providing all help to farmers in the region. Outer bunds in some places have been weakened. Farmers are concerned over bund breaches. The government will make appropriate interventions,” the Minister said. He said that there was a need to follow the crop calendar in Kuttanad. “The government is installing submersible vertical axial flow pumps in Kuttanad. The Agriculture Department will monitor farming and outer bund strengthening activities in Kuttanad,” he said. Mr. Prasad said the Fisheries, Water Resources, and Agriculture Ministers would attend a joint meeting this week to discuss issues affecting Kuttanad. Principal Agriculture Officer Alini Antony, department officials, and representatives of padasekhara samithis accompanied the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuttanads-outer-bunds-to-be-firmed-up-prasad/article34897666.ece
22 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||451 test positive in Alappuzha||The district logged 451 COVID-19 cases on Monday. It also recorded one COVID-19-related death. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 7.99%. Of the fresh cases, 443 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of seven others remains unknown. One health worker also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 1,005 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload fell to 8,715. On Monday, the police registered 31 cases and arrested 19 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 505 people for not wearing face masks, 206 people for violating physical distancing norms, and five people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 192 vehicles. As many as 287 people including two health workers tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, all contracted the virus through local transmission. The daily Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the district reported a further decline to 7.23%. With 40 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thalanad, which recorded 15 cases.  834 recoveries As many as 834 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 4,409. Meanwhile, 30,034 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. In Pathanamathitta, 298 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but two persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of two cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 11.8%. With 29 cases, Aranmula reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 25 cases . The disease, meanwhile, claimed nine more lives in the district. With 526 recoveries on the day, Pathanamathitta currently has 4,369 active cases. ( With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/451-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article34897664.ece
22 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||It’s a quiet affair as SD College touches the 75-year milestone||The platinum jubilee celebrations of Sanatana Dharma College (SD College) began here on Monday. A lamp was lit jointly by the representative of the college management, Principal, teaching and non-teaching staff, and students at the golden jubilee hall. The first contribution towards the celebrations was handed over to the management by P.R. Unnikrishna Pillai, Principal. Actor Kunchako Boban, an alumnus of the college, had released the platinum jubilee logo last week. SD College is one of the oldest and largest aided institutions under the University of Kerala. The college was inaugurated on June 20, 1946, by C.P. Ramaswamy Iyer, the then Diwan of the erstwhile State of Travancore. P. Krishna Kumar, manager of the college, said: “No formal functions are planned for the celebrations due to the pandemic situation. A grand formal launch will be organised when the situation improves. The year-long celebrations will include academic seminars, infrastructure projects, cultural and sports events, international exhibition, focused alumni meets and other programmes highlighting the role of this institution in the socio-cultural milieu of Alappuzha since its inception. Focus will be on activities beneficial to society.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-a-quiet-affair-as-sd-college-touches-the-75-year-milestone/article34897662.ece
22 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||CB to probe bribery case||Wayanad District Police Chief Aravind Sukumar has directed District Crime Branch (CB) officials to investigate a case registered in connection with the charge that Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran had paid Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party leader and tribal leader C.K. Janu Rs. 50 lakh to ensure her allegiance to the National Democratic Alliance. A team lead by R. Manoj Kumar, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Crime Branch) would investigate the case. The Sulthan Bathery police registered the case following an order of the First Class Judicial Magistrate here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-to-probe-bribery-case/article34897607.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PWD stirred into action following fatal accident||The PWD-NH Wing has stirred into action, having faced considerable flak for the shoddy condition of the 2-km-long Kundannoor bridge, and the death of a young motorbike rider on Friday over the undulated structure. The accident occurred after a motorbike rider proceeding from Kundannoor to Thevara suddenly veered off his lane and entered the wrong side to avoid a severely undulated portion on the bridge. The unwary youth coming from Thevara was thrown off his bike in the resultant collision and died. With public fury mounting against the PWD, the agency decided to resurface the entire bridge that had been resurfaced using mastic asphalt three years ago. “A bituminous macadam (BC) resurfacing was done yet again since potholes and undulations developed yet again on the bridge surface. Still, undulations surfaced in 2020, following which patch works were done, including with concrete. A few potholes were yet again filled with cold-mix bitumen a week ago,” PWD sources said. Even this failed to ensure a smooth ride for motorists, culminating in Saturday’s fatal accident. Police peeved “We had written many letters to the PWD to ensure the accident-prone bridge’s upkeep. The fatal accident could have been averted had the bridge been in good condition,” said sources in City Traffic Police (East). "With repeated repair works not yielding the desired results, it has been decided to scoop out the patched-up portions from tonight (June 21), following which BC resurfacing will be done using mechanised paver. Men and materials have been kept ready for this," the PWD sources said. This will be followed by BC resurfacing of Alexander Parambithara Bridge and clearing of the overgrowth of weeds and shrubs that hamper the view of the NH stretch that lies ahead and ends at Mattancherry BOT bridge Junction. Perennial problem The potholed surface of Kundannoor bridge has been a perennial problem during the past two decades, causing fatal and non-fatal accidents. So much so that residents of the area had submitted complaints to the PWD and Maradu Municipality, about the unusual vibrations they felt when container lorries and other heavy vehicles passed through the bridge which is among the longest in Kerala. The bridge is also ill-lit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-stirred-into-action-following-fatal-accident/article34897586.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Flooding due to non-removal of bund: report||Areas such as Kalamassery, Eloor, Aluva and Mupathadam often encountered flooding due to the non-removal of a temporary bund built in 2009, as part of building the rail link to the Vallarpadam container transshipment terminal, and the accumulation of construction debris, as per a study report submitted by the Irrigation Department, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said. Steps will be taken to demolish the bund and remove construction debris and slush that subsequently accumulated in the area, following a meeting to be held with officials of the Cochin Port Trust, DP World and Afcons Infrastructure (the contracting firm that built the rail bridge). They will be made partners in the initiative to clear the bund and other obstructions to water flow. Mr. Rajeeve had instructed the executive engineer of the Irrigation Department to inspect the area and submit a report. Complaints The Social Welfare Action Society and many other organisations had submitted complaints about the temporary bund across the backwaters near Vaduthala causing flooding in many areas, including municipalities, by stifling the smooth flow of water at the area where the Periyar meets the backwaters. Slush, garbage The bund on either side of the railway overbridge’s piers affected water flow up to a distance of 1 km. It further led to sand, slush and even garbage accumulating and blocking the waterbody. Subsequently, fishers and others could only use the space between three pillars of the bridge, with gap in between 17 others remaining choked because of the bund, said Mr. Rajeeve. The bund, slush and other obstacles spread over a 780-m-wide area would have to be removed and deposited in nearby isles. It will also help the Port Trust’s dredging efforts. The contracting firm had assured the High Court that it would remove the temporary bund and debris from the area. The District Collector will take follow-up action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flooding-due-to-non-removal-of-bund-report/article34897583.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Septuagenarian stages stir against panchayat||A septuagenarian in Karukulam ward in Kizhakkambalam panchayat near here staged a protest on Sunday, alleging that the local body ruled by the Twenty20 outfit had failed to keep its promise of constructing a new house for her after demolishing the earlier structure in 2017. Seventy-seven-year-old Eliyamma held the protest on her land. P.V. Sreenijin, MLA, visited her at the site. “She told me that the panchayat authorities had demolished her house for road widening in 2017. Despite repeated pleas, the panchayat samithi failed to set up a home for her,” he said. However, the panchayat authorities have rejected the allegations as “baseless” and “politically motivated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/septuagenarian-stages-stir-against-panchayat/article34897574.ece
22 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kufos to study claims of land formation off coast||Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos) has reiterated that it will study claims about the formation of land close to the Kochi shipping channel, about 20 km off the coast. University sources said on Monday that the study would be launched after the monsoon season with the help of the National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) in Chennai. There have been reports of fresh land formation close to the shipping channel but the Cochin Port Trust has denied the claims. Port Trust sources had earlier said that ships moved through the area and the vessels had no problems in sailing the waters. Fishers frequenting the area have said that material dredged from the shipping channel to maintain the required depth is deposited about 20 km from the coast. Traditional fishers said the dumping of the material in the sea had caused problems in fishing activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kufos-to-study-claims-of-land-formation-off-coast/article34897584.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC deploys more buses following plaint||The prompt action by a woman passenger in a crowded KSRTC bus from the city to Vypeen on Friday led to the agency arranging an alternative bus in order to enable physical distancing. Manjula Kumari of Nayarambalam, a staffer of KMRL, had boarded a bus from Ernakulam Boat Jetty bus stand and found that too many passengers were getting in, with the result that it was tough to maintain physical distancing. She conveyed this to K.N. Unnikrishnan, MLA, over the phone, following which he took up the matter with District Collector S. Suhas and the police. Soon after, more KSRTC buses arrived at the stand and the passengers were able to travel to their destinations while adhering to pandemic norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-deploys-more-buses-following-plaint/article34897587.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy personnel join Yoga Day observance||The Southern Naval Command (SNC) joined the country in observing International Day of Yoga, where Naval personnel, including Defence Security Corps (DSC), Military Engineering Service (MES), defence civilian employees and their family members enthusiastically participated in the event on the theme “Be with Yoga - Be At Home”. Personnel in various ships under the Southern Naval Command on mission, deployed in the high seas across Indian Ocean and beyond too participated in the yoga sessions. Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Command and his wife, Sapana Chawla, joined other families of Southern Naval Command, in a virtual yoga session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-personnel-join-yoga-day-observance/article34897575.ece
22 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Seizure at Kochi airport||Sleuths from the Customs Department seized gold worth nearly Rs. 1 crore from a passenger, who arrived at the Kochi airport from Qatar on Monday. According to initial reports, the gold was seized from a native of Malappuram, who has been taken into custody. He had landed in Kochi in a Qatar Airways flight. The 2 kgs of gold was hidden in small portions in a food grinder, reports said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seizure-at-kochi-airport/article34897581.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 926 new cases||A total of 926 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Monday, leaving the test positivity rate at 10.25%. The number of tests done fell to 9,038. Thripunithura recorded 37 new cases, Edathala 34, Kadavanthra 29, Kalady 28, Kalamassery 27, Kottuvally and Thrikkakara 22 each, and Chittattukara 20. Three health workers were among those who tested positive. As many as 1,180 people were considered to have recovered. The active case load in the district is 13,815. A total of 39,545 people remain in quarantine. While 150 people were admitted to hospitals and other treatment facilities, 200 were discharged. Of the people recovering from the infection, 9,706 remain at home. The number of admissions at private hospitals has fallen to 967, while 467 persons are recovering at FLTCs, 311 are at SLTCs, and 937 people are at domiciliary care centres. As many as 475 people are under treatment at government hospitals. A total of 299 people are admitted in intensive care units. Six patients in the district are under treatment for mucormycosis. A total of 1,175 people have succumbed to the infection in Ernakulam so far, and 3,44,019 cases have been recorded, according to the State COVID dashboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-926-new-cases/article34897579.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2.90 kgs of heroin seized||Personnel of the Narcotics Control Bureau’s Kochi unit seized 2.90 kgs of heroin from a checked-in trolley bag at the Cochin International Airport and arrested a woman hailing from Zimbabwe, who arrived from Johannesburg on board a Qatar Airways flight, in this connection on Saturday. The heroin was concealed in a specially-made false bottom in Sharon Chigwaza’s trolley bag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/290-kgs-of-heroin-seized/article34897580.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||FACT records operational surplus of Rs. 352 crore||Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore has recorded an operational surplus of Rs. 352 crore during the financial year 2020-21. This is a record achievement by the public sector company, said a press release here. The company also achieved a total business turnover of Rs. 3,259 crore during the year against the turnover of Rs. 2,770 crore in the previous year. FACT produced 8.61 lakh tonnes of Factamfos during the year against 8.45 lakh tonnes during the last financial year. Ammonium phosphate production reached 2.46 lakh tonnes while the highest production so far has been 2.38 lakh tonnes during 2000-01. The communication from the company said that it expected an increase of about Rs. 500 crore with caprolactam production, which is likely to resume in August this year. The trial of the plant after its maintenance work had been completed. During the period under review, FACT was also able to import 1.61 lakh tonnes of potash for sale in the Indian market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fact-records-operational-surplus-of-rs-352-crore/article34897588.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC rejects private lab owners’ plea||A Division Bench of the High Court on Monday declined to interfere with a single judge’s interim order refusing to stay a government order reducing the charge of RT-PCR test to Rs. 500 from Rs. 1,700. Dismissing an appeal filed by the owners of private diagnostic laboratories against the single judge’s stay order, the Bench comprising Justice Anil K. Narendran and Justice Ziyad Rahman A.A. observed that the single judge had taken note of the fact that the charges in States such as Haryana, Telangana, and Uttarakhand were similar to the one fixed by the Kerala government. Therefore, there was no reason to interfere with the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-rejects-private-lab-owners-plea/article34897589.ece
22 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Sufficient food available in Lakshadweep’||Sufficient quantity of essential food items is available in all the 10 inhabited islands of Lakshadweep and the administration has been taking various proactive measures to ensure supply of food and other essential material to the islanders, according to a statement filed by the Lakshadweep Administration in the Kerala High Court. The statement was filed by S. Asker Ali, Collector of Lakshadweep, in response to a writ petition alleging starvation on the islands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sufficient-food-available-in-lakshadweep/article34897576.ece
22 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No proposal to shift legal jurisdiction from Kerala High Court, says Lakshadweep administration||The Lakshadweep administration has said there was no proposal to shift its legal jurisdictions from the Kerala High Court to the Karnataka High Court. The news of shifting the jurisdiction of high from Kerala to Karnataka is baseless , it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-proposal-to-shift-legal-jurisdiction-from-kerala-high-court-says-lakshadweep-administration/article34897592.ece
22 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Woman found dead, relatives allege foul play||In a suspected case of suicide, a 24-year-old woman was found dead at her husband’s house in Sasthamcotta here on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Vismaya, a resident of Kaithode. Her husband Kiran Kumar is absconding and some digital evidence released by Vismaya’s family indicates that the BAMS student was subjected to severe torture. Kiran Kumar, an assistant vehicle inspector with the Motor Vehicles Department, used to harass Vismaya though he was gifted 101 sovereigns of gold, more than an acre of land, and a car, according to her relatives. Her family has released screenshots of her WhatsApp chat in which she talks about torture. She also sent voice messages and pictures of cuts and bruises she sustained in the assaults. The Kerala Women’s Commission has taken a suo motu case and sought a report from the police. (Suicide prevention helpline: 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-found-dead-relatives-allege-foul-play/article34897667.ece
22 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Centenary fete of SB College begins||There is an urgent need for the higher education sector in Kerala to undergo an overhaul, Higher Education Minister R. Bindu has said. She was inaugurating a public meeting in connection with the centenary celebrations of St. Berchmans College in Changanassery on Monday. “While the world has changed rapidly, the higher education sector in Kerala has not kept pace with it. The best education should be available here at low cost,” she said. Smart SB app The Minister sought to highlight the role of institutions like SB College in bringing about this change. Kodikunnil Suresh, MP, unveiled the mobile app Smart SB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centenary-fete-of-sb-college-begins/article34897669.ece
22 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mega COVID vaccination drive to administer second dose to elderly||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation will speed up COVID vaccination for the elderly with a mega vaccination drive to be held at Tagore Centenary Hall soon. Responding to a submission presented by councillors N.C. Moyin Kutty and T. Muraleedharan at a meeting of the corporation council on Monday, Health Standing Committee chairperson S. Jayasree said that the corporation has been allotted additional 400 doses of vaccine, only to administer second doses to people above 80 years of age and other senior citizens. Mr. Muraleedharan pointed out that several people could not register in the Cowin portal for vaccination as they did not have the technical know-how. Health Officer R.S. Gopakumar advised rapid response teams to conduct mass registration drives for such people. Mr. Kutty had demanded an inquiry into the stock register of private hospitals where any one could walk in for a vaccine and that some of them charged exorbitant rates for a dose. Mayor Beena Philip answered that several complaints to this effect were filed at the corporation and that the civic body will look into the matter. Councillor Navya Haridas pointed out that several health centres did not have enough facilities for vaccination camps and requested the corporation to shift them to the nearest space with facilities such as schools or community halls. Councillor K.C. Shobhita complained that even some of the frontline workers have not received the first dose of vaccine. Mr. Kutty also demanded population-based distribution of vaccines in all wards of the corporation. Ms. Haridas in another submission complained that Kudumbashree workers were being forced to contribute towards the ‘Vaccine Challenge’. However, Welfare Standing Committee chairman P. Diwakaran said that the decision to contribute to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund was an internal decision of Kudumbashree and that no members were compelled to do it against their wish. The Mayor said that the corporation will, however, look into the matter. Adjournment motion Earlier, the corporation passed an adjournment motion against the hike in fuel prices. The motion was presented by CPI councillor P.K. Nasar demanding the Central government control fuel prices. An amendment to the motion brought in by the UDF councillors demanding the State government cut down its share was vehemently opposed by the ruling front. However, the motion was passed with only the seven BJP councillors opposing it.  Corporation will look into plaints about private hospitals charging exorbitant rates for a dose of vaccine Mayor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mega-covid-vaccination-drive-to-administer-second-dose-to-elderly/article34897577.ece
22 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police suspect gold smuggling angle||The Feroke police on Monday took into custody eight persons, who reportedly escorted the car which met with the accident claiming the lives of five persons at Pulinchodu near Ramanattukara in the district. They were taken into custody on the basis of scientific evidence that they were part of a gang engaged in grabbing smuggled gold. Police sources said a case would be registered against them under Section 399 (punishment for making preparations to commit dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code. According to the police, the plan of the gang, including those killed in the accident, was to grab nearly 2.33 kg of smuggled gold from a passenger who had reached the Kozhikode airport on Monday morning. However, the Calicut Air Intelligence Unit had seized it during the checking. The accident occurred when the gang members were returning in haste after the failed plan, the police said. In the preliminary investigation, it was also found that they had locked horns with another group of Koduvally-based smugglers’ agents near the airport. Police sources said they were yet to get the details of the incident which was first reported by a group of local residents from Kondotty. District Police Chief (Kozhikode city) A.V. George said the police had confidential information about the whole incident which could be revealed only at a later phase of the investigation. “We are investigating the whole incidents with the support of different police squads,” he said. According to the police, there was no clarity in the initial stage about the actual cause of the accident. “At first, we got the information that they met with the accident while returning home by around 5 a.m. after dropping a friend at the airport. However, it was found false in the later investigation,” they said. In the wake of the latest developments, the Customs squad also launched a separate investigation into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-suspect-gold-smuggling-angle/article34897571.ece
22 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Vaccination gets a boost in Kozhikode||Vaccination for COVID-19 got a boost in Kozhikode on Monday when 28,920 people got the jab at various centres in the district. Meanwhile, 563 people newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here. Going by the COWIN portal, Monday marked the highest number of people vaccinated so far this month. As many as 26,761 had got it on June 8 and 24,015 on June 4. Only 846 were vaccinated on June 13 and it dropped to 668 on June 20. The number crossed 20,000-mark only thrice this month. The district administration had earlier this month planned to give the jab to up to 40,000 people a day. Fresh doses are reported to have arrived in the past two days. So far, 11.03 lakh people have been vaccinated, of whom 8.84 lakh got the first dose and 2.18 lakh got both the doses. The district medical officer said that 554 people got infected through local transmission while the source of infection of nine others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation reported 227 cases of locally acquired infections. As many as 6,805 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate was 8.45%. A total of 1,016 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload stands at 10,169.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-gets-a-boost-in-kozhikode/article34897578.ece
22 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 1.11 crore seized||The Air Intelligence Unit seized 2.33 kg of gold worth approximately Rs. 1.11 crore from a passenger who arrived on an Air India flight from Dubai at Calicut International Airport early on Monday. Customs officials said the gold was concealed inside a new coffee maker machine. The passenger, Muhammad Shafeeque Melethil of Moorkkanad, Malappuram, was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. This was the second day in a row that the Air Intelligence Unit was seizing a fairly large quantity of gold from passengers arriving from Dubai at Calicut airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-111-crore-seized-at-calicut-airport/article34897569.ece
22 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Tribes here lead a forlorn life||Three Adivasi families belonging to the Kattunaikar and Muthuvan tribes are leading a forlorn life on the Kakkadampoyil hills with no vehicular access and almost total neglect. Their children do not know what online education is. They have been living there for decades in total neglect. The dozen-odd members of the Suprikat tribal colony in the Thottappally forest region in Chaliyar grama panchayat are living in tarpaulin sheds. They said they rarely get food kits from the government. Two of the three families do not have a ration card. They have no land of their own either. “We have been living here for many years,” said tribal leader Mathan. With no proper road, one will have to trek 7 km to reach this tiny hamlet. They have no power connection. Although the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) installed power lines up to the hamlet, no connection was given to them so far. “That is a classic example of the attitude of the authorities towards these tribespeople,” said Ajmal Koloth, a social worker. Unaware of classes Although Integrated Tribal Development Project’s (ITDP) tribal promoter in charge of this hamlet Sheela Vinu said that she used to visit them and take care of them regularly, they denied her claim. “We do not get to see any of them. Nobody comes to us,” said Krishnan Kutty. Their children, Baburaj (Class V), Vishnu (Class III), Sujeesh (Class III), Akhil Krishnan (Class II) and Aswati (Kindergarten) were not aware if the school had reopened after vacation when The Hindu spoke to them on Sunday. They were not provided any online study facility. Even if the school reopens, the children will not be able to reach school by crossing two streams on the way to Government Tribal Lower Primary School, Valanthode. Greeshma Praveen, their ward member, said efforts were on to bring electricity to the hamlet. According to her, the Integrated Tribal Development Project had offered funds to set up a study centre for the tribal families, and that was why none else took any initiative. She said they had been offered a better place to live with proper access and better facilities. “But they are not willing to accept the offer,” she said. “We do not want to leave this land where we have been living for decades,” said Mathan. Neglected by the authorities, the tribal families are allegedly exploited by some traders whom they depend for their groceries. They said that the traders were overcharging them for their groceries. They do not know the name of their MLA, though they said they voted in the recent elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribes-here-lead-a-forlorn-life/article34897609.ece
22 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Murders send shockwaves through Malappuram||The murders of two elderly women living alone in their houses in neighbouring villages in Malappuram in Kerala in two days have sent shockwaves through the district. The police, who formed special teams to investigate the murders, have warned those living alone in their houses to step up vigil and ensure security. When Kunhipathumma Thiruvakalathi (60) was found murdered at her house at Vellarambu near Kuttippuram on Friday, Iyyathu Thattottil (70) was found murdered at her house at Kadakassery near Thavanur on Sunday. Both were living alone and are suspected to have been killed over theft. The police on Monday arrested a man in connection with the murder of Kunhipathumma. Her neighbour, Mohammed Shafi (33), son of Abdul Razak, was picked up after the police questioned several persons in the neighbourhood. Shafi is a Gulf returnee. Kunhipathumma was found to have been hit on the head by the attacker. She suffered five deep wounds on her head. Iyyathu was found murdered in her house on Sunday afternoon. She is also suspected to have bled to death. Gold jewellery worth more than 20 sovereigns was stolen from her house. District Police Chief Sujith Das S. said that the police have strengthened the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murders-send-shockwaves-through-malappuram/article34897582.ece
22 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Mohammed Moulavi dead||Senior Islamic Shariat scholar and Kerala Samsthana Jamiyyathul Ulama president N.K. Mohammed Moulavi, 90, died at Kadoopuram, Koottilangadi, near here, on Sunday night. He was buried at the Kadoopuram Juma Masjid graveyard on Monday. He was the last Mushawara member of the undivided Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama. He spent six decades teaching at a dars at Juma Masjid, Parappanangadi. His erudition and teaching skills won him the honorific title Shaikhul Ulama, which means leader of the scholars. He had been president of the Kerala Samsthana Jamiyyathul Ulama since 2000. He has authored several books, including Comprehensive Islamic Law. Several political and Islamic leaders paid him tributes. He is survived by his wife and six children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mohammed-moulavi-dead/article34897598.ece
22 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Pay building tax online in Pathanamthitta||The payment of building taxes and issue of ownership certificates in Pathanamathitta municipality is going online from Tuesday onward. According to officials, the new system is aimed at providing a hassle-free and contact-less platform for taxpayers. The system envisages providing the taxpayers access to building tax information and making payment through the website tax.lsgkerala.gov.in Besides payment, all building-related services, including the ownership certificate, too will be made available online. The facility will be extended to other citizen services by the municipality in the next phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pay-building-tax-online-in-pathanamthitta/article34897668.ece
22 June 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Delta-plus variant found in 3 persons||The State on Monday reported its first delta-plus variant case in a COVID-19 patient. According to officials, a four-year-old boy from Ward 14 of Kadapra grama panchayat in Pathanamathitta has been detected with the variant. The child tested positive for the virus on May 24 and is reported to have recovered from the infection. The variant was confirmed during a genome sequencing of his sample carried out at the CSIR-IGIB in New Delhi. Authorities have imposed strict regulations in the local body to contain the virus spread. Meanwhile, the officials said the Pathanamthitta case was followed by two other cases in Palakkad. Delta-plus is a mutated form of the delta variant that is largely being held responsible for fuelling the second wave of the pandemic. The variant has not been classified as one of concern yet. Community cluster According to Narasimhugari Tej Lohit Reddy, District Collector, Pathanamathitta, the ward where the child lived has a test positivity rate of 18.42% and has already been declared a large community cluster area. The location has 18 active cases. “Taking note of the situation, the patients in the locality will be immediately shifted to a domiciliary care centre,” Mr. Reddy said. Delta plus, or B.1.617.2.1 (AY.1) lineage, is one of the emerging variants which is characterised by the K417N mutation, which has been mapped to the receptor binding domain and associated with immune escape, according to IGIB. While nothing has been established about the transmissibility of the variant, one concern is the evidence that the K417N mutation has shown resistance to monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) Casirivimab and Imdevimab, which incidentally have been approved for use in India. This means that a COVID patient undergoing mAb treatment might not benefit from the drug cocktail if the infection has been caused by the delta plus variant  Delta-plus has not yet been classified as a variant of concern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delta-plus-variant-found-in-3-persons/article34897596.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protests across State against hike in fuel prices||Vehicular traffic came to a standstill at many important junctions across Kerala on Monday following a 15-minute motor strike called by the Joint Action Committee of Trade Unions to protest against the hike in price of the petroleum products by oil majors. At designated points, trade union leaders led the strike and halted their vehicles in the road corridors for 15 minutes from 11 a.m. in response to the call given by the joint action committee. Several motorists were caught in traffic snarls as auto rickshaws, taxies, lorries and private stage carriers stopped the vehicles and the drivers joined the stir. Kunhalikutty leads stir Ambulances and those shifting the sick to hospitals were avoided from the strike. At PMG junction in the capital city, IUML leader and former Minister P. K. Kunhalikutty inaugurated the protest against hike in fuel prices. CITU, AITUC, INTUC, AITUC, HMS, STU, UTUC, SEWA, TUCC, TUCI, KTUC, JLU, JTU are part of the joint committee of 21 trade unions that called for the protests. Rs. 100 per litre The strike comes amidst the price of premium petrol crossing Rs. 100 per litre last week in many districts in Kerala and that of petrol and diesel nearing the Rs. 100 per litre mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protests-across-state-against-hike-in-fuel-prices/article34897620.ece
22 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7,499 cases, TPR at 9.63%||Kerala reported reported 7,499 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when the number of samples tested over the weekend dipped significantly to 77,853. Test positivity rate went below 10% and was at 9.63% on Monday. The active case pool dipped below the one lakh mark on Monday. With 13,596 people reported to have recovered from their disease, the active case pool now has 99,693 patients. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 12,154, with the State adding 94 deaths, which occurred in the past two or three days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Monday. Hospitalisation On Monday, the number of new COVID patients with moderate or serious disease admitted in the hospitals dipped significantly from 2,297 on Sunday to 1,891. However, the number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals has gone up slightly from Sunday’s figure of 26,906 to 27,266 on Monday. In all districts, except four, hospitalised patients are fewer than 10,000 each ICU admissions of critically ill patients, in both public and private hospitals, was 2,526 on Monday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support among these patients was 1,040. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began now stands at 28,16,843 cases. In 16 local bodies in the State, the TPR remains over 30 %, where lockdown-like restrictions will continue. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 963, followed by Ernakulam 926, Thrissur 820, Kollam 810, Palakkad 710, Malappuram 689, Kozhikode 563, Alappuzha 451, Kannur 434, Kasaragod 319, Pathanamthitta 298, Kottayam 287, Wayanad 114 and Idukki 65 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7499-cases-tpr-at-963/article34897603.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre should help States to overcome crisis: Balagopal||The Centre should help the States to overcome the unprecedented socio-economic crisis and economic slowdown caused by the pandemic rather than pushing them into a further financial crisis, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. “A more healthy relationship is needed between the Centre and the States to overcome the difficult times. In cooperative federalism, the Centre and States share a horizontal relationship, where they cooperate in the larger public interest. The Centre should extend more help to the States financially to meet the pressing demands of the people,” Mr. Balagopal told The Hindu . Pointing out that the tax rate is arbitrary, the Minister said the average tax rate had come down from 16% to 11.5% in five years of the GST regime. The loss suffered by a consumer State like Kerala is huge and cannot be compensated. The States can decide on taxation of petroleum products and alcohol only. Mr. Balagopal said GST had benefited only corporates and business houses. “In the GST Council, the position of the Centre prevails over the State. As the Centre decides how much and when, the State Finance Ministers have been turned into distributing agents,” says Mr. Balagopal, who wrote a dissent note on the GST Bill while he was the CPI(M) deputy leader and member of the Select Committee in the Rajya Sabha. Stagnation of revenue receipts, decline of 18% in public revenue, sharp reduction in GST revenue, mounting of GST compensation shortfall, reluctance of the Centre in sharing the non-divisible income with the States and strings being attached to raising the borrowing limit were among the challenges, he said. Deficit Though Rs. 19,524-crore Revenue Deficit Grant has been provided by the 15th Finance Commission for Kerala for 2021-22 compared to Rs. 15,300 in 2020-21, the sharable pool had come down from 2.45% to 1.92%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-should-help-states-to-overcome-crisis-balagopal/article34897591.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Most college students have smartphone access: study||A pilot study commissioned by the Directorate of Collegiate Education (DCE) into digital learning during the COVID-19 period has found that 65% of college students did not possess laptops, personal computers, and tablets. However, smartphone availability among them has considerably improved with nearly 80% having exclusive use of the device. Only 0.51% of the 8,005 students who participated in the survey lacked smartphone access. The findings came to light during a research study undertaken by the Psychological Resource Centre, Government College for Women, Thiruvananthapuram, as part of the DCE’s Walk with a Scholar programme on the academic and psycho-social functioning of college students amid the pandemic. The study incorporated the views of students of 182 government and aided colleges in the State through an online survey conducted in March and April. The sample distribution included students from the arts, science, and commerce streams and had representation from General, Other Backward Classes (OBC), Scheduled Castes (SC), and Scheduled Tribes (ST), besides APL (above the poverty line) and BPL (below the poverty line) socio-economic sections. While students from the OBCs and Scheduled Castes had significantly lower access to smartphones, 87.29% of those from the Scheduled Tribes had exclusive access, largely thanks to schemes aimed at distributing smartphones to children from the sections. Over 82% students spent up to Rs. 300 every month for data access. Connectivity issues As much as 88.2% students have been able to attend over 50% of online classes. While 0.5% have been unable to access digital classes, 3.3% could attend less than a quarter of the sessions. Network connectivity issues have created difficulties for 68.93% of them. A majority of students (85.31%) rated online classes to have average, below average, or very low effectiveness. According to official sources, the Higher Education Department is planning a comprehensive study, having identified its prospective contours through the pilot research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/most-college-students-have-smartphone-access-study/article34897594.ece
22 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tree felling: Forest dept. expands probe||The Forest Department has expanded its investigation into the illegal felling of valuable trees from revenue land in Kerala. It has seized more than 1,000 cubic metres of expensive wood felled between October last and April 2021 under cover of a Revenue Department order permitting farmers to harvest hard-wood trees they had cultivated on their assigned land. At least 40% of confiscated timber was rosewood and the remaining teak. A senior official said on Monday that the detections were just the tip of the iceberg. An army of agents, mill owners, timber depot managers and exporters had scoured revenue land abutting forests searching for expensive and rare trees on plots allocated to farmers for cultivation since 1954. The agents identified the trees for felling, approached the farmers, and showed the controversial Revenue Department order. It provided them with legal cover. They offered the farmers a pittance for the rosewood or teak on their plot. The middlemen then used the farmer’s name and signature to apply for a ‘cutting permit’ to fell the tree. The Forest Department was the issuing authority. However, it had no jurisdiction on revenue land. It regularly sends the logging application to the Revenue Department for approval. An official said Revenue Department officials, mostly tahsildars, recommended the felling of the tree on a cue. They rarely verified the land records or examined the tree register. The Forest Department had no choice but to grant permission and issue a pass for transporting the timber, the official said. Several District Collectors had raised a red flag. They sent cautionary reports to the government stating that a criminal mafia with political influence had misused the order. However, the warning seemed to have served little purpose. Head of Forest Force P.K. Kesavan, is spearheading the investigation. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran is scheduled to review the case on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tree-felling-forest-dept-expands-probe/article34897604.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC to switch to green fuel to cut cost: Raju||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will launch 400 liquefied natural gas (LNG) buses in one year if the trial run of the LNG buses is a success, Transport Minister Antony Raju has said. Flagging off the maiden service of the LNG-powered bus from Thiruvananthapuram to Ernakulam at the KSRTC Central bus station at Thampanoor here on Monday, the Minister said the initiative was to switch over to green fuel to bring down the fleet’s operational costs and reduce pollution. Daily service The daily services will be on the Ernakulam-Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode-Ernakulam sectors. Two air-conditioned buses handed over by Petronet LNG Limited to the KSRTC are used for operating the services on a trial basis for three months. Along with the LNG buses, the KSRTC had worked out plans to convert another 3,000 buses into CNG in view of the rising price of high-speed diesel. Aid to bus operators TheMinister said the government was ready to offer financial assistance to private bus operators if they came forward to shift to LNG. On the concerns about refuelling LNG, he said Petronet had been asked to look into the possibility of setting up dispensing units at Aluva, Ettumanur, Pappanamcode and Vellarada on the KSRTC premises . KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar and Petronet LNG Limited Vice President Yogananda Reddy signed a memorandum of understanding at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-to-switch-to-green-fuel-to-cut-cost-raju/article34897601.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Family of 3 found dead||A family of three people including a minor girl died after allegedly consuming poison in Nanthencode in the capital early Monday. According to the Museum police, the deceased were identified as Manoj Kumar, 45, his wife Renju, 38, and their daughter Amritha, 16. They hailed from Kanjirappally. The family had been residing in a rented house in YMR junction in Nanthencode. Manoj, a goldsmith who had been working in Chala, had been facing severe financial stress since the first COVID-19-induced lockdown last year. He is believed to have engaged in an argument with Renju after consuming alcohol late on Sunday. He later allegedly consumed poison and turned unwell. On being alerted by Renju, the Museum police and their neighbours rushed to the house and shifted him to the Government Medical College Hospital here. However, his life could not be saved. Renju and Amritha were later found dead allegedly after consuming poison by the time their neighbours returned during the wee hours on Monday. The bodies were also soon shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471-2552056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/family-of-3-found-dead/article34897622.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Debate in council over CMDRF contribution||The city Corporation’s contribution to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) as part of COVID-19 vaccine challenge became a matter of heated debate at a council meeting on Monday, with the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanding that the council should raise a request for the money to be returned to the civic body as vaccines are now free for everyone. The demand was rejected with the Deputy Mayor saying that the Chief Minister has made it clear that the money collected as part of the challenge will be used for COVID-related activities. The debate was around an agenda item for ratifying an anticipatory sanction accorded by the Mayor on April 27 for the Corporation's contribution of Rs. 2 crore to the CMDRF. BJP councillor Karamana Ajith said that the opposition parties were not made aware of the anticipatory sanction in the all-party meeting or in previous council meetings. He said that since the Union government has now changed its vaccine policy, to provide vaccines free of cost, the Corporation should request for this amount to be credited back. BJP councillor Anilkumar said that the government is taking away funds from the cash-strapped local bodies in times of distress. He accused the Mayor of misusing her powers to accord anticipatory sanction. LDF councillor Amshu Vamadevan said that the Union government was forced to change its vaccine policy after the Supreme Court had raised questions on the funds being spent for vaccination. With the council getting extended beyond the usual cut-off time, the issue of clearing an additional amount of Rs. 1.27 crore for the multi-level parking lot in the Corporation office premises was discussed only for five minutes. The civic body is being forced to spend an additional amount due to errors in the estimates prepared by the consultant KITCO. The opposition councillors questioned the delay in opening the parking lot, even after it was ‘inaugurated’ a few months back. The Works Standing Committee Chairperson said that the parking lot is expected to be opened after completion of the remaining works within a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/debate-in-council-over-cmdrf-contribution/article34897625.ece
22 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) not to pursue spat with Sudhakaran||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said the party had drawn the curtain on the verbal tangle with Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran. He said Mr. Sudhakaran had stepped outside the bounds of acceptable behaviour by personally targetting Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Mr. Sudhakaran had crossed a line. The party was constrained to respond in the same coin. The CPI(M) had closed the chapter. It was not inclined to revisit the issue. When pressed, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the CPI(M) had neither backed down nor advanced. It was not a question of which side blinked first, he said. Mr. Sudhakaran had opened a Pandora’s Box of political slighting after he claimed in an interview that he had trounced Mr. Vijayan in a campus brawl at Brennan College in 1967. Mr. Vijayan rubbished Mr. Sudhakaran’s claim. He said Mr. Sudhakaran profited from crime and had plotted to kidnap his children in the 1990s.Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the previous LDF government had issued an order permitting farmers to harvest valuable timber. However, some elements had misused the order to fell endangered and expensive trees. The government has constituted a special team to bring them to book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-not-to-pursue-spat-with-sudhakaran/article34897590.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Aid for children orphaned by COVID-19||The Department for Women and Child Development has issued an order announcing financial aid for children who lost their parents or guardians to COVID-19. Children who lost both their parents due to COVID-19 or whose one parent had earlier died and the remaining parent died due to COVID-19 are eligible for the aid. An amount of Rs. 2,000 will be deposited monthly in a joint account of the child and guardian until the child turns 18. A fixed deposit of Rs. 3 lakh will also be opened in the name of the child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-children-orphaned-by-covid-19/article34897606.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||963 new cases in capital||The COVID-19 test positivity rate continued to be a decline in Thiruvananthapuram as it stood at 8.74% on Monday. The caseload rose by 963 when 11,013 people were tested in the last 24 hours. While 1,705 people recovered from the illness, the number of active cases was 11,711. Seven health workers tested positive. The death toll grew by 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/963-new-cases-in-capital/article34897624.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC pay pact: talks held||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will have to find Rs. 106 crore a month for the salary and allowances of the employees if the management goes by the claims raised by its three recognised unions. This was disclosed by KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar at the meeting with three recognised unions of the employees for a pay revision pact here on Monday in the presence of Transport Minister Antony Raju. At present, monthly salary bill of KSRTC is Rs. 86 crore. The Minister said the government was committed to revising the salaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-pay-pact-talks-held/article34897602.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU BTech results out||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University published the results of the seventh-semester BTech regular and supplementary examinations on Monday. The results are available on the university website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-btech-results-out/article34897605.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Clean chit to accused in Kadakkavoor POCSO case||The Kerala Police have given a clean chit to a 45-year-old woman who had been arrested by the Kadakkavoor police in December last on charges of sexually abusing her minor son. The special investigation team tasked with investigating the case submitted before the Thiruvananthapuram POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) court its probe report on June 16. Led by Divya V. Gopinath, Superintendent of Police (Information and Communication Technology), the team found no evidence that could strengthen the allegations that were levelled against her in the first information report (FIR). The case had been registered on the basis of a complaint submitted by her former husband who accused her of abusing their 13-year-old child. The POCSO court is yet to deliver its judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clean-chit-to-accused-in-kadakkavoor-pocso-case/article34897621.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||5 arrested for murder attempt||The Nedumangad police on Monday arrested five people for alleged attempt to murder another person recently. The police identified the accused as Anoop. 26, Anish, 33, Ratheesh, 35, Unni, 26, and Sarath, 29, natives of Karipoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5-arrested-for-murder-attempt/article34897618.ece
22 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Now, a cemetery for retired police dogs||A cemetery for retired police dogs has been set up at the Kerala Police Academy in Thrissur. The Dog Memorial and Cemetery for dogs of the K-9 Squad was inaugurated by State Police Chief Loknath Behera recently. The cemetery is near Vishranthi, the retirement and rehabilitation centre of dogs, at the academy. Police dogs are looked after till their death. There are 10 tombs in the cemetery. Multiple burials will be made in the same pit, on a rotation basis. The tombs are arranged in a circle with a table in the middle for placing the carcass during the funeral. Each tomb is covered with granite stone slabs and there is a teak board for engraving the dogs’ names. The facility was built on 10 cents at a cost of Rs. 10 lakh by COSTFORD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-a-cemetery-for-retired-police-dogs/article34897671.ece
22 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||One killed, five injured in blast at quarry||One person was killed and five others were critically injured in a blast at a granite quarry at Vazhakode, Mullurkkara village, near Wadakkanchery, on Monday night. The deceased has been identified as Abdul Noushad, 45, of Vazhakode. Noushad is the brother of the quarry owner, who is among the injured. According to a preliminary report, the blast occurred after detonators, used for granite explosions, went off. Many houses surrounding the quarry suffered damage. It is reported that the quarry had been defunct for the past one and half years. According to local people, some people were doing fish farming in the abandoned quarry. But it is not clear how the explosion happened in an abandoned quarry. Injured persons were admitted to various hospitals. According to the police, the condition of four persons is critical. The injured include one migrant labourer. The police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel have begun rescue operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-killed-five-injured-in-blast-at-quarry/article34897599.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A dose of wellness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-dose-of-wellness/article34897573.ece
22 June 2021||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to resume 2 services to Karnataka||The APSRTC has resumed day-time operations to Hyderabad from Kurnool and Anantapur districts on Monday and is planning to resume services to two locations in Karnataka from Tuesday. While 26 services were started on Monday from both districts on Monday, plans are afoot to increase the number of buses (all during the day) from Wednesday. Kurnool Regional Manager T. Venkataramam said that 22 services were operated from Kurnool to Hyderabad on the Monday, the first day of the lockdown being partially relaxed in A.P. and being fully lifted in Telangana. While there are 44 services to several locations in Karnataka from Kurnool district, only a few of them would be run with 50% occupancy on Tuesday, and the number would be slowly increased based on passenger occupancy. The corporation will initially run buses to Bengaluru and Ballari from Tuesday with 50% occupancy, said Anantapur Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni. Buses were being run from Kurnool to Bengaluru and Ballari, and from Anantapur to Ballari, Pavagada, Bengaluru, Challakere, and Sira. Meanwhile, the Tirupati unit of the APSRTC management has announced resumption of some services to Bengaluru from Tuesday. While all services will be run between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m., authorities are trying to squeeze in long services to the extent possible within the operable schedule. While 378 buses were already plying in Chittoor, the number was increased to 529 from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-to-resume-2-services-to-karnataka/article34897322.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||As barricades go, shoppers, tourists hit the road||The end of lockdown witnessed patrons returning to hotels and a variety of shops in Karnataka and Telangana. Karnataka on Monday relaxed norms in six more districts as the COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) fell to less than 5%. Udupi, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Ballari, Chitradurga, and Vijayapura districts were brought under relaxations in lockdown. Eight districts continued to report a positivity rate above 5%, including Mysuru, with above 10%. As many as 4,867 new cases were reported in the State on Monday. As Bengaluru city opened up traffic snarls were back on Monday. BBMP Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the response was good in Bengaluru. Most people wore masks and followed COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. Other business establishments, including private travels, transport, electrical, clothing, steel industry and wholesale markets at Abids, Begum Bazaar and Secunderabad were buzzing with customers. Religious places were also thrown open. The TPR in Telangana was down to 1% as 1,197 new cases and nine deaths were reported on Monday. Andhra Pradesh reported 44 deaths and 2,620 new infections on Monday. While relaxation hours of 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. came into force on Monday, parts of Chittoor were under complete lockdown or following 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. schedule. Visitors thronged the waterfalls at Kailasanatha Kona in Narayanavanam mandal on the Puttur-Chennai national highway. Tourists from Tamil Nadu arrived at the spot in private vehicles. Kerala reported 7,499 new cases on Monday. The TPR was 9.63%. Tamil Nadu continued to record a slow and steady decline in fresh COVID-19 cases. On Monday, the State registered 7,427 COVID-19 cases and 189 deaths, taking the case tally to 24,29,924 and toll to 31,386. Coimbatore, Erode, Salem, Tiruppur, Chennai, Thanjavur, Namakkal and Chengalpattu continued to account for more than 300 fresh cases a day. A day after its daily caseload dropped below 1,000, Coimbatore reported 891 fresh cases followed by Erode with 795 cases. In Chennai, the daily count saw a small dip as 439 persons tested positive. There were 388 cases in Thanjavur, 314 in Namakkal and 310 in Chengalpattu. The fresh cases dipped to below 100 in 12 districts, with Perambalur having the least number of cases at 37. Chennai’s active caseload stood at 1,343. Of the 189 fatalities, Chennai recorded 25 deaths followed by Coimbatore with 23 deaths. There were 16 deaths in Vellore and 12 in Tiruchi. A total of 151 of them had co-morbidities. This included a 27-year-old woman from Coimbatore who had diabetes.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/as-barricades-go-shoppers-tourists-hit-the-road/article34897282.ece
22 June 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don’t issue statements on Karnataka CM candidates’||AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka, Randeep Singh Surjewala, on Monday warned Congress leaders in the State against issuing statements on chief ministerial candidates of the party for the 2023 Assembly elections. “I have noted with concern that certain individuals in the Congress have recently become prone to issuing statements about leadership in the State or leadership post Congress government formation. I take this opportunity to forewarn them to avoid such comments completely,” he said in a statement. The central Congress leadership and party MLAs would decide the issue at an appropriate time. All Congress leaders would fight the battle unitedly in people’s interest. “Like ‘Arjuna’ in Mahabharata, this should be our only goal,” Mr. Surjewala said. Major contenders Mr. Surjewala’s statement comes in the wake of a few Congress leaders, including MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan, describing Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah as the future Chief Minister. Such remarks appeared to have created discomfort in the party as there are several contenders for the top post. Last Saturday, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar had asked party leaders to refrain from projecting the chief ministerial face of the party for the 2023 Assembly election. Both Mr. Shivakumar and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah are seen as major contenders for the top post if the party secures a majority in 2023. Mr. Surjewala also accused the ruling BJP of plundering the resources of the State by securing power through the machinations of defections. He alleged that “the buzzwords of Yediyurappa government are corruption and maladministration. “The endangering of people’s lives and criminal mismanagement of the corona pandemic is a witness of this malady.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-issue-statements-on-karnataka-cm-candidates/article34897284.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPs, officials will be trained in Kannada too||After coming under attack for dropping Kannada from the list of languages to be taught to Members of Parliament and officials, the Parliament secretariat has made amends. In a fresh notification issued on June 20, Kannada has been included in the list. The online training is set to begin on June 22. Union Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi took to Twitter on Monday to announce the amendment, and also posted the new order. “We are all proud that Kannada has been included among the Indian languages (for training purposes),” the Minister tweeted. On Sunday, Kannada Development Authority Chairman and noted Kannada film director T.S. Nagabharana and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy were among those who criticised the Parliamentary Research and Training Institute for not considering Kannada among the languages selected for training. 6 foreign languages Initially, Gujarati, Bengali, Marathi, Odiya, Tamil and Telugu were selected from among Indian languages. Training is also being imparted in French, Spanish, German, Japanese, Russian and Portuguese.  We are all proud that Kannada has been included (for training purposes) Pralhad Joshi Union Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mps-officials-will-be-trained-in-kannada-too/article34897285.ece
22 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Business hour till 2 p.m. to stay in many parts of Chittoor district||Even as the revised relaxation hours of 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. during the partial curfew imposed to check the spread of coronavirus came into force in the State on Monday, several parts of Chittoor district are still under complete lockdown or following the business hour schedule of 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. This tail-end areas flanked by Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had recorded more than 900 infections per day till June 20. However, the single-day tally fell to below 600 on Monday for the first time since May, with 80% of the cases from the rural areas. Complete lockdown Complete lockdown continues in Doddipalle and Anupalle localities of Chittoor Municipal Corporation, while the relaxation hours remain till afternoon in several divisions. Varadaiahpalem mandal, bordering with Tamil Nadu, saw curfew from 2 p.m. on Monday. In view of the high positive cases in rural areas, the authorities are contemplating limiting the relaxation hours till afternoon for the next one week. However, officials heaved a sigh of relief as only 100 cases were reported in the urban belt comprising the municipal corporations of Chittoor and Tirupati. The Punganur municipality recorded zero infections for the third consecutive day on Monday. The Palamaner municipality, after witnessing a decline in the infection count last week, saw the numbers going up again. The effect of extension of the relaxation hours was seen at the picnic spots on Monday. A large number of visitors thronged the waterfalls at Kailasanatha Kona in Narayanavanam mandal on the Puttur- Chennai national highway. Tourists from several parts of Chennai and Tamil Nadu arrived at the spot in private buses and other vehicles. Ensuring COVID-19 protocols became difficult as the crowd surged and the waterfalls zone was manned by only one employee. The waterfalls at Ubbalamadugu in Varadaiahpalem and Bhupateswara Kona in Nagalapuram mandals also saw a heavy footfall of visitors from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/business-hour-till-2-pm-to-stay-in-many-parts-of-chittoor-district/article34897324.ece
22 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for selling Black Fungus drugs in grey market||Three persons selling drugs used in treatment of Black Fungus in the grey market were apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (central zone) team on Monday. The police seized 30 vials of Amphotericin B Injections Fungilip and six vials of Posaconazole from the possession of Konduru Kranti Kumar (37) of Medix Pharmacy, Kukatpally, Nangunuri Venkat Dinesh (28) of Shankari Pharmacy, Kukatpally and Shikakolla Srinivas (51) of Balaji Medicine World, Allwyn Colony. On Monday, the team of sleuths laid a trap and nabbed the accused at Ramgopalpet who were selling each vial for Rs. 35,000 to Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-selling-black-fungus-drugs-in-grey-market/article34897543.ece
22 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||African man arrested, 3 kg heroin seized||An African man was detained and 3 kg of heroin worth Rs. 19.5 crore was seized by officials of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) on Monday. The Tanzanian passenger had flown to RGIA from Johannesburg via Doha. The heroin was found concealed in the base of his trolley bag. The man was arrested under provisions of NDPS Act 1985.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/african-man-arrested-3-kg-heroin-seized/article34897289.ece
22 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to install Tipu Sultan’s statue unconstitutional: BJP||Dubbing the move to install a statue of Tipu Sultan in Proddatur as ‘unconstitutional’, the BJP has accused YSRCP MLA Rachamallu Sivaprasad Reddy of resorting to appeasement politics to cover up for the ‘State government’s failure’ on many fronts. BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Tuesday submitted representations the district Collector and the Superintendent of Police on Tuesday, seeking their intervention to stop the move what he called an attempt to install a statue illegally. He accused the MLA of unilaterally going ahead with the plan, claiming that it had not been approved by the district statues committee headed by the Collector. “It is a constitutional requirement to get an approval from the committee, but Kadapa seems to be an exception,” said Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should not to stir up a hornet’s nest for the sake of a few minority votes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-install-tipu-sultans-statue-unconstitutional-bjp/article34897707.ece
22 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders smugglers held, 57 logs seized||Kadapa police on Monday cracked down on two gangs of red sanders smugglers and arrested thirteen persons in two separate incidents. Veeraballi Sub-Inspector Mohammed Rafi and forest staff arrested eight smugglers near Madhavandlapalli and seized 40 logs along with a ten-wheeler truck from their possession. In the second incident, acting on a tip-off, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Mydukur) N. Vijaykumar deputed a team to comb Porumamilla mandal from where 17 logs were seized. The police arrested five persons. The combined value of the booty seized in the two operations is valued at nearly Rs. 2 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-smugglers-held-57-logs-seized/article34897325.ece
22 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari, Vizag boat operators clash over fish landing facility||Fisheries Department officials from East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts have decided to conduct joint talks by the end of June, in a bid to resolve a long-pending tussle between mechanised boat operators of the two coastal districts over the fish landing facility at Visakhapatnam harbour. Kakinada-based mechanised boat operators met East Godavari Joint Director (Fisheries) P.V. Satyanarayana here on Monday, seeking the State government’s intervention to allow them to use the fish landing facility at Visakhapatnam harbour for landing of their boats and marketing their tuna catch. Over the past few years, the boat operators in Visakhapatnam have allegedly been restricting the East Godavari mechanised boats to land at the Visakhapatnam harbour, forcing the latter to return to their hometown of Kakinada for fish landing and marketing. In a representation submitted to the Joint Director, a group of mechanised boat operators led by Tummala Kondala Rao, Tummala Ramesh and E. Ramu stated that barely 10% of the boats engaged in tuna fishing prefer to land at the Visakhapatnam harbour. In East Godavari, nearly 450 boats are engaged in tuna fishing by venturing into the deep sea in the region stretching from Odisha to Tamil Nadu coasts. The East Godavari fishermen say that they would prefer to land at the Visakhapatnam harbour as the fish would no longer remain fresh after 10 days of fishing, particularly when they return from the Odisha coast. An estimated Rs. 1 lakh is spent on fuel and commodities during the 10-day fishing voyage, they said.  ‘Joint talks’ “I have discussed the issue with my counterpart in Visakhapatnam. It has been decided to conduct joint talks by June-end by inviting boat operators from the two districts and arrive at a permanent solution,” Mr. Satyanarayana told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/godavari-vizag-boat-operators-clash-over-fish-landing-facility/article34897719.ece
22 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppn. parties seek aid for pvt. staff, workers||The representatives of the TDP, Congress and CPI led by former Home Minister Nimmakayala Chinarajappa on Monday demanded that the State government provide an aid of Rs. 10,000 each to the families of persons working in private schools in the building construction sector. They also demanded that the benefit should also be extended to all those falling in the non-taxpaying slab to compensate for the loss of livelihood during the lockdown in the COVID-19 second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppn-parties-seek-aid-for-pvt-staff-workers/article34897717.ece
22 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy seed seized||East Godavari Joint Collector (Revenue) G. Lakshmisha on Monday seized paddy seed worth Rs. 42,000 that was stored at an unauthorised godown in Pithapuram of the district. The raid was conducted on VVS Fertilizers. The shop owner was found to be storing the paddy seed in a godown that was not authorised to do so. “ A case under Section 6A of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 has been registered for further investigation. A show-cause notice will also be served on the seed dealer,” said Mr. Lakshmisha. Revenue and Agriculture officials led by Mr. Lakshmisha on Monday raided various fertilizer and pesticide shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-seed-seized/article34897721.ece
22 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No change in curfew timings in E. Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Monday said that there would be no change in the partial lockdown timings in the district. The curfew relaxation will be between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. till June 30. In an official release, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said that the decision had been taken in view of the high COVID-19 cases spread across the district. The government offices would function between 8.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. until further orders, he said. Curfew has been relaxed till 6 p.m. in other parts of the State from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-change-in-curfew-timings-in-e-godavari/article34897720.ece
22 June 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Worker seizes cot over bill default, sacked||A video showing a multipurpose worker of Pocharam Gram Panchayat in Kusumanchi mandal forcibly taking away the traditional cot of a woman citing alleged non-payment of water bill went viral on social media, prompting the Gram Panchayat to remove him from service. A specially convened meeting of the Gram Panchayat chaired by the Sarpanch on Monday passed a resolution terminating the services of multipurpose worker Pulla Rao, sources said. After threadbare discussion, the meeting found lapses on the part of the multipurpose worker, who allegedly behaved in a highhanded manner with the woman refusing to hear the latter’s contention that she had already cleared the pending water bill. The multipurpose worker forcibly took away the traditional cot from the house of the woman, without heeding to her pleas, on a two-wheeler in Pocharam village on Sunday. The incident came to light after some local youth filmed the incident on their mobile phones and posted the video clip on various WhatsApp groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/worker-seizes-cot-over-bill-default-sacked/article34897295.ece
22 June 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds death of 5 in Kozhikode road accident||Five Palakkad natives who were on their way back home from the Kozhikode international airport were killed in an early morning road accident at Pulinchodu, near Ramanattukara, in Kozhikode district on Monday. The incident happened as a cement-laden truck collided with the car around 5 a.m. The Ramanattukara police identified the deceased as Mohammed Zaheer, 26, V. Nasar, 28, Thahir Shah, 23, Assainar and Subair, all residents of Cherpulassery village, who had come to the airport to see off their friend. An investigation is under way into the suspicious circumstances which led to the road accident. The Feroke police have impounded a multi-purpose vehicle which reportedly escorted the car before it met with the accident. Six interrogated Six persons who travelled by the MPV registered under the Ottappalam sub-regional transport office were interrogated by the police following their contradictory statements about the incident. A search is on, with the help of closed circuit television camera visuals, for a second vehicle. According to the police, there is no clarity yet on the travel details of the five accident victims. “Their journey to Kozhikode, instead of Palakkad, kindled some suspicion,” they said.  Truck driver’s statement The statement of the truck driver, who escaped with minor injuries, also prompted the police to probe the cause of the accident in detail. According to the driver’s statement, the car was moving erratically, violating the speed limit, as if chased by another vehicle. Also, the five were reportedly in an inebriated state. In the preliminary investigation, it was found that some of the victims were reportedly involved in local criminal cases in Palakkad district. The police probe would mainly check whether there was any criminal intention behind the journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mystery-shrouds-death-of-5-in-kozhikode-road-accident/article34897287.ece
22 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. logs 328 fresh cases, 4 deaths||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh recorded more than 300 fresh COVID-19 cases, lowest in a while, in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Monday while more than 600 persons were declared recovered during the period bringing down the number of active cases to a little over 9,100, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Four more patients-- three in Prakasam district and one in SPSR Nellore district-- succumbed to the disease during the period. With this, the toll rose to 1,784 in the region. Prakasam district accounted for 895 deaths and SPSR Nellore district for 889 deaths. The cumulative tally marginally rose to over 2.43 lakh with 201 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 127 in Prakasam district testing positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. Recovery rate improving At least 416 patients in Prakasam district and 201 patients in SPSR Nellore district recovered, improving the recovery rate to 95.52%. Over 2.32 lakh persons have won the battle against the disease so far in the two districts. Meanwhile, SPSR Nellore Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu said the credit should be given to the healthcare workers who provided the best treatment to the patients helping them in recovering from the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-logs-328-fresh-cases-4-deaths/article34897326.ece
22 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provide succour to COVID-hit: TDP tells CM||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Monday in protest against the YSR Congress Party government’s alleged indifferent attitude to the plight of COVID-hit people in the State. The activists, led by former Ongole MLA D.Janardhan Rao, said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had failed to come to the rescue of the patients who were fleeced by hospitals. The alleged shortage of oxygen and medicines had led to a large number of deaths, said TDP Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N. Balaji before submitting a memorandum to District Collector Praveen Kumar. Journalists were the worst-affected and they should be treated as frontline warriors and provided an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-succour-to-covid-hit-tdp-tells-cm/article34897330.ece
22 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surveillance stepped up to curb crimes against women||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal led the personnel in patrolling the streets in Ongole and its suburbs on Monday to ensure the safety and security of women. The SP went round the city on a motorcycle along with police personnel focussing on areas where crimes against women had occurred in the past. Surveillance was stepped up in areas which were prone to such incidents. He gave inputs to police personnel at the grassroots level on how to take deterrent steps to prevent illegal and anti-social activities. He underscored the need for popularising the Disha app among women as it would go a long way in curbing incidents of gender crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surveillance-stepped-up-to-curb-crimes-against-women/article34897328.ece
22 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||German song by Malayali sisters gets pat||Aanya Mohan and her sister Arunitha Mohan from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala hardly knew even a word of German till a few months ago. Now, 16-year-old Aanya has composed a song in the language, which Arunitha has rendered with a diction comparable to that of a native German speaker. The song, Widmung , was recently premiered by the Goethe-Zentrum Trivandrum on YouTube, garnering praise from quite a few Germans. It all began with Syed Ibrahim, Honorary Consul of the Federal Republic of Germany for Kerala and head of Goethe-Zentrum Trivandrum, penning the number during the COVID-19 lockdown. With the Zentrum’s primary objective of promoting intercultural relations between Germany and Kerala in kind, he went looking for young artistes who could compose the song. That was when he came across Aanya and Arunitha, who had already uploaded a few of their works online under the band name ‘Pinky Panther’. “Though he asked us to make a song out of this, we did not have any idea of the German language or its pronunciation. He translated each of the lines and conveyed what he meant by the track, based on which I composed the tune. It is a song on universal love. My sister who is currently pursuing her M.A. in Veena from the Swathi Thirunal Music College here and I have earlier done a few songs together,” says Aanya, a Plus One student at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan.  To mark World Music Day, the German Ambassador shared the song on his Twitter handle on Monday with the comment: “a nice Berlin summer song to mark this music day”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/german-song-by-malayali-sisters-gets-pat/article34897293.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inactivity in Karnataka’s mango market rattles Chittoor growers||A major fruit processing hub in Karnataka, considered the largest of its kind in Asia, has fallen silent this year thanks to the COVID-19 lockdown. Mango growers in Chittoor district are now worried that they might incur steep losses. The Srinivaspur mango market, considered the mango capital of Karnataka, handles close to two lakh tonnes of produce every season. Over 60 varieties of the fruit are also distributed from here to several parts of the country. Mango growers from Punganur, Ramasamudram, Piler, Somala, and Chowdepalle mandals send their produce every year to this market as there are no fruit pulp/juice processing units in north-western Chittoor district. However, the lockdown imposed in the neighbouring State to curb COVID-19 has had a drastic impact on the sector, with goods carriers staying off the roads. Many farmers also decided against harvesting the ripe fruit in view of the low prices. The price of Totapuri mangoes in mandis is Rs. 7 a kg, but when delivered to factories, farmers get Rs. 9 a kg. In fact, this is Rs. 1 less than the price prevailing two weeks ago. “Compared to the mandis, the factories are offering a much better price for the load delivered at our gate,” said P. Somasekhar, Senior Officer (Purchases) at Galla Foods, having a base in Puthalapattu mandal. With Collector M. Hari Narayanan already advising farmers to adopt a wait-and-watch policy and not resort to panic selling, the farmers were keeping their fingers crossed for the latest Unlock guidelines coming into force from Monday. There is palpable desperation among orchard owners as the ripe fruits are starting to wither. The only silver lining is the projection of industry experts, who expect the situation to improve in four to five days with the resumption of inter-State transportation, which may send the price of mangoes northward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inactivity-in-karnatakas-mango-market-rattles-chittoor-growers/article34897706.ece
22 June 2021||TIRUPATI/ONGOLE/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga Day celebrated with enthusiasm and fanfare||Marking International Yoga Day on Monday, many enthusiastic practitioners performed yoga in open places across Ongole to keep themselves healthy. As many health experts have emphasised the importance of yoga in maintaining one’s physical as well as mental fitness, more and more people have expressed interest in it. It is essential in these times when many are beset by emotional distress and anxiety. Led by Yoga guru, G. Balasubramanium, people in the city did stretching and breathing exercises, including Surya Namaskar. A large number of youth participated in the sessions at the sprawling grounds near the Rambabu Hospital, while many women performed the stretching exercises at the Hatha Yoga Kendra here. A virtual session was also organised on the occasion. In Tirupati, city mayor R. Sireesha and MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha led the event at the corporation’s amphitheatre and performed Asanas and Pranayama. Dr. Sireesha, a gynaecologist by profession, explained how performing yoga could cure long term ailments, restore respiratory health and act as a protective shield against COVID-19. Mr. Gireesha hailed yoga as the brain child of India. At National Sanskrit University, Vice-Chancellor V. Muralidhara Sharma and Registrar Commander Challa Venkateswara led the event after garlanding the statue of sage Patanjali, the founder of yoga philosophy. Dr. Sharma said the university is committed to preserving and spreading the knowledge of ancient Indian tradition imbibed in Sanskrit scriptures and propagating the moral values. The varsity has organised 27 online programmes to spread the traditional knowledge preserved in ancient texts, he added. A webinar series on ‘Yoga and well-being during COVID pandemic’ was also organised on the occasion, in which medical experts, spiritual leaders and orators shared the dais. At Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, students of its Sri Venkateswara Vidyalaya campus performed the Asanas. Principal S. Indira called yoga as a state of maintaining physical, mental and spiritual balance. Meanwhile, COVID-19 Taskforce convener S. Muni Subramanyam felicitated prominent yoga gurus like Thanga Raj, Kailash Singh Rajpurohit, Prabhakar Setty, Siva Kumar, Uma Devi with shawls, mementoes and sanitisers. Kadapa At Yogi Vemana University, the day was observed at the botanical garden, where the Vice-Chancellor Surya Kalavathi explained how yoga helps keep the body fit and the mind calm. In Anantapur, the Central University of Andhra Pradesh organised a yoga demonstration on the day as part of the ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ celebrations on the university campus here. Many students participated virtually. Vice-Chancellor S.A. Kori has called upon everyone to practice yoga for body-mind coordination and maintaining stable mental and physical health. Sri Krishnadevaraya University and Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing also organised programmes marking the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-day-celebrated-with-enthusiasm-and-fanfare/article34897332.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||20-25 lakh vaccine doses can be administered in a day, says CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials concerned to prepare for another mega vaccination drive in the State as and when sufficient doses are available. Officials told Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that the State had the capacity and mechanism to administer 20-25 lakh vaccines in a single day. Mr. Jagan held a review meeting on COVID-19 response, vaccination and Nadu-Nedu works in the Health Department on Monday. He said that the State had an effective mechanism to carry out vaccination on a large scale and the mega drive in which over 13.7 lakh doses were administered in a day proved it. He congratulated all the personnel, including ASHA workers, ANMs and the staff in village/ward secretariats and PHCs in this regard. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials to expedite the construction of new medical colleges and complete them on a war-footing. He was told that the test positivity rate had come down in the State, except in East Godavari district. 212 die of black fungus Officials said 2,655 ICU beds and 13,824 oxygen beds were available as of Sunday and 91.48% beds occupied were under Aarogyasri scheme. The State registered 2,772 black fungus cases so far and 1,232 of them had been discharged post treatment. As many as 922 patients underwent surgeries and 212 died while the remaining were being treated, officials said. Mr. Jagan told the officials to be on alert as the lockdown imposed in neighbouring States was being relaxed. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, DGP D. Goutam Sawang, COVID Command Control Centre Chairman K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhaland others were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-25-lakh-vaccine-doses-can-be-administered-in-a-day-says-cm/article34897701.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assault on girl: suspects picked up by police||Police probing the sexual assault of a girl on the Krishna river bank have picked up some suspects, including some rowdy-sheeters and blade batch gang members, and are questioning them. More than 40 have been rounded up so far. The girl who came with her boyfriend to the Pushkarghat at Seetanagaram was sexually assaulted on Saturday night. The accused attacked the couple, tied the hands and legs of the boy and assaulted the girl. Later, they fled into the dark. The Tadepalli police registered a case. The Guntur Urban District police and the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate personnel who are investigating the case took into custody some blade batch members and rowdy-sheeters, who are active in the locality. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita, Women and Child Welfare Minister Taneti Vanitha and A.P. Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma called on the victim at Guntur Government General Hospital on Monday and enquired with the doctors about her health condition. Ms. Sucharita said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has announced Rs. 5 lakh financial assistance to the girl. Ms. Vanitha handed over Rs. 50,000 from the Women Development and Child Welfare Department to the victim. The Women’s Commission Chairperson said the health condition of the girl was stable and she was recovering. Special teams DGP D. Gautam Sawang said that special teams had been constituted to nab the accused in the case. Steps were being taken to prevent recurrence of such incidents. He asked Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu and Guntur Urban District SP Arif Hafeez to speed up the probe. “We have some definite clues. We request all women and students to download the Disha App and take precautionary measures to prevent such incidents,” Mr. Sawang said. Meanwhile, leaders of various women’s organisations expressed concern over the poor vigil on the river bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assault-on-girl-suspects-picked-up-by-police/article34897697.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 44 COVID deaths, 2,620 infections in 24 hours||The State reported 44 deaths due to COVID-19 and 2,620 new infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. The daily tally was the lowest in two and a half months but it was due to fewer samples tested in the past day. Only 55,002 samples, the lowest daily test count in two months, were tested with a positivity rate of 4.75%, which was also the lowest in two and a half months. For the past five days, more than one lakh samples were tested daily and their positivity rate was between 5.4% and 6.5%. The overall positivity rate of 2.12 crore samples tested was 8.74%. High recovery rate The toll increased to 12,363 and the cumulative tally reached 18,53,183. The recovery rate crossed 96% for the first time in two and a half months as the total recoveries increased to 17,82,680, including 7,504 recoveries in the past day. There were 58,140 active cases in the State. Chittoor reported 10 deaths while other districts reported five or less. Guntur and Srikakulam reported five deaths each, East Godavari four, Anantapur, Kurnool, Prakasam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari three each, Krishna two and Kadapa, Nellore and Vizianagaram one each. Chittoor also reported the highest daily tally of 531 infections. It was followed by East Godavari (335), Krishna (213), West Godavari (211), Nellore (201), Kurnool (162), Kadapa (162), Visakhapatnam (160), Guntur (158), Srikakulam (144), Anantapur (128), Prakasam (127) and Vizianagaram (88). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,55,686), Chittoor (2,14,719), Guntur (1,59,820), West Godavari (1,56,887), Anantapur (1,52,161), Visakhapatnam (1,47,015), Nellore (1,25,360), Kurnool (1,20,981), Prakasam (1,18,246), Srikakulam (1,16,951), Kadapa (1,04,444), Krishna (98,697) and Vizianagaram (79,321).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-44-covid-deaths-2620-infections-in-24-hours/article34897704.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will unveil new IT policy very soon, says Minister||Industries and Information Technology Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy said that the new IT policy would be unveiled soon after detailed discussions with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on June 24. Speaking to reporters after taking stock of the modalities of the policy at a high-level meeting here on Monday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the government is focussing on attracting companies to set up their units in the State by rolling out a slew of incentives. The Minister further said that the IT sector in the State, despite having immense potential for employment generation, had remained largely untapped for various reasons. Serious thought is being given to overcome this, he said. “The aim of the new IT policy is to take the sectoral growth rate from the present 0.3% to 5%,” he said. Principal Secretary (IT & Electronics) G. Jayalakshmi, Special Secretary B. Sundar and Andhra Pradesh Technology Services Managing Director Nanda Kishore and others took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-unveil-new-it-policy-very-soon-says-minister/article34897714.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vamsadhara tribunal allows A.P. to build Neradi barrage||The Vamsadhara Water Dispute Tribunal (VWDT) permitted Andhra Pradesh to construct the Neradi barrage across the Vamsadhara with ancillary structures, subject to certain conditions. The tribunal on Monday said that the barrage can have a right head sluice of 8,000 cusecs of design capacity for meeting the requirements of A.P. and have a Left Head Sluice (LHS) to cater to the requirements of Odisha below the Neradi barrage. The cost of LHS is to be borne by Odisha. Further, the VWDT declared that the yield of the Vamsadhara at Gotta Barrage, which is 115 tmc ft, should be equally shared by both the States, and since the inter-State agreement envisaged sharing of water on a 50:50 basis, the same principle is to be followed in a year of distress. When there is shortage of water in a particular year, the sharing of water should be proportionately reduced. When there is an increase in water availability, it is to be increased proportionately. The distress sharing formula for the river basin is to be applicable for total utilisation by each State. The tribunal permitted A.P. to draw the water from Neradi barrage during the first crop period, i.e. from June 1 to November 30 every year. The side weir at Katragadda is to be totally plugged and made completely non-functional immediately after the Neradi barrage is commissioned. The barrage and the proposed side weir must get necessary appraisals/clearances from the Central Water Commission, Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change and Tribal Affairs and other statutory bodies as required. Odisha is to acquire 106 acres needed for the barrage and hand it over to A.P. within a year from the date of publication of the present order. A.P. has been ordered to pay to Odisha all costs including compensation, charges and expenses incurred by it (Odisha) in respect of the acquisition of land as provided in the DPR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vamsadhara-tribunal-allows-ap-to-build-neradi-barrage/article34897715.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Non-COVID services to resume from July 1 at GGH||The Government General Hospital which has been an exclusive COVID-19 treatment facility will resume non-COVID consultations and treatment from July 1. Conducting a review meeting on the services being provided at GGH in the city, Collector J. Nivas said that a digital control room has been set up to monitor all the medical services being provided at GGH in real-time. “Specialist doctors and duty doctors will be part of the control room and all details related to the diagnosis centre will be displayed on a screen in the control room. All other information related to facilities and treatment being provided to patients will be available,” he said. “The control room will streamline hospital management and also ensure that every patient is given proper care,” he added. 216 mucormycosis patients at GGH There are 216 mucormycosis (black fungus) and 350 COVID patients undergoing treatment at GGH, the Collector said, adding that two operation theatres were dedicated to performing surgeries on black fungus patients. Mr. Nivas asked officials to arrange one more operation theatre for the same. He also asked officials to resume consultation and treatment of non-COVID cases from July 1 in a separate block as the burden on the hospital due to COVID has come down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/non-covid-services-to-resume-from-july-1-at-ggh/article34897321.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Novel protest against property tax hike||The Andhra Pradesh Urban Citizens’ Federation (APUCF) and the Tax Payers Association (TPA) members staged a novel protest against the hike in property taxes in the State. They painted slogans on BRTS road here opposing the government’s move to levy the taxes based on annual property value. Federation State convener Ch. Babu Rao said that the government was burdening people with heavy property taxes and levying user charges at a time when they were in a financial crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The government was not focussing on improving the living conditions of the pandemic-hit people. Many people had lost their lives and many others who had recovered from the virus were unable to go to work for three months. Mr. Babu Rao said that the tax hike would be 0.15% on value of the residential properties, 0.3% on non-residential and commercial buildings, and 0.5% on vacant lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/novel-protest-against-property-tax-hike/article34897333.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada team chosen for Toycathon||A Vijayawada-based team has been selected for the Toycathon- 2021, a national level competition being jointly organised by various Central government departments. Prakhya Satyanarayana Sarma, a mathematics teacher from Vijayawada is the team leader, while D.S.N. Sastry (Machilipatnam) and T.S.V.S. Suryanarayana Murthy, who did avadhanam in Mathematics (Amalapuram) are mentors. The team has developed a theme titled ‘algebajic’ in the ‘learning, education and schooling’ division. After many rounds, the team has reached the national level. The team will make their presentation in virtual mode from June 22 to 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijayawada-team-chosen-for-toycathon/article34897334.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP moves NHRC over ‘atrocities’ against Dalit||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Monday wrote a letter to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), appealing the latter to send a team to Andhra Pradesh for a comprehensive inquiry into the alleged atrocities meted out to Karakata Mallikarjun, a Dalit youth from Nellore district. TDP national general secretary and politburo member Varla Ramaiah, in the letter, described Mr. Mallikarjun as the victim of ‘hooligan politics of the YSRCP’ and ‘violence by police’. He said that Mr. Mallikarjun was beaten up by goons at the instance of some YSRCP leaders. On the same day, he was arrested by the Kodavalur police and a false case was registered against him and a rowdy sheet opened. Mr. Mallikarjun was released after people protested the high-handedness by the police, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-moves-nhrc-over-atrocities-against-dalit/article34897710.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to credit Rs. 4,339 cr. to 23 lakh women today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will credit Rs. 4,339.39 crore into the accounts of 23,14,342 women beneficiaries of the YSR Cheyutha scheme on Tuesday. The primary objective of YSR Cheyutha is to help women contribute to economic progress by giving them assistance in marketing and technical aspects of their businesses. Under the scheme, women from BC, SC, ST and minorities aged between 45 and 60 years will be directly paid a total amount of Rs. 75,000 in four years at the rate of Rs. 18,750 per annum, which costs the government Rs. 19,000 crore. On YSR Cheyutha scheme alone, the State government had spent Rs. 8,943.52 crore in the last two years. The government has already signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) with reputed companies like Amul, ITC, HUL, P&G and Reliance and banks to support women entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-credit-rs-4339-cr-to-23-lakh-women-today/article34897712.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abandoned baby rescued, critical||Unidentified persons abandoned a female infant at an isolated place at Vagu Centre in Two Town area in Vijayawada on Monday. On receiving information about the baby, officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare Department rushed to the spot and rescued her. They admitted the infant in the Government General Hospital(GGH) in the city as it suffered injuries on head and other parts. The condition of the baby was stated to be critical, said District Child Protection Officer Ch. Vijay Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abandoned-baby-rescued-critical/article34897320.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor releases postal cover on Yoga Day||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan released a postal cover brought out by the India Post on Monday, marking the International Yoga Day at the Raj Bhavan on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Harichandan said yoga has a history of about 5,000 years in India and described it as a physical, mental and spiritual pursuit to achieve harmony of the body and mind. “The theme of the International Yoga Day this year —yoga for wellbeing— is relevant in the present times as the entire world is enduring the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. People should remain indoors and practise yoga regularly as it helps maintain good health,” said the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-releases-postal-cover-on-yoga-day/article34897699.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM pats staff on record jabs||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday thanked all the personnel involved in the vaccination drive through which a record 13.72 lakh vaccine doses were administered in a single day in the State on Sunday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy took to Twitter and wrote, “In our ongoing fight against COVID-19, AP has set an example by administering 13,72,481 vaccine doses in a single day. Credit goes to the team effort by the Village/Ward Secretariats, Volunteers, ANMs, ASHA workers, PHC doctors, Mandal Officers, Joint Collectors and Collectors.” He said, “With your efforts, we have proven to the entire country what we can do if we are provided with sufficient number of vaccines.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-pats-staff-on-record-jabs/article34897702.ece
22 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Report says Anandaiah’s eye drops harmful: govt.||The government informed a Division Bench of the High Court comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N. Jayasurya on Monday that B. Anandaiah’s eye drops, touted to be an effective remedy for dangerously low levels of oxygen in COVID-19 patients, contain some harmful substances as per laboratory reports. The Government Pleader informed the court that the eye drops were tested by five laboratories and one of them indicated harm to the eyes, and further analysis might be required to consider giving permission for their usage by the public. The court asked the reports to be submitted to it and posted the matter to July 1. The court earlier gave its nod for distribution of P, L, F and K formulations of Mr. Anandaiah but sought evidence for the claims of safety and efficacy of the eye drops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/report-says-anandaiahs-eye-drops-harmful-govt/article34897711.ece
22 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIT yet to submit final report on Visakhapatnam ‘land scams’||The State government is still to give the final nod to the SIT (special investigation team), which was constituted to probe into the alleged land scams in Visakhapatnam, to submit its report. It is learnt that the report is ready for submission, but the authorities concerned are yet to give the SIT the permission to table it. Sources say that the report was readied in December 2020. The three-member SIT comprising two former IAS officers, Vijay Kumar and Y.V. Anuradha, and a retired district and sessions judge T. Bhaskara Rao, began the work in October 2019. Initially, it was said that the report would be tabled and made public within three months and the interim report was submitted in February, but so far the government had not given the clearance for submission of the final report, alleged CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao. After submitting the interim report to the government in February 2020, the SIT had asked for extension of three months for completion of the probe and it was granted. But since March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic had brought its probe to a standstill. But from October 2020, it once again started to operate and it is learnt that by December, the investigation was completed and the report prepared. The SIT primarily probed into six categories of acts such as change of classification, tampering of records, encroachment of government land, grabbing of government land, allotment of government land to private individuals and organisations and NoC issued to political sufferers and freedom fighters. Of the total of about 1,400 representations received, SIT had cleared around 400 with its recommendations and observations. The other files had been sent to the authorities concerned in the Revenue Department for their clarifications and observation, it is learnt. Many officials named? It is also learnt that SIT has named 25 to 30 prominent persons, including a few serving bureaucrats and senior government officials, former bureaucrats and former senior officials and a few persons of repute in the city, who have been involved in the alleged land scams. Many in the city who had filed complaints are now questioning the constitution and the intent of the SIT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sit-yet-to-submit-final-report-on-visakhapatnam-land-scams/article34897336.ece
22 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four persons arrested for ‘online rummy fraud’||The city police on Monday arrested four persons on charge of indulging in online rummy fraud. The arrested have been identified as Kare Tata Rao, Koviri Jagannadham and Yejjala Bandayya, all three from Rambilli mandal, and Vakada Janakiram from Pedagantyada. Deputy Commissioner of Police Aishwarya Rastogi said that Tata Rao, the main accused, owned a cellphone retail shop and he along with the others had been registering SIM cards in the name of others by using their Know Your Customer (KYC) details. Mr. Rastogi said that Tata Rao normally targeted people from below poverty line and by paying Rs. 200 to Rs. 300, he was acquiring their KYC details. Once the SIM was registered, Tata Rao would sell them to people who play rummy at around Rs. 3,000, Mr. Rastogi said. As playing rummy is banned in the State he would use a GPS masking app to show that the player was from another State, said Mr. Rastogi. Tata Rao along with the other accused would also play rummy and according to his confession, all the four accused would join a table of six and would sit together by masking their GPS location and defraud others by sharing their cards. By doing so, the accused would make money to the tune of Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 45,000 per month, the DCP said. Since Tata Rao was a retailer, he had access to Mitra App and using that he would create Airtel Payments bank account with the new SIM cards to receive payments from various online rummy sites such as Rummy Culture and Rummy Circle, said the DCP. Since PAN card is necessary for withdrawing money from online rummy sites, he collected the cards from selected customers and obtained new cards who did not have one. He would apply on their behalf by giving his and his associates email IDs, said the DCP. The police seized about 25 to 30 SIM cards from Tata Rao and said that he had been in this business for the last two months. Further investigation is on. Mr. Rastogi cautioned people from giving their KYC details to anyone and alert the police if they suspect something was wrong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-persons-arrested-for-online-rummy-fraud/article34897729.ece
22 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uber partners with AMTZ to rent oxygen concentrators||In a bid to meet the increasing demand for oxygen, Uber on Monday announced a partnership with Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone Limited (AMTZ), Visakhapatnam, for providing an on-demand rental delivery service of oxygen concentrators, across 12 cities. COVID patients in home isolation will be able to rent oxygen concentrators through the O2Home app at Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 per day. Uber’s free mobility support will enable convenient, swift and safe doorstep delivery of these concentrators to help in saving lives, according to a statement issued by the company. The service is operational across 12 Indian cities, including Visakhapatnam, Lucknow, Hyderabad, Indore, Coimbatore, Guwahati, Nagpur, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Pune, Jaipur and Raipur. The partnership will help in bringing this service to more cities through Uber’s extensive mobility network spanning over 90 cities. Earning opportunities These free rides deployed to AMTZ will also help boost earning opportunities for drivers on Uber’s platform during these challenging times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uber-partners-with-amtz-to-rent-oxygen-concentrators/article34897722.ece
22 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clamour for special status a political drama, says Somu||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju has said it is a matter of pride for the country that people in different parts of the world are participating in the International Yoga Day celebrations. He participated as a chief guest in the celebrations held at the party office at Lawson’s Bay Colony here on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Veerraju appreciated the study made by the Telangana government on the linking of rivers and said that Andhra Pradesh has failed to take up such an initiative. He said that hiking the property tax based on land value would create problems. He described the clamour for Special Category Status(SCS) as a ‘political drama’ and questioned what the State would get with the tag. Party Visakhapatnam Parliamentary district president Raveendra Medapati presided. MLC and BJP State general secretary P.V.N. Madhav, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha State president Surendra Mohan and district in-charge K. Lakshminarayana were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clamour-for-special-status-a-political-drama-says-somu/article34897724.ece
22 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Practising yoga will keep body and mind fit, says DRM||The seventh International Yoga Day was observed by the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway with adherence to the COVID-19 health protocol. Enthusiasts participated in the programme organised at the Rail Garden on Monday morning. Senior Divisional Personnel Officer K.S.N. Raju organised the programme along with yoga guru. Various ‘asanas’ were performed explaining their benefits. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, ADRM (Infra) Akshay Saxena, ECoRWWO president Shalini Shrivastava, vice-president Madhulika Saxena, union representatives and some branch officers performed various ‘asanas’ at the residence of the DRM. The DRM said that the yoga practice would keep the body and mind fit. R. Tulasi Rao, Assistant Professor, Department of Yoga and Consciousness, Andhra University, who participated as a chief guest in the celebrations organised in the university, explained about the causes of illness in the human body and how yoga could help in fighting them. Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) Regional Director S. Raja Rao spoke on the importance of the day in the programme conducted through Google Meet platform. Teachers benefit most when they practise yoga , said Banani Chakraborty, Art of Living International Trainer and Bengaluru Indian Institute of Science DNA Scientist and Nanotechnologist, here on Monday. She participated as chief guest at a programme organised by GITAM Deemed to be University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/practising-yoga-will-keep-body-and-mind-fit-says-drm/article34897725.ece
22 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourist places in Agency areas to reopen today||Tourist places in the Agency areas of the district will be reopened with effect from June 22. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer Gopala Krishna Ronanki said in a statement on Monday that the ‘Giri grama darshini’ at Peda Labudu in Araku mandal, the Tribal Museum at the mandal headquarters, the Padmapuram Gardens, Chaparai waterfall in Dumbriguda mandal, Kothapalli waterfall in G. Madugula mandal and the tourist places at Tajangi and Lambasingi are being reopened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourist-places-in-agency-areas-to-reopen-today/article34897727.ece
22 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New ICG office inaugurated||A state-of-the-art Headquarters Office Complex Building for the Coast Guard Commander, Eastern Seaboard, was inaugurated by Additional Director General V.S. Pathania here on Monday. The headquarters is built to ‘Griha -3’ rating and is fully equipped with fire safety as per NBC norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-icg-office-inaugurated/article34897731.ece
22 June 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ration distributed to Sahayaks||Ration and grocery items were distributed to the Sahayaks (licensed porters) and housekeeping assistants at Visakhapatnam railway station by Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, ADRM (infra) Akshay Saxena, Sr. DEN( East) Prabhakar Rao and Station Director Rajagopal on Monday. Mr. Shrivastava said that the railways would stand by the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ration-distributed-to-sahayaks/article34897726.ece
22 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC celebrates International Yoga Day||International Yoga Day was celebrated by all units under Eastern Naval Command (ENC), and naval personnel, including Defence Security Corps, Defence Civilian Employees and their family members, enthusiastically participated in various activities on Monday. The theme is ‘Yoga For Wellness’. All units under the ENC spread across the Eastern Seaboard from West Bengal to Tamil Nadu participated in the activities. All participants practised ‘asanas’ at their respective residences/units in strict adherence to COVID protocols. The sessions included standing and sitting yoga postures and ‘pranayam’ followed by meditation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-celebrates-international-yoga-day/article34897728.ece
22 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag district sees 3 deaths, 160 new COVID infections||Fresh COVID-19 infections dropped further, with the district recording 160 new cases in the last 24 hours, on Monday morning. With the new cases, the total number of cases has gone up to 1,47,527. The district also recorded three deaths, taking the total toll to 1,010. During the same period, 429 persons affected with COVID were discharged or have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 1,42,874. The number of active cases has also dropped to 3,643.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-district-sees-3-deaths-160-new-covid-infections/article34897730.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extended day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extended-day/article34897733.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Warangal will be health, education and industrial hub: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asserted that the government has taken steps to convert the historic Warangal city into a hub of health and education as well as industrial activities. The city should witness all round development and should become the headquarters for the east Telangana region which could be ensured through development in a planned manner. The Chief Minister announced that Warangal Urban and Rural districts will forthwith be renamed as Hanamkonda and Warangal districts and orders to this effect would be issued in a couple of days. Mr. Rao participated in several events involving laying of foundation stones and inaugurations during his day-long visit to the district on Monday. He inaugurated the newly constructed integrated collectorate complex taken up at a cost of Rs. 57 crore and performed groundbreaking ceremony for the proposed multi-super speciality hospital. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rao wanted the officials concerned to complete construction of the multi-super speciality hospital in one-and-a-half year. Ministers, MLAs and officials should work seriously on ensuring that the construction was completed in a time-bound manner and see that world class infrastructural facilities were created there. Pointing out that Canada had the best medical facilities, he said ministers and officials could plan a visit there for securing information on the manner in which the infrastructure was developed and the same could be replicated here. All the medical facilities should be available under one roof and focus should especially be on creating necessary facilities for putting in place modern facilities for women and child health. Women and child health centres should be set up in all the district headquarters, he said announcing that the government had resolved to sanction a dental college and hospital to the historic city. Airport soon The proposed Mamnoor airport in the city would be operational soon and there was no problem on account of drinking water supply. Steps should accordingly be taken to attract investments into industrial sector and efforts should be made to expand the ongoing IT operations. Appreciating the officials concerned for completing construction of state-of-the-art collectorate complex, the Chief Minister said the new collectorate complexes were aimed at speedy redressal of public grievances giving no scope for any irregularities. He instructed the officials to speedily complete the construction of the collectorate complexes in the remaining districts so that the efforts initiated for taking administration closer to people materialized. Quoting the example of China where a 10-storeyed building was constructed in 28 hours, he stressed the need for utilizing similar technologies here enabling speedy development of infrastructural facilities. In this context, he favoured a change in the nomenclature of district collectors and said the name collector was hitherto used for those collecting land cess. Asserting that the government was firm on developing other cities across the State, he said over dependence on the State Capital could adversely affect the interests of other districts. Palle Pragati dates The Chief Minister announced that the government’s flagship programme Palle Pragati aimed at all round development of villages would start from July 1 and it was decided to conduct Pattana Pragati for urban areas and Harita Haaram, the green initiative, simultaneously. Mr. Rao said that steps would also be taken to construct new buildings for the MGM hospital as the existing ones were dilapidated. He advised the media to spread news about the recoveries and developments with which the disease had been controlled effectively. Visits Yadadri temple Meanwhile, Mr. Rao visited the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple to offer prayers, inspect the lighting arrangements on the redeveloped temple and participate in a review meeting with officials. Along with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and Ministers, Mr. Rao arrived here in the evening after concluding his Warangal tour. Temple architect Ananda Sai and others explained temple lighting concepts to Mr. Rao. Mr. Rao took the road route to Hyderabad at around 10 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/warangal-will-be-health-education-and-industrial-hub-kcr/article34897562.ece
22 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||City regains bustle, cheer for businesses||Hyderabadis are back to relishing their cup of Irani chai at their favourite roadside joints and cafes after lifting of the month-long lockdown. “There is nothing like sipping piping hot chai at a cafe where the clattering of cups is interspersed with the melodious voices of Mohammed Rafi and other yesteryear singers flowing out of a speaker,” said Afzal Ali sipping his tea at 555 Cafe at Masab Tank. City folks stepped out of their homes and caught up with friends at the bustling cafes, restaurants and even roadside bundis, without worrying about curfew. Many were seen trooping to the nearest salon for some much-needed grooming. “We are back to full business after more than a month. Yesterday being a Sunday, my shop was packed with customers till 11.30 p.m.,” said Srinivas, owner of a salon in Mehdipatnam. Most restaurants and food joints were brimming with families and groups of friends, even during breakfast hour, as they were back to offering full items on the menu. “Business is good. Our place has been open for take-away and online orders throughout the lockdown period. We are not going to shut our place even for a single day,” said Praveen, who owns a multi cuisine restaurant in Ameerpet. However, tipplers found it difficult to cheer themselves up as many bars and restaurants in the capital took a little longer to reopen as most of their stock were dated and kitchens needed to be cleaned up. “As the imposition of lockdown was abrupt, our kitchen stocked with groceries, meat and vegetables remain unused. They have become food for cats, rodents and bandicoots. Now we are in the process of cleaning up and it might take a few more days to open fully,” said D. Venkateswara Rao, president, Telangana Wine Dealers’ Association. He said that rodents have also damaged the electric wiring and air conditioner of the property. Other business establishments, including private travels, transport, electrical, clothing, steel industry and wholesale markets at Abids, Begum Bazaar and Secunderabad were seen brimming with customers. All religious places have also been thrown open to people. Meanwhile, police in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the State were breathing a sigh of relief as they no longer have to be on the roads for the entire night and ensure lockdown norms are followed. “The past 30 days were not tough when compared to last year’s lockdown enforcement, but with the fast spread of the virus, the situation was a bit alarming. We were scared and many of us were sleeping at the police stations to avoid going home and transmitting the virus to our family members,” said a station house officer with the Hyderabad city police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-regains-bustle-cheer-for-businesses/article34897542.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||94.9 tonnes of spurious seed seized||Apart from registering criminal cases, taking into custody under the Preventive Detention Act, the State government has also cancelled licences of a few dealers indulging in sale of spurious seed and also for changing the price tag and labels, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy stated here on Monday. The task force teams comprising the police and agriculture department officials against the spurious seed menace have seized about 94.9 tonnes of inferior quality and uncertified seed worth Rs. 6.18 crore and sale of another 2,056.1 tonnes of cotton, chilli and other seed sales were stopped due to various violations so far this season. He explained that a total of 311 criminal cases were registered against those indulging in spurious seed sale and 446 persons were arrested so far. Another three cases were registered under Section 6(A) of the Essential Commodities Act and Preventive Detention Act was invoked against seven habitual/repeat offender for indulging in spurious seed sale repeatedly. Stating that the menace of spurious seed is high mostly in cotton and chilli seed, the Minister said most of the spurious seed traders are based out of Andhra Pradesh (Guntur and Kurnool), Karnataka (Raichur), Maharashtra and Gujarat. Licences of two dealers were cancelled in Khammam for selling chilli seed without approval and licences of two others were cancelled in Adilabad for changing the price labels. Mr. Niranjan Reddy said samples of the seed seized by task force teams and the ones which were not allowed to be sold were being sent to seed testing labs for further examination and for taking up necessary follow-up action. He pointed that the unscrupulous elements were indulging in the sale of spurious seed, fertilizer and pesticides with the help of loopholes in the laws concerned. As a result, the State government had brought the sale of spurious seed, fertilizer and pesticide sale under the PD Act in 2017 and a total of 32 cases were registered under the provisions so far, the Minister said adding that Telangana is the only State in the country invoking the PD Act against the spurious seed sellers/producers. Ht cotton On herbicide tolerant (Ht) cotton seed, which is not approved in the country, the Minister said seed samples were collected at 59 places, wherever the task force teams had suspicion, and after examining/testing the samples, action was initiated against four persons as the samples collected from them had the banned Ht cotton seed. To prevent the entry of spurious seed into market the State government is planning to step up vigil on seed production companies, processing units and dealers from February next year, he said.  State planning to step up vigil on seed production companies, processing units and dealers from February next year. S. Niranjan Reddy, Agriculture Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/949-tonnes-of-spurious-seed-seized/article34897554.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily deaths below 10 for first time in over 2 months||The daily positivity rate of COVID-19 infection in Telangana has come down to 1% as 1,197 new cases were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Monday with a total of 1,19,537 samples being tested. Nine deaths were also reported during the day. For the first time since April 15, the number of daily fatalities fell below 10. The cumulative cases and deaths have reached 6,14,399 and 3,576, respectively, so far. The case fatality rate is 0.58% in the State against 1.3% nationally. Of the positive cases reported on Monday, only GHMC/Hyderabad area had three digit cases (137). Cases in two-digit numbers were reported in 26 other districts with a highest of 84 in Nalgonda while six districts reported below-10 cases with lowest of one in Nirmal. Of the tests conducted, 1,16,341 were done in the government facilities and the remaining 3,196 in private facilities. Reports of 965 samples were awaited. According to a bulletin issued by the public heath department, 1,707 infected persons were declared recovered on Monday taking their total to 5,93,577 so far. The recovery rate in Telangana has improved to 96.61% as against 96.32% at national level. The bulletin put the active cases in the State at 17,246, including 6,256 infected persons undergoing treatment in various hospitals. The remaining 10,990 are in home and institutional isolation. As of Monday evening, based on the active cases in a particular area, there were 190 active micro containment zones with a highest of 41 in Nalgonda district. Meanwhile, another bulletin issued by the department on the status of vaccination stated that 1,06,210 doses were administered to different categories of recipients, including 82,068 doses given to beneficiaries in the 18-44 years age group during the 24-hour period till 9 p.m. on Sunday. A total of 91,73,085 doses of vaccine have been administered to different groups of recipients so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-deaths-below-10-for-first-time-in-over-2-months/article34897536.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB lab issues guidelines for COVID testing in animals||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB)’s Laboratory for the Conservation of Endangered Species (LaCONES), one of the four designated centres for testing animal samples for possible coronavirus infection, has just released guidelines for the frontline zoo personnel on COVID-19 investigation in captive animals. LaCONES started testing animal samples for possible SARS-CoV-2 infection in August last year and scientists found the first positive samples from Asiatic lions in the Nehru Zoological Park in April this year. LaCONES team has tried testing for coronavirus using different kinds of nasal, oropharyngeal, rectal and faecal samples from the animals. COVID symptoms in animals may include a lack of appetite, anorexia, coughing, sneezing, wheezing, nasal discharge, fever and respiratory distress. “We regularly test wildlife samples using DNA-based molecular biology tools to solve wildlife cases and these tests are very similar to the ones being used for coronavirus testing,” informed scientist-in-charge at LaCONES, Karthikeyan Vasudevan on Monday. The guidelines prepared in collaboration with the Central Zoo Authority and the Ministry of Environment, Forestry and Climate Change details what to look out for among animals having the virus, their treatment, diet, collection of samples, post-mortems, disinfection process, transportation of samples, etc. ‘Detailed protocols’ “The guidelines provide detailed protocols with pictorials as well as frequently asked questions for an easier understanding of those collecting samples for COVID testing in wildlife,” said CCMB director Vinay K. Nandicoori. “We hope our recommendations will smoothen the process for zoos and testing centres. Given how difficult it is to get samples from animals, it is all the more important that we make most of the samples we get,” added Dr. Vasudevan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-lab-issues-guidelines-for-covid-testing-in-animals/article34897539.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Yoga Day celebrated with great gusto||As a part of International Day of Yoga-2021, yoga sessions were conducted by government organisations, offices and other establishments across Telangana on Monday. The Department of Post, Telangana Circle, organised a yoga session by an expert at the Dak Kalarang on the premises of Chief Postmaster General, Telangana Circle, Hyderabad, for about an hour. S. Rajendra Kumar, Chief Postmaster General, Telangana Circle, Hyderabad, and Dr. P.V.S. Reddy also attended. A special cover to commemorate the World Yoga Day was released Mr. Rajendra Kumar at Dak Sadan Hyderabad. The special pictorial design of yoga is being used today by 36 head post offices in Telangana Postal Circle, said a release. The country’s largest iron ore producer NMDC organised programmes, as part of the Yoga Day, at its head office here, and at all its production projects and regional offices, a release said. CMD Sumit Deb said yoga and meditation help lead a stress-free healthy and happy life, especially during the pandemic that is testing the physical and mental well-being of people. The company, in association with Namaste India Foundation and Vishwa Yoga Vidyapeeth, organised a practical demonstration of common yoga protocols at the NMDC Building. Participating in a yoga session organised by CII Telangana, Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud highlighted the growing popularity of yoga globally. He also planted saplings on the occasion at the CII Green Business Centre. CII Telangana Chairman Sameer Goel underscored how it is important than before, in view of the pandemic, to have a healthy body and mind. Telangana and Andhra Sub Area (TASA) at Secunderabad Military station celebrated International Day of Yoga. Major General RK Singh, General Officer Commanding, TASA., encouraged all ranks to practice yoga regularly and to make yoga a way of life. The College of Defence Management, Secunderabad, celebrated the day in harmony with the theme of "Yoga for Well Being - Yoga at Home." The faculty and families participated in various yoga-related activities. Army Public Schools - Bolarum, RK Puram and Golconda - celebrated International Yoga Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yoga-day-celebrated-with-great-gusto/article34897559.ece
22 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Owaisi visits OGH, wants new Rs. 1,000-cr hospital in its place||Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday visited the Osmania General Hospital and demanded that the State government build a new hospital in the area on 35,00,000 square feet at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore. “We demand that the Chief Minister sanction a new building. We are not at all concerned about the heritage building. We are concerned about people’s lives. If you want to keep the building, keep it; If you want to demolish it, do so,” said the MP who spoke about its dilapidated condition. The OGH is a Grade-II B notified building under Regulation 13 of Hyderabad Urban Development Authority and enjoys protection under Telangana High Court ruling in the Errum Manzil Case. Citizens and heritage activists reacted with shock at the idea of demolition and replacement of the OGH. “It is part of Telangana’s heritage and identity. Hyderabad is a creation of many dynasties and it is reflected in the skyscape. There can be no trade off on that,” said Anuradha Reddy, convenor of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Hyderabad. Incidentally, a team of INTACH officials, including structural engineers, had inspected the building and suggested remedial measures to conserve the structure. The alumni are also not pleased with demand for a new building in place of the older one. “The hospital is a key to the health of old city. There are leakages only in a some places but the whole building has been shut down and there is zero maintenance. It can be completely functional with minimal effort,” said Iqbal Jaweed, a doctor who had made a representation to the Chief Minister in 2019. Back then, the plan to demolish the building was shelved and a new plan to construct additional towers as an extension along with restoration and conservation of OGH was floated.In 2020, flood water entered OGH after a botched road laying work in the southern part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/owaisi-visits-ogh-wants-new-rs-1000-cr-hospital-in-its-place/article34897547.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Real TS agitators are with BJP now: Sanjay||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar, never known to move out of Pragati Bhavan or his farm house, has been taking up district tours only because the “fear of losing power is looming large” and the very fact that Opposition activists are being arrested indiscriminately beforehand is an indication of it, claimed BJP Telangana party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Monday. “Those with questionable backgrounds are now on either side of the Chief Minister as the real agitators for the formation of Telangana State have come out of the TRS, including Eatala Rajendra. We need selfless leaders like him for the formation of a true democratic TS,” he said, while welcoming the latter into the party. The BJP had played a key role in the formation of TS with its strong support in Parliament, he claimed. He also expressed the confidence that the party would wrest the Huzurabad byelection even if the ruling party uses money power. Party in-charge for TS Tarun Chugh claimed that the forthcoming byelection would be a battle between “Telangana self-respect versus arrogant dictatorial and dynastic rule of KCR” in which the truth would triumph. Earlier in the day, Mr. Rajender and his followers were accorded a grand welcome at the State office with top leaders, including Vivek Venkatswamy, Raja Singh, Premender Reddy and others participating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/real-ts-agitators-are-with-bjp-now-sanjay/article34897550.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MMTS service to get on track from tomorrow||Multi-Modal Transport Service or MMTS, the suburban transport service in the twin cities of Hyderabad-Secunderabad, will resume its service from June 23 (Wednesday) with 10 trains between both Lingampalli-Falaknuma, Secunderabad and Lingampalli-Hyderabad. This will be the first time than an MMTS train will operated in over 15 months. The services were suspended on March 23 last year to prevent the spread of COVID-19. An official SCR release announced the schedule: Falaknuma 7.50 am, Lingampalli 9.07 am, Secunderabad 8.20 am/08.22 am; Lingampalli 9.20 am, Falaknuma 10.42 am, Secunderabad 10.10/10.12 am; Falaknuma 10.55 am, Lingampalli 12.20 pm, Secunderabad 11.30/11.32 am; Lingampalli 12.40 pm Falaknuma 2 pm, Secunderabad 1.25 pm/1.27 pm, Falaknuma 4.20 pm, Lingampalli 5.45 pm, Secunderabad 4.55 pm/16.57 pm; Lingampalli 6.05 pm, Falaknuma 7.32 pm, Secunderabad 6.50 pm /6.52 pm; Lingampalli 8.43 am, Hyderabad 9.28 am; Hyderabad 9.36 am, Lingampalli 10.21 am; Lingampalli 5.15 pm Hyderabad 6.05 pm/ 6.15pm, Lingampalli 7.05pm. Safety norms Rail users have been requested to follow COVID protocols like maintaining social distance, compulsorily wearing masks and frequently sanitise hands, inside the trains and on station premises. The MMTS service was introduced to cater the needs of intra-city and suburban traffic in twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad on August 9, 2003, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mmts-service-to-get-on-track-from-tomorrow/article34897538.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tributes paid to Prof. Jayashankar||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao described Telangana ideologue Prof. K. Jayashankar as an intellectual who always dreamt about self-governance in Telangana and strove for separate Statehood to the region throughout his life. Mr. Rao paid rich tributes to Prof. Jayashankar on his death anniversary on Monday and recalled the services he rendered for the cause of Telangana. In a separate message, Mr. Rao recalled services rendered by singer writer Gooda Anjaiah whose songs had become the cultural consciousness of the marginalised classes on his death anniversary. Anjaiah contributed to the separate Statehood movement through his songs. Aspirations of Anjaiah that SC, ST, BC and minority communities live with dignity and social respect were fulfilled by the Telangana government, Mr. Rao said. The government is paying tributes to Anjaiah by implementation of several welfare and development programmes for the development of marginalised classes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tributes-paid-to-prof-jayashankar/article34897563.ece
22 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth found dead near friend’s house||A 26-year-old man was found in a pool of blood near a residential complex at Shobhan Colony of Balanagar here on Sunday night. The victim, Shubham, a resident of Nehru Nagar at Jagadgirigutta, jumped from the multi-storey building, after his ‘girlfriend’ started avoiding him, police said. A few months ago Shubham became friends with the woman on Instagram and soon exchanged contact numbers. They chatted over phone on a regular basis and met each other too. Suddenly, the woman started avoiding him. He went to her house on Sunday evening and asked the girl to come out and talk to him. When she refused, he started abusing her and her family members, who intervened and asked Shubham to leave. Annoyed by her behaviour, the youth went to the top of the building and leapt to death. A case was registered and a probe is on.  Charred body found The charred body of an unidentified man was found near HMDA Bhagayath opposite to Shilparamam at Uppal here on Monday. Police said the man, who was in his mid-twenties, ended his life by setting himself ablaze. Morning walkers who noticed the charred body alerted the police, who shifted it to the mortuary for autopsy. A case was registered and police are analysingfootage of surveillance cameras in the area to identify the victim.  [Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-found-dead-near-friends-house/article34897544.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||EAMCET from Aug. 4 to 10||The State government has announced to conduct Engineering, Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) for 2021 from August 4 to 9. Dates for other Common Entrance Tests for admission into other post-graduate courses, including Engineering, Law and Business Management, for Education, Polytechnic courses have also been announced. The schedule for various CETs was discussed and finalised at a high-level meeting chaired by Minister for Education P. Sabitha Indra Reddy. Secretary (Education) Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Collegiate Education Commissioner Navin Mittal, Chairman of the Telangana State Council for Higher Education T. Papi Reddy, Vice-Chairman R. Limbadri and Venkataramana attended the meeting. After the meeting, Minister Ms. Sabitha Reddy announced that test for EAMCET-Engineering Stream would be held on August 4, 5 and 6 and EAMCET-Agriculture and Medical Stream on August 9 and 10. Similarly, Engineering CET for diploma holders would be held on August 3 and Post Graduate Engineering CET would be held form August 11 to 14. Integrated CET for admission into business administration and computer applications courses would be held on August 19 and 20, LAWCET would be held on August 23, Education CET would be held on August 24 and 25 and Polytechnic CET would be held on July 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eamcet-from-aug-4-to-10/article34897556.ece
22 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for impersonating CM’s secretary||A journalist who was cheating people by impersonating as Secretary to Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao was apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) team on Monday. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by inspector K. Nageswar Rao apprehended 40-year-old Burra Kamal Krishna Goud from Shahpur, who impersonated secretary in CM Peshi Srikanth Rao and duped several persons under the guise of providing vice chairman/chairman post in BC Corporation. A native of Karimnagar district, Goud migrated to the city in search of livelihood and worked at a private company. Later he started working as a journalist for a YouTube channel in Banjara Hills, Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P. Radha Kishan Rao said. “Due to insufficient income, he hatched a plan and started collecting phone numbers of various party workers, sympathisers and phoned them up and impersonated Srikanth Rao,” he said. During the conversation, he used to inform the victim that his name had been nominated to the post of vice chairman or chairman in BC Corporation, and demanded Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh to get the appointment orders. “He received the money from several persons and later blocked their phone numbers,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-impersonating-cms-secretary/article34897560.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NIN to take up sero-surveillance in three districts||Children aged between six and nine years will be covered for the first time in the fourth round of the of the community based sero-surveillance for spread of SARS-CoV-2 in Jangoan, Kamareddy and Nalgonda districts. The study will be taken up by the ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) in association with the Telangana government from Tuesday for the next four days. This latest study is in continuation of the earlier three rounds conducted in these districts in May, August and December 2020 and will also be covering all age groups like in the previous three phases — 10 to17-year-old adolescents, above 18 age group and also healthcare workers, said a press release on Monday. The IgG antibodybased sero-positivity indicates the extent of spread of the coronavirus in the general population and will help monitor the trends of transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection. It could be the basis for strengthening control measures for the impending spike in numbers, if any. “We will be covering 400 subjects in 10 villages of each of the three districts. In addition, 100 healthcare workers from district hospitals, community health centres and so on, will be covered in each district,” said NIN head of the public health division, A. Laxmaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nin-to-take-up-sero-surveillance-in-three-districts/article34897537.ece
22 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed in accident||A private company employee died in a road accident in Keesara late on Sunday. Eede Hari Kiran, 25, a resident of Nagaram village, was returning home from his friend’s place when he lost control of his bike and hit an iron poll near Lucky Wines at RL Nagar around 12 am. Kiran suffered severe injuries and died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-in-accident/article34897549.ece
22 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Governor urged to act in ‘lock-up’ death case||Reiterating his charge that the “lock-up” death of Dalit woman Mariyamma at Addagudur police station in Yadadri-Bhongir district four days ago was a horrific case of “police brutality”, Congress leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka has urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to ensure action against those responsible for the “horrific incident”. We will meet the Governor, if needed, to urge her to look into the ghastly incident and ensure that the guilty be brought to book and the victim’s family gets justice, the CLP leader said, repeating his demand for stringent action against the “guilty” and also those allegedly trying to “cover up” the grisly incident. Mr. Vikramarka met the deceased domestic help’s younger son Udaykiran, who is undergoing treatment for “caning injuries” at the District Headquarters Hospital here on Monday. The CLP leader was accompanied by party SC Cell chairman Preetham and others. Addressing the mediapersons at the hospital entrance, Mr. Vikramarka alleged that Ms. Mariyamma and Mr. Uday were whisked away from their home in Komatlagudem in Madhira constituency by policemen in plainclothes from Addagudur in connection with a case on June 16. “The mother-son duo was subjected to cruel treatment in the lock-up,” he charged, accusing the policemen of bringing Ms. Mariyamma to her native village the next day and ruthlessly beating her in front of her daughter at the local police station through the night of June 17. Ms. Mariyamma was shifted again to Addagudur police station in the wee hours of June 18 where she succumbed to injuries in front of her son at the police station a few hours later, the CLP leader alleged. “The shocking incident bears testimony to the flagrant violation of human rights and unabated violence against Dalits and other downtrodden sections in the State under the present TRS dispensation,” Mr. Vikramarka said. The CLP leader demanded that the State government should initiate urgent steps to take stern action against the guilty under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and provide a government job and compensation to kin of the victim. Later, the CLP leader met Collector R. V. Karnan at the Collectorate seeking the district administration’s intervention to ensure compensation and justice for Mariyamma’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-urged-to-act-in-lock-up-death-case/article34897564.ece
22 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Differently-abled vaccinated||About 326 persons, including the inmates and volunteers of the Annam Seva Foundation’s shelter home for destitute and mentally ill persons, were inoculated against COVID-19 at a special vaccination camp held here on Monday. All the inmates and staff of the shelter home were administered the first dose of the vaccine by a medical team led by a doctor on the premises of the shelter home in the town. Annam Seva Foundation founder A Srinivasa Rao took the first shot of the vaccine at the camp. The volunteers of the shelter home thanked the health department officials for conducting the special vaccination camp for the benefit of the inmates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/differently-abled-vaccinated/article34897566.ece
22 June 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Couple killed in Bhongir highway accident||A man and his wife were killed while their daughter suffered severe injuries in an accident on the Bhongir highway near Gudur in the district on Sunday night. Bibinagar police identified the victims as Prashant and Sirisha, residents of Nacharam in Hyderabad. Their daughter Saara suffered severe injuries and was shifted to Hyderabad for critical care. Police said the accident took place at around 10 p.m. when the car lost control as one of its tyres burst and hit a stationary truck on the left of the highway. Bibinagar police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/couple-killed-in-bhongir-highway-accident/article34897552.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fire guts shoe godown, four workers missing||Four workers are suspected to be trapped inside a shoe godown in west Delhi’s Udyog Vihar where a massive fire broke out on Monday morning, police said.  Search and rescue operations at the two-storey building are under way. Earlier in the day, the police and firefighters received a call about the blaze in a factory. During an enquiry, officials said, it came to light that the building houses a godown where shoes are assembled and packed for sale. Initially, 10 workers were trapped inside the godown. While four of them managed to come out safely, two others were rescued later. They had minor burn injuries and were given first aid. The remaining four workers were untraceable till Monday evening. “We got a PCR call about a fire in a shoe factory in Udyog Nagar at 8.56 a.m. Twenty-four fire tenders were sent to the spot and 15 more vehicles were pressed into service later,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh. The police suspect the fire started from the first floor of the building and spread to other floors. The exact cause of the fire is not known yet but a short-circuit is likely to be the reason, they added. He said the godown was shut at the time of the incident. The operations usually start around 8.30 a.m. but the workers had arrived earlier. However, police said, no major injuries have been reported in the incident so far. Case against owner The owner of the godown has been identified as Pankaj Garg. A case has been registered in connection with the incident. Delhi Fire Services officials said over 35 fire tenders and around 140 fire personnel were eventually brought in to control the blaze. “The fire is under control and cooling operation is under way. The building has been declared ‘dangerous’ by the civic body,” said DFS director Atul Garg. Two CATS ambulances are also at the spot to attend to any emergencies. No fire safety equipment The building did not have any fire safety equipment and was packed with highly combustible materials. “We were not given correct information in the first place. We were not informed that workers were trapped inside. It was only after two hours into the operation, we found out that there were people trapped inside,” said Mr. Garg, adding that those trapped could have been saved in time if correct information was shared with them in a timely manner. “While the fire has been doused, because of the heat and smoke, it’s become tough to trace those reported missing,” Mr. Garg added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fire-guts-shoe-godown-four-workers-missing/article34897479.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Constable ‘breaks arm’ of minor for not wearing mask||A 12-year-old boy was allegedly brutally beaten up by a Constable in east Delhi’s Kalyanpuri on Saturday night for not wearing a mask. The police said they are enquiring into the matter. Autorickshaw driver Darshan Singh (40) from Kalyanpuri said that on Saturday at 9.30 p.m., his son had stepped out of the house to play with his friends in the locality when the incident took place. “Children are stuck at home all day and they get frustrated too. At night, he stepped out to play as there would be less crowd. He was not wearing a mask,” Mr. Singh said. A while later, he added, two Constables came to the spot and started yelling at people. “My son got scared and started to run when one of the Constables chased him down. The Constable beat him black and blue and even broke his arm. He beat him with a stick and there are witnesses to the incident,” Mr. Singh wrote in his written complaint addressed to District DCP. Mr. Singh said after the incident, he informed the police. “A PCR van then took my child to Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital,” he said. Next, he said they went to police station but “they refused to lodge our complaint. Instead, they blamed my son for selling liquor and drugs, which is a false allegation”. Mr. Singh alleged that he was being forced to reach a compromise and was being threatened that the son will be implicated in a false case. “Police in this area have wreaked havoc. I understand that one should wear mask, but should they beat someone to this extent?” he questioned adding that police staff is complicit in selling drugs and liquor in the area. Police sources, however, said a woman who lives close to the complainant’s residence sells liquor and uses children to deliver it. A raid was also conducted last week, sources added. DCP (East) Priyanka Kashyap said a fact-finding committee has been set up. “If the staff is found complicit, strictest possible action will be taken,” she said.  They [police] refused to lodge our complaint. Instead, they blamed my son for selling liquor and drugs, which is a false allegation Darshan Singh Autorickshaw driver||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/constable-breaks-arm-of-minor-for-not-wearing-mask/article34897485.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four members of Nandu gang held following shoot-out||Four members of Nandu gang were arrested following a shoot-out in Delhi’s Jaffarpur Kalan, the police said on Monday. Three of the accused sustained injuries, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the accused have been identified as Vinay (23) from Najafgarh, Robin Baliyan (19) from Sonipat, Sumit Poonia (20) from Mahendergarh district in Haryana and Deepanshu (19) from Jaffarpur Kalan. The accused had plans to kill a businessman in Najafgarh. “Police received information regarding this and a team reached the spot. Two bikes were seen coming from Kharkhari Village and heading towards Ujwa. Police tried to stop the riders, but they tried to flee from the spot,” Mr. Yadav said adding that one of the motorcycle riders lost his control while the other left the vehicle and they tried to run away from the spot. The accused then started firing at the police party after which the officers retaliated. During interrogation, Vinay allegedly told police that he used to provide arms and shelter to members of Nandu and Jyoti Baba gang and that Robin was assigned with the task to open fire on some businessman of Malikpur Village. Sumit was hiding in Delhi to shoot at another businessmen and Deepanshu provided information about the targets as per the directions of Rohit Dagar, sharp-shooter of Nandu Gang, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-members-of-nandu-gang-held-following-shoot-out/article34897488.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC floated four civil tenders during lockdown||In the last two months, when a lockdown was in place in the city, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) floated four civil tenders for underground sections of the upcoming Phase 4 network. Despite reduced strength of workers, the DMRC said construction of the Phase IV network had achieved a few landmarks as well. “During these months, DMRC completed tunneling of 500 meters of one of the 2.8-km twin tunnels. It also completed casting of over 50% of tunnel segments in the casting yard. The first of the twin tunnels on this stretch is expected to be completed by September 2021,” a senior official said. The official said due to the lockdown, the number of workers at construction sites had reduced from 4,000 to around 2,500. “The Delhi Metro is currently engaged in construction of 65 kilometres of new lines across three priority corridors as part of its Phase 4 expansion. These corridors are expected to be completed by 2025,” the DMRC said. Monkey inside train After a video of a monkey traveling on the Delhi Metro surfaced online, the DMRC on Monday said it had plans to devise an SOP in consultation with the forest department to deal with such “unexpected situations” to ensure the safety of passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dmrc-floated-four-civil-tenders-during-lockdown/article34897487.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Miscreants loot bank of over Rs. 5OL||A group of unidentified miscreants entered a bank and fled with around Rs. 55 lakh in Shahdara, the police said on Monday. The accused entered the bank after breaking the wall of a neighbouring under-construction building in Shahdara, they said. The bank officials then informed the police. The money was kept in one of the chambers of the vault. A case has been registered. Sources said the accused had all the equipment, including a drill machine. It must have taken around seven to eight hours for the accused to break the wall. “The burglars had disabled CCTV cameras installed inside the bank premises. We are trying to find out leads from other CCTVs installed in the locality,” added the officer. He added that they are also examining the role of an insider in the crime because the burglars were aware of the location of the vault and they didn’t take any other valuables kept in lockers. The police said they are also taking help of technical surveillance to get clue in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/miscreants-loot-bank-of-over-rs-5ol/article34897486.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Member of Irani gang arrested||A 36-year-old member of Irani gang was arrested for allegedly posing as Crime Branch officers and fleeing away with gold ornaments from a man after intercepting him in north Delhi's Bara Hindu Rao, the police said on Monday. Accused Qasim Zafri alias Joju, a resident of Maharashtra was arrested from Bhopal on Saturday, they said. The Irani gang is known to have a presence across India. They are also known for posing as police officers or senior government officials to dupe people. In most of the cases, the accused operate on a group of two to four, the police said. Three more involved in the case are said to be absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/member-of-irani-gang-arrested/article34897480.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘UAPA being misused to silence voices against injustice’||Asif Iqbal Tanha, one of three student activists who was recently released on bail after being arrested under the UAPA for his alleged role in the Delhi riots, says the fight against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, National Population Register and National Register of Citizens is alive and the struggle for justice will continue. Excerpts.  You have been in jail for over a year. How does it feel to be free? It was a feeling of immense joy to come out of prison and meet my family, friends, fellow students from Jamia Millia Islamia and other activists. I was ecstatic to know that the passion with which the work began to oppose the CAA/NPR/NRC was still alive. I sometimes felt while in prison that because I was arrested under the UAPA, those who were involved in the movement may have gotten scared, silent or backed out but I was happy to know that that was not the case. I can now say with pride that when it comes to saving the unity and integrity of India, now or in the future, the will to fight for the cause is alive in people and they will not feel afraid to fight to save the Ganga-Jamuni Tehzeeb of the country. My friends, family or members of civil society stood by me and were fighting from outside while we were inside. While I was in jail, there were days when I was scared as I knew that getting out would be tough due to the stringent UAPA, but my legal team did a wonderful job and the High Court delivered a verdict that gave us protection.  Do you feel UAPA is being used to silence dissenting voices and keep students away from activism? Do you feel your bail order will help stop this? UAPA is being misused to put people like independent journalists, students and activists who are fighting for justice into prison with the hope of silencing their voice. It is being used as a tool to silence those who are asking questions of the government. UAPA should not be misused and should be used for the purpose it was made for — to put terrorists behind bars. Instead, those who are against violence and are raising their voice for the unity of the nation, are being but behind bars. I feel that the bail order from the Delhi High Court for Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and me will help those who are innocent, political prisoners and it will bring justice to them. You have raised a lot of questions on the condition of prisons and the way you were treated inside. Tell us about your experience. For people who are outside, what all happens inside a jail is something that they will be unable to fathom. The conditions are very bad. It is not enough to just provide food to prisoners and ask them to lead their life in prison. There is a continuous violation of human rights inside prison. People inside are not being given basic medical facilities. In the time of COVID-19, prisoners are not being given access to tests or vaccinations. If they want to complete their studies from inside, they are not being given the facilities to study. People are put in prison so that they may reform themselves and become better people but they are not being given the opportunity to reform themselves. They are just being locked up and are being given food to survive. There is no access to any aid, legal, medical or counselling for them to understand what they have done and become better. Even when you ask for something that you are entitled to according to the jail manual, it is denied citing safety and security concerns. It is my humble request to the jail authorities that inmates should be given access to their basic human rights. How will the movement against CAA/NRC/NPR continue, especially during the pandemic? The CAA/NRC movement had a pattern across the country whether it was the Shaheen Bagh protest or the Jamia protest which used crowds to protest. Now, due to COVID-19, people cannot gather to protest. With the threat of a possible third wave of COVID, the pattern of the protest will have to change. Social media will be used more, there will be more debate and discussion on the media to make people aware so that we can all sit down together and find a solution. These discussions will throw up ideas on how to take the movement forward. If the government decides to implement NPR immediately, then we will have to find an immediate way to oppose it. We will also have legal discussions to ensure that the way forward for the movement is not against the Constitution. But as long as the threat of the pandemic remains, it will not be right to gather in large crowds. What is next for you when it comes to academics as well as activism? To lead a good life, it is important to study. If you do not study, you will not be able to raise questions. I will be continuing my academics by doing my Masters and a PhD. When it comes to activism, I will continue with it on campus and outside by tying up with well-known activists who are fighting for similar causes across the nation. Activism will be a part of my life. As a student or after as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/uapa-being-misused-to-silence-voices-against-injustice/article34897484.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Staying fit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/staying-fit/article34897482.ece
22 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Central leadership will decide next CM in U.P., says Minister||A Cabinet Minister in the Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh has said that the Chief Minister would be decided by the party’s central leadership if the BJP wins again in the 2022 Assembly polls. The comment by State Labour Minister Swami Prasad Maurya on Sunday reflects the reported difference of opinion within the State BJP regarding the leadership of Yogi Adityanath, who was chosen as Chief Minister by the central leadership in 2017. The BJP had contested the 2017 polls without a CM face and largely on the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The question now is if the party would enter the polls with the promise of a second term for the head priest of the Gorakshnath temple in Gorakhpur or keep the option open. The reluctance of first Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, and now Mr. Swami Prasad Maurya, to name Mr. Adityanath as the face of the campaign indicates disquiet within the ruling party. Responding to questions by journalists, Mr. Swami Prasad Maurya said the central leadership would choose the Chief Minister. “We will accept whoever comes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/central-leadership-will-decide-next-cm-in-up-says-minister/article34897509.ece
22 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||FIR against scribe, 2 others for FB post||The Bijnor police have filed an FIR against a journalist and two others on the charge of levelling baseless allegations against senior Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Champat Rai and his brothers of grabbing land from a gaushala in the district. Senior journalist Vineet Narain, his associate Rajneesh and Alka Lahoti, whose land Mr. Narain claimed was allegedly grabbed by Mr. Rai’s family, were named in the FIR at the Nagina police station, said Bijnor SP Dharm Veer Singh. The complaint was lodged by Mr. Rai's brother, Sanjay Bansal, said the police. Mr. Rai is the general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, which is entrusted with the task of building a Ram mandir in Ayodhya. College construction In several posts on social media, particularly on Facebook, Mr. Narain, who also runs an NGO, alleged that Mr. Rai through his brothers had grabbed the land of a gaushala worth Rs. 50 crore and illegally constructed a degree college on it. Head of the gaushala Alka Lahoti returned from Indonesia and tried to fight against the land grab but the administration did not help her due to pressure from Mr. Rai, alleged Mr. Narain. “The allegations are fabricated and baseless, and prima facie so are the allegations against his family,” said the SP. Investigation would be held under a gazetted officer, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fir-against-scribe-2-others-for-fb-post/article34897508.ece
22 June 2021||Mumbai,||MVA govt. will complete 5 years: Cong.||Days after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray criticised ally Congress for constantly stressing on increasing ‘self-strength’ and going solo in future polls, the Congress on Monday said that the Maharashtra government would work for the next five years, and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) attempts to destabilise the government would not succeed. “The Central government led by the BJP is harassing the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The BJP held the hand of late Balasaheb Thackeray and grew in the State and now it is trying to pull down the government led by his son. We stand firm with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. This government will complete its five-year term,” State Congress president Nana Patole said. Mr. Patole said that Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik voiced his harassment at the hands of Central investigation agencies through his letter to Mr. Thackeray. “The BJP is desperate to destabilise the State government. The Central probe agencies are working on the directions of their political bosses in Delhi. Only the Opposition is being targeted on their orders,” Mr. Patole alleged. The Congress leader’s sentiment was echoed by NCP’s Minister Nawab Malik who said that irrespective of the BJP’s desire to bring down the government, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government would successfully complete five years in office. “The BJP has been making these claims about an unstable government on every passing day. What else can it do?” Mr. Malik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-govt-will-complete-5-years-cong/article34897615.ece
22 June 2021||Mumbai,||Curbs to stay in Mumbai till June 27||Restrictions in Mumbai would continue to remain in force till June 27, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Monday. The civic body’s order comes despite the city being eligible to be shifted to level 1 category with a lower positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy. The State had earlier this month announced a five-phase plan to ease curbs. The levels were fixed on the basis of COVID-19 positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds in respective districts or municipal corporation limits with level 1 being the lowest and 5 being the red zone. Level 3, where Mumbai currently stands, has a positivity rate between 5% and 10% and oxygen bed occupancy of more than 40%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/curbs-to-stay-in-mumbai-till-june-27/article34897504.ece
22 June 2021||Mumbai,||Raj jumps into row over name for airport||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray on Monday said the under-construction Navi Mumbai international airport, which is an extension of the existing Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai, should have the same name. “Where does the issue of changing name come up? It will remain as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Navi Mumbai International airport,” said Mr Raj Thackeray, adding to the ongoing row over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/raj-jumps-into-row-over-name-for-airport/article34897616.ece
22 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||6 more booked for fake vaccination camp||The Khar police, acting on a complaint by an employee of Tips production house, on Monday registered a case against six people in connection with a fake COVID-19 vaccination camp. “The six accused, including Rajesh Pandey and Sanjay Gupta (29), spread false information that Kokilaben Hospital was organising a vaccination camp. They administered the beneficiaries some adulterated liquid substance in the name of Covishield vaccine and took away Rs. 2.84 lakh from the production house,” senior police inspector Gajanan Kabdule from Khar police station said. Around 206 people, including the employees of Tips production house and their families, were vaccinated at a camp in Khar on June 3. The case was registered under Sections of cheating, causing public nuisance, adulteration of drugs, and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, of the Indian Penal Code. Both Mr. Gupta and Mr. Pandey are accused in the Kandivali and Versova cases as well. The Kandivali police have so far arrested five people identified as Mahendra Singh (39), Mr. Gupta, Chandan alias Lalit Singh (32), Nitin Mode (32) and Mohammed Kareem (19), a student of nursing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/6-more-booked-for-fake-vaccination-camp/article34897505.ece
22 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 6,270 new cases||A robust 13,758 recoveries were reported across Maharashtra on Monday as against a surge of 6,270 new COVID-19 cases with the State’s active cases dipping below 1.25 lakh to reach 1,24,398. A total of 352 deaths were added to the State’s progressive fatality toll of which 258 were part of the Health Department’s ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process. As many as 77 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and a further 17 were from the past week. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,18,313 with the State’s case fatality rate rising to 1.98%. The low case surge and fatalities must be viewed in the context of the lower number of samples tested — 1.55 lakh — in the last 24 hours as opposed to the daily average of more than 2.30 lakh. The State’s total cases have touched 59,79,051 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 57,33,215 with the recovery rate standing at 95.89%. While a steady decline in most districts has ensured that the State’s weekly case positivity rate has come down to 4.89%, Kolhapur in western Maharashtra still continues to be a virus hotbed. Its case positivity of 11.97% is the highest among all the 35 districts in the State, followed by Raigad, Ratnagiri and Pune (still at a high figure of 9.29%). Pune reported a relatively low spike of more than 600 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,44,790. Mumbai recorded 518 new cases to take its total tally to 7,20,531 while the active cases stood at 18,529. Seven fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,305. Kolhapur added more than 900 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-adds-6270-new-cases/article34897507.ece
22 June 2021||PUNE,||Silent protests on Maratha issue being deferred: MP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati has said that the silent protests to press for implementing the demands of the Maratha community are being deferred as the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has sought three weeks to fulfil them. “We are postponing our protests for the next 21 days to give the government the time needed to fulfil our demands. They [the MVA leadership] are seeking three weeks. I say, take a month, but address our demands properly… The State government seems positive about addressing them,” Mr. Sambhajiraje said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/silent-protests-on-maratha-issue-being-deferred-mp/article34897617.ece
22 June 2021||Tehran,||Raisi for nuclear talks, rules out Biden meet||Iran’s President-elect Ebrahim Raisi said on Monday he will not allow nuclear negotiations for the sake of negotiations, in his first news conference since winning election last week. Mr. Raisi also ruled out meeting U.S. President Joe Biden but said there were “no obstacles” to resuming diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia, the Sunni-ruled regional rival of Shiite Iran, which have been severed for five years. Mr. Raisi, 60, won Friday’s election in which more than half the voters stayed away after many political heavyweights had been barred from running and as an economic crisis driven by U.S. sanctions has battered the country. Mr. Raisi, an ultraconservative cleric who heads Iran’s judiciary, will replace moderate President Hassan Rouhani — whose landmark achievement was a 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers — in August. Vienna talks “Any negotiations that guarantee national interests will certainly be supported, but... we will not allow negotiations to be for negotiations’ sake,” Mr. Raisi said of the nuclear talks. “Any meeting must produce a result... for the Iranian nation,” he added. The 2015 deal saw Iran accept curbs on its nuclear capabilities in return for an easing of sanctions, but former U.S. president Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew three years later and ramped up sanctions, prompting the Islamic republic to pull back from its nuclear commitments. Mr. Trump’s successor Mr. Biden has signalled his readiness to return to the deal and state parties — also including Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia — have lately been negotiating its revival in Vienna. EU negotiator Enrique Mora said on Sunday that those involved in the talks were “closer” to saving the Iran nuclear deal but that sticking points remain. An austere figure from the Shia Muslim clerical establishment, Mr. Raisi smiled and raised his hands as he arrived for Monday’s press conference. Mr. Raisi said he has no intentions of meeting Mr. Biden. “No,” was his flat response to a question from an American media outlet on whether he they would meet in the event the talks lead to the U.S. lifting sanctions on Iran, and to try and “fix” the issues between the two arch enemies. Mr. Raisi also said his administration would be open to restoring ties with Iran’s regional foe Saudi Arabia. “There are no obstacles from Iran’s side to re-opening Embassies... there are no obstacles to ties with Saudi Arabia,” he said. Ties between Iran and Saudi Arabia were cut in 2016 after Iranian protesters attacked Saudi diplomatic missions following the Kingdom’s execution of a revered Shia cleric.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/raisi-for-nuclear-talks-rules-out-biden-meet/article34897220.ece
22 June 2021||Jerusalem,||Exports resume from Gaza as Israel eases blockade||Trucks carrying clothes and fabric rolled out of the Palestinian enclave of Gaza on Monday as Israel lifted some restrictions it had imposed during last month’s conflict. The crowded Mediterranean territory, home to around two million Palestinians, has been under an Israeli blockade since 2007. The resumption of some trade and the postal service came one month after a ceasefire between Israel and the enclave’s Hamas rulers to end an 11-day conflict. An AFP reporter Monday saw trucks loaded with fabric go through the Kerem Shalom crossing while Palestinians in the Gaza Strip reported that some mail also had been allowed in. On Sunday, the Israeli military body that administers civilian affairs in the Palestinian territories, COGAT, said it will allow the “limited export” of farm produce from Gaza. Extra restrictions since intense violence last month has meant Gaza’s farmers have been unable to export goods as usual, creating a glut of produce such as tomatoes and strawberries, causing prices to tumble. COGAT added that “this civilian measure, which was approved by the political echelon, is conditional upon the preservation of security stability”. Saleh al-Zaq, head of the civil affairs committee that controls the borders, said Israel had informed him that mail would be allowed in and out of the enclave, but COGAT did not confirm the announcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/exports-resume-from-gaza-as-israel-eases-blockade/article34897225.ece
22 June 2021||Hong Kong,||HK’s Apple Daily says it may shut down||Hong Kong’s embattled pro-democracy newspaper Apple Daily reported on Monday that its board of directors has asked authorities to unfreeze some assets so it can pay salaries and avoid labour violations, and that the board will meet again on Friday to decide if the newspaper will cease operations. Police last week arrested five top editors and executives of Apple Daily under the city’s tough national security law on suspicion of foreign collusion, searched its offices and froze $2.3 million worth of assets of three companies linked to the newspaper. The arrests and freezing of assets came as Hong Kong authorities crack down on dissenting voices as Beijing tightens control over the territory in what critics say is an erosion of freedoms it promised the city for 50 years when the former British colony was handed over to China in 1997. Defending democracy Apple Daily has been outspoken in defending Hong Kong’s freedoms, and in recent years has often criticized the Chinese and Hong Kong governments for limiting the city’s democratic freedoms as well as constricting the rights of free speech and assembly not found on mainland China. The newspaper said in an article on its website on Monday that if its board decides on Friday to cease operations of the newspaper, its website could stop publishing as early as Saturday morning, and Saturday’s print edition of the newspaper would be its last. An internal memo sent to some employees at Apple Daily also stated that those who wish to resign immediately could do so.  Apple Daily said in an article on Sunday that it may challenge the decision to freeze its assets in court if the city’s Security Bureau denies its request. The Security Bureau said it would not comment on the details of the case because legal proceedings were ongoing. It said endangering national security is a “very serious crime.” “We handle such crimes according to the law, targeting at illegal acts, and invoke the power to freeze offense-related properties based on need and the law,” the bureau said in an English-language statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hks-apple-daily-says-it-may-shut-down/article34897217.ece
22 June 2021||Yerevan,||Armenia PM wins majority in polls despite anger over war||Armenia’s acting prime minister, Nikol Pashinyan, kept power in a parliamentary election that boosted his authority despite being widely blamed for a military defeat last year in the Nagorno-Karabakh enclave, results showed on Monday. Mr. Pashinyan’s Civil Contract party won 53.92% of votes cast in Sunday’s snap election, according to preliminary results on Monday. Former President Robert Kocharyan’s Armenia Alliance trailed on 21.04%, and questioned the credibility of the result, the Interfax news agency reported. The government called the election to try to end a political crisis that began when ethnic Armenian forces ceded territory to Azerbaijan in and around Nagorno-Karabakh in six weeks of fighting last year. The hostilities caused international concern because the wider South Caucasus region is a corridor for pipelines carrying natural oil and gas to world markets. It is also a geopolitical arena with Russia, the U.S., the European Union and Turkey all jostling for influence. Mr. Pashinyan, 46, faced protests after the defeat and demands for his resignation over the terms of a peace agreement under which Azerbaijan regained control of territory it had lost during a war in the early 1990s. He described the deal as a disaster but said he had been compelled to sign it in order to prevent greater human and territorial losses. He wrote on Twitter on Monday that his party would have a constitutional majority — at least 71 deputies out of 105 — and “will form a government led by me.” Mr. Pashinyan said Armenia would strengthen ties with Russia-led regional groups, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) and the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU). “We are determined to work on improving, deepening and developing relations (with CSTO and EAEU countries), and we will definitely move in this direction,” Russia’s RIA news agency quoted Mr. Pashinyan as saying in an address broadcast on Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/armenia-pm-wins-majority-in-polls-despite-anger-over-war/article34897222.ece
22 June 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar’s Suu Kyi thanks supporters for flower protests||Deposed Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi on Monday thanked her supporters for defying the junta to celebrate her 76th birthday with flower protests, as her trial on a raft of criminal charges resumed. A mass uprising in Myanmar against a February military putsch has been met with a brutal crackdown that has killed more than 870 civilians, according to a local monitoring group. Protesters across the country on Saturday donned flowers in their hair — long a signature Suu Kyi look — to mark the birthday of the democracy icon, who turned 76 under junta house arrest. Many replicated the floral hairstyle and uploaded pictures onto social media. Ms. Suu Kyi told her lawyers “to convey her thanks and share her wishes for the people”, her lawyer Khin Maung Zaw said, adding that she was “in good health”. Since last week, she has been on trial facing accusations of illegally possessing walkie-talkie radios and breaching coronavirus regulations while campaigning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmars-suu-kyi-thanks-supporters-for-flower-protests/article34897227.ece
22 June 2021||Washington,||U.S. is committed to supporting Afghan people: White House||U.S. President Joe Biden will meet Afghanistan’s President Ashraf Ghani and the Chairman of its High Council for National Reconciliation, Abdullah Abdullah, at the White House on Friday, Press Secretary Jen Psaki said on Sunday in a statement released by the White House. The visit comes after the U.S. began withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan, a process that began on May 1 and is expected to be completed by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the World Trade Center terror attacks in New York City. “The United States is committed to supporting the Afghan people by providing diplomatic, economic, and humanitarian assistance to support the Afghan people, including Afghan women, girls and minorities,” Ms. Psaki said on Sunday. Peace talks in Qatar between the Afghan government and the Taliban have not made significant progress. The Taliban said on Sunday that they were committed to peace talks and wanted a “genuine Islamic system” in the country and that they would “accommodate” the rights of all — including women — in line with that system. However, violence has continued to rock the country, with the Taliban claiming to have captured over 40 districts. On Sunday, Ms. Psaki said the U.S. would continue to engage the Afghan government to prevent the country from becoming a safe haven for terror groups who pose a threat to the U.S. “The United States continues to fully support the ongoing peace process and encourages all Afghan parties to participate meaningfully in negotiations to bring an end to the conflict.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-is-committed-to-supporting-afghan-people-white-house/article34897228.ece
22 June 2021||Amman,||Jordan ‘coup plot’: two suspects plead not guilty||Two officials accused of helping Jordan’s Prince Hamzah try to overthrow his half-brother King Abdullah II have pleaded not guilty, one of their lawyers said on Monday as the trial began. Former royal court chief Bassem Awadallah, who also holds Saudi nationality, and a former special envoy to Riyadh, Sharif Hassan bin Zaid, are charged with attempting to “destabilise the kingdom’s security”, according to court documents. The trial began behind closed doors at the State Security Court and will continue on Tuesday, an official said. According to state television, the court heard two out of a total of six witnesses — four military personnel and two civilians. Mr. Awadallah’s lawyer Mohammad Afif said the defendants both pleaded not guilty. Prince Hamzah, who is accused of attempting to overthrow the King and of seeking help from Saudi Arabia to do so, is not facing trial. Prince Hamzah, 41, “was determined to satisfy his personal ambition to rule, in violation of the constitution and Hashemite (Jordanian ruling family) custom,” according to an indictment. “To succeed, he sought to exploit the concerns and problems of the population and to arouse sedition and frustration in society,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jordan-coup-plot-two-suspects-plead-not-guilty/article34897218.ece
22 June 2021||Kunduz,||Taliban, Afghan forces clash near Kunduz city||The Taliban and Afghan forces clashed on Monday on the outskirts of the strategic northern city of Kunduz, with the insurgents claiming to have captured three districts in the region in a week. The Taliban have launched major offensives targeting government forces since early May when the U.S. military began its final troop withdrawal, and claim to have seized more than 50 of the country’s 421 districts. Many of their claims are disputed by the government, and independent verification is difficult. “The Taliban fighters are at the gates of the city and they are fighting Afghan forces,” said Amruddin Wali, a Kunduz provincial council member. He said the insurgents have also taken up positions on highways that connect Kunduz city to neighbouring provinces. On Monday, the Taliban claimed they had captured the Imam Sahib district of the province, the third to be taken in a week. Kunduz police spokesman Inamuddin Rahmani confirmed the fighting, and said his forces had killed about 50 Taliban fighters in the past 24 hours. The Taliban have repeatedly attempted to capture the city, located not far from Tajikistan border. The insurgents briefly held Kunduz twice before — in September 2015, and again a year later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-afghan-forces-clash-near-kunduz-city/article34897229.ece
22 June 2021||Beijing,||China cracks down on crypto mining||China has broadened a crackdown on its massive cryptocurrency mining industry with a ban on mines in a key southwestern province. Chinese mines power nearly 80% of the global trade in cryptocurrencies despite a domestic trading ban since 2017, but in recent months several provinces have ordered mines to close as Beijing turns a sharp eye to the industry. Authorities in the province of Sichuan ordered the closure of 26 mines last week, according to a notice widely circulated on Chinese social media and confirmed by a former bitcoin miner. The notice reportedly instructed power companies to stop supplying electricity to all cryptocurrency mines by Sunday. It vowed a “complete clean-up”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-cracks-down-on-crypto-mining/article34897223.ece
22 June 2021||berlin,||Russian scientist held in Germany||German police have arrested a Russian scientist working at an unidentified university, accusing him of spying for Moscow, prosecutors said on Monday, in a case that risks further inflaming bilateral tensions. Federal prosecutors said in a statement that the suspect, identified as Ilnur N., had been taken into custody on Friday on suspicion of “working for a Russian secret service since October 2020 at the latest”. Ilnur N. was employed as a research assistant at a natural sciences and technology department at the unnamed German university. The suspect appeared before a judge on Saturday who remanded him in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russian-scientist-held-in-germany/article34897226.ece
22 June 2021||London,||Fresh sanctions on Belarus||The EU, US, Britain and Canada imposed coordinated sanctions on Belarus on Monday after the forced landing of a Ryanair airliner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fresh-sanctions-on-belarus/article34897230.ece
22 June 2021||Washington,||Facebook rolls out ‘live audio’, podcasts in US||Facebook on Monday began rolling out its service for people seeking audio-based connections in a challenge to the social platform Clubhouse. The “live audio rooms” will enable users to listen to, and sometimes participate in, conversations led by celebrities and “influencers” or create a fundraiser on the platform. Facebook has tapped a number of celebrities, including rapper D Smoke, wellness guru Dr. Jess.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-rolls-out-live-audio-podcasts-in-us/article34897232.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The state of India’s poor must be acknowledged||The son of a corn merchant-turned sociologist, Charles Booth had little patience for Charles Dickens and others in his time, who used lyrical prose to describe the desperation of the poor in working class London. Booth was also angry, in 1885, over the claims made by F.D. Hyndman, the leader of the Social Democratic Federation, which after an enquiry into the working classes of London had concluded that a quarter of the population of London lived in abject poverty (https://bit.ly/3gKVNi8). Confident of showing up the claims as sensational, he set about drawing his poverty map of the city and getting people to do door-to-door surveys. Much to his horror, his own landmark ‘Life and Labour of the People in London’ survey concluded that the numbers were much higher and a third of London lived in abject poverty. He had, unintentionally, nailed the importance of getting the numbers right, which settled the question of which class needed maximum attention. An imperative In India, there is now, rightly, a consensus difficult for the Government to beat down that to be able to battle COVID-19 and secure India from successive waves, the exact numbers of the dead must be carefully documented. Something else that needs equal attention, if the state of the decrepit Indian economy is to be repaired, is to be able to meticulously count the number of the poor and to prioritise them. The World Bank $2-a-day (poverty line) might be inadequate but it would be a start and higher than the last line proposed by the C. Rangarajan committee. There has been hesitation for a variety of reasons to wrestle with the rising numbers of the poor in India. Not least, the pursuit of becoming ‘Vishwaguru’, has hampered this as that pitch works only if the leadership is able to mask the dramatic rise in poverty. Coming to terms with how low India’s median income is would disrupt the carefully constructed ride about being the biggest/largest in the world. A survey in 2013 had said India stood at 99 among 131 countries, and with a median income of $616 per annum, it was the lowest among BRICS and fell in the lower middle-income country bracket. There has been a slide Since then — and we are still not talking of the novel coronavirus pandemic — three important data points have made it clear that the state of India’s poor needs to be acknowledged if India is to be lifted. The first being, the fall in the monthly per capita consumption expenditure of 2017-18 for the first time since 1972-73, which the Government withheld citing concerns with the quality of data collected, then the fall of India in the Global Hunger Index to ‘serious hunger’ category and India’s own health census data or the recently concluded National Family Health Survey or NFHS-5, which had worrying markers of increased malnutrition, infant mortality and maternal health. A fourth statistic earlier this year, of Bangladesh bettering India’s average income statistics, must also be a reason for Indians to introspect. What kind of growth path has led to India sliding in the sustainable development goals index (by at least two ranks last month) as well as in the per capita income rankings? If we do not bother to know of the increased numbers sliding into poverty, there would be little possibility of moving toward a solution. The precarious situation after the demonetisation in 2016 was rendered calamitous with the novel coronavirus pandemic and the shrinking of the economy. In 2019, the global Multidimensional Poverty Index reported that India lifted 271 million citizens out of poverty between 2006 and 2016. Since then, the International Monetary Fund, Hunger Watch, SWAN and several other surveys show a decided slide. In March, the Pew Research Center with the World Bank data estimated that ‘the number of poor in India, on the basis of an income of $2 per day or less in purchasing power parity, has more than doubled to 134 million from 60 million in just a year due to the pandemic-induced recession’. In 2020, India contributed 57.3% of the growth of the global poor. India contributed to 59.3% of the global middle class that slid into poverty. The last time that ‘India reported an increase in poverty was in the first 25 years after Independence, when from 1951 to 1974, the population of the poor increased from 47% to 56%’. So, India is again a “country of mass poverty” after 45 years. This has thrown a spanner in the so far uninterrupted battle against poverty since the 1970s. Urgent solutions are needed within, and the starting point of that would be only when we know how many are poor. Poverty line debate In India, the poverty line debate became very fraught in 2011, as the Suresh Tendulkar Committee report at a ‘line’ of Rs. 816 per capita per month for rural India and Rs. 1,000 per capita per month for urban India, calculated the poor at 25.7% of the population. The anger over the 2011 conclusions, led to the setting up of the C. Rangarajan Committee, which in 2014 estimated that the number of poor were 29.6%, based on persons spending below Rs. 47 a day in cities and Rs. 32 in villages. Reasons why numbers count Numbers matter for many reasons. The first is because knowing the numbers and making them public makes it possible to get public opinion to support massive and urgent cash transfers. The world outside India has moved onto propose high fiscal support, as economic rationale and not charity; it is debating a higher level of minimum wages than it has in the past. Spain has accorded security to its gig workers by giving delivery boys the status of workers. In India too, a dramatic reorientation would get support only once numbers are honestly laid out. The second argument for recording the data is so that all policies can be honestly evaluated on the basis of whether they meet the needs of the majority. Is a policy such as bank write-offs of loans amounting to Rs. 1.53-lakh crore last year, which helped corporates overwhelmingly, beneficial to the vast majority? Or has it been just beneficial to a thin sliver of the super rich? This would be possible to transparently evaluate only when the numbers of the poor are known and established. Third, if government data were to honestly account for the exact numbers of the poor, it may be more realistic to expect the public debate to be conducted on the concerns of the real majority and create a climate that demands accountability from public representatives. Fourth, India has clocked a massive rise in the market capitalisation and the fortunes of the richest Indian corporates, whose wealth has grown manifold in the past few years, even as millions of Indians have experienced a massive tumble into poverty. The stories of billionaires get reported regularly and prominently. To say that the stock market and the Indian economy are ‘not related’ is ingenuous. Indians must have the right to question whether there is a connection and if the massive rise in riches is not coincidental, but at the back of the misery of millions of the poor, whose ranks are swelling. If billionaire lists are evaluated in detail and reported upon, the country cannot shy away from counting its poor. See the ‘bread line’ The late Arjun Sengupta, as Chairman of the National Commission for Enterprises in the Unorganised Sector in 2004, had concluded that 836 million Indians still remained marginalised. He spoke of the poorest of poor and the commission’s recommendations on social security resulted in the enactment of the Unorganised Sector Workers Social Security Act (https://bit.ly/3vElOEl). At the time his conclusion was ignored — that 77% of India was marginalised — emphasising that it was a problem of a much bigger magnitude, than the figure of 25.7% conveyed. The ‘bread line’ ostensibly owes its origins to the economic depression in the United States in the 1890s and charity by New York restaurants which organised soup kitchens. The queue or line of bread seekers would be distressingly long. A physical queue on the roads needed a policy response. It could not be wished away by simply looking away. The massive slide into poverty in India that is clear in domestic and international surveys and anecdotal evidence must meet with an institutional response. The Government must girdle up and unflinchingly quantify the slide from the ‘fastest growing economy’ to the country with the largest rise in the number of poor people. It must be accepted, to go back to the debate Charles Booth had with the Social Democratic Federation that it is “abject poverty” we are talking about; almost a sub-human level of existence of the majority of fellow Indians we cannot continue to be blasé about. Counting them would be a much-needed start to convey that each life matters. Seema Chishti is a journalist based in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-state-of-indias-poor-must-be-acknowledged/article34897077.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s vaccine policy needs clarity||Contrary to popular perception, public policies are made without full knowledge or facts. More often than not, they embody assumptions arising from experience, an understanding of history, and present conditions. Considering the vast sea of unknowns surrounding COVID-19, it would be understandable to place a greater reliance on historical experience. Instead, India’s vaccine policy appears to be one of experimentation. Despite several modifications, the final policy as articulated by the Prime Minister on June 7 continues to lack clarity in its intent, design, funding and outcomes. In seeking to pursue conflicting objectives, the policy architecture is complex, difficult to implement, and could be a nightmare for accountants. The vaccine policy After much loss of time, the final policy has the following elements: the stated objective is universal access to free vaccinations in all government and accredited facilities; the design for achieving the objective is creating a dual market under which the Central government will procure 75% of the total quantity manufactured, leaving the residue for commercial sale. The funding will be a mix of public finance and out-of-pocket expenditure. The outcome is to ensure that all 95 crore adults are fully vaccinated by the end of this year. The policy has two caveats related to pricing and volume of sales. While Covishield and Covaxin are supplied to the Central government at Rs. 150 per dose, the price for a consumer in the private market is capped at Rs. 780 for Covishield, Rs. 1,145 for Sputnik V and Rs. 1,410 for Covaxin. To avoid cornering of vaccines by corporates and enable medium and small hospitals to participate in vaccination, the Central government will specify hospital-wise and State-wise quotas for private sales. Based on the quota allocated, the said hospitals will procure the vaccine directly from the manufacturer or use the option of the National Health Authority portal, if accredited. Compare this maze with the policy followed under the Universal Immunisation Programme – the Central government indicates the quantity required, the delivery schedules and the rates as per global tender, and supplies quality, ready-to-use vaccines to the States to be provided free. The manufacturer is left to dispose of excess quantity, if any, in accordance with market forces and without interference from the government. Under this system, the government has negotiated incredibly low prices due to the volume of its orders. In view of its wide reach, the private sector’s participation, catering to the better-off sections which have the ability to pay, has averaged 5%-15% depending on the vaccine. Current status of procurement It is estimated that the Central government has procured and placed advance purchases for 79 crore doses for Rs. 12,405 crore (including Rs. 1,485 crore from PM CARES). The State governments in May procured 2.6 crore doses incurring Rs. 810 crore, while the private sector (nine corporate chains and 300 hospitals) procured 1.2 crore doses. Selling at Rs. 1,000 per dose of Covishield and an average of Rs. 1,400 for Covaxin, the household expenditure on vaccines comes to about Rs. 1,332 crore. The private sector’s share in the total 82.8 crore doses procured and amount incurred is 1.45% and 9.1%, respectively. The total number of people who got vaccinated by June 21 with a single dose was 23.2 crore and with two doses was 5.05 crore. Of the total 190 crore vaccines required for covering the eligible population with two doses and 83 crore already secured for supply till year-end, the gap is 107 crore. This brings us to the first level of policy confusion. In the absence of spelling out the population segments that the government proposes to cover, it is unclear whether the 75% procurement cap refers to the stocks manufactured or by implication the eligible population. Clarity on this is important. If it refers to stocks, then the position can vary due to uncertainties and externalities associated with production. Besides, in the absence of credible information regarding real-world manufacturing capacity and wide price differentials, arriving at what that 75% of manufactured stocks would entail is difficult, creating an unstable environment for operation and planning. If it is 75% of the population to be covered, the policy assumes that 24 crore people have the ability to pay such high prices for a vaccine. How far is that a realistic assumption, given that as per data of the Pew Research Centre, the number of people earning less than $2 a day has doubled from 5.9 crore to 13.4 crore as a result of the pandemic? Due to the pandemic, under every income segment, the numbers have reduced — the number of people in the high and upper-middle class is estimated to have fallen to 1.8 crore from 2.5 crore, the middle class to 6.6 crore from the 9.9 crore prior to the pandemic, and the lower middle class to 116.2 crore from 119.7 crore. The second policy confusion is determining from where the 24 crore-paying population is to come from for buying the vaccine at the rates laid down by the government. The inequity this policy will generate between the rich and poor, urban and rural is embedded and will be hard to justify, besides clouding the actual requirement of vaccines for the government to administer. In other words, the demand may be more for free vaccines while the self-imposed ceiling of 75% of stocks may create artificial scarcities. Or is there an assumption that 75% coverage would ensure herd immunity and, with some luck, the pandemic may just blow over? Concerns Apart from concerns of ethics and morality, the ‘two steps forward, one step backward’ policy fix has given rise to another set of issues necessitating simplification of the policy design. One, the idea of manipulating markets is not as smart as it sounds. Piecemeal orders increase investment risk for a company. Besides, delivering and processing small orders by multiple small entities (private hospitals) located in remote areas would further add to costs impacting the price at the point of delivery. Since price must ensure a minimum return on investment, it is critical that such complexities be addressed. Two, the small and medium private hospitals that have the reach in Tier 2 towns and rural areas do not have deep pockets to buy such costly vaccines. Given vaccine hesitancy, heightened by a constrained ability to pay, the mutating virus and constant shifts in vaccine dosage and periodicity due to emerging evidence, the additional burden of organising quality assurance all add to the risk. Three, differential pricing and dual markets provide wrong incentives and result in unhealthy competition, illegal charging for vaccines in government facilities, siphoning, diversion and leakage of the free vaccines to the private markets where in large swathes of the country it is the government doctors that double up as owners of private enterprises. Clearly, there is a need to simplify the policy with the government as the sole procurer. Implementation must be in accordance with district-level micro plans incorporating the public and private sector, to cover target groups as specified in accordance with epidemiological data. The objective has to be to restore normalcy, kick-start the economy, start schools and ensure people’s well-being. It is not the time to ask people to share costs when the economy is tanking. Vaccines are our only lifeline. They should be freely available and accessible to all, not only to the privileged few. K. Sujatha Rao is former Union Health Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-vaccine-policy-needs-clarity/article34897213.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||With Raisi in the saddle, the road ahead for Iran||The head of Iran’s judiciary, Ebrahim Raisi, won the presidential election in Iran on Saturday, June 19 with 61.95% of the vote. His victory has come as no surprise, especially as he was considered the main choice of the Iranian hardliners. Mr. Raisi was among seven contenders — including five conservatives — allowed by Iran’s election monitoring body to run in the presidential election of June 18. Unsurprisingly, out of the estimated 592 people who registered to take part in the presidential election, only seven candidates were approved by Iran’s Guardian Council. Among those barred from running were former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and former Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani. A deeper reading From the point of view of experts and observers of Iranian politics, this election was carefully engineered and controlled by the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) who have been influencing all decision-making concerning Iranian domestic and foreign policies. Ayatollah Khamenei is 82 and there are already rumours that the best candidate to replace him in the long run, as the Supreme Leader of the Iranian Revolution, is Mr. Raisi. This is a decision which will certainly be desired and approved by the hardline members of the IRGC which is the most powerful support base for exporting the Islamic Revolution to other countries and breaking all resistance from social and political groups in the country. A weakening of the reformists Mr. Raisi’s election comes at a critical time for the Iranian reformists. Unlike the previous presidential elections, where the hardliners fought against pro-reform figures, the June 18 election was the final nail in the coffin of the reform movement; the idea supported by many within and outside Iran during the past three decades was that gradual political change in the Islamic Republic was possible. Mr. Raisi’s victory is an important opportunity for Iranian hardliners to win control over the most important branches of government after being out of office for many years. As a reaction to the hardline retort, the reformists even tried to pressure Hassan Khomeini, the grandson of the founder of the Islamic republic, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, to run as a candidate, but even he had no chance to encounter the dynamics of an election fully controlled by the Supreme Leader and his gathering. As a result, none of the close collaborators of Hassan Rouhani could pass the vetting by the Guardian Council. But, anyhow, the reformists were to be blamed for having failed to bring in meaningful change in easing political and social restrictions in the country and helping the expected rise of the hard-liners. This is one of the main reasons why many Iranians have become increasingly disillusioned with the reformist camp of the establishment, which has been increasingly marginalised. Let us not forget that the voter turnout in last week’s presidential election was 48.8%, the lowest turnout recorded for a presidential election since the establishment of the Islamic Republic in 1979. The ground realities Though unified in their support of Mr. Raisi, the Iranian hardline factions did not succeed in energising Iran’s disaffected public. As a matter of fact, there was a minimal interest in the presidential election among many young Iranians who continue to struggle on a daily basis to make both ends meet amid a continually deteriorating economy that has been crushed by sanctions by the United States. Unsurprisingly, a high percentage of the Iranian population does not find in the new President a possibility of a better economic situation and improved ties with the West. But this is not the only reason why Iranian civil society does not trust the new President. Many Iranians, even those born after the Islamic Revolution of 1979, are quite aware of Mr. Raisi’s long career in Iran’s judiciary and his participation in a four-member committee which ordered the execution of thousands of Leftist and the People’s Mujahedin Organization of Iran (MKO) political prisoners in 1988. These executions were never acknowledged by the Iranian government, but in August 2016, the family of the late Ayatollah Ali Montazeri, the former Deputy Supreme Leader, published an audio file in which he harshly criticised the executions in a conversation with the committee that included Mr. Raisi. Looking ahead On a different note, as being defiant to the normalisation of ties with the West, Mr. Raisi will certainly not plead for an immediate opening of the Iranian economy to foreign investors. Therefore, he will have great difficulty in revitalising the Iranian economy, especially because he has continuously minimised the impact of U.S. economic sanctions and even that of the COVID-19 pandemic on the difficult social and economic situation in Iran. As in foreign policy, the new President will continue good relations with Russia and China, while he will persist in reinforcing Iran’s strategic relations with Syria and Iraq. Last, but not least, although challenging the West, he will not openly and clearly oppose the Iranian nuclear agreement which is currently being negotiated with the Americans and the Europeans. After all, the Iranian President is a political player with very little power in the Islamic regime, since the final decision on major issues such as the nuclear agreement, comes back to the Supreme Leader of the Revolution. But there is more to Ebrahim Raisi than what he seems to appear. Actually, as everybody knows inside Iran, he has ambitions to replace Ayatollah Khamenei as the next Supreme Leader of the Revolution. Therefore, while he continues to be faithful to Ali Khamenei, he could be trying to consolidate his alliances with different conservative groups in Iran. Mr. Raisi’s deep ties with the IRGC can be interpreted as his support for the Iranian military hegemony in the region, with a clear priority being given to the ideological interests of the Islamic regime over regional security and stability. As an ultra-conservative, Mr. Raisi will certainly continue to collaborate with the IRGC decision-makers in order to play a significant role within Iran’s hegemonic enterprise in West Asia. Ramin Jahanbegloo is Director, Mahatma Gandhi Centre for Peace, Jindal Global University, Sonipat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/with-raisi-in-the-saddle-the-road-ahead-for-iran/article34897080.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Towards a more federal structure||Preserving the unity of India was a great concern at the time of independence. The rulers of Travancore, Hyderabad, Jodhpur, Bhopal and Junagadh wanted their own separate countries. In October 1947, Kashmir was invaded with the backing of a very young Pakistan government. Goa was liberated from the Portuguese only in 1961. It was natural that India opted to be a Union unlike the U.S. and many other countries which have federal governments. The essential difference is that the Central government has more authority and power in a Union government.  Revenue distribution Direct taxes are income tax and corporate tax. In the U.S., both the federal and State governments collect such taxes from individuals and corporations.  This is true in Switzerland and some other countries as well. However, in India, direct taxes go entirely to the Central government. The Central government is supposed to distribute 41% of its gross tax revenues (reduced from 42% after the formation of new Union Territories in Jammu and Kashmir) to the State governments. In the U.S., the federal government distributes about 15% of its revenues. State governments get funds from the Central government according to the Finance Commission’s recommendations. Though this is based on some formula, often politics intervenes and some States get less and some more. Usually the Central government does not meet the 41% target. We see various States either petitioning or coming into conflict with the Central government on this issue. Meanwhile, the Central government has added cess on various items which adds up to over Rs. 3.5 lakh crore. This is not shared with the State governments. State governments also raise their own funds largely through taxes on liquor, property, road and vehicles. At an all-India level, the States get 26% of their total revenue from the Central government. Some of the so-called poorer States get up to 50% of their total revenue from the Central government, making them even more dependent. This gives more economic power to the Central government and allows ruling parties at the Centre to use these funds to their advantage. Another issue is regional disparity. Maharashtra, Delhi and Karnataka contribute the lion’s share of taxes to the government. These three regions along with Tamil Nadu and Gujarat contribute 72% of the tax revenue. Uttar Pradesh, which has the largest population in India, contributes only 3.12% but gets over 17% of the revenue distributed by the Central government. Revenue distribution is based on complex considerations including population and poverty levels. For every Rs. 100 contributed, southern States get about 51% from the Central government, whereas Bihar gets about 200%. The population growth rates in the south have come down to near zero, whereas the population in central and north India continues to grow. The cross subsidy from the south to the north will therefore grow. Meanwhile, job seekers and those looking for higher quality education are flocking to the south. On the other hand, political power is concentrated in the north because there are more Lok Sabha seats. The number of seats in each State will be revised in 2026 perhaps based on population and other factors. This has already created apprehension in the southern States that they will be further politically marginalised. The periodic attempts to declare Hindi a national language fuels widespread resentment. Beyond the current framework Some experts support cross subsidy and others oppose it. Suggestions usually work within the current framework. Making the fund allocation fairer is almost impossible because of politics. We need to look beyond this framework. One step could be to provide greater economic power to the States so that they can directly collect more taxes and be less dependent on the Central government. This would improve Centre-State relations. For poorer States, a period of transition is perhaps required. Unfortunately, politics does not depend on expert opinion. On top of an extended pandemic, negative economic growth and loss of crores of jobs, the situation is becoming ripe for rabble-rousing politicians to ask why we should subsidise those people who disrespect our language and do not give us political power. Regional differences led to violence in Yugoslavia, Sri Lanka and between East and West Pakistan. Hopefully, we may not see that kind of violence. India’s hard-won independence and unity needs to be preserved. Today there are threats from China. There may be threats from Afghanistan after the U.S. withdraws its troops. A transition to a more federal structure will allow the Centre to focus on external threats instead of internal dissensions. Our internal divisions helped invaders from West Asia and the British. Hopefully, we will learn from our history. Trilochan Sastry is Professor, IIM Bangalore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/towards-a-more-federal-structure/article34897215.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A case to decriminalise suicide||India has the highest suicide rate in the Southeast Asian region, according to the World Health Organization. Depression, chronic ill health, guilt, trauma, substance abuse, failure in exams, and loss of loved ones are some of the reasons which influence a person’s decision to take his or her life. A total of 1,34,516 cases of suicide were reported in 2018 in India, according to the National Crime Records Bureau. While the rate of suicide was 9.9 in 2017, it increased to 10.2 in 2018. Crime and punishment Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code dictates the penal provision for attempting suicide. If a person is suffering from any mental trauma or illness, he or she should be given reformative treatment rather than a deterrent punishment which is “simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year [or with fine, or with both]”. India has retained much of the colonial legal legacy in its penal jurisprudence. But the fact is that the British Parliament decriminalised attempts to suicide in 1961 through the Suicide Act. In India, a Bill to repeal Section 309 was first introduced in the Rajya Sabha in 1972 but it failed to pass in the Lok Sabha because the House was dissolved. We have witnessed a century-long tussle between two camps in which one advocates for penal provision and the other continuously demands that attempts to suicide be decriminalised. Those who favour the penal provision generally quote the judgment in Gian Kaur V. State of Punjab (1996)  where the court held that the “right to life is a natural right embodied in Article 21” of the Constitution but “suicide is an unnatural termination or extinction of life and, therefore, incompatible and inconsistent with the concept of right to life”. In Aruna Ramchandra Shanbaug v. Union of India (2011), the Supreme Court endorsed the earlier judgment. On the other hand, those who argue that the act of attempting suicide should not be criminalised quote Maruti Shripati Dubal v. State of Maharashtra (1986). In this judgment, the Bombay High Court declared Section 309 unconstitutional. It said: “For example, the freedom of speech and expression includes freedom not to speak and to remain silent. The freedom of association and movement likewise includes the freedom not to join any association or to move anywhere... If this is so, logically it must follow that right to live... will include also a right not to live or not to be forced to live.” The court also said: “If the purpose of the prescribed punishment is to prevent the prospective suicides by deterrence, it is difficult to understand how the same can be achieved by punishing those who have made the attempts... Those who make the suicide attempt on account of the mental disorders require psychiatric treatment and not confinement in prison cells.” This idea was recorded in Chenna Jagadeeswar v. State of Andhra Pradesh and P. Rathinam v. Union of India (1994)  where the court held that Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code is a violation of Articles 14 and 21 and is void and unconstitutional. A solution In 2017, Parliament passed the Mental Healthcare Act. Section 115 (1) of the Act provides, “Notwithstanding anything contained in section 309 of the Indian Penal Code, any person who attempts to commit suicide shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, to have severe stress and shall not be tried and punished under the said Code.” However, this law applies only to those suffering from mental illness. There is presumption of severe stress in case of an attempt to die by suicide. But what if severe stress is not proved? We have to shift from penalising attempts to suicide to making such cases medico-legal ones and provide psychological or mental treatment and support to the persons affected. As the issue demands a reformative stance, we need a permanent solution like repealing Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code or striking it down. Rajmohan Unnithan is the current Member of Parliament in the Lok Sabha from Kasaragod||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-case-to-decriminalise-suicide/article34897210.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A perpetual war||The dilemmas of ending the U.S.’s ‘forever war’ appeared to fall heavily upon the shoulders of President Joe Biden, who is now helming his country’s rush for the exit before the self-imposed deadline of September 11, 2021, the 20-year anniversary of the WTC terror attacks. While he clearly signalled his intention to remain engaged with the war-torn country by meeting, in the first instance, Afghanistan’s President, Ashraf Ghani, and Chairman of its High Council for National Reconciliation, Abdullah Abdullah, at the White House this week, the U.S.’s troop withdrawal since May 1, 2021, in a sense signals the opposite intention. There is no mistaking the Taliban’s reaction, especially to Washington’s plan to wind down its Afghan military presence. Ever since February 29, 2020, when the U.S. and the Taliban signed the Doha “agreement for bringing peace” to Afghanistan, Taliban-linked violence has risen steadily, U.S. intelligence reports have assessed that al-Qaeda still has a presence in Afghanistan and the terrorist outfit’s decades-long ties with the Taliban have been undiminished. Meanwhile the situation on the ground is far from inspiring for anyone who hopes for peace in the region. Facing tepid resistance from the ANDSF, now with ever-reducing access to U.S. air support, the Taliban have managed to fight, hold on to and even take back the territories from the government. This reality begs the question of what new vortexes of violence, terrorist havens and other sources of regional instability Afghanistan might play host to now, and whether the U.S. and western powers will retain enough influence to prevent events in this regard from spiralling out of control. Closer to home, a sense of concern must be pervading South Block as the last U.S. troop carriers lift off from Bagram, potentially allowing agents linked to Pakistan’s military and intelligence establishment a freer hand to engage with extremist elements in Afghan with possible blowback for India. What will become of New Delhi’s long-sighted, soft-power investments into education, training and infrastructure and civil society development? Had the U.S. played a consistently strong hand supporting the Afghan government instead of pushing as hard as it did to engage the Taliban, that might have delayed Washington’s exit plans but provided more leeway for the ANDSF to push harder and take enough territory to weaken the Taliban’s overall strategic grip. Given the prospect of the ANDSF’s fragmentation — already occurring in some areas — it now appears more likely that a deal may be forged between the Taliban and powerbrokers once associated with the Afghan government. This could lead to a Taliban-centric religious council that sets an overall tenor of governance based on Islamic law yet permits a semi-autonomous executive governmental power to operate within that framework.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-perpetual-war/article34897072.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A time to give||The Centre’s stated position before the Supreme Court on paying a standard ex gratia compensation to families of those who died of COVID-19 shows poor appreciation of the fallout of an unprecedented disaster. After initially asserting that such payments were beyond the Government’s fiscal affordability, although there is a provision in the Disaster Management Act for compensation, and externalising the pandemic as a global, ongoing event, the Home Ministry has now averred that the issue was the manner in which funds were to be put to use. Clearly, lack of resources would be a legless argument when the Centre is pursuing expensive redevelopment projects such as the Central Vista. What the Government says it wants to do is to deploy funds in health care, enhance social protection and support economic recovery of affected communities, rather than give one-time compensation payments (Rs. 4 lakh) or notified ex gratia sought by the petitioners. There is nothing wrong in keeping the focus on provision of essential supplies and additional health infrastructure. In fact, the second wave peak was made considerably worse by poor health infrastructure and low public health expenditure, and a policy failure recorded by the Economic Survey which called for higher public spending of 2.5%-3% of GDP on health. But lending a helping hand to families now impoverished should also be a priority. The Centre, after tying itself in knots on free vaccines, should now spell out its road map for a universal public health system. The annual Budget included a raft of schemes under COVID-19 initiatives and claimed credit for Atmanirbhar Bharat packages, which, together with the RBI’s ameliorative steps, officially amounted to 13% of GDP. But the “above-the-line” relief in terms of health care and social protection, including cash transfers, are a small share of other spending such as credit provision to several sectors, as per some estimates. The IMF analysis of policy responses says that early in the pandemic, food, fuel and cash transfers to lower-income households came to 1.2% of GDP. With the second wave marked by many deaths and nationwide closures, a review of direct benefits is urgently called for. In court, the Home Ministry has said that confining solutions to compensation would be narrow. It is no one’s case that large direct cash benefits are the only good interventions. Families who have lost breadwinners need help while orphaned children need support. It also does not help that India’s pension system is weakening, bank deposits have low yields and official policy expects people to essentially fend for themselves. The Centre should not hesitate to review its tax basket to rely more on the wealthiest to compensate those who have been hit the hardest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-time-to-give/article34897208.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Craze for Chinese snuff bottles||The market value of Chinese snuff bottles here [Hong Kong, June 21] have soared following the sensational sale of a collection in London last week for $65,000 (Rs. 4,87,500). Glass and enamel snuff bottles of recent vintage have risen more than 20 per cent in price. Older ones of a hundred years or more have gone up by as much as 40 per cent. Snuff bottles have become very popular in Hong Kong in the past five years and art collectors have been publicising the pleasure and profitability of collecting them. In the colony’s maze of curio shops, collectors have been buying the bottles indiscriminately, immediately pushing up prices. Less than ten years ago a good, late Ching dynasty opaque glass bottle cost $10. The same bottle to-day would fetch $40 or more. The popularity of snuff bottles in Hong Kong has created a booming tourist business in them. Enormous quantities of snuff bottles have appeared, many of them cheap and poor copies of originals, but sold as “antique.” Racketeers have also joined the boom business. Many innocent collectors — with more money than knowledge of snuff bottles — have been fooled by cheap fakes. The demand for snuff bottles, however, has revitalised a handicraft which was dying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/craze-for-chinese-snuff-bottles/article34897209.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Need to support households, SMEs on brink’||Larger businesses in several COVID-19-affected sectors may make it through the pandemic’s deleterious effects, but smaller companies may not survive as income and job losses pile up and weaken demand, said Tata Steel chief and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) president T.V. Narendran, seeking urgent measures to pre-empt a meltdown. “Most families have spent more on medical expenditure than they planned, and many families are impacted by job losses or salary freezes or cuts,” Mr. Narendran said in an interview. “So there would be a tendency to postpone expenditure, just to deal with the current situation,” he added, urging temporary cuts in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) rates for the worst-affected contact-intensive sectors and on consumer durables so as to spur demand. To be better prepared for future COVID-19 waves, the government must relax the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) norms that were holding up global aid flows and ground level relief efforts of well-meaning NGOs, he suggested. Critical COVID-19 supplies imported by industry and others at the peak of the second wave, should also be exempted from GST levies. In order to ramp up vaccine supplies and accelerate the pace of inoculations, the industry group said the Union government, as the largest buyer, should do ‘whatever it takes’ to help producers, including issuing confirmed orders and advance payments. While the CII has sought excise duty cuts on fuel products along with a package of other measures to give some respite to households and small businesses, the Tata Steel MD said a more targeted approach was needed for high-contact sectors like hospitality, retail and aviation which had ‘really struggled’ through the pandemic. “They are big employment generators, creating both formal and informal jobs. So we need to make sure that some of them get the support they need. The bigger companies will still survive, but it’s a large number of smaller ones who will struggle,” he said. ‘Extend ECLGS validity’ While the government has expanded the Rs. 3 lakh crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme to several more sectors, including aviation, and extended its validity till September, Mr. Narendran said it would be better to extend it till March 31 and enhance the corpus. “We should extend it till March, so that people have some more time to recover, because you also don’t know if there’s a [third wave] happening in October-November or earlier, so it’s better to provide the support... and then take a call by March next year, where we are on vaccination,” he said. “Let’s use it where it can be most helpful,” he stressed. The CII chief backed Nasscom’s call for easing FCRA norms on overseas donations till the pandemic subsides, asserting that India was losing out on global aid. “A lot of work that is currently getting probably held up by good, well-meaning NGOs… That’s actually not helping anybody,” he said. Calling for wider GST relief, he said, “If some of this (tax exemptions) encourages industry to do more and be better prepared, we should certainly do that. Because the last thing we need is to be underprepared... I’d rather that we are all prepared and there’s no third wave”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/need-to-support-households-smes-on-brink/article34897056.ece
22 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Windfall treasury gains added to PSB profits in FY21: ICRA||The onset of COVID-19 resulted in windfall gains for public sector banks (PSBs), with trading profits on their bond portfolios rising sharply after the steep cut in policy rates by the RBI in March 2020, ratings agency ICRA said. The repo rate and the reverse repo rate were cumulatively cut by 115 basis points (bps) and 155 bps, respectively, in March 2020 and May 2020 to 4% and 3.35%, respectively, by May 2020. (100 basis points = 1 percentage point) With a year-on-year deposit growth of 11.4% and muted credit growth of 5.5% in FY21, the liquidity in the banking system remained abundant at Rs. 5-7 trillion in FY2021, ICRA said in a report. “With the rate cuts and abundant liquidity, the daily average for the benchmark 10-year government securities declined from 6.42% in Q4 FY20 to 6.00% in Q1 FY21, 5.93% in Q2 FY21 and 5.9% in Q3 FY21 before rising to 6.06% in Q4 FY21,” the ratings agency said. The significant volatility in bond yields also provided banks with ample trading opportunities, ICRA added. According to ICRA’s estimates, public sector banks booked profits of Rs. 316 billion from this source (treasury operations), compared with the overall PBT of Rs. 459 billion in FY21. “As banks booked gains on their bond holdings, their fresh investments are closer to the market rates, thereby aligning the yield on their bond portfolios closer to the market rates,” said Anil Gupta, VP, Financial Sector Ratings. On an aggregate, the 12 PSBs reported a profit in FY21 after five consecutive years of losses (FY16-20). “Apart from trading gains, the return to profitability was supported by lower credit provisions on their legacy non-performing assets, after the high provisions made [in] the last few years,” ICRA said in the report. “Notably, the trading gains for public banks in FY21 exceeded the capital infusion of Rs. 200 billion received from the Government of India),” ICRA added.  On an aggregate, the 12 public sector banks reported a profit in FY21 after five consecutive years of losses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/windfall-treasury-gains-added-to-psb-profits-in-fy21-icra/article34897053.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI:,||Siva Industries’ promoters offer is better option: lenders||The promoters of Siva Industries Holdings Ltd. have told the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) that they would clear all dues, within 180 days, as per the terms of agreed out-of-court settlement with the lenders. The NCLT had sought explanation from lenders on the rationale behind accepting the one-time settlement offer. In 2019, NCLT had admitted insolvency proceedings against the C. Sivasankaran-promoted company in a case filed by IDBI Bank Limited. Later, the majority of the committee of lenders had approved a one-time settlement offer from the promoters, which had been filed before the NCLT as per 12A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). As per legal filings, there was a total claim of about Rs. 4,863 crore. Of this, claims of Rs. 644 crore by IDBI are in dispute and are to be settled based on court proceedings. The remaining claims of about Rs. 4,200 crore are proposed to be settled through payment of Rs. 323 crore by Siva Industries and Rs. 555 crore from third-party guarantors. Blackstone’s International ARC and Abu Dhabi’s Masdar hold 40% of the claims. Indian public sector banks would get 26% of their claims as per the one-time settlement proposal. The lenders had told the NCLT that the promoters’ settlement offer gave them a much better recovery compared with other options like liquidation or an alternative resolution plan to take over the company. The tribunal will hear the matter again on June 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/siva-industries-promoters-offer-is-better-option-lenders/article34897058.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vistara urges unified norm for vaccinated airline passengers||Airlines will need a “unified” solution for domestic and international air travel to enable hassle-free movement for fully vaccinated passengers, said Vistara’s Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Vinod Kannan. The remark comes at a time when the Ministry of Civil Aviation is learnt to be examining a proposal to do away with RT-PCR test requirements for fully vaccinated passengers for domestic air travel. “The question around what should be done to enable domestic travel when passengers have been vaccinated has been raised with the Ministry and that is something they are working on,” Mr. Kannan said. “We hope there will be a unified solution for domestic and international travel. What that solution will be, whether it will be a solution that IATA is proposing, or there will be another, that is something we are waiting to hear,” he told The Hindu when asked if airlines were discussing vaccine passports to make air travel easier. A vaccine passport is a document that proves a passenger has been vaccinated. However, international travel is likely to continue in the form of air bubble arrangements India has with 27 countries, he said. “May be till the last quarter of this year, they are here to stay because one of the big determinants [of reopening international flights] will be how vaccinations are distributed,” Mr. Kannan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vistara-urges-unified-norm-for-vaccinated-airline-passengers/article34897068.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,||HCL hires sales heads in Korea, Vietnam, Taiwan||HCL Technologies has appointed senior level sales personnel in South Korea, Vietnam and Taiwan to accelerate its growth in Asia. The technology firm said it has onboarded Joonho Moon, Terry Tai and Nguyen Ha Tuan as country sales heads of South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam, respectively, to drive growth. “South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam are growth markets for HCL as we see immense potential for our products and services in these countries,” said Sanjay Gupta, corporate VP, HCL Technologies. South Korea is known for its innovation and leads in new digital technologies such as 5G and IOT, Taiwan is the nerve centre of the global semiconductor industry while Vietnam is one of the fastest growing digital economies, said HCL. “HCL has been actively expanding its global footprint with its next-generation services and products,’’ said C. Vijayakumar, CEO, HCL Technologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hcl-hires-sales-heads-in-korea-vietnam-taiwan/article34897049.ece
22 June 2021||MUMBAI,||KKR to buy $625-million stake in Vini Cosmetics||Global investment firm KKR will buy a majority stake in Vini Cosmetics for about $625 million (Rs. 4,600 crore) KKR and Vini Cosmetics signed an agreement under which Vini’s founder group – led by Darshan Patel, chairman and joint MD and Dipam Patel, joint MD – and Sequoia Capital would sell stakes in the company. The co-founders would continue to hold a significant stake in Vini and collaborate with KKR in the next phase of its growth. In addition, existing investor WestBridge Capital would acquire further stake from the founder group to increase its shareholding in Vini. Vini manufactures, markets and distributes deodorants, cosmetics and toiletries under its FOGG, OSSUM and GlamUp brands. Mr. Darshan Patel would continue as the chairman and Dipam Patel would be the vice-chairman. “We look forward to leveraging their global platform, resources and operational expertise to take Vini to the next level,” said Mr. Darshan Patel said. “Our investment underscores our long-term commitment to support India’s innovative firms,” Gaurav Trehan, partner, KKR, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kkr-to-buy-625-million-stake-in-vini-cosmetics/article34897052.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bharti, Tata partner for 5G network solutions||Bharti Airtel and Tata Group on Monday announced a strategic partnership for implementing 5G network solutions for India. In May, the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) gave permission to telecom service providers to conduct 5G trials. Earlier this year, Airtel became the first telco in India to demonstrate 5G over its network in Hyderabad. The company has started 5G trials in major cities using spectrum allocated by the DoT, it said in a statement. “Tata Group has developed a ‘state of the art’ O-RAN (Radio Access Network) based radio and N on-Standalone Architecture (NSA) and Standalone Architecture (SA) core and has integrated a totally indigenous telecom stack. This will be available for commercial development starting January 2022,” Tata Group said in a statement. Airtel will pilot and deploy this solution as part of its 5G roll-out plans in India and start the pilot in January 2022, it stated. Tata Consultancy Services is helping align the solution to both Third Generation Partnership Project and O-RAN standards, as the network and equipment are increasingly embedded into software, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-tata-partner-for-5g-network-solutions/article34897054.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Centre moots ban on ‘flash sales’ on e-com sites||To monitor deep discounts offered on e-commerce websites, the government on Monday proposed changes to the Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules 2020, banning all “flash sales”. The proposed changes have been put up on the website of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs calling for public comments till July 6. The Ministry clarified that the ‘conventional’ flash sale had not been banned, but that only ‘predatory’ ones would be banned. The Ministry of Consumer Affairs said in a statement it had been receiving several complaints against widespread cheating and unfair trade practices being observed in the e-commerce ecosystem. “Conventional flash sales by third party sellers are not banned on e-commerce platform. But certain e-commerce entities are engaging in limiting consumer choice by indulging in ‘back-to-back’ or ‘flash’ sales wherein one seller on a platform does not carry any inventory or order fulfilment capability but merely places a ‘flash or back-to-back’ order with another seller controlled by the platform. This prevents a level playing field and ultimately limits customer choice and increases prices,” the Ministry said. It was not clear if this meant suspension of the big festival sales on the sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-moots-ban-on-flash-sales-on-e-com-sites/article34897069.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||SAT overrules SEBI, allows PNB HF’s EGM on Carlyle||Setting aside SEBI’s direction, the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Monday allowed PNB Housing Finance to go ahead with the shareholders’ meeting on Tuesday to consider the proposed Rs. 4,000 crore-investment by private equity firm Carlyle and others in the mortgage firm. However, results of the shareholders’ voting will not be disclosed till further directions from the tribunal. On appeal The ruling comes hours after PNB Housing informed stock exchanges that it had appealed against SEBI’s direction on June 18 wherein it was asked to defer consideration of the proposed capital infusion proposal till a valuation of the company’s shares is done by a registered independent valuer. The Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) is scheduled for Tuesday. SEBI had not only restrained PNB Housing from going ahead with voting on the proposal but also directed that the matter should be placed afresh before the company’s board of directors and a decision be taken on the basis of the independent valuation. Under the deal, PNB Housing will allot securities worth Rs. 4,000 crore to Carlyle group and other entities, a deal that will eventually result in the private equity firm becoming a major shareholder. On Monday, the shares of PNB Housing Finance declined 5% to Rs. 702.40 apiece, its lower circuit limit, on the BSE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sat-overrules-sebi-allows-pnb-hfs-egm-on-carlyle/article34897059.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maruti to raise prices in Q2 as costs increase||Maruti Suzuki India said it will raise the prices of its entire product portfolio in the second quarter of the current fiscal due to rise in prices of various essential commodities.  “The prices of steel and precious metals like rhodi um have gone up substantially. In April, we passed on a part of the increased input costs to consumers thinking that the prices of the commodities will come down eventually. But that has not happened and as a last resort, we are doing it to safeguard the firm’s nancial health,” ED (sales and marketing) Shashank Srivastava told PTI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-to-raise-prices-in-q2-as-costs-increase/article34897064.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Retail to be next growth engine for RIL’||With a potential for a 10x growth in pre-tax profit from the business over the next decade, retail, including e-commerce, will be the next growth engine for Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL), Goldman Sachs said. After growing 5x over FY16-FY20, it’s core retail revenue growth took a pause in FY21 due to COVID-related macro headwinds. The conglomerate run by billionaire Mukesh Ambani used the period to build strong digital capabilities of the retail business while continuing to expand its physical reach, it said. “We believe retail business (including e-com) is set to be the next growth engine for RIL, with potential for retail EBITDA to grow 10x over the next 10 years,” the brokerage said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-to-be-next-growth-engine-for-ril/article34897065.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SBI gets board nod to raise Rs. 14,000 crore||The country’s largest lender SBI said its central board has approved a proposal to raise up to Rs. 14,000 crore by issuing Basel-III- compliant bonds. The bonds are proposed to be raised in Indian or U.S. currency. “The central board of the bank at its meeting held today on June 21, accorded approval for raising capital by way of issuance of Basel III-compliant debt instruments in USD and/or INR during FY22,” SBI said in a regulatory filing. Under this, the bank plans to raise fresh additional tier I capital up to an amount of Rs. 14,000 crore subject to the Government of India concurrence, it added.  The scrip of SBI closed 1.64% higher at Rs. 419.55 apiece on BSE||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-gets-board-nod-to-raise-rs-14000-crore/article34897066.ece
22 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Honeywell to develop authentication tech to combat counterfeit in pharma products, vaccine||Tech firm Honeywell said it would develop a digital authentication technology to battle counterfeit pharmaceutical products in India. According to Honeywell, the solution would comprise a digital code that is embedded in the packaging of pharmaceutical products. The user can verify product authenticity by scanning the digital code using a smartphone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/honeywell-to-develop-authentication-tech-to-combat-counterfeit-in-pharma-products-vaccine/article34897050.ece
22 June 2021||Chennai,||IP Rings turns Rs. 4.09 cr. profit in Q4||IP Rings Ltd. reported a standalone net profit of Rs. 4.09 crore for Q4 FY21 on account of a substantial rise in revenue. It had incurred a loss of Rs. 1.09 crore in Q4FY20. Revenue from operations rose 69% to Rs. 76 crore. The board declared a dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share. FY22 looks promising with new orders from European and North American clients , said Ram Venkataramani, MD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ip-rings-turns-rs-409-cr-profit-in-q4/article34897060.ece
22 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Nissan exports||Nissan Motor India has commenced exports of sub-compact sport utility vehicle (SUV) Magnite to Indonesia, South Africa and Nepal. Nissan said it had so far produced 15,010 Magnite SUVs of which 13,790 were for India and 1,220 for exports. Following the overwhelming response for Magnite, it plans to explore new export markets, said Sinan Ozkok, president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nissan-exports/article34897062.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Grofers to raise tech team pay by 33 pc, promises hefty ESOP allocation||Grofers on Monday said it will offer a 33% hike in salary to its tech team effective July, along with a “hefty ESOP allocation” as the online grocery delivery platform looks to retain staff and woo more tech talent. The SoftBank-backed company, which plans to launch an initial public offering (IPO), also hinted that it has secured a new funding round.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/grofers-to-raise-tech-team-pay-by-33-pc-promises-hefty-esop-allocation/article34897063.ece
22 June 2021||SOUTHAMPTON,||Not a ball bowled on fourth day||The fickle English weather played spoilsport yet again as day four of the inaugural World Test Championship final between India and New Zealand was washed out due to rain. For the second time in the summit clash, a whole day was lost. No play was possible on the opening day too. With the weather not improving since morning at the Ageas Bowl, the umpires took a call almost four hours and 30 minutes after the scheduled start time of 3 p.m. IST. “Day four of the #WTC21 Final has been abandoned due to persistent rain,” read an ICC update. Disappointed fans The fans who were patiently waiting for the action to start had to leave disappointed. “We thank our fans who turned up and kept the tempo high. See you again, tomorrow,” the BCCI added. Rain is not forecast for the remaining two days of the big final but it is likely to remain overcast, the way it has been so far in the contest. On days two and three, bad light had stopped play. The final was well-poised at stumps on day three with New Zealand reaching 101 for two in reply to India’s 217 all out. Maximum of 196 overs A maximum of 196 overs can be played in the game in order to find a result. The trophy will be shared if the game is drawn. The match, the culmination of the inaugural World Test Championship that has spanned two years with contests between leading Test nations, is worth $1.6 million to the winner and $800,000 to the runner-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-a-ball-bowled-on-fourth-day/article34897301.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Toor finally books Tokyo ticket, in style||Shot-putter Tajinderpal Singh Toor made the long wait count, finally booking a Tokyo Olympics ticket in style with a new National record of 21.49m at the fourth Indian Grand Prix at Patiala on Monday and bettering the Olympic qualifying mark by some distance. The Olympic mark is set at 21.10m. It had been a frustrating wait for the athlete who kept insisting he was in fine form during training and had the confidence of his coach M.S. Dhillon to make the cut. During the Federation Cup in April, Dhillon had said it was not a question of if but when Toor would do it. A series of cancelled foreign trips for training and competition did not make things easier. In fact, every one of his four valid throws went past the Olympic mark — a series of 21.28m and a couple of 21.13m throws. “My target was close to 21.50m and I got it on my first throw. Still, there is a long way to go for me and my target is at least 22m. I hope to do even better at the inter-State championships,” Toor said after the event. Discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur, meanwhile, improved her own three-month old National record by more than a metre, managing a 66.59m throw that, if replicated, would make her a serious medal contender at Tokyo going by the last two editions. That she was the only competitor in her event did not affect her performance. Also setting a new National record was Dutee Chand in the 100m with a timing of 11.17 seconds, agonisingly missing the Olympic mark of 11.15s. Hima wins in style Dutee, who was expected to be in a showdown with Hima Das in the 200m, did not start that race even as Hima won in 22.88s, the fastest by an Indian woman over the distance since Saraswati Saha’s national record of 22.82s in 2002. The Olympic mark is 22.80s.  The results:   Men, 400m: 1. Sarthak Bhambri (47.45); 2. Amit Balayan (47.52); 3. A. Alex (47.55); 1,500m: 1. Ajay Kumar Saroj (3:43.46); 2. Ishu Solanki (3:53.55); 3. Sukhan Preet Singh (3:56.31); 400m hurdles: M.P. Jabir (50.51s); 4x400m: 1. India-A (3:02.61); 2. India-B (3:11.77); 3. Maldives-C (3:37.38); 3,000m steeplechase: 1. Shankar Lal Swami (8:34.40); 2. Mohd. Nur Hasan (9:19.18); 3. Parveen Dhanda (9:24.86); Long jump: 1. M. Sreeshankar (7.74); 2. Yugant Shekhar Singh (7.67); 3. Mohd. Anees Yahiya (7.60); Triple jump: 1. Eldhose Paul (16.62); 2. U. Karthik (16.21); 3. Abdulla Aboobacker (15.90); Shot put: 1. Tajinderpal Singh Toor (21.49); 2. Karanveer Singh (20); 3. Vanam Sharma (19.93); Javelin: 1. Rohit Yadav (75.83); 2. Arshdeep Singh (75.58); 3. Rajender Singh (74.28).   Women, 100m: 1. Dutee Chand (11.17); 2. A.T. Dhaneshwari (11.48); 3. Himashri Roy (11.71); 200m: 1. Hima Das (22.88); 2. Dhanalakshmi (23.14); 3. Archana Suseendran (23.26); 400m: 1. M.R. Poovamma (53.78); 2. V. Revathi Veeramani (54.28); 3. Kiran Pahal (54.48); 1,500m: 1. Harmilan Bains (4:08.27); 2. P.U. Chitra (4:25.31).   5,000m: 1. Parul Chaudhary (16:01.37); 2. Pooja Harijan (16:51.84); 4x100m: 1. India-A (43.37); 2. India-B (48.02); 3. Maldives-C (50.74); Discus: Kamalpreet Kaur (66.59); Javelin: 1. Annu Rani (60.58); 2. Sanjana Choudhary (53.54); 3. Shilpa Rani (48.74) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/toor-finally-books-tokyo-ticket-in-style/article34897340.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Conway has what it takes to go places||Inclement weather washing out Monday’s play in the ICC World Test Championship final lent time to reflect on Devon Conway’s early achievements and the possibility of him emerging as a significant batsman of merit. The 29-year-old left-hander, who moved from South Africa to New Zealand in 2016, has an insatiable appetite for runs. And it is not about statistics but the sight he presents at the crease, with an ice-cool temperament which is so reassuring to the New Zealand supporters. Solid and organised Opening the innings, he is solid and organised with footwork and balance. He knows his off-stump whether he plays or leaves, whips deliveries on the leg-side, with his rear leg up as he executes the stroke, and can pull the short-pitched deliveries. He allows the ball to come to him, plays it late and can take the sting off the bowling. His push-drives in the ‘V’ have fetched him a lot of runs, so have the cover-drives where his foot reaches out to the ball’s pitch. His initial numbers are mind-boggling. He began his Test career with a recent 200 at the hallowed Lord’s against an incisive English pace attack. This was followed by a series-clinching 80 in the second Test at Edgbaston. And he appeared calm and efficient against a probing Indian attack in demanding conditions at Southampton, when his strength, the whiplash flick, led to his dismissal for a well-made 54. Staggering numbers A look at Conway’s numbers in New Zealand’s domestic competitions, across formats, is staggering. Last season he was the highest scorer in all three formats with 701 runs in six First Class matches in the Plunket Shield, New Zealand’s First Class cricket, 553 runs in 10 innings in the List-A Ford Trophy and 543 runs in 11 matches of the Super Smash T20 tournament. Batting conditions in New Zealand’s domestic cricket are never easy, but Conway relished the challenge. His 327 not out for Wellington against Canterbury made sure the New Zealand selectors offered him a Central Contract. An ODI hundred against Bangladesh in Wellington, an unbeaten 99 versus Australia in the T20 international at Christchurch followed. A natural run-getter, formats do not bother him and he adjusts seamlessly because of sound fundamentals. Is Conway destined for a shot at greatness? The initial signs seem good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/conway-has-what-it-takes-to-go-places/article34897299.ece
22 June 2021||Gros Islet,||Maharaj hat-trick sends Windies hurtling to defeat||Keshav Maharaj became just the second South African to take a hat-trick in Test cricket and the team registered a 2-0 series victory as West Indies was shot out for 165 in the second session on day four of the second Test on Monday. West Indies had been set a target of 324. Maharaj’s hat-trick came in the penultimate over of the first session. He claimed a big breakthrough when Kieran Powell was caught near the square- leg boundary for 51. But the spinner added the wickets of Jason Holder and Joshua Da Silva off his next two balls. Wiaan Mulder took a one-handed catch low down to his right at leg-slip to seal the hat-trick and send Maharaj running and sliding, soccer-style, on his chest on the grass in celebration. Maharaj finished with five for 36 off 17.3 overs. The only previous South African to take a hat trick in Tests was Geoff Griffin against England at Lord’s in 1960. Rabada shines Fast bowler Kagiso Rabada took the first three wickets of the session as West Indies, which started the day on 15/0 in its second innings, fell away quickly. Rabada sent West Indies captain Kraigg Brathwaite (6) and Shai Hope (2) back quickly before picking up the key wicket of Kyle Mayers for 34, ending his stand of 64 with Powell. On Sunday, South Africa made 174 in its second innings after dismissing the West Indies for 149. Rassie van der Dussen top-scored with an unbeaten 75.  The scores: South Africa 298 & 174 in 53 overs (Rassie van der Dussen 75 n.o., Kagiso Rabada 40, Kemar Roach 4/52, Kyle Mayers 3/24) bt West Indies 149 & 165 in 58.3 overs (Kieran Powell 51, Kyle Mayers 34, Kagiso Rabada 3/44, Keshav Maharaj 5/36, incl. a hat-trick) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maharaj-hat-trick-sends-windies-hurtling-to-defeat/article34897304.ece
22 June 2021||TOKYO,||Tokyo organisers set a limit of 10,000 fans for all venues||The Tokyo Olympics will allow some local fans to attend when the Games open in just over a month, organising committee officials and the International Olympic Committee (IOC) said on Monday. Organisers set a limit of 50% of capacity up to a maximum of 10,000 fans for all Olympic venues. The decision was announced after so-called Five Party talks online with local organisers, IOC, International Paralympic Committee, Japanese government and government of metropolitan Tokyo. Local organising committee president Seiko Hashimoto said it was important to acknowledge the uncertainty around the pandemic during the Games. “If there is any abrupt change in the situation, we will hold five-party meetings again to make other decisions,” Hashimoto said. “If there is an announcement of a state of emergency during the Games, no-spectator Games will be examined.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-organisers-set-a-limit-of-10000-fans-for-all-venues/article34897306.ece
22 June 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI gesture irks some State units||The Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI’s) decision to release Rs. 10 crore for assisting India’s Olympic campaign in Tokyo has not gone down too well with some of its members. While none of the State association representatives voiced their concern over the proposal during zonal videoconferencing meets on Sunday before the apex council stamped the decision, some units pointed out that the “previous experience” with the Sports Ministry was far from pleasant.  In 2008, the BCCI had set aside a corpus of Rs. 50 crore for a joint venture along with the ministry for what was to be called the National Sports Development Fund (NSDF). But according to Ratnakar Shetty, BCCI’s chief administrative officer then, the ministry never provided details of how the fund was utilised. “The NSDF was to be formed with a corpus of Rs. 80 crore — with the Sports Ministry to contribute Rs. 30 crore. After the 2010 Commonwealth Games, there was no detailed report about utilisation of funds,” Shetty told The Hindu on Monday. “I filed an RTI in personal capacity and the reply was shocking. Only Rs. 8 crore was spent. It is obviously nice that the BCCI wants to support other sports but it should first ask what happened to the money that was already donated. What was it utilised for?” Shetty also pointed out that it was the contribution of Rs. 50 crore to the NSDF that resulted in the Income Tax authorities revoking tax exemption for the BCCI. “It was remarked that supporting other sports was not an object of the BCCI as defined in the memorandum of association, and the BCCI’s appeal is still pending in the Bombay High Court.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-gesture-irks-some-state-units/article34897300.ece
22 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Sara Bangla Daba Sangstha comes into being||The formation of Sara Bangla Daba Sangstha (SBDS), an All India Chess Federation (AICF) affiliated body, was announced here on Monday. “Our new organisation, SBDS, has been granted affiliation by the AICF in its Annual General Meeting held on June 10, 2021. “This means that we have now the responsibility to function as the apex body of West Bengal chess,” said a press release. Haider Ali and Ashit Chatterjee are the interim-president and secretary of the new body respectively. A 15-member interim committee has been formed to run the chess affairs in the State and conduct elections within three months. The SBDS website was inaugurated here on Monday in the presence of AICF president Sanjay Kapoor, secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan and Grandmasters Surya Sekhar Ganguly and Dibyendu Barua. Three tournaments “Dr. Kapoor announced that three major tournaments would be allocated to SBDS to be conducted within March 2022,” said the release. According to an announcement made by Chauhan, the AICF disaffiliated the previous body, Bengal Chess Association, in the state for ‘not complying’ with its norms and National Sports Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sara-bangla-daba-sangstha-comes-into-being/article34897459.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Nikhat feted by Sports Minister||Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud felicitated boxer Nikhat Zareen at his official chambers here on Monday. The Minister assured complete support of the State Government in her endeavor to scale new heights. “You are our pride and we sincerely wish you continue to dazzle at the highest level. We know you are targetting the Commonwealth Games next year and to realise your goal, whatever support you are looking for from the Government will be assured,” Goud said at the function organised on Nikhat being appointed an officer in Bank of India under sports quota. Nikhat, who won a bronze in the Turkey championship in March, said she was preparing hard despite the pandemic throwing the training schedule out of gear. “With things improving, I hope to get into the full-fledged training mode and gun for glory in Commonwealth Games,” she said. Nikhat also thanked the Bank of India management for giving her a job in Hyderabad and promised to live up to the expectations. A. Venkateshwar Reddy, chairman, Sports Authority of Telangana State, was among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nikhat-feted-by-sports-minister/article34897530.ece
22 June 2021||Wellington,||Hubbard is first trans athlete at Olympics||Laurel Hubbard hefted 628 pounds (185 kilograms) in two lifts on the way to qualifying in the women’s super-heavyweight division for the Tokyo Olympics. She became the first transgender athlete to compete at an Olympic Games. Hubbard was among five weightlifters confirmed on Monday in New Zealand’s team for Tokyo. At 43, she will also be the oldest weightlifter at the games, and will be ranked fourth in the competition on Aug. 2 for women 87 kilograms (192 pounds) and over. Hubbard won a silver medal at the 2017 World Championships and gold in the 2019 Pacific Games in Samoa. She competed at the 2018 Commonwealth Games but sustained a serious injury that set back her career. “I am grateful and humbled by the kindness and support that has been given to me by so many New Zealanders,” Hubbard said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hubbard-is-first-trans-athlete-at-olympics/article34897343.ece
22 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Jeev’s emotional tribute to father Milkha||Ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh paid tribute to his father Milkha Singh, who died of COVID-19 complications last week, saying he would need a lifetime of resilience to deal with the loss of his best friend, guide, and mentor. The 49-year-old Jeev said Father’s Day on Sunday was “another sad reminder of what I’ve lost”. “Dad was much more than my father — he was my best friend, my guide, my mentor,” Jeev said in a tweet. “I hope I’ve the same resilience and inner strength to overcome all odds. I really need it now. And I will need it for the rest of my life,” he added. Milkha was cremated here on Saturday evening with full State honours, with Jeev lighting the pyre. Milkha also had three daughters.  “Somehow, I don’t remember much of Dad’s funeral procession, but one sight I will never forget. A military van coming to a stop and these soldiers getting out and giving dad the salute. “The Milkha family has always been grateful of the Indian Army, and I want to thank them again,” said Jeev. Jeev had had earlier described his mother’s death as the “loss of family’s backbone.” The seasoned golfer thanked people for the outpouring of support. “I lost my mom and dad. But what has been even more emotional is the thousands of messages we have been getting from people as if they have lost someone of their own,” he said. “Thank you to all dad’s fans and well-wishers for supporting us at this time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeevs-emotional-tribute-to-father-milkha/article34897308.ece
22 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||From choppy waters to smooth sailing||It was a moment to cheer for Hyderabad’s Yacht Club Foundation as 19 of its trainees were recruited by both wings of the Indian Navy and Army which run the Boys Sports Company, with training centres in Mysuru and Goa. Head coach Suheim Sheikh was obviously delighted by the development. He said that the 14-year-old Sunil Mudavat, born in a tribal family and who picked up the nuances of sailing at Yacht Club, can look for a career in the Navy while also pursuing his passion for sailing. “The work we are doing at YCH is truly rewarding and fulfilling when our sailors get placed,” he said. According to Suheim, most of the boys, hailing from economically backward sections of the society, have shown spirit and determination in their quest to become good sailors. “We are proud of the fact that nine of the 19 selected are SWAEROES from various villages of Telangana, including Vishvanath Padidala, who is off to Italy for the Worlds,” said R.S. Praveen Kumar, IPS, who heads the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Schools. Confirmation letter The Army boys got the confirmation letters on Monday while the Navy boys are expected to receive it by June 30. Those recruited will, however, take part in the Monsoon Regatta, scheduled for July 30, at the Hussain Sagar and will represent their sailing schools. “The best part of the recruitment is that every aspect, from academics to sailing, will be taken care of. They will pursue their education at the Kendriya Vidyalayas,” said Suheim. At the 2019 Asians in Oman, seven out of the 10 sailors representing India were from YCH. At the World Championships in Italy, three of the five will be from YCH, revealed Suheim.  “It’s a matter of immense pride that a land-locked State such as Telangana has produced so many sailors who sailing in the high seas across the world,” said Telangana Sailing Association president Lt. Gen. K.S. Rao, an Arjuna Awardee and India's first circumnavigator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/from-choppy-waters-to-smooth-sailing/article34897532.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tejaswini wins title in style||Winning 10 successive rounds, Tamil Nadu’s G. Tejaswini ensured the National girls’ (under-14) online rapid chess title with a round to spare on Monday. In the 11th and final round, seventh seed Tejaswini drew with Stuti Aishwary to tally 10.5 points. Stuti took the second spot after topping a four-way tie, involving Saparya Ghosh, Shubhi Gupta and Elakshi Srivastava, at nine points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tejaswini-wins-title-in-style/article34897338.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Rani to lead women’s hockey team||India on Monday named striker Rani Rampal as skipper and Deep Grace Ekka and Savita as two vice-captains of the national women’s hockey team for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. India announced a 16-member team for the Tokyo Games last week, but refrained from naming the captain. “It is a huge honour to lead the Indian team at the Olympic Games. In these past years my role as a captain was made easy with teammates who have shared the responsibilities as senior players,” Rani said in a statement issued by Hockey India. Under Rani’s captaincy India won the Asia Cup in 2017, a silver medal at the Asian Games in 2018, silver at the 2018 Asian Champions Trophy as well as winning the FIH Series Final in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rani-to-lead-womens-hockey-team/article34897341.ece
22 June 2021||BELGRADE,||Sajan’s new personal best in 100m butterfly||India’s Sajan Prakash came up with a new personal best timing in 100m butterfly to win gold at the Belgrade Trophy swimming competition on Sunday. The timing of 53.27 helped Sajan breach the B-mark Olympic Qualification Time (53.52), but he will need to secure the A-mark (51.96) for automatic qualification for Tokyo Also at the competition, Maana Patel and Kenisha Gupta came up with new Best Indian Performances in 100m backstroke (1:03.77) and 100m freestyle (57.39) events respectively, bettering their own previous records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sajans-new-personal-best-in-100m-butterfly/article34897345.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 09:00 IST,||Sudoku — June 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-22-2021/article34897887.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘45-60 age group residents have got the most number of doses’||Even as the Delhi government awaits the supply of extra doses to rollout the centralised vaccination drive in the Capital, residents aged between 45 and 60 have been administered the most number of COVID vaccine doses in the city so far. Accordingto Delhi government records, residents in this age group account for almost 32% of the total 65 lakh-plus COVID vaccine beneficiaries followed by the 18-44 age group, which accounts for around 27% and the 60-plus category constituting around 24%. Healthcare workers, at almost 7%, were given the least number of COVID doses in the city followed by front-line workers who constitute around 11% of the total beneficiaries. To be covered sooner However, a closer look at vaccination data alongside the estimated population of each group of beneficiaries reveals that healthcare and front-line workers are most likely to be covered sooner than the others. The total number of vaccine doses administered in Delhi till June 20 stood at 65,95,009. Number of doses The population of residents in the 18-44 category is estimated at 92 lakh among which 17,91,758 doses have been administered. While 15,95,283 lakh of these were first doses, 1,39,420 people have also received their second dose. The population of citizens in the 45-plus category — including beneficiaries falling in both the 45-60 and 60-plus age groups — is estimated at 57 lakh among whom 36,59,191 doses have been administered. As many as 26,65,730 of these have been the first and 9,83,401 the second doses. Of their estimated population of three lakh, as many as 4,38,552 doses have been administered to healthcare workers; 2,52,051 of these have been first doses and 1,86,085 second doses. The city also has an estimated population of 6 lakh front-line workers among whom 7,05,508 doses have been administered; 4,35,324 have received the first dose and 2,69,476 the second. Almost 17% of the 18-44 age group, over 62% of the 45+ beneficiaries, over 82% of healthcare workers and over 72% of the population of front-line workers in the city have received at least one dose of COVID vaccination. While the Delhi government blamed the Centre for not providing adequate doses to the city for the universal vaccine drive, former North Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash, at a vaccination centre on the premises of the Bara Hindu Rao Hospital welcomed walk-in vaccine beneficiaries with a band and refreshments. “We also took out a rally after that, telling people to step forward and walk in to our centre any day so that complacency does not set it. The North Corporation will, over the coming two to four days, be able to offer walk-in vaccination at all its centres,” Mr. Jai Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/45-60-age-group-residents-have-got-the-most-number-of-doses/article34897501.ece
22 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Dushyant Chautala faces ire of farmers||The leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP regime, including Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, faced the farmers ire during their official programmes in at least three places across the State on Monday. Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal did not turn up for a scheduled grievances redressal meeting in Ambala apparently due to the farmers protest. Mr. Chautala was in Sirsa to unveil an 18-foot tall statue of former Deputy Prime Minister Chaudhary Devi Lal when a large number of farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) Sirsa president Sikander Rori gathered outside the gates of Chaudhary Devi Lal University and raised slogans against the Deputy Chief Minister. Mr. Rori claimed that he along with three more farmers managed to scale the boundary wall of the university to reach the venue. ‘Motivated by politics’ Mr. Chautala, in an interaction with the journalists, said the movement against the farm laws was no more controlled by the farmers, but was motivated by politics. He said that Chaudhary Devi Lal worked for the welfare of the farming community all his life and those protesting against the unveiling of his statue could not be farmers. Black flags shown In Charkhi Dadri, a large number of farmers led by Raju Maan, a farmer leader, showed black flags to BJP leader and Haryana Women Development Corporation chairperson Babita Phogat at International Yoga Day programme in Janata College Sports Stadium. Mr. Maan said the leaders of the ruling regime had lost the confidence of the common man and this is the reason why people were protesting against them on the roads. Protest in Ambala In Ambala, a large number of farmers owing allegiance to Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) gathered at Panchayat Bhawan to protest against the scheduled visit of Education Minister Kanwar Pal to hold a grievances redressal meeting. He, however, did not turn up for the meeting. The farmers claimed that the Minister called off his visit in view of the protest. Deputy Commissioner of Ambala Vikram Yadav did not respond to repeated calls and messages to seek his response on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dushyant-chautala-faces-ire-of-farmers/article34897476.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sisodia attacks Central govt.’s ‘messed up’ inoculation drive||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday criticised the Central government for calling the vaccination drive against COVID-19 in India as the world’s largest inoculation drive. In reality, it has become the world’s “longest and most mismanaged” vaccination drive, Mr. Sisodia said. Publish ads He said that BJP-governed States have taken out advertisements in newspapers about the “world’s largest vaccination drive”, and alleged that the Central government is “pressurising” Delhi government officials to also publish advertisements thanking the Central government’s inoculation drive. “At present, Delhi needs 2.3 crore doses to vaccinate the entire Capital. However, instead, under the so-called free vaccination drive, the Central government will provide only 15 lakh doses to Delhi in July. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government has also put pressure on the Delhi government officials to advertise this BJP toolkit. It is absolutely shameful that the Centre is providing only 15 lakh vaccines for Delhi, but putting pressure on our officials to publish these advertisements. Our country needs vaccines, not advertisements,” Mr. Sisodia said in a video statement. 15 lakh doses in July He appealed to the Central government to provide 2.3 crore doses of vaccines for Delhi. “Give us 2.3 crore doses in the next two months, we will inoculate everyone and then we will put up advertisements thanking you,” Mr. Sisodia said. He said that if Delhi receives only 15 lakh doses of vaccines for next month, then it indicates that it will take approximately 15-16 more months to vaccinate all residents of the city. “Whether the Central government-led vaccination drive is the world’s largest drive or not, it is definitely India’s longest vaccination drive, the most mismanaged, derailed and messed-up drive. It has completely botched the whole vaccination drive in the nation,” the Deputy Chief Minister said. Mr. Sisodia said that vaccination is the only way to defeat the COVID-19 crisis in India and many countries across the world had prioritised vaccinating their citizens. They have also taken pride in announcing that their citizens can roam about mask-free as most of them are vaccinated. “Whether it was purchasing vaccines from other nations or investing funds in vaccine manufacturing, several nations proved that inoculating their citizens on a priority basis is significant in defeating the virus. These countries are examples of how if Union governments decide, they can vaccinate their citizens and emerge as a nation with zero COVID cases. All it takes is intention and action,” said the senior AAP leader..  Delhi needs 2.3 crore doses to vaccinate the entire Capital. However, under the free vaccination drive, the Centre will provide only 15 lakh doses in July Manish Sisodia Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-attacks-central-govts-messed-up-inoculation-drive/article34897496.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Capital records lowest daily COVID-19 cases in over a year||New COVID-19 cases reported in 24 hours in the city dropped to 89 — the lowest in more than a year — taking the total cases to 14,32,381, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The number of daily new cases was lower than this on April 30 last year, when 76 cases were reported in 24 hours. The number of daily cases had peaked to 28,395 on April 20 this year and has been dropping after it. Also, 11 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 24,925, the bulletin said and a total of 57,128 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 14,05,460 people have recovered and there are 1,996 active cases. About 94.6% of the total 23,638 beds for COVID-19 treatment in the city were vacant on Monday. During the peak in April, only 5-6% of beds were vacant on many days. AAP leader Atishi, presenting a daily bulletin on vaccination, said that Delhi’s stock of Covaxin for 18-44 age group would last only for a day. Vaccine stock “Delhi has 8,27,000 lakh vaccines for 45+ and for 18-44, Delhi has 2,68,000 vaccines. For 45+, we have a 5 days stock of Covaxin and 57 days stock of Covishield available. For 18-44, we have one day stock of Covaxin and 13 days stock of Covishield available,” Ms. Atishi said. “From June 21, when the nationwide universal vaccination campaign has started, it has had no effect on Delhi’s stock position. Delhi has not received even a single extra dose of vaccine. Delhi has been extremely vulnerable and its population density is very high,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-records-lowest-daily-covid-19-cases-in-over-a-year/article34897491.ece
22 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘AAP CM candidate for Punjab will be from Sikh community’||Ahead of the Assembly polls due early next year, AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said a member of the Sikh community would be party’s Chief Minister face in Punjab. He was speaking in Amritsar after inducting former IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, a member of the Special Investigating Team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura-and Behbal Kalan police firing incidents, into the party. “Punjab needs a new leadership and deliberation within the party on this is going on. But I can definitely tell you that AAP’s CM face for Punjab would be from the Sikh society, of whom Punjab will be proud,” he said. Hitting out at the ruling Congress and other parties, Mr. Kejriwal said the State has been going through a hard time. While people are suffering due to the pandemic, the ruling Congress party has been busy in internal feud. “They are fighting among themselves for power. One says I want to be the CM..the other says I want to be the CM,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said the people earlier did not have any option, but now they have one. “The People of Punjab had given chance to traditional parties, but nothing had changed as they were only after the chair, power and corruption. I appeal to the people to give a chance to the Aam Aadmi Party once which will change the position and direction of the State definitely,” he said. ‘Exposed masterminds’ Mr. Kejriwal said Mr. Kunwar was instrumental in exposing the ‘masterminds’ behind the the Bargari sacrilege of (Guru Granth Sahib) case and the Kotkapura police firing incident of 2015. “However, the entire system ganged up against him. He resigned when he felt that nothing can be done while staying inside the system.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-cm-candidate-for-punjab-will-be-from-sikh-community/article34897471.ece
22 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Indira Gandhi Canal repair accomplished in record time||In an engineering feat, the repair and relining of the Indira Gandhi Canal, the country’s longest canal which terminates in irrigation facilities in Thar desert, was accomplished in a record 60-day period amid the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, restoring 70 km of both the main canal and the feeder distributaries. The work was taken up mainly in Rajasthan and partly in neighbouring Punjab. The project was a race against time, as the repairs required closure of the canal system, which directly impacted the drinking and irrigation needs of 1.75 crore people as well as numerous cattle, Army cantonment along the international border and industrial usage in the border districts. Thousands of workers and officials worked round the clock with the strict COVID protocols to achieve the target on time. Strict deadline After the relining of about 23-km stretch was taken up in Punjab on March 30 this year for execution in 60 days, it was a herculean task for Rajasthan, which being on the downstream had only 30 days to repair a stretch of 47 km. The State government worked out a water contingency plan for two months for the affected areas and defined a strict deadline for feeder and main canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/indira-gandhi-canal-repair-accomplished-in-record-time/article34897473.ece
22 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Bt cotton adoption showed benefits: study||Amid the perpetual debate surrounding Bt cotton’s positive and negative impacts, a recent study titled — ‘Long-term impact of Bt cotton: An empirical evidence from North India’ — has said its adoption in Punjab in the past over a decade has resulted in net economic and environmental benefits. The research was funded by the Agricultural Extension Division of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research under extramural project “Impact evaluation of integrated pest management technologies”. The study was jointly done by the Punjab Agricultural University at Ludhiana, the Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology in Jammu (SKUAST) and the Noida-based Amity University, and has been recently published in the Journal of Cleaner Production.  ‘Stable cotton yield’ “Since the commercialisation of Bt cotton, there has been reduction in insecticide use by volume and applications, decline in environmental and human health impact associated with insecticide use, more so with the reduction in the use of highly hazardous and riskiest insecticides, and reduction in the expenses associated with insecticide use. Also, cotton yields in the past 13 years have been stable, the only exception being 2015. Yet over the past 13 years, pesticide use has gradually increased in Bt hybrids and reduced in non-Bt varieties, primarily driven by the use of fungicide, which was not applied in cotton in 2003 and 2004. “Akin to the discovery of synthetic pesticides in the 1940s, which was proclaimed as ‘silver bullet technology’ by entomologists, the complete reliance on Bt cotton without incorporating it into the integrated pest management (IPM) system led to outbreak of whitefly in northern India and pink bollworm in western India in 2015; thus, resistance to Bt cotton is yet to become a significant problem. Compatibility of Bt with IPM is not a given when we have weaker institutional setting with ad hoc IPM system and the contrarian view that Bt cotton has been a failure in India, in this case Punjab, lacks empirical evidence,” professor Rajinder Peshin of SKUAST told The Hindu . Bt (Bacillus thuringiensis) cotton has been commercially grown in India for the past 19 years. In Punjab, Bt cotton was released for cultivation in 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bt-cotton-adoption-showed-benefits-study/article34897474.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. schools not reopening anytime soon’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the Delhi government was not calling students back to school anytime soon but was ensuring that when they do return, they will enter colourful classes designed to motivate them to learn and engage.  Safety of children “Keeping in mind the security and safety of children, we are not calling students back to school anytime soon. We are, however, ensuring that the construction work for new and improved classrooms is done at a faster pace so that when children return to school, they are welcomed with new and colourful classrooms with the best facilities,” Mr. Sisodia said. He was speaking after visiting four newly built Delhi government schools and check on construction of classrooms and academic blocks. Mr. Sisodia directed officials to ensure that classrooms are equipped with state-of-the-art facilities and that schools and classrooms should be designed keeping in mind the psyche of children. Construction work The Delhi government in a statement said 97% construction work in SKV Kondli School is complete and will be fully finished by June 2021. At present, 20 new classrooms are being constructed in SKV Kondli. Similarly, 97% construction work is complete in GGSS Kalyanpuri School, with 20 new classrooms in the process of being constructed. Over 90% of work to build 84 new classrooms at Government Co-ed, IP Extension, is complete and the school construction will be fully finished by July 2021. About 84% of classroom construction work is complete at Government Co-ed Senior Secondary School, Preet Vihar. It will be fully finished by August 2021 and will host 48 new classrooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-schools-not-reopening-anytime-soon/article34897495.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Civic bodies pressuring people to pay house tax’||The Delhi Congress on Monday alleged that the municipal corporations were pressurising people to pay house tax, instead of giving them relaxations after the COVID-19 pandemic and extended lockdown. Delhi Congress vice-president and leader of the Congress party in the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, Abhishek Dutt, said the civic bodies have also issued notices to shopkeepers and traders, without the consent of the House. . “Most people did not come out of their homes due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns last year and this year, and without any source of income as shops and business establishments were shut for long periods, they could not pay the taxes. It is inhumane on the part of the civic bodies to demand double the tax amount from defaulters, instead of finding some method to offer them relief,” Mr. Dutt said. He added that in addition to collecting house tax online, the municipal corporations should also start manual door-to-door collection of taxes.  Flash protest Delhi Congress workers held a flash protest at ITO against Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for his visits to Punjab to play politics, instead of attending to the problems in the Capital arising due to the pandemic. The party said that thousands of people had succumbed to COVID-19 in its second wave due to the Kejriwal government’s incompetence and inaction but the Chief Minister was touring Punjab. DPCC president Ch. Anil Kumar said that Mr. Kejriwal was playing politics in other States though people know that his “Delhi Model of Development” is a farce, created through public relation exercises at the expense of crores of rupees.  It is inhumane on the part of the civic bodies to demand double the tax amount from defaulters Abhishek Dutt Delhi Congress vice-president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/civic-bodies-pressuring-people-to-pay-house-tax/article34897492.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||New gas stove to bring relief for PNG consumers||In a significant development for over 10 lakh users of Piped Natural Gas (PNG) in the Capital, the Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) has developed a new gas stove for domestic PNG consumers. The new gas stove, according to the PCRA, an advisory body under the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, will reduce the consumption of domestic piped gas and bring down the monthly bills by up to 25%. PCRA executive director Niranjan Kumar Singh said the new gas stove is available now on e-commerce platforms as well as in the local market. There are about 74.20 lakh PNG connections across the country, including 23.62 lakh in Gujarat, 18.94 lakh in Maharashtra, 10.21 lakh in Delhi, 9.21 lakh in Mumbai and Greater Mumbai, 1.21 lakh in Hyderabad and 61,000 in Lucknow. “The new PNG gas stove has been designed by Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun. The new gas stove looks like the conventional LPG stoves meant to be used with the LPG cylinders but reduce the wastage of gas due to the design changes in the mixing tube, nozzle, burner and pan support,” the PCRA stated. “IIP-Dehradun has transferred the technology of the new gas stove to 40 manufacturing companies of which 10 have already started the commercial production,” the PCRA also stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-gas-stove-to-bring-relief-for-png-consumers/article34897493.ece
22 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Delta strain predominant in Chandigarh: PGIMER||The Chandigarh-based Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Monday said that during the second COVID-19 wave, the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) and Alpha variant (B.1.1.7) were found to be present among 61% and 30% of the samples respectively, which were sent for whole genome sequencing to the National Centre for Diseases Control in New Delhi. Director of PGIMER Professor Jagat Ram said the majority of these samples (92%) belonged to residents of Chandigarh. “Thus, during the second wave in UT Chandigarh, the Delta strain was the main circulating strain,” he said. “Department of Virology, PGIMER has been carrying out the COVID-19 testing by RT-PCR since March 2020 and till date more than 2.5 lakhs samples have been tested. To study whether there was any change in the circulating strain in Union Territory-Chandigarh during the second wave, 25 stored positive samples of the period May 5, 2021 to May 24, 2021 were sent for whole genome sequencing to NCDC, New Delhi,” he said. “During the second wave Delta variant (B.1.617.2) and Alpha variant (B.1.1.7) were found to be present among 61% and 30% respectively. In two samples sequencing could not be performed due to low content of genomic material, inferring that during the second wave in UT Chandigarh Delta strain was the main circulating strain,” said Prof. Ram. ‘Follow guidelines’ Mr. Ram advised people to adhere to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and also to opt for vaccination in increased numbers to break the transmission chain completely and to halt the impending threat of third wave keeping in view the emerging and fast spreading delta and delta plus variant. “A major sign of relief is the cooling down of the second wavebut still, there is no room for complacency,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delta-strain-predominant-in-chandigarh-pgimer/article34897470.ece
22 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT modifies order on Najafgarh lake||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday modified an earlier order pertaining to the Najafgarh lake and raised the need for a field survey to ascertain the status of the water quality.  Remove encroachment A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel further directed the Chief Secretaries of Delhi and Haryana to coordinate with departments concerned and ensure removal of encroachment, prevent entry of untreated sewage into the lake and take remedial action. “Needless to say, the water quality of the lake is the index of pollution level. There is need for field survey to find out ground status of the water quality. Information available on the flora fauna of water body including a study of CPCB [Central Pollution Control Board] carried out in 2003 can also be utilised. Peri-urban areas of Delhi, Haryana towns and settlements around are the possible cause of endangering the lake,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-modifies-order-on-najafgarh-lake/article34897489.ece
22 June 2021||June 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Toiling away||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/toiling-away/article34897498.ece
22 June 2021||New Delhi,||Four agencies approved by govt. for tree transplantation||The Delhi government has approved empanelment of four agencies to carry out tree transplantation in the city, authorities said on Monday. As per the Tree Transplantation Policy (2020) which was notified late last year, during any project, tree transplantation has to be done through a technical agency empanelled by the government. An expert committee was constituted to decide the minimum technical eligibility criteria for empanelment of agencies and later examine the proposals received. “To carry out transplantation from any project site in Delhi, the applicant shall be required to select an agency from among the empanelled agencies only. The four agencies are Green Morning Horticulture Pvt. Ltd, Hyderabad, M/s Rohit Nursery, New Delhi, M/s DD MEP Engineers, Gurugram, and RP Entrepreneurs,” an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-agencies-approved-by-govt-for-tree-transplantation/article34897499.ece
22 June 2021||Noida/Ghaziabad,||17 new cases in G.B. Nagar||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded 17 new COVID-19 cases on Monday while neighbouring Ghaziabad had just two new infections, official data showed. The number of active cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar now stands at 121 while it was 80 in Ghaziabad, according to Uttar Pradesh’s Health Department data for a 24-hour period. The death toll from the pandemic stood at 461 in Ghaziabad and 466 in Gautam Buddha Nagar, the data showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/17-new-cases-in-gb-nagar/article34897503.ece
22 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha BJP protests over jab posters||Enraged over the absence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photographs in the vaccination posters, the Odisha BJP staged protests at several places across the State on Monday. Since June 21 marked a shift in the vaccination drive following the Centre’s announcement to provide the jabs free of cost for all adults, the posters were hung at many vaccination centres. ‘Only CM’s photo’ However, the BJP workers were irked that the posters had only the photograph of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. They tore off the posters at some places and displayed the PM’s photo prominently. The agitations took place in Balasore, Rayagada, Koraput, Angul and Keonjhar districts. Before the formal opening of the vaccination drive at the Gandhi Smurti Bhavan in Balasore on Monday, the BJP workers forcibly cut the ribbon and inaugurated the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-bjp-protests-over-jab-posters/article34897467.ece
22 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha’s TPR goes below 5% mark||In what could be comforting news for Odisha, the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) came down below 5% on Monday for the first time in the past two and half months. During the past 24 hours, 3,031 samples of the 61,000 tests turned out to be positive. The TPR was reported at 4.97% on Monday which was 5.38% on Sunday. The cumulative caseload stands at 8,80,533. However, daily COVID-19 fatalities remained around 40. Monday’s reported toll of 43 took the total to 3,633. The State reported below 5% TPR on April 1 when 461 of 26,700 samples were found infected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odishas-tpr-goes-below-5-mark/article34897469.ece
22 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Man given two vaccine doses within minutes||A man was given two doses of COVID-19 vaccine within minutes in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district. Though Prasanna Kumar Sahu, 50, of Bachhuripada village under the Betanoti block of Mayurbhanj did not complain of any adverse reaction, a health department team on Monday visited his home to assess his condition. The incident occurred on Saturday when Mr. Sahu along with six fellow villagers visited the vaccination centre at Khuntapur. Both jabs on same hand “I was given the first dose on my left hand. While I was collecting my paper and two paracetamol tablets from a nurse following the vaccination, another nurse came from behind and administered another dose just three inch below the first vaccination spot,” Mr. Sahu told The Hindu . Mr. Sahu said by the time he raised an alarm, the nurse had already administered the second dose to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-given-two-vaccine-doses-within-minutes/article34897468.ece
