23 June 2021||Srinagar,||Gupkar alliance leaders decide to attend meeting with Modi||Responding to the invitation from the Union Home Secretary to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, senior leaders of the Gupkar alliance — including National Conference’s (NC) Dr. Farooq Abdullah and Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) Mehbooba Mufti — on Tuesday decided to attend the meeting on June 24 in New Delhi. “We have received an invitation from the PM. We are going to attend the all-party meeting. We will place our stand before the PM and Union Home Minister. Later, we will apprise the people about the outcome. Our stand remains the same,” Peoples Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) president Dr. Abdullah said. The announcement followed a meeting of the PAGD, chaired by Dr. Abdullah at his residence, attended by leaders of the NC, the PDP, the CPI(M), the Awami National Conference (ANC) and the J&K Peoples Movement. The three invited leaders are Dr. Abdullah, Ms. Mufti and CPI(M)’s M.Y. Tarigami. Ms. Mufti, who was said to have been reluctant to attend, said, “We are not against a dialogue process. I did not want to be seen as one playing spoilsport or creating obstacles. It was an invite from the PM, the highest office. I was of the opinion that Dr. Abdullah should represent the alliance in the meeting since our stand is same.” The PDP leader also called for a dialogue with Pakistan on the Kashmir issue. “There is a need to establish peace in the entire region, not just in J&K. Our government is talking to the Taliban in Doha. There should be a dialogue with people of J&K and also with Pakistan for a resolution,” Ms. Mufti said. Ms. Mufti, who has been a vocal critic of the Centre’s move to end J&K’s special status and was jailed in 2019, said it would have been much better if the Centre had initiated confidence building measures ahead of the meeting. “I will raise the issue of political prisoners too. New Delhi should have released all the political prisoners for creating an atmosphere for talks. I will seek shifting of Kashmiri prisoners to Srinagar jails from outside,” she added. Mr. Tarigami, Gupkar alliance spokesman, seconded Ms. Mufti on the release of political leaders. “Prisoners like Shabir Ahmed Shah are very ill in prisons, and the release of inmates is inevitable now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gupkar-alliance-leaders-decide-to-attend-meeting-with-modi/article34920350.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Many opposition parties skip Rashtra Manch meet||The Rashtra Manch meeting, hosted by Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, in the Capital on Tuesday turned out to be a damp squib with a majority of the opposition parties giving it a miss, and many of them sending in second line leaders. The Rashtra Manch was an action group founded by Yashwant Sinha in January 2018 when he was not in any party. He is currently with the Trinamool Congress. The NCP was at pains to explain that Mr. Pawar was only playing the host and did not organise the meeting. It also explained that there was no deliberate exclusion of the Congress. Other than the Congress, the DMK, the RJD and the BSP too did not send any representatives. ‘Pawar did not call meet’ Speaking to the media after the meeting, NCP leader Majeed Memon said, “It has been reported in the media that this meeting of Rashtra Manch was held by Sharad Pawar to unite anti-BJP parties. This is totally incorrect. I want to clarify that this meeting took place at Mr. Pawar’s residence but he didn’t call this meeting.” He also stressed that the meeting should not be misconstrued as a big political step taken by Mr. Pawar, excluding the Congress. “Congress leaders Vivek Tankha, Manish Tewari, Kapil Sibal, Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Shatrughan Sinha were invited. Some of them expressed genuine difficulties. The perception that there is going to be a big Opposition group excluding the Congress is wrong,” Mr. Memon said. The participants included National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary, Aam Aadmi Party’s Susheel Gupta, poet Javed Akhtar, former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Qureshi, former diplomat K.C. Singh and Justice A.P. Shah (retired), among others. CPI general secretary D. Raja and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury too gave it a miss. Instead the CPI was represented by Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswom and the CPI (M) by Polit Bureau member Nilotpal Basu. Team to be set up Rashtra Manch coordinator and Samajwadi Party spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari said Mr. Sinha, who was the convener of the platform, would set up a team that would put forth its vision on important issues affecting citizens. “The summary of the meeting is that there is a need for preparation of an alternative vision in the country that is strong to address issues related to the common man,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-opposition-parties-skip-rashtra-manch-meet/article34920348.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. goes into damage control over Punjab||Amid growing tensions between Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and former Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, top Congress leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi and Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, held back-to-back meetings on Tuesday to resolve the crisis. Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.), who met the All India Congress Committee (AICC) panel headed by Mr. Kharge for the second time for over three hours, is learnt to have been told by the party leaders that grievances of the MLAs need to be resolved, and the party must present a united face for the 2022 Assembly poll. “Everybody has said that they will fight the poll together, and the party is united under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” Mr. Kharge told a news agency after meeting the Punjab Chief Minister. AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat and former MP J.P. Aggarwal were the other members of the panel who attended the meeting Captain Amarinder. The panel is said to have taken note of the comments made by Mr Sidhu in the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-goes-into-damage-control-over-punjab/article34920346.ece
23 June 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,||Custodial death: three policemen suspended||Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat on Tuesday ordered suspension of three police officers at Addagudur in the district, for negligence in handling investigation allegedly leading to the ‘custodial death’ of one Mariamma. Station sub-inspector V. Maheshwar, constables Rasheed and Janaiah have been suspended, a release from the office stated. Earlier, TPCC SC Cell chairman N. Preetham had alleged that the station officers had beaten Mariamma, her son Uday and his friend Shiva. He alleged Mariamma, belonging to Scheduled Caste and hailing from Chintakani of Khammam, who had been a maid at a pastor’s house in Addagudur and later faced robbery charges, collapsed in the station because of police torture. Female officers had not accompanied Mariamma and she was kept at the police station overnight, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/custodial-death-three-policemen-suspended/article34920563.ece
23 June 2021||GUNTUR,||Make stand on exams clear by tomorrow, SC tells State||The Supreme Court has asked the State government to inform by Thursday its decision on holding Class 12 exams. The apex court on Tuesday took up a plea for cancellation of State Board exams. During the hearing, the Supreme Court sought to know about the safety measures. Standing counsel for Andhra Pradesh Mahfooz Nazki said the State government wanted to conduct the physical exams as a matter of policy. He said that a maximum of 15 to 20 students would be allowed in a hall. Social distancing of at least five feet would be maintained. He further said that the tenth class students were evaluated on the basis of grades and no marks were available for a comparison. Unlike CBSE and ICSE, the State Education Department had no control or visibility on the internal marks, and the marks obtained in Class 12 were taken into account for determining the EAMCET merit. The court then asked him to put this on affidavit and observed that if it felt there were enough safety measures, it would permit the government to hold exams. The court also observed that in case there was a fatality, it would hold the State responsible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/make-stand-on-exams-clear-by-tomorrow-sc-tells-state/article34920343.ece
23 June 2021||GUNTUR,||HC sentences officials, recalls order||The High Court of Andhra Pradesh has recalled an order sentencing IAS officer Girija Shankar and IFS officer Chiranjeevi Chaudhari to a week’s imprisonment for defying orders to regularise 36 employees. Justice Battu Devanand passed the verdict sentencing the two officers to a week’s imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000, but later recalled the order. The job notification to fill up village horticultural officers was given in 2020 and later, conditions were reportedly changed. The High Court asked the department to consider providing the posts to 36 persons who petitioned the court seeking employment. The court gave them two weeks’ time upon a request by the State government to implement the order after initially sentencing them to a week’s imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-sentences-officials-recalls-order/article34920344.ece
23 June 2021||Belagavi,||Boy, girl found murdered||In a case of suspected honour killing, a boy and a girl were murdered in Saladahalli of Vijayapura district on Tuesday. Villagers found the bodies of Basvaraj Badigeri (19) and the minor girl, aged around 16, in a field and called the police. Someone had crushed their heads with stones. The bodies lay near each other and the blood-stained stones used to kill them were also found nearby. Villagers told the police that the young boy and girl from families following different faiths were in love but their families were opposed to their relationship. The police suspected that some members of the two families are involved in the crime. A case has been registered at Kalkeri Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boy-girl-found-murdered/article34920539.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Panel for staggered reopening of State schools||The 13-member expert committee, headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty, set up for prevention and management of the third wave of COVID-19 has recommended reopening of schools in a staggered manner. However, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa remained non-committal on the issue. “It is recommended to open schools physically to optimise learning, physical health, mental health, and nutritional aspects of children. Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, making their condition worse,” the panel said in its 92-page interim report submitted to Mr. Yediyurappa on Tuesday. The panel suggested that classes be held in a staggered manner on different days and shifts. It also suggested that schools should be directed to use the services of a counsellor and a nurse. Later, Mr. Yediyurappa told reporters that the State government was considering opening professional and degree colleges in a phased manner after vaccinating all the students and staff. “We have not discussed reopening of schools as of now,” he said. Noting that the possibility of schools being areas of large transmission has not been proved anywhere in the world, the interim report stated, “There is an urgent need to offer scientific and definitive guidance for school reopening as any delay in achieving near normalisation of schooling will be more detrimental than COVID-19 itself.” Insurance cover The panel has also recommended that the government provide a health cover of Rs. 2 lakh to each student attending on-campus classes, in a bid to encourage parents to send children back to schools. The panel has suggested that classes be held in a staggered manner on different days and shifts. It also suggested that schools should be directed to use the services of a counsellor and a nurse. “Children suffering from chronic ailments and those who are on regular medication should get consent from their doctors to attend on-campus classes,” the report stated. Children under stress “The loss of formal learning during the pandemic is almost 50% of the expected academic learning. This is more so in disadvantaged and marginalised children,” stated the report. It said school closure had resulted in stress, anxiety, and depression among children and their families. “It is pertinent to understand that education is the fundamental right of a child. Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition further worse,” it said. The panel has also recommended augmentation and upgrading of neonatal ICU/special newborn care units, paediatric ward beds, and paediatric ICU/HDU beds in taluk hospitals, district hospitals, and medical colleges. Recruiting additional manpower should be done on priority, the report stated. It recommended setting up of exclusive children’s hospital with 250 beds with provision for 20-bed PICU/HDU/NICU in facilities such as Indira Gandhi Institute Of Child Health in backward districts. The panel has recommended adding a micronutrient powder to milk given to children attending anganwadis. “The existing anganwadi-based supplementary nutrition programme should be restarted at the earliest,” it said, giving the option of home delivery. The panel has recommended that the government should explore food fortification of rice, atta, edible oil, salt, and milk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-for-staggered-reopening-of-schools-in-state/article34920370.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. plans phased reopening of colleges||The government is seriously considering the reopening of colleges in the State in phases after vaccinating students, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Talking to newspersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan said college students in the 18-23 age group could be made a priority group and if they were given the first dose of vaccine now and the second dose as on schedule, colleges could reopen soon, he said. Classes will resume for students of all medical colleges from July 1, as all medical students have been vaccinated. Opening of schools could be considered if the vaccination of all teachers and staff were completed on priority, Mr. Vijayan said. Vaccine distribution Steps were being taken to streamline the distribution of vaccines across the State. In various local bodies, volunteers will help to get a vaccination slot. Covaxin stocks have arrived and those who are overdue for the second dose can now complete their vaccination. Vaccination for children, whenever it was made available by the Centre, would be taken up on priority, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-plans-phased-reopening-of-colleges/article34920603.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC sets Sept. 15 deadline for civic polls in 9 new districts||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to complete the delayed local bodies elections in nine new districts of the State by September 15. “We grant extension of time till September 15, 2021, to complete the entire process, including publication/notification of election schedule and the result thereof, before September 15, 2021, as the constitutional mandate to conduct elections in the time-bound manner cannot be defeated in this manner,” a Vacation Bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and Aniruddha Bose said. The court was not impressed with the State Election Commission’s fervent pleas that COVID-19 was at its peak in the State. “COVID has become a good excuse in all matters. For two years, you have not conducted the elections... Now you conduct the elections before the third wave arrives... We know the reality in these matters; unless and until political parties are ready, elections are not held,” Justice Gupta said. Tenure ended in 2018-19 The court said the notification for the elections was issued in 2019. The tenure of the previous local bodies ended in 2018-19. In December last year, the court granted an extension of six months to complete the delimitation and conduct the elections in the nine districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-sets-sept-15-deadline-for-civic-polls-in-9-new-districts/article34920409.ece
23 June 2021||Vasalamarri,||KCR’s vision for Vasalamarri||“The day when every resident of Vasalamarri practises ‘one for all and all for one’ and works for the development of the village, B. Vasalamarri will be achieved. B stands for Bangaru,” Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao told residents here on Tuesday. Mr. Rao announced his adoption plan for the village with an outlay of Rs. 100 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcrs-vision-for-vasalamarri/article34920562.ece
23 June 2021||mumbai,||2-day monsoon session draws BJP criticism||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday said the monsoon session of the State legislature beginning July 5 will be held for only two days. This invited quick criticism from the Opposition BJP which said the government was running away from its responsibility. The Business Advisory Committee held its meeting on Tuesday to decide on details of the monsoon session. This was boycotted by the BJP. “Today, we (BJP leaders) met the ruling coalition to decide the schedule for the monsoon session of the State legislature. We were surprised to see that the government is planning to hold the session for two days only. We decided to walk out of the BAC meeting in protest against the government's plan to hold the session for such a short duration,” said former Chief Minister and the Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-day-monsoon-session-draws-bjp-criticism/article34920710.ece
23 June 2021||BENGALURU,||Deve Gowda ordered to pay Rs. 2 crore to NICE||A City Civil and Sessions Court in Bengaluru has directed JD(S) leader H.D. Deve Gowda to pay damages of Rs. 2 crore to Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprise (NICE) Ltd. for “loss of reputation”. NICE had filed a case alleging “defamatory comments” by the former Prime Minister in an interview to a Kannada channel in June 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deve-gowda-ordered-to-pay-rs-2-crore-to-nice/article34920371.ece
23 June 2021||bengaluru,||‘PIL petition led to 2-year delay in metro work’||Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL) on Tuesday told the High Court of Karnataka that work on a metro project was running two years behind schedule compared to other metro projects in the country in view of a PIL petition through which the court is examining the process of approval granted for felling trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pil-petition-led-to-2-year-delay-in-metro-work/article34920373.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Sushil Ansal concealed facts to renew passport’||The Delhi Police has told a court here that Sushil Ansal, convicted in the 1997 Uphaar cinema fire, which killed 59 people, played a fraud on authorities by concealing information about criminal cases pending against him while getting his passport renewed. Police had earlier informed the High Court that three criminal cases were pending against him in 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sushil-ansal-concealed-facts-to-renew-passport/article34920498.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘56% of people surveyed in Delhi had antibodies’||Over 56% of 12,000-13,000 people whose blood samples were collected in April from different parts of Delhi showed antibodies against COVID-19, a government source said. The samples were collected for the sixth serological survey, but the collection could not reach the target as it had to be stopped due to the surge in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/56-of-people-surveyed-in-delhi-had-antibodies/article34920500.ece
23 June 2021||Guwahati,||Cash prize for parents with most children||Three years after the Young Mizo Association asked the tribal people to have more babies, a Minister in Mizoram has announced a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh to parents in his constituency with the most number of children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cash-prize-for-parents-with-most-children/article34920645.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Move against former CS vengeful, says TMC||Kolkata The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday came out in defence of former chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay describing the Centre’s proposal to hold “major penalty proceedings” against him as “wrong, unfair, and vengeful”. The former CS retired from service on May 31 and was appointed Chief Advisor to the CM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/move-against-former-cs-vengeful-says-tmc/article34920646.ece
23 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||8 rare pygmy hogs released in Manas Park||Eight of 12 captive-bred pygmy hogs, the world’s rarest and smallest wild pigs, were on Tuesday released in the Manas National Park of western Assam. The remaining four would be released on June 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-rare-pygmy-hogs-released-in-manas-park/article34920648.ece
23 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Buses can run from today in Dakshina Kannada||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said on Tuesday that all shops, except air-conditioned ones, in the district can do business from Wednesday. He said that buses can also operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buses-can-run-from-today-in-dakshina-kannada/article34920541.ece
23 June 2021||Mumbai,||Second nearby||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 8,470 new novel coronavirus cases taking its tally to 59,87,521, while 188 fresh deaths pushed the toll to 1,18,795, the State Health Department said. As many as 9,043 patients were discharged during the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-nearby/article34920711.ece
23 June 2021||Mumbai,||Third nearby||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court that it would not arrest senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh till July 3 in a case registered against him under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. A Division Bench posted a petition filed by Mr. Singh for hearing on July 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-nearby/article34920712.ece
23 June 2021||Mumbai,||TRP scam: Arnab named in supplementary chargesheet||The Mumbai Police have named Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV and owner of ARG Outlier Media, as an accused in the TRP manipulation case. Shivendu Mulekar, COO Priya Mukherjee and CFO Shiva Sundaram also fiigure n the 1,800-page supplementary chargesheet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trp-scam-arnab-named-in-supplementary-chargesheet/article34920713.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghan violence has risen: Jaishankar||Talks between the Afghanistan government and the Taliban have not resulted in any reduction in violence, said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, pointing out that reports from the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) showed a major increase in violence despite the talks and a U.S.-Taliban agreement last year. However, he said India is ‘supportive’ of the Intra-Afghan negotiations, and called for the United Nations to play a “leading role” in the reconciliation process. “Violence has only increased, especially after May 1,” Mr. Jaishankar told the UN Security Council at a special meeting on Tuesday, as he referred to the May deadline that had originally been agreed to as a date for the U.S. troops pull-out from Afghanistan. “The country has been witnessing targeted attacks on religious and ethnic minorities, girl students, Afghan security forces, Ulemas [clerics], women occupying positions of responsibility, journalists, civil rights activists and youth,” he said, calling for a “permanent and comprehensive ceasefire”. According to the UNAMA report that was detailed by U.N. Secretary General’s Special Representative Deborah Lyons, civilian casualties have increased by 29% in the first quarter of 2021, compared to last year, and women casualties increased by 37% and child casualties by 23%. Ms. Lyons said not only has the Taliban captured more territory in the last few weeks but also seems poised to take over key cities once the foreign troops pull out. American envoy to the U.N. Linda Thomas Greenfield defended the U.S. move to pull out troops as a carefully considered decision, but warned the Taliban that taking the “military path” would not bring the group legitimacy. Without making any direct references to Pakistan or any particular terror group, Mr. Jaishankar called for an end to “terrorist safe havens” and “terrorist supply chains” as well as cross-border terror, and said the international community must ensure that transit trade from Afghanistan to the “high seas” is allowed. “It is equally important to ensure that the territory of Afghanistan is not used by terrorist groups to threaten or attack any other country.” Afghanistan Foreign Minister Hanif Atmar, who attended the UNSC meeting, was more candid accusing the Taliban of keeping its links with the al-Qaeda and Pakistan-based terror groups including the Lashkar-e-Toiba and the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan. He said as the withdrawal of the U.S.-NATO troops is completed, the international community would see that the Taliban has not kept any of its promises, including the promise to cut ties with international terrorism, to reduce violence and work towards a ceasefire and to reach a political settlement with the government of Afghanistan. At another web meet, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani said the Taliban was putting its “relationship with its network and sponsors” ahead of the Afghan people, and called upon the militant group to “make a choice” between the LeT, the Jaish-e-Mohammad, the al-Qaeda and other groups or make a “common bond of patriotism” with the people.  (With inputs from Sriram Lakshman in Washington)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghan-violence-has-risen-jaishankar/article34920274.ece
23 June 2021||Srinagar,||Accepted talks offer as it is unconditional: J&K leaders||The move by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to drop pre-conditions and agenda set the meeting ground for the June 24 talks between the Central government and the Jammu and Kashmir parties, according to Valley-based leaders. “It was only after the Centre showed willingness not to put any redlines for talks ... it prepared the ground for the engagement,” a senior National Conference (NC) leader and former Minister told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. The talks would be open-ended. “Neither delimitation nor early elections nor Statehood will be the agenda of talks. It then limits the scope of dialogue and engagement,” he stated. The PMO’s shift came after the NC showed its willingness to be a part of the delimitation commission to delineate more Assembly and parliamentary seats, an exercise that was boycotted and questioned by it even in the Supreme Court. Special status Earlier top Union Ministers, including Home Minister Amit Shah, had asked the regional parties to limit their demands to Statehood and stop seeking any special status, after the Centre ended J&K’s special constitutional position on August 5, 2019. “We will continue to demand the restoration of August 4, 2019 position of J&K. We will also seek to address the genuine aspirations of people. There has to be development with dignity,” NC leader and Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi said ahead of a meeting in Srinagar. The PMO’s move is a significant scaling down of the BJP’s position on the issue of special status for J&K. It remains to be seen if Prime Minister Narendra Modi would listen and respond to the position of the Gupkar alliance, an amalgam of five political parties seeking pre-August 5 position. A senior Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader, however, said there were fears within the party that the BJP intended to limit the engagement to optics. “We have our fingers crossed and wish it’s not a trap but a genuine change in thinking and approach. It is a welcome step if the Prime Minister agrees to listen to the political positions of regional parties. Only the events and gestures after the June 24 meeting will set the momentum for the talks,” the leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accepted-talks-offer-as-it-is-unconditional-jk-leaders/article34920283.ece
23 June 2021||Chennai,||Over 50 lakh jabs given in a single day again||Until 9 p.m. on Tuesday, over 52.8 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered in India which is only the second instance when the number of doses in a single day crossed the 50 lakh mark. A day before, 87.3 lakh doses were administered, the highest-ever in a single day since the inoculation drive began. Between June 1 and 21, 34.6 million doses were administered daily in India on an average. At the current rate, a total of 96 crore doses can be administered by December 31, 2021, which is just over half the doses required to fully vaccinate all adults (188 crore doses). Lofty target To fully inoculate all adults by the end of this year, 82 lakh doses need to be given daily on average in the country. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 42.5 lakh on June 21, which is more than the 32.6 lakh recorded a week before (June 14). It was also significantly higher than the average daily doses recorded a month before (May 21) which was 18.5 lakh. About 25.5% of adults in India, 45.1% of those aged above 45 and 48.1% of people aged above 60, were administered with at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Tuesday. While 17.5% of the country’s population has received at least one dose, only 3.8% are fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. In comparison, 11.4% and 10.54% of people in Brazil and Russia are fully vaccinated, respectively. The figure for the U.K. and the U.S. stood at 46.33% and 44.86%, respectively. With 49,130 new cases recorded till 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday, India’s cumulative case load crossed the 3 crore mark and stood at 3,00,26,196. As many as 1,312 new deaths were also registered taking the tally to 3,90,644. New infections Kerala reported 12,617 new infections, followed by Maharashtra (8,470) and Tamil Nadu (6,895). Maharashtra recorded 482 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (194) and Kerala (141). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Punjab, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-50-lakh-jabs-given-in-a-single-day-again/article34920301.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||4 theatre commands likely this year||Amid discussions to evolve a consensus on the creation of integrated theatre commands, it is expected that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make an announcement on it soon and the four proposed commands are likely raised by year end, according to two official sources. “The theatrisation process is going on well. It is making satisfactory progress. Amongst the three services, we have been able to resolve most of the issues,” Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat said on Tuesday. He chaired a meeting with the Vice Chiefs of the three services, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff and representatives from the Ministries of Defence, Home and Finance to iron out differences. “There is a better understanding that if the three services integrate, bring about jointness and carry out transformation, then I think, we will ensure better efficiency and utilisation of our existing services. I think we’ll be better prepared for combat,” Gen. Rawat said. An air defence command, maritime theatre command, integrated eastern theatre command and integrated western theatre command are on the anvil. “A maritime theatre commander will not be appointed right away. The command will be first raised and commander appointed later,” a source said. Several officials had said the IAF has major reservations over the creation of the commands. There have also been questions on the naming of the commands. The IAF was for all commands to be rotational and so wanted the naming to be domain specific, one of the sources said. “It has been broadly agreed but initially they would be with respective service commander till the command stabilises,” the source said. The need was integrated joint planning and not coordinated or syncing of operations as was done now. Single service operations were not efficient or made the best use of the resources, the official said. The proposed change was at the highest level, instead of one Service making a single plan that was then routed through the headquarters and the Integrated Defence Command (IDS), in the new plan, it would be held by a three-star commander and integrated with other two domains, the source explained. “These plans will be presented to Chiefs of Staff Committee (CoSC) as opposed to a single plan being presented to a Chief,” the official said. “The operational functions will shift to theatre commands, which will involve the creation of joint structures in headquarters IDS.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-theatre-commands-likely-this-year/article34920261.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Create compensation fund: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday claimed at a press meet that 90% of the deaths during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic were “needless” as lives could have been saved if oxygen and medicines were available. Releasing a White Paper on the Union government’s handling of the pandemic, he said it should now prepare for a third wave by ramping up health infrastructure and vaccinating citizens on a war footing so that the virus did not get a chance to mutate. The White Paper suggests the creation of a COVID-19 compensation fund and a commission to find out “what went wrong” in the fight against the previous waves. Dig at PM Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for getting emotional in one of his virtual addresses, Mr. Gandhi said,“The Prime Minister’s tears cannot wipe the tears of those who lost their loved ones. The Prime Minister’s tears did not save their lives but oxygen may have saved them. The Prime Minister didn’t take this seriously. He was busy fighting elections in Bengal and his focus was in another direction”. The purpose of the White Paper was not to point fingers at the government, but to help it deal with the third wave by preparing a blueprint to react, he stressed. In a subsequent tweet, he said the Government of India “must work on our constructive inputs in the interest of the country”. “This is a blueprint on how to react to the third wave, which is going to come. It is our intention to provide the government with information and insights on what went wrong,” he said, adding, “If the second wave was bad, the third wave would be worse”. Discussions with experts The White Paper, he observed, was the result of extensive discussions held with experts and within the Congress structure and had four main pillars. The first pillar talked about what went wrong and the Congress’s suggestions, including one to have a commission to probe the shortcomings; the second one focussed on developing the critical infrastructure such as oxygen supply and hospital beds; the third one highlighted financial assistance to the poorest families and the final one was about creation of a COVID-19 fund to compensate the families that have lost the breadwinner. The coronavirus was not just a biological phenomenon but also an economic and social phenomenon and that’s why economic support must be given to the poorest people as well as small and medium businesses, Mr. Gandhi asserted. “The Centre is making Rs. 4 lakh crore from taxes on diesel and petrol every year. It is taking money out of the pockets of people who have lost family members. So, I don’t understand why it can’t put some money back into their pockets,” he said. The White Paper release coincided with Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar hosting a section of Opposition leaders at his residence. Asked to comment on the meeting, Mr. Gandhi said, “I am not going to distract you or myself by getting into what is going on in politics and what is going on here and there. There is a time and place to that discussion and I am happy to talk to you at that time”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/create-compensation-fund-rahul/article34920303.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Day after record, M.P.’s vaccine numbers fall||After administering a record-breaking 16.9 lakh vaccine doses on single day on Monday — the highest among all States — Madhya Pradesh plummeted to a record low of only 4,563 shots on Tuesday, according to data on the CoWin portal. India posted an all-time high of 89 lakh doses on Monday, the first day of the new liberalised policy with the Centre procuring vaccines on behalf of the States. While many States had substantially increased the number of vaccines administered, M.P., Haryana and Karnataka had posted the most significant increases when compared to the average daily doses per month. Until its feat on Monday, M.P. had at most administered five lakh doses per day in June. While vaccination in most States dips around the weekend, it had plummeted to only 692 doses in the State on Sunday, a day before the drive. However, the daily doses in M.P. have remained above 5,000 in June. Unless there is a revision to the data, Tuesday’s figures is would be an all-time low in Madhya Pradesh barring the Sunday anomaly. There were 3,100 vaccination sessions in the State on Monday, which and that fell to 264 on Tuesday with capital Bhopal only recording 453 inoculations on Tuesday from 150,000 on Monday. Media reports said that on Monday, which the Centre celebrates as International Yoga Day, Madhya Pradesh had a concerted vaccination drive with Chief Minister, Shivraj Chouhan, personally visiting sites and monitoring progress. Karnataka too posted a decline from the Monday’s high with only 3.8 lakh shots on Tuesday evening compared to 11 lakh on Monday. However, the State has consistently administered over 3 lakh shots since June 5 and so the Tuesday’s numbers aren’t an aberration. Haryana which administered 5 lakh doses on Monday fell to about 74,000 on Tuesday which again isn’t too far outside its normal range. The peaks it has attained in June are a little over 1 lakh doses a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/day-after-record-mps-vaccine-numbers-fall/article34920296.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||House panel for study on malnutrition||A parliamentary panel on Tuesday asked the Ministry of Women and Child Development to conduct a survey on the impact of the pandemic on anganwadi services and malnutrition levels among children. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports chaired by Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe is learnt to have grilled the officials of the Ministry on the need for data to understand “how anganwadi services were delivered on the ground during the pandemic, and to assess the impact of COVID-19 on stunting and wasting levels,” according to a member. While the government has launched an app called Poshan Tracker to monitor delivery of services at 14 lakh anganwadis, the officials told the panel that the data is beginning to be uploaded only from June 1. “The Ministry has not been able to satisfy the committee. It said they have collected feedback from States, but there is no sanction for a survey”, another member told The Hindu . The Ministry also made a presentation on children orphaned during COVID-19 and apprised the panel of various measures being taken to help them, including funds for family and institutional care, revising norms for child care institutions as well as maintaining monthly reports on foster care for such children. The panel is learnt to have expressed its disbelief on the NCPCR submission before the Supreme Court that there were 3,500 children orphaned during the pandemic. “This number is not justified when we know that lakhs of people have died due to COVID-19. The figure is too low.” Though the government has announced a corpus of Rs. 10 lakh from PM CARES for such children, “there has been no spending from PM CARES yet, and the responses from the Ministry were very ambiguous” the member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-panel-for-study-on-malnutrition/article34920278.ece
23 June 2021||Guwahati,||World’s first GM rubber sapling planted in Assam||A Rubber Board research farm on the outskirts of Guwahati now sports the world’s first genetically modified (GM) rubber plant tailored for the climatic conditions in the Northeast. The GM rubber has additional copies of the gene MnSOD, or manganese-containing superoxide dismutase, inserted in the plant, which is expected to tide over the severe cold conditions during winter — a major factor affecting the growth of young rubber plants in the region. The plant was developed at the Kerala-based Rubber Research Institute of India (RRII). Planting the GM rubber at the research farm at Sarutari off the highway to Meghalaya capital Shillong on June 22, Rubber Board Chairman and Executive Director K.N. Raghavan said the RRII had earlier developed two high-yielding hybrid clones of rubber adapted to the climatic conditions of the Northeast. “This is the first time any GM crop has been developed exclusively for this region after years of painstaking research in RRII’s biotechnology laboratory,” he said. Natural rubber is a native of warm humid Amazon forests and is not naturally suited for the colder conditions in the Northeast, which is one of the largest producers of rubber in India. Laboratory studies conducted at the RRII showed the GM rubber plants overexpressed the MnSOD gene as expected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/worlds-first-gm-rubber-sapling-planted-in-assam/article34920269.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delta plus is a variant of concern: govt.||The Centre on Tuesday termed the emerging delta- plus variant a ‘variant of concern’ just hours after Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Chairman, National Empowered Group on Vaccination V.K. Paul said it was only a ‘variant of interest (VoI).’ A variant of concern (VoC) carries the highest threat perception of a coronavirus variant, which is characterised by increased infectivity, transmissibility or resistance to vaccines and treatment. A VoI is a degree lower. The World Health Organisation, as of June 14, had classified the variant ‘delta’ (B.1.617.2) as well as offshoots — AY.1 and AY.2 — as VoC. Delta plus, as the variant is sometimes referred to, is an informal name. So far there are only four international VoC (alpha, beta, gamma and delta) with the off-shoots, AY.1 and AY.2 classified as off-shoots of Delta. “Delta variant is a Variant of Concern and has been found in 80 countries. Delta plus is in 9 countries and as of now is in the category of variant of interest and is not yet in the variant of concern categor,” said Bhushan at the weekly press briefing on Tuesday. However in a press statement, the Ministry first referred to it as a ‘variant of concern’ then issued a correction calling it a ‘variant of interest’ and then again reverted to calling it a ‘variant of concern’. A scientist connected with the consortium, INSACOG, (Indian SarsCov2 Genomic Consortia) told The Hindu on condition of anonymity that AY.1 was “always” a variant of concern but was wrongly classified by the Health Ministry as a VoI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delta-plus-is-a-variant-of-concern-govt/article34920297.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stop playing politics over pandemic, BJP tells Congress||Hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi released a White Paper on the Union government’s handling of COVID-19 crisis and termed it disastrous, the BJP accused him of playing politics over the pandemic and of the Congress-ruled States managing the pandemic badly. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra addressed a press conference at the party’s headquarters in New Delhi to launch an attack on the Congress. “Since yesterday we have been fearing this. Whenever something good happens in our fight against coronavirus, the Congress and Rahul Gandhi specially do something to derail it,” he said. “Yesterday was a significant day when India became the first country in the world to administer 87 lakh vaccine doses in one day. People seemed excited and jubilant. There is a feeling that India is winning in its fight against coronavirus, just then Rahul Gandhi spoke of White Paper and tried to derail it,” he stated. “Whenever we are at a crossroads in our fight, Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party have tried to derail the efforts by playing politics. In fact, the Congress has really worked tirelessly to create hurdles and obstacles in our path,” he alleged. Vaccine hesitancy Mr. Patra accused the Congress-led States of mishandling the pandemic, even saying that the second wave began with a Congress-ruled State. The most number of those infected were from the Congress-ruled States and so were the most number of deaths. The maximum vaccine hesitancy was seen in the Congress-ruled States and so was the highest COVID-19 positivity rate, he observed. “The demand for decentralisation of vaccines came from the Congress-ruled States and the U-turn demanding centralisation too came from them. Instead of virtual press conferences and white papers, Rahul Gandhi should go to such States and give them this data,” he said. Mr. Patra called Mr. Gandhi “confused” and charged the Congress with making contradictory demands. “First they called the lockdown ‘Tughlaki’, then they questioned why there was no lockdown.... They promoted vaccine hesitancy... I would like to ask Rahul Gandhi how long will he conduct just virtual press conferences? When will you do some real work?,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-playing-politics-over-pandemic-bjp-tells-congress/article34920299.ece
23 June 2021||Kolkata,||Move against ex-Chief Secretary is vengeful: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday came out in the defence of former Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay describing the Centre’s proposal to hold “major penalty proceedings against him” as “wrong, unfair, and vengeful”. “The Centre’s actions are not only weakening the federal structure but also disrupting administration in West Bengal by upsetting the officers so they cannot function independently,” said senior party leader and Lok Sabha MP Sougata Roy. The Centre’s June 16 memorandum said, “Sri Alapan Bandopadhyay, IAS (Retd) (WB 1987) is hereby informed that the Central Government proposes to hold Major Penalty Proceedings against him under Rule 8 of the All-India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969 (herein referred to as Discipline Rules), read with Rule 6 of the All-India Services (Death-cum-Retirement Benefits) Rules, 1958...”. Mr Bandyopadhyay retired from services on May 31, 2021 and was appointed Chief Adviser to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Registering protest At a press conference, the Trinamool leaders said while Mr. Bandyopadhyay will take his own decision on the notification, the party is registering protest. “The former Chief Secretary is not a member of our party. What steps he will take are his own decision. But we are registering our protest,” said Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. Mr. Roy said such “departmental enquiry” cannot be undertaken against a retired IAS officer, unless it is related to financial irregularities. The Union government on May 28 issued an order asking Mr. Bandyopadhyay to report to Delhi on grounds that he skipped a post-cyclone review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda in West Bengal. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said she along with Mr. Bandyopadhyay met the Prime Minister and sought his leave before leaving the meeting. The Chief Minister refused to release Mr. Bandyopadhyay and appealed to the Centre to withdraw the order. However, an unmoved Centre sent another letter on May 31 directing him to report at North Block by 10 a.m. on June 1. The Chief Secretary opted to retire though he was already granted an extension for three months. The matter, however, has not ended despite Mr. Bandyopadhyay opting to retire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/move-against-ex-chief-secretary-is-vengeful-tmc/article34920271.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Insistence on Class 12 physical exams ‘irrational’, observes SC||The Union of India’s question “who is to blame if a student dies” saw the Supreme Court toss out insistent pleas by some parents claiming that the COVID-19 graph is in free fall and the internal assessment schemes for Class 12 CBSE and ICSE students should be chucked in favour of physical exams. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari on Tuesday stood by the Union’s principle that “every student’s life is precious”. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, for the Union, said, “Suppose a number of students who attend written exams get the infection, suppose a student dies… Who is to blame? It is neither safe nor prudent to have written exams”. The court asked Andhra Pradesh, which intends to conduct the State Board exams but has deferred a final decision to July, to make its position clear in an affidavit by Wednesday. “If there is even a single fatality, we will make the State responsible,” it warned. Kerala had filed an affidavit opting for exams for Class 11. The court said it would pass orders on the State’s choice. The court found the insistence on physical exams “irrational”. Justice Maheshwari said students cannot be left in uncertainty about their health and future. The CBSE and the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), which conducts the ICSE exams, shared the Union’s apprehensions about putting children in harm’s way, especially with medical experts warning about a looming third wave. “Children are most vulnerable, that too, without vaccination,” advocate J.K. Das, for the CISCE, said. The court said the CBSE and CISCE assessment schemes were “fair and reasonable” and caused no prejudice to the students.  The Attorney General quelled apprehensions that different dates for declaration of results would lead to students of one Board stealing a march over the others. “The UGC would wait for all the boards to declare their results before announcing the dates for admissions to colleges and institutions,” he assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/insistence-on-class-12-physical-exams-irrational-observes-sc/article34920279.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Congress to attend tomorrow’s meet||The Congress has decided to attend the all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 24. The decision was taken on Tuesday after party president Sonia Gandhi held a virtual meeting with top leaders, including former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former Union Ministers Ghulam Nabi Azad, P. Chidambaram and veteran leader Karan Singh. It also comes after the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration — an umbrella of mainstream parties in Jammu and Kashmir — decided to participate in the meeting. Fourteen leaders from Jammu and Kashmir have been invited to the meeting to be chaired by the Prime Minister to discuss the future course of action for the Union Territory. “The Congress has always favoured the process of dialogue and if Mr. Modi has made a beginning, we should attend. But the meeting should have a specific agenda,” Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir said. ‘Full statehood’ For the last couple of days, senior Congress leaders, including Mr. Chidambaram and Randeep Surjewala, have been demanding restoration of full statehood and holding of elections. “We believe that undoing it [taking away the status of full statehood] is a direct attack on democracy and constitutional principles,” Mr. Surjewala had said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-to-attend-tomorrows-meet/article34920285.ece
23 June 2021||Mumbai,||Arnab Goswami named in TRP scam chargesheet||The Mumbai Police have named Arnab Goswami, the editor-in-chief of Republic TV and owner of ARG Outlier Media, as an accused in the Television Ratings Points manipulation case. Mr. Goswami has been named along with Shivendu Mulekar, chief operating officer Priya Mukherjee and chief financial officer Shiva Sundaram in the 1,800-page supplementary chargesheet. The other accused include Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive office of BARC, and 14 others. They have been charged under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), 204 (destruction of document or electronic record to prevent its production), and 212 of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arnab-goswami-named-in-trp-scam-chargesheet/article34920258.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. goes into damage control over Punjab||The panel is said to have taken note of the comments made by Mr Sidhu in the media, especially at a time when the high command was working towards resoling the differences between different factions in Punjab. Sources said that the AICC panel is said to have indicated that there would soon be changes in the Punjab unit and the Chief Minister needs to make himself accessible to all sections of the party Separately, Mr Gandhi met over a dozen leaders from Punjab in the past two days including Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar, Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa and Punjab legislator Pargat Singh and Lok Sabha member Ravneet Singh Bittu. “Rahul Gandhi ji met more than 4 leaders yesterday and would be meeting more than nine today. Everyone is putting across their views before him and the main issue if how do we approach the 2022 Assembly elections. Everyone is talking about what kind of reforms that we need to do before election and every party does this six months before the elections,” Mr. Bittu told reporters after meeting Mr Gandhi. While there is no clarity if or when Mr Sidhu will be politically rehabilitated, sources say the Punjab CM is under pressure from his MLAs to deliver. In their meetings with Mr Gandhi, several MLAs are learnt to have raised issues such as sand mining mafia and transport mafia in Punjab, concessions in electricity bills and public anger over the 2015 sacrilege issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-goes-into-damage-control-over-punjab/article34920270.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian students unable to reach Australia due to travel restrictions||When 19-year old Pranavi Jamwal got admission last year into one of the world’s top 10 political science programmes at Australia’s top university which has produced Nobel Laureates and Prime Ministers, she was thrilled. The only problem? Rather than mingling with fellow students at The Australian National University’s prestigious Canberra campus, she is stuck at home in New Delhi, waking up for 4 a.m. online classes. “COVID has disrupted my plans, and the Australian government is unable to give any clear timeline when I will be allowed to enter the country, and it now looks that at least half my course will be online,” she said.  Faced with closed borders, the number of Indian students heading to Australia has been sinking since the pandemic began. According to IDP Education, which cited Australian government data, Indian students granted an Australian visa dropped from 21,433 in 2019-20 to 11,200 in 2020-21. Pilot programme Last week, two Australian States announced plans to start a pilot programme to allow international students back into the country at the rate of about 800 per month. Australia’s High Commissioner to India Brian O’Farrell admits that the scope of the problem is much larger, but says this is an important first step. “We have over 4,70,000 people who are entitled to be in Australia, studying whether in postgraduate, research, undergraduate or other elements of education, and currently 1,50,000 of those are offshore,” he told The Hindu in a recent interview. “I’m not wishing to get their hopes up any higher. But what is positive is that two states, including Australia’s largest State, only last week announced pilot programmes to demonstrate not just to the federal government, but to the Australian community, that international students can return to our shores without there being a community health problem,” Mr. O’Farrell said. International students may be able to return at the end of the first semester in 2022. “I’m optimistic about next year. Do I think that's going to placate the students here in India who should have been in Australia? No, and I have great sympathy for them,” Mr. O’Farrell said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-students-unable-to-reach-australia-due-to-travel-restrictions/article34920286.ece
23 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Focus on people-centric agenda in post-COVID development transitions||The post-COVID-19 development transitions should be managed through people-centric agendas, robust civic engagements and vibrant public-private partnerships, as such an approach will help make progress towards Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) intended to be achieved by 2030, according to the findings of a research conducted by a development studies institution here. The upcoming challenges could be met through the government’s partnership with private institutions and industry as co-drivers of growth for greater public good, stated the research. Overcoming the digital divide and capacity building of weaker sections were identified as other important elements of the strategy to bring the economy back on rails. The School of Development Studies (SDS) at the Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR) here took up the research to identify the areas of intervention for ensuring people’s welfare during the pandemic and equipping them to face the third wave of thes infection, which is likely to hit the rural areas later this year. At a virtual national conclave for holding deliberations on challenges and opportunities in the post-COVID scenario, IIHMR president P.R. Sodani said though the outcomes were meant for the betterment of the community at large, the Union and State governments would play an important role in rehabilitation of the affected people. Goutam Sadhu, professor at SDS, laid emphasis on the role of professionals in the development, healthcare and livelihood sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-on-people-centric-agenda-in-post-covid-development-transitions/article34920502.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 held in Shaurya Chakra awardee murder case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested two alleged Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) accomplices in connection with the killing of Comrade Balwinder Singh Sandhu, a Shaurya Chakra awardee. The accused have been identified as Harbhinder Singh and Navpreet Singh. The agency has alleged that they are close aides of the chargesheeted accused, Inderjit Singh, who had conducted reconnaissance, and were involved in the conspiracy to kill the Shaurya Chakra awardee. “Both the accused were produced before the NIA Special Court, Mohali, on Tuesday and have been taken into NIA custody for four days,” the agency said. The case was initially registered at the Bhikhiwind police station in Tarn Taran after Comrade Balwinder Singh was killed at his residence-cum-school on October 16, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-held-in-shaurya-chakra-awardee-murder-case/article34920259.ece
23 June 2021||Guwahati,||Minister offers Rs. 1 lakh for parent with most children||Three years after the Young Mizo Association (YMA), an influential organisation, asked the tribal people to have more babies, a Minister in Mizoram has announced a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh to a parent in his Assembly constituency with the most number of children. Sports, Youth Affairs and Tourism Minister Robert Romawia Royte made the announcement on June 20 for encouraging the demographically small Mizos to reverse the declining population growth rate. He represents the Mizo National Front from the Aizawl East-II constituency. Mr. Royte did not quantify the children a man or woman should have to be eligible for the award. “I made the announcement on Father’s Day. The prize money will be sponsored by the North East Consultancy Services,” he told journalists. His family runs the agency. The Minister said Mizoram’s population density of 52 persons per sq. km was much below the national average of 382. “The infertility rate and the declining growth rate of the Mizo population has been a serious concern for many years,” he said. is announcement came a week after the death of Zion-a Chana, the leader of a polygamous Christian cult who had 39 wives and 94 children besides several grandchildren.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-offers-rs-1-lakh-for-parent-with-most-children/article34920267.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||He establishes dharma||Life is full of sorrows, and sastras explain that these are of the nature of Adi Bhoutika, caused by outside forces such as natural calamities, etc, Adi devata, when we are ruled by the supernatural and the divine, and Adyatmika, the afflictions affecting the body and self of an individual. They also state that the root cause of all sorrows is adharma and the hurdles for the salvation of the jivatma are the papa karmas in each one’s account. The nature of Kali Yuga is such that dharma is weak. As a result, when sins increase, it is a sad situation that even the fear of the effects of sin is eclipsed. So, each one has to make a sincere prayer to the Supreme Lord to intervene and help, pointed out Sri Sriramana Sarma in a discourse. As proclaimed in the Bhagavad Gita, when adharma gains upper hand, the Lord alone can overpower it and establish dharma. God is sarva antaryami. It is our duty to seek His help and it is His duty to help. Even the most desperate situation is under the control of the Lord’s Sankalpa. Rama is caught in deep sorrow when Sita is abducted by Ravana. But Providence provides a solution when Hanuman enters His life. The Lord has the power to control even the most vicious of people. It is His swabhava to bring the necessary changes in people and circumstances. He can remove our sins to make us pure in thought, word and deed. Bhishma asserts that the antidote to all kinds of distress is to meditate on His divine names and His auspicious qualities. These have the power to wash away the sins even as the sacred waters of the Ganga. By seeking the Lord, who is the abode of compassion, we will be rid of the tendency to commit sins and thereby abide by dharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/he-establishes-dharma/article34920290.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sushil Ansal concealed facts: police||The Delhi Police told a court here that Sushil Ansal — convicted in the 1997 Uphaar cinema fire incident that killed 59 people — played a fraud on authorities by concealing information about criminal cases pending against him while getting his passport renewed. “From the investigation, it is clear that Sushil Ansal had deliberately concealed the information regarding criminal proceedings pending against the applicant in any court of law or that she/ he has not been convicted by any court of law for any criminal offence in the past,” the police said in its chargesheet. It also said Mr. Ansal was issued a passport in 2013 on a “tatkaal” application. The affidavit under the “tatkaal” scheme required specific deposition by the applicant to the effect that there were no criminal proceedings pending against the applicant in any court of law or that she/ he has not been convicted by any court of law for any criminal offence in past. ‘Misled govt. authority’ “This affidavit was filed by Ansal alongwith his application, which resulted in the issuance of a passport in 2013. The accused benefitted from the said passport....He has on oath misled the government authority [Regional Passport Office] that he has not been convicted in any criminal proceedings by any court,” the police added. “Ansal was fully aware of the provisions of Passport Act. He had deliberately left the relevant boxes in the application form pertaining to criminality or court proceedings unticked,” it said in the chargesheet. The inquiry was initiated on the direction of the High Court after a petition was filed by Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT) through its chairperson Neelam Krishnamoorthy claiming that the real estate tycoon deliberately made false declarations about his criminal proceedings while applying for passport. The police had earlier informed the High Court that in 2013, three criminal cases, including the Uphaar fire tragedy matter, were pending against Ansal. Krishnamoorthy, who lost her two children in the tragedy, has been fighting a legal battle on behalf of the victims’ families for the last 20 years. A fire at Uphaar cinema during the screening of Hindi film “Border” on June 13, 1997, killed 59 people.  Ansal was fully aware of the provisions of the Passport Act. He deliberately left the relevant boxes in the application form pertaining to criminality or court proceedings unticked Delhi Police chargesheet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sushil-ansal-concealed-facts-police/article34920254.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arms bound for Myanmar seized, 2 held||In one of the major arms recoveries in recent times in Mizoram, the Assam Rifles on Tuesday seized a large haul of war-like stores being smuggled to Myanmar and apprehended two individuals. “These explosives are believed to be transported from Mizoram to Myanmar for use by the Chin national Army against the Myanmar Army,” an Assam Rifles official said on condition of anonymity. The recoveries included 3,000 special detonators in six cartons, 925 electric detonators in 37 packets, 2,000 metres of fuse in four boxes and 63 sacks of explosives substance, each sack containing 10 packets each of 2.08 kg of Class II Category - ZZ explosive powder weighing a total of 1.3 tonnes, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arms-bound-for-myanmar-seized-2-held/article34920263.ece
23 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Akhil Gogoi cleared of UAPA charge||A special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has cleared Sibsagar MLA Akhil Gogoi in one of two cases he was slapped with under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967, for allegedly inciting violence during the December 2019 protests in Assam against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). The MLA, then an activist associated with pressure group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, has been in jail since his arrest in these two and several other cases. On Tuesday, NIA Special Judge Pranjal Das did not frame charges against Mr. Gogoi in connection with the UAPA case registered in Chabua police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhil-gogoi-cleared-of-uapa-charge/article34920265.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Plea for 100% procurement by Centre||An application has been filed in the Supreme Court challenging the Central government’s policy to allow 25% of the domestically manufactured COVID-19 vaccines to be procured by private hospitals. The plea filed by John Brittas, CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP, and Professor R. Ramakumar of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, said that the new policy will cause a reservation for the rich and urban people. The application has urged the top court to direct the Centre to take over 100% procurement The plea has cited statistics from the past vaccination drives, including tuberculosis, DPT3 and polio, where contribution of the private sector was negligible. Already, the application argues, there is a massive under-utilisation of vaccines by the private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-for-100-procurement-by-centre/article34920272.ece
23 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Police told to probe charge against Raut||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Mumbai Police Commissioner to inquire into allegations made by a woman of harassment by some men at the behest of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar was hearing a plea filed by the 36-year-old woman alleging that some men are stalking and harassing her and her estranged husband at the behest of Mr. Raut, a member of the Rajya Sabha. The petition stated that the woman had lodged three complaints but no action had been taken against those involved. In the order, the court said, “We direct the Commissioner of Police to look into the grievances raised in the petition. The Commissioner of Police shall respond to us and submit a report on June 24.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-told-to-probe-charge-against-raut/article34920275.ece
23 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Yogi and RSS leaders meet BJP’s Maurya||Amid speculation of differences within the BJP in Uttar Pradesh over the question of leadership ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday called on Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at the latter’s residence. Though Mr. Adityanath chose the occasion to offer blessings to Mr. Maurya’s newly-wed son and daughter-in-law, his visit was not bereft of political significance. Ever since the BJP stormed to power in the State in 2017, an uneasy relationship has existed between Mr. Adityanath and Mr. Maurya. On Tuesday, Mr. Adityanath, Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma and top RSS leaders Dattatreya Hosabale and Krishna Gopal visited Mr. Maurya. Soon after, Mr. Maurya released pictures of the meeting on social media, including one where he is offering a saffron scarf to Mr. Adityanath. The show of unity within the BJP in U.P. comes days after Arvind Kumar Sharma, former bureaucrat who is now a BJP MLC, wrote a letter to the party’s State president Swatantra Dev Singh affirming that though the party could win solely with the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it would enter the polls under the joint leadership of Mr. Modi and Mr. Adityanath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yogi-and-rss-leaders-meet-bjps-maurya/article34920281.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Right to life should take priority: NHRC||National Human Rights Commission Chairperson Justice Arun Kumar Mishra on Tuesday said that the “right to life should prevail over the rights of patent-holders” so that life-saving medicines and vaccines for COVID-19 would be available to the poor. Justice Mishra was addressing an online discussion on the topic of the “State’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic” as a part of the 47th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council. He said the world was experiencing huge losses due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking about issues that were affecting human rights, he said online commerce had concentrated wealth in fewer hands. He added that education had suffered, healthcare infrastructure fell short and families were left destitute and children orphaned. “We cherish freedom of cyberspace, not to be misused to subvert the constitutional values,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/right-to-life-should-take-priority-nhrc/article34920294.ece
23 June 2021||Kolkata,||Move against former CS vengeful: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday came out in defence of former chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay describing the Centre’s proposal to hold “major penalty proceedings” against him as “wrong, unfair, and vengeful”. “Centre’s actions are not only weakening the federal structure of the country, but also disrupting administration in West Bengal by upsetting the officers in the State so they cannot function independently,” senior Trinamool Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Sougata Roy said. Mr. Bandyopadhyay retired from service on May 31, 2021 and was appointed Chief Advisor to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/move-against-former-cs-vengeful-tmc/article34920651.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jabs key to boost economy, says V.K. Paul||Quick vaccination is key to opening the economy and going back to normal, said Member (Health) of NITI Aayog Dr. V.K. Paul, speaking to DD News, according to a release issued by the Health Ministry on Tuesday. Dr. Paul said a third wave could be stopped if safe behaviour was followed and a majority of the people got vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jabs-key-to-boost-economy-says-vk-paul/article34920293.ece
23 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||BRO ‘renaming’ town sparks anger in Arunachal||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has rubbed various organisations in Arunachal Pradesh the wrong way by “renaming” a town in the State and showing it as part of Assam during a programme attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on June 17. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union and local organisations in Kimin in Papum Pare district, situated 75 km from State capital Itanagar, have demanded an apology from the BRO for the “howler” which, they said, was made deliberately to let a “certain country” know the Defence Minister visited Assam and not the State it claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bro-renaming-town-sparks-anger-in-arunachal/article34920501.ece
23 June 2021||Kolkata,||WB panel to manage third COVID-19 wave||While the number of new COVID-19 infections has dropped considerably in West Bengal , the State government on Tuesday set up an expert committee to supervise and monitor the evolving situation for effective management of the impending third wave. “There is an immediate need to undertake all precautionary steps to prepare our health system ton handle any potential situation specially pertaining tog paediatric Covid cases,” a notification issued by the State Health Department said. The panel comprises 10 doctors from State-run hospitals, including the principal of B.C. Roy Children Hospital and will work effectively in consultation with State’s Director Health Services and Director Medical Education. “The matter has been discussed and deliberated upon in detail and it has been felt imperative to constitute an expert committee to supervise and monitor the evolving situation and suggest suitable interventions to tackle effective management of COVID-19 third wave,” the notification said. The State has recorded 1,852 new infections in the past 24 hours and 47 deaths. The total deathshave reached 17,437 and the number of active cases has dropped to 22,508. The State tested 51,233 samples for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours and the case positivity rate remained at 3.61%. Despite the universal free vaccination programme rolled out in other States, West Bengal is still focusing on super spreaders. On Monday, the State had administered vaccines to about three lakh persons. Dr. Dipankar Samajpathi, Nodal Officer, Immunization , Central Government Health Service Doctors said, “We are in the same situation we were in beginning of this year in January and February, the cases have come down. We should use this opportunity to vaccinate as many as possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wb-panel-to-manage-third-covid-19-wave/article34920503.ece
23 June 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC sets deadline for Sudha Bharadwaj bail plea||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday told the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Maharashtra government not to seek any more adjournments and posted the bail plea filed by activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, for July 3. The court directed the NIA and the State to file its reply on or before July 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-sets-deadline-for-sudha-bharadwaj-bail-plea/article34920256.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||U.K. liaison officer joins Navy’s information fusion centre||A United Kingdom liaison officer on Tuesday joined the Navy’s Information Fusion Centre for Indian Ocean Region. The centre, located in Gurugram, is meant for maritime domain awareness. “Lt Cdr Stephen Smith will be based full-time at the centre, working directly with the Indian armed forces and fellow liaison officers from partner nations to enhance maritime domain awareness in the region,” the U.K. High Commission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-liaison-officer-joins-navys-information-fusion-centre/article34920262.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||MoD signs Rs. 583 cr. contract for 2 pollution control vessels for Coast Guard||The Ministry of Defence on Tuesday signed a contract with Goa Shipyard Ltd. for the construction of two pollution control vessels for the Coast Guard at a cost of about Rs. 583 crore. The ships, designed, developed and built by GSL, are scheduled for delivery by November 2024 and May 2025 respectively, a Ministry statement said. The vessels would be used for pollution response requirements in Eastern and the ecologically sensitive Andaman and Nicobar regions, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mod-signs-rs-583-cr-contract-for-2-pollution-control-vessels-for-coast-guard/article34920264.ece
23 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra BJP slams 2-day monsoon session||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday said the monsoon session of the State legislature would be held for only two days from July 5 in Mumbai due to the pandemic. Opposition BJP has criticised the move, saying the government is running away from its responsibility. The Business Advisory Committee (BAC) held its meeting on Tuesday to decide on details of the monsoon session. The BJP boycotted the meeting over the manner in which the decision to hold a truncated session was taken. “Today, we (BJP leaders) met the ruling coalition to decide the schedule for the monsoon session of the State legislature. We were surprised to see the government was planning to hold the session for only two days. We decided to walk out of the BAC meeting in protest against the government’s plan to hold the session for such a short duration,” former CM Devendra Fadnavis said. “There is no place left for us to raise the voice of the common people. The two-day session will be too short for us to raise various issues, the plight of people, farmers, students as well as the law and order situation in the State. This government has turned the democratic processes into a circus,” he said. Earlier, the State government said restrictions would be in place for MLAs and ministers to ensure all COVID-19 guidelines were followed. “Only one officer can accompany the MLAs or ministers. Rest of the staff will have to remain outside,” the government said. All those attending the session would have to undergo RT-PCR test. The decision to hold the session for two days was taken considering the present situation of COVID-19 and the possibility of a third wave, it said. Responding to a query on Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s letter urging Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray to join hands with the BJP again, Mr. Fadnavis said it was an internal matter of the Sena. “The BJP has nothing to do with it. Our party is not interested in bringing down this government. This three-party government will fall under its internal burden,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-bjp-slams-2-day-monsoon-session/article34920276.ece
23 June 2021||Guwahati,||BRO ‘renaming’ town sparks anger in Arunachal||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has rubbed various organisations in Arunachal Pradesh the wrong way by “renaming” a town in the frontier State and showing it as part of Assam during a programme attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on June 17. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union and local organisations in Kimin in Papum Pare district have demanded an apology from the BRO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bro-renaming-town-sparks-anger-in-arunachal/article34920280.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||SC judge recuses himself from Narada case||Supreme Court judge Justice Aniruddha Bose on Tuesday recused himself from hearing appeals filed by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Law Minister Moloy Ghatak and the State government against the Calcutta High Court’s refusal to immediately consider their affidavits countering allega-tions about their role on the day of arrest of four TMC leaders by the CBI in the Narada case. The Bench headed by Justice Hemant Gupta ordered that petitions be placed before another Bench. Justice Bose was formerly a judge in the Calcutta High Court. His recusal comes within a few days of another former Calcutta High Court judge, Justice Indira Banerjee, withdrawing from hearing a petition filed by the families of two BJP activists allegedly killed in the post poll violence in the State. The Narada case came up for hearing again before a Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari. However, this Bench, on the consent of the parties, adjourned the hearing to June 25. The parties assured that the case would be concluded on Friday. The Saran Bench further requested the High Court to not take up the matter for hearing before June 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-judge-recuses-himself-from-narada-case/article34920287.ece
23 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Kotkapura firing: SIT questions ex-CM Badal||Former Punjab Chief Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Parkash Singh Badal was on Tuesday questioned by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab police, probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incidents. The SIT team questioned Mr. Badal at his official residence here for over two-and-a-half hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kotkapura-firing-sit-questions-ex-cm-badal/article34920289.ece
23 June 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. govt. hiding actual COVID death toll: SP||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of hiding the actual number of deaths due to COVID-19. Through this, he said, the BJP government was actually hiding its face. Mr. Yadav’s remarks came a day after a report claimed that the death toll due to COVID-19 in 24 districts of U.P. from July 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021, was up to 43 times higher than the official figures.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-govt-hiding-actual-covid-death-toll-sp/article34920505.ece
23 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana’s COVID-19 campaign begins today||Haryana BJP president Omprakash Dhankhar on Tuesday said that to create awareness and motivate people to get vaccinated, the party cadre would start a special campaign across the State from June 23. “The party cadre of the BJP will work with the State government as an ally to defeat corona. Workers will run a campaign to ensure 100% vaccination,” said Mr. Dhankhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryanas-covid-19-campaign-begins-today/article34920506.ece
23 June 2021||Moradabad (U.P.),||4 dead in U.P. after inhaling toxic gas||Three members of a family were among four men found dead in the basement of a cement store in Rajpur Kesaria village, police said on Tuesday. Senior Superintendent of Police, Moradabad, said prima facie it seems that the deceased died of suffocation due to inhaling toxic gas released by the half-dry dung cakes stored in the basement.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-dead-in-up-after-inhaling-toxic-gas/article34920507.ece
23 June 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Ancient stone statue found||A stone idol of Perumal was found at Karaiyankurichi in the district on Tuesday. The idol was discovered when Saravanan was digging his land to construct a house. Upon noticing the statue, he immediately informed revenue and police officials. Since the stone statue was massive in size, authorities engaged an earthmover to lift it from the ground.  Revenue authorities said the stone idol would be sent to Government Museum in Tiruchi. The age of the statue could be acertained only after study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ancient-stone-statue-found/article34920760.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Court tells Gowda to pay Rs. 2 cr. to NICE in defamation case||A City Civil and Sessions Court in Bengaluru has directed former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H.D. Deve Gowda to pay damages of Rs. 2 crore to the Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprise (NICE) Limited for ‘loss of reputation’. NICE had filed a case alleging ‘defamatory comments’ by the former Prime Minister in an interview to a Kannada news channel in June 2011. The order issued by judge Mallanagouda also restrained Mr. Gowda from making defamatory statements against the company in the media in future. The counsel for the company argued that the allegation made by Mr. Gowda about utilising more land than required for implementation of the project was inaccurate. The company had no role in deciding the quantity of land required for the project. The allegation, therefore, was false and made by the defendant without there being any documentary evidence. The counsel also contended that the project was approved by the Karnataka government.  ‘No illegality’ The High Court of Karnataka and the Supreme Court had issued directions to the State government to take steps for implementation of the project, which showed that there was no illegality and irregularities in the work. The company had demanded Rs. 10 crore from Mr. Gowda as damages. The court concluded that Mr. Gowda had failed to substantiate his claim against the company, which was made during the interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-tells-gowda-to-pay-rs-2-cr-to-nice-in-defamation-case/article34920308.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents complain of sewage dumping in waterways||City waterways and the open stormwater drains along service lanes of arterial roads continue to be easy locations for private lorries to dispose of untreated sewage collected from neighbouring areas. Residents of various areas complained that lorries that collect sewage from areas that are yet to be provided with underground drainage network find it convenient to dump it to avoid charges to be paid at the Metrowater facilities. P. Suresh Kumar, a resident of Sholinganallur, said, “The stretch of south Buckingham Canal near the Iskcon temple service road is vulnerable to such pollution. I often see private lorries draining raw sewage and polluting the waterway during the early morning hours. I have also raised a complaint with the Greater Chennai Corporation and the complaint has been forwarded to the Semmencheri police station to take action against the operators.” Sholinganallur is one of the areas awaiting sewerage connection. Though Metrowater has set up decanting points at sewage treatment plants in Sholinganallur and Perungudi, some tanker operators avoid them citing various reasons, including distance. Similarly, tankers dumping sewage in stormwater drains along service lanes of Chennai Bypass Road near Mogappair is a problem still waiting to be addressed. Balaji Srinivas, a resident of Mogappair West, said: “I have seen four-five lorries dumping sewage into the stormwater drain that flows into the Cooum. The increase in this illegal practice poses a health hazard, and can cause groundwater pollution. Several complaints have been made to the authorities concerned in various departments, including the police.” S. Swaminathan, secretary of the JAMBA United Welfare Association (a federation of residents’ welfare association of Mogappair), said measures must be taken to close the stormwater drains in the remaining stretch between Mogappair and Maduravoyal. More police patrolling would help reduce such problems. Officials of Metrowater said nearly 35 lorries dispose of sewage at the Golden George Nagar sewage pumping station on a nominal charge. Officials have been instructed to register police complaints on such vehicles polluting the environment. The water agency is planning to procure sewage disposal lorries to serve merged areas and mitigate pollution. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India noted that with the National Highways Authority of India headquarters granting approval, tenders for a Rs. 15.38 crore project would be called for shortly to cover the drain along the bypass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-complain-of-sewage-dumping-in-waterways/article34920455.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special drive to inoculate those who missed Covaxin 2nd dose||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is organising a special vaccination drive on June 23 and 24 for those who missed their second dose of Covaxin. A total of 62,050 Covaxin doses reserved for this initiative would be sent to all GCC vaccination centres. Those who did not get their second dose within the window of four to six weeks could visit the centres to get vaccinated. GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the civic body had already launched a drive to track and inoculate those who were due for their second dose of vaccination or had not taken it within the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-advised window. Of the roughly 89,500 people who were identified as having missed their second dose, a total of 30,480 have already been tracked and vaccinated. More than 80% of those who missed their second dose had taken Covaxin. Officials said inadequate supply of Covaxin was the primary reason for many people missing their second dose. Vishu Mahajan, Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance), GCC, who is taking care of the vaccination drive, said the civic body used two strategies to track those who missed their second dose. “After taking the data from the Co-WIN portal, we passed on the details of those who missed their second dose to our decentralised zonal-level telecounselling centres and the respective Urban Primary Health Centres. Those from the telecounselling centres called everyone individually and followed up with them for the second dose,” he said. “On the other hand, our door-to-door fever survey workers collected vaccination data from households. They also tracked people who missed their second dose and guided them to nearby vaccination centres,” he added. He said through these strategies, the GCC was able to identify and vaccinate 30,480 people who missed their second dose. While roughly another 59,000 people were yet to take their second dose, he said it was possible that a considerable percentage of them could have taken their second dose but the same was not reflected on the Co-WIN portal. “For instance, if a different phone number was entered in the portal during the second dose, it gets registered as the first dose and not as the second dose. While tracking people, we are finding many cases due to such issues,” he said. The list of vaccination centres in the city can be accessed here: http://covid19.chennaicorporation.gov.in/covid/vac- cine_centers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-drive-to-inoculate-those-who-missed-covaxin-2nd-dose/article34920418.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. rejects ONGC’s application to drill wells||Reiterating that the State government will not give permission to coal bed methane and shale gas projects that will cause problems for the environment and farmers, Industries Minister Thang- am Thennarasu on Tuesday said applications of the ONGC for digging 10 wells in Ariyalur district and five wells in Cuddalore district had been rejected on June 21. Responding to Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) member M.H. Jawahiruallah, who raised the issue of hydrocarbon projects in the Assembly, Mr. Thennarasu said the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) had rejected the applications of ONGC since they lacked details about the projects’ socio-economic and environmental impact. The Minister said the government would not grant permission for new oil and gas projects in Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Thanjavur districts that had been covered under the Tamil Nadu Protected Agriculture Zone Development Act, 2020; Kattumannarkoil, Melbhuvanagiri, Keerapalayam, Parankipet and Kumaratchi taluks in Cuddalore district; and Aranthangi, Avudaiyarkoil, Manmelkudi, Tiruvarankulam and Karampakudi in Pudukottai district. “The government will set up an expert committee to assess the damage caused by oil, natural gas and hydrocarbon projects in other districts. The committee will study the impact on groundwater, soil and environment. It will elicit the views of the public on the impact on their livelihood and food security,” he said. Cement prices Mr. Thennarasu said cement price had come down to Rs. 460 a bag after he held talks with cement manufacturers, and they had agreed to bring it down further since the Chief Minister was particular that the price of construction material should not affect the common man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-rejects-ongcs-application-to-drill-wells/article34920441.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 48 lakh stolen from SBI ATM cash deposit machines||The city police have launched a hunt to nab a gang that stole at least Rs. 48 lakh from various SBI ATMs with cash deposit machines. The gang stole cash from ATMs in Velachery, Taramani and Vadapalani — altogether 18 places in the city limits and the districts. The police said the fraudsters targeted only cash deposit machines and used a single debit card. Using the card, they opted to withdraw the cash. When the cash was in the dispenser, they blocked the sensor signal for 20 seconds and took the money. If the cash is not withdrawn within this period, the machine takes the money back and the amount debited from the account is reversed. However, in this case, the fraudsters held it open, then released it, giving the machine the cue that it was taking back the cash while they had actually removed the notes. The bank staff noticed a loss of cash from the dispenser though the corresponding debits had not been made, a police officer said, explaining the modus operandi of the gang. All these fraudulent withdrawals occurred between June 17 and 18 from only SBI automated cash deposit-withdrawal machines. The staff of each bank complained to the police in their jurisdiction. On Tuesday, City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal held a meeting with R. Radhakrishna, chief general manager of SBI, Chennai circle, and other officials. The bank officials briefed the police about the possible modus operandi to withdraw the cash in this case. 19 cases reported Addressing the media, Mr. Jiwal said about 19 cases were reported in Tamil Nadu in two days. A couple of similar incidents were reported elsewhere in the country. “Now, it has been stopped following steps taken by the bank. It looks like the work of a gang from outside Tamil Nadu. We are working on certain leads,” he said. The Commissioner said the offence was committed by exploiting a technical flaw in the machines, which was immediately rectified by the bank. “As an immediate step, we have disabled all machines which have problems. These machines will not dispense cash as of now,” Mr. Radhakrishna said. The police have collected CCTV footage from the ATMs and intensified the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-48-lakh-stolen-from-sbi-atm-cash-deposit-machines/article34920412.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State bracing for third wave, says Minister||The State government on Tuesday told the Assembly that it was taking all steps necessary to improve medical infrastructure, even as it hoped that the third wave of COVID-19 may not hit the State. Tamil Nadu needed about 10 crore doses of vaccines to cover all eligible citizens. During the last one-and-a-half months, 79,618 beds have been made available as part of efforts to face the third wave of the pandemic, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian told the House. “We only hope that there is no third wave of COVID-19 but we are taking every step possible to face it, should it come,” he said and recalled the setting up of a special ward in the children’s hospital in Egmore recently. As for the vaccination drive, he said the State had been receiving vaccine doses “to some extent” and the number of those choosing to vaccinate themselves had gone up. On June 21, about 3.96 lakh people took vaccine shots. A total of 2,510 cases of mucormycosis were reported in the State and of them, 130 had been discharged after treatment, he said. When the DMK government was sworn-in on May 7, the number of COVID-19 cases stood at 26,265 a day and it went up to 36,157 on May 21. But it eventually dropped to over 7,400 on June 21, Mr. Subramanian pointed out and hoped that it would go down further in the next few days. Listing the steps taken by the government for containing the spread of COVID-19, the Minister recalled Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s visit to the ICU of a hospital in Coimbatore to boost the confidence of health workers fighting the pandemic. Mr. Subramanian was replying to C. Vijayabaskar (AIADMK), who raised the issue in the House. Dr. Vijayabaskar, a former Health Minister, contended that the State government should keep ready at least one lakh beds anticipating the admission of children during the third wave of the pandemic as they had not been vaccinated. He wanted mothers to be vaccinated on priority, as they were expected to accompany their children should the latter be infected in the third wave. Additional beds should be installed in special wards for children during the expected wave, he said. The vaccination drive should also be improved across the State, and steps should be taken to remove vaccine hesitancy that was prevalent even among the educated, he said. He warned that this was the time one needed to be careful, though relaxations were announced in the COVID-19 lockdown. The government should categorise hospitals into three — non-COVID, COVID specials and those for post-COVID complications, Dr. Vijayabaskar said. He pointed out that there were more patients with post-COVID complications than those with COVID-19. He wanted dedicated post-COVID-care district-level hospitals. He sought to know whether the medical admissions this year would be through NEET. Dr. Vijayabaskar asked what the DMK government’s stand was on the 7.5% reservation to students from government schools in medical admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-bracing-for-third-wave-says-minister/article34920438.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Test positivity rate falls from 27% to 1.5% in six weeks||Chennai’s COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) has fallen from 27% in May to just 1.5% on June 20. At a meeting of officials of the Corporation and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at Ripon Buildings on Tuesday, scientists shared information about the decrease in TPR from 27% on May 10 to 1.6% on June 19, including tests done at government and private facilities. On June 20, the figure reduced further to 1.5% out of about 30,000 people tested in the city. The positivity rate among samples collected by the Corporation reduced to 0.6% on June 20 (23,800 tests). Scientists from ICMR have advised the Corporation to focus on COVID-19 containment in the top 30 divisions of the civic body and downsizing of fever survey workers in 170 other divisions that have registered a decrease in TPR. Fever survey workers in the top 30 divisions will not be downsized. Soorapet registered the highest number of cases in the city in past week. The Vadaperumbakkam, Chintadripet, Aminjikarai, Ambattur and Old Washermenpet divisions reported a relative surge in cases over the past week, ICMR officials said. On Monday, just 47 patients were admitted to COVID Care Centres by Corporation officials. A total of 163 COVID-19 patients were identified by Corporation officials in all 15 zones on June 21. The number of patients seeking tele-counselling has also reduced in the 15 zones. Just seven COVID-19 patients sought psychological counselling on June 21. As a result, the civic body is planning to reduce the number of volunteers. Just 147 residents in the 15 zones used the special COVID-19 ambulances of the Corporation on June 21. Only 44 ambulances were deployed that day. The civic body had launched 250 ambulances in May. The deaths per million was highest in Teynampet zone, officials said. The vaccination coverage of residents aged over 60 is 43%. Around 49% of the residents in the 45 to 59 age group have received at least one dose of the vaccine. Civic officials have been directed to help those in the 18 to 44 age group as their vaccination coverage is low. Of the 35 lakh residents in the 18 to 44 age group, just 3.36 lakh have received the first dose of the vaccine.  On Monday, just 47 patients were admitted to COVID Care Centres by Corporation officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-positivity-rate-falls-from-27-to-15-in-six-weeks/article34920416.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister defends decision to reopen liquor shops||There was a heated argument in the Assembly on Tuesday over the government’s decision to reopen Tasmac-run liquor shops in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. V. Senthilbalaji, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise, said the shops had been reopened only in districts where the COVID-19 infection rate was low. When S. Ravi (AIADMK) wondered how the government could open liquor shops since Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and other DMK leaders organised black flag protests against it when the AIADMK was in power, Mr. Senthilbalaji said the shops remained closed in districts where the infection rate was high. He said States such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Puducherry had reopened shops, and liquor was being smuggled into Tamil Nadu from Karnataka in vehicles carrying vegetables. “A bottle that costs Rs. 150 is being sold for Rs. 1,000. We want to prevent the smuggling of liquor and the Chief Minister is particular that illicit brewing should not be allowed to raise its head,” Mr. Senthilbalaji said. He said the AIADMK government opened liquour shops, but closed them following a direction from the Madras High Court. Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami argued that the DMK organised protests against the opening of liquor shops even though the highest rate of infection recorded during the AIADMK regime was 7,000 cases. Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare, pointed out that the figure had reached over 26,000 during the AIADMK rule. To this, Mr. Palaniswami said the Election Commission had announced election on February 26 and the model code of conduct came into force on the same day. “But on the day the election was announced, just 480 cases were recorded,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami said he had written to the Election Commission, seeking permission to hold meetings with District Collectors to chalk out steps to control the disease, and the Election Commission asked the Chief Secretary to convene the meeting. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Tamil Nadu for its effective measures to control the spread,” he said. Duraimurugan, Leader of the House, said a new powerful variant was responsible for the second wave of the pandemic. RT-PCR test results When Mr. Ravi complained that it took more than 24 hours to get results of the RT-PCR test, Mr. Subramanian said there was a delay when the infection rate was high and now the results were available in 24 hours. Mr. Subramanian made it clear that it was impossible to give compensation to all those who died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-defends-decision-to-reopen-liquor-shops/article34920448.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schedule prepared to telecast lessons through Kalvi TV||With government and aided schools currently engaged in distributing textbooks to students, the School Education Department has come out with a comprehensive schedule of lessons to be telecast on Kalvi TV for students from Classes 1 to 12. Since schools remained shut owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, video lessons began on Kalvi TV for the 2020-21 academic year. Following this, bridge course programmes were telecast over the summer as well, after the academic year to address learning gaps. For this purpose, students were given workbooks. “This year, we have added lessons for Classes 1 and 12 as well. Last year, Class 12 students had recorded video lessons on their laptops, which they had used to study,” said P.A. Naresh, Joint Director of the School Education Department, and special officer, Kalvi TV. “As was done last year for Class 10 students, this year we will have lessons telecast in sign language for Classes 6 onwards to ensure that more differently abled students benefit from the same,” he told The Hindu . Kalvi TV also has a YouTube Channel, where students can watch videos if they miss the telecast. While the Chief Educational Officers have been asked to instruct schools to ensure that students watch and learn from programmes on Kalvi TV, schools have also been asked to find out about concerns regarding access to a TV or a smartphone that their students might have. The School Education Commissioner, in a circular, asked schools to find out through class teachers as to how many students had a television and whether they have access to Kalvi TV. For students who do not have access to Kalvi TV or electronic devices and internet access, teachers have been asked to chalk out an alternate teaching plan to ensure they continue learning. Since a comprehensive schedule of programmes is in place, heads of schools and teachers have been asked to familiarise themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schedule-prepared-to-telecast-lessons-through-kalvi-tv/article34920422.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Chief Minister likely to head advisory panel for big temples||The proposed State-level advisory committee for all major Hindu temples is likely to be headed by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Indicating this, a government official told The Hindu that the formation of the committee would be in tune with Section 7 of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Act. The committee would have HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekar Babu as vice-chairman. “It can have any number of non-officials as members, of whom one should be a member of the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes,” said the official, adding that the HR&CE Commissioner would be ex-officio member-secretary and the Secretary in charge of the Department of HR&CE an ex-officio member. Such a committee was last established in 2012, and its tenure ended in 2015. Its non-official members included the heads of prominent religious institutions, such as Srirangam Srimath Andavan Ashramam and Tiruvavaduthurai Adheenam, apart from industrialists. Utilisation of assets Asked whether the committee could go into matters concerning better utilisation of the land and other assets of the temples, the official replied that the government had the discretion to assign any subject to the committee. The phrase, ‘advisory committee for all major Hindu temples’, as mentioned in the address of Governor Banwarilal Purohit to the Assembly on Monday, can be interpreted as one that pertains to temples with an annual income of Rs. 10 lakh and above, if one goes by the categorisation of temples on the basis of their annual income that has been laid down in Section 46 of the Act. Order soon There are 331 temples which qualify under this Section, and those temples earning more than Rs. 50 lakh a year number 47. The previous committee had no such limitation. “The Government Order, to be issued shortly, will spell out the position,” the official added. A former official of the Department of HR&CE explained that the State-level advisory committee would be useful as the political executive “would get to know the nuances of temple management,” besides receiving credible advice from experts. It would be appropriate for the government to start the process of forming district committees too. Board of trustees Former officials of the Department of HR&CE said the government should attach priority, among other matters, to the constitution of boards of trustees for several temples where Executive Officers or officers of a similar rank were now functioning as “fit persons”. The government could consider having two selection committees, one to be headed by a High Court judge for major temples and the other by a principal district judge for medium-sized temples. As prescribed in the Act for trustees, the chairpersons of the committees should be Hindus having “faith in God”. In respect of small temples, Assistant Commissioners or Joint Commissioners could be empowered to appoint the trustees. Apart from the qualifications provided in the law, the trustees should be those who should have made sizeable donations to temples and should not depend on the temples for contracts or land lease, with no record of criminal cases, the former officials said.  The State-level advisory committee will be useful, as the political executive would get to know the nuances of temple management, besides receiving credible advice from experts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-likely-to-head-advisory-panel-for-big-temples/article34920430.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to move resolutions against CAA, farm laws||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said the Assembly would adopt resolutions against the three farm laws and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) during the budget session. “It will not be appropriate to adopt resolutions when the House is thanking the Governor for his address, and they would be adopted in the budget session,” he said while responding to A. Tamilarasi (DMK) who represents Manamadurai. Mr. Stalin said the DMK had taken into consideration the sentiments of farmers and had been demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws ever since they were enacted. The Chief Minister said the CAA was against the interests of the minorities and it had created fear among them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-move-resolutions-against-caa-farm-laws/article34920439.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin writes to nine CMs on opposing draft law on ports||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday wrote to nine Chief Ministers, proposing that all coastal States and Union Territories oppose the draft Indian Ports Bill, 2021, and take joint action to prevent any move to dilute the powers already vested with the States. Mr. Stalin wrote to the Chief Ministers of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Puducherry on Tuesday, requesting them to oppose the Bill during the Maritime State Development Council (MSDC) meeting on June 24. In the letter, Mr. Stalin said the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways had framed the Bill to modify the current management model of minor ports. “As per the existing Indian Ports Act, 1908, the powers to plan, develop, regulate and control the minor ports vests with the State governments concerned. However, the draft Indian Ports Bill, 2021, proposes to change this and transfer many powers to MSDC, which has so far been only an advisory body. Further to this, many powers exercised by State governments would be taken over by the Union Government,” Mr. Stalin said. The Chief Minister said the present system under the State governments had led to good development of minor ports and the move of the Centre to bring in a new Bill would have long-term adverse implications on the management of minor ports. As per the new draft Bill, State governments will not have any major role in the management of minor ports. He said Tamil Nadu had already taken up the issue with the Ministry “strongly opposing such steps to reduce the autonomous role of States in the regulation and management of Minor Ports”. He requested the Chief Ministers to communicate similar comments at the meeting to oppose the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-writes-to-nine-cms-on-opposing-draft-law-on-ports/article34920443.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Infrastructure work for 11 new medical colleges expedited||Work on getting the infrastructure ready for the 11 new government medical colleges has been expedited, according to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. The construction of the medical colleges was in various stages for the first year, he said. “We have expedited the work to get the infrastructure ready for the first year. The Minister for Medical and Family Welfare has inspected the work, including in Tiruvallur, Namakkal and the Nilgiris. Already, the posts for these colleges have been created,” he told reporters on the sidelines of a meeting held by the Minister with representatives of doctors’ associations on Tuesday. He added that the inspection by the National Medical Commission (NMC) teams was likely to start next month. “They have a criterion that infrastructure for the first year, such as lecture halls, common rooms and administrative buildings, should be ready during the inspection. Simultaneously, we need to expedite the work on the government medical college hospitals,” he added. The NMC would conduct one or two inspections to point out deficiencies, if any. “The basic facilities need to be ready. These will include hostels for students and residential facilities for tutors. The NMC has fixed a number of targets. As far as possible, the government is taking all steps to obtain approval this year,” he said. Minister Ma. Subramanian said the demands of the government doctors would be brought to the notice of the Chief Minister. He acknowledged the work being done by the doctors during the pandemic. “The Chief Minister has already announced incentives for the doctors,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infrastructure-work-for-11-new-medical-colleges-expedited/article34920451.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 6,895 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu reported 6,895 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Of the 37 districts, 16 logged fewer than 100 cases each. Fresh coronavirus infections have been declining gradually in the State. Tuesday’s daily count took the State’s overall case tally to 24,36,819. Another 194 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 31,580. Active cases dropped to 56,886 in the State. In Chennai, the number of active cases was reconciled to 3,351 as the media bulletin stated that 2,012 people under home isolation were included in the discharge list due to a data entry error. Western districts, though registering a steady decline in fresh cases, continued to account for the considerable number of cases in the State. Coimbatore reported 870 new COVID-19 cases, followed by Erode with 741 cases. There were 485 cases in Salem, 434 cases in Tiruppur and 274 cases in Namakkal. In Chennai, 410 people tested positive for the infection, while Thanjavur recorded 372 cases. A total of 16 districts, including Kancheepuram, Theni and Virudhunagar, recorded fewer than 100 cases each. Chennai accounted for 24 deaths, while 23 persons died in Salem. There were 19 deaths in Coimbatore and 13 in Tiruppur. Among the deceased was a teenager. A 16-year-old girl from Salem was admitted to a private hospital on June 7 with complaints of difficulty in breathing for two days. She died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. She did not have co-morbidities. A total of 12 persons who died at home were included in Tuesday’s media bulletin. This included a 94-year-old woman from Chennai, who had symptoms of fever and breathlessness on May 15, and was tested positive for COVID-19 on May 18. She had diabetes and hypertension. She was in home isolation and died on May 25. As many as 13,156 people were discharged after treatment. In the last 24 hours, 1,65,375 samples were tested. So far, 3,15,05,639 samples have been tested. One private laboratory — PanSeq Diagnostics, Chennai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. As of date, there are 273 testing facilities in the State. Vaccination update A total of 2,49,701 people, including 1,49,271 in the 18-44 age group and 71,004 people aged 45 to 59 years, were vaccinated across the State on Tuesday. This took the overall coverage till date to 1,26,49,762. The vaccination was held in 2,018 sessions.  A total of 2,49,701 persons, including 1,49,271 persons in the 18-44 age group and 71,004 persons aged 45 to 59 years, have been vaccinated across the State. This took the overall coverage till date to 1,26,49,762||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-6895-new-covid-19-cases/article34920425.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin should seek support of other CMs opposed to NEET’||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Tuesday said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin should seek the support of Chief Ministers of other States to ensure exemption from NEET for Tamil Nadu. In a letter to Justice A.K. Rajan, who is heading the panel that is studying the impact of NEET on rural and poor medical aspirants, he said several south Indian States had taken a position against NEET. ‘Form an alliance’ “An alliance should be formed with Chief Ministers of those states and senior advocates should be enlisted on behalf of all the States to fight the case in the Supreme Court. A resolution with relevant data should be passed in the State Assembly and sent to the President of India for his assent [to exempt Tamil Nadu from NEET],” he said. He argued that while it was said NEET was needed to raise the standards of medical education and prevent its commercialisation, these intentions had not been realised.  Dr. Anbumani further stated that NEET had not prevented commercialisation of medical education. He pointed out, “There were 60,000 available seats in 2017. According to the merit list, only the first 70,000 students should have been given the call letter. But a student whose rank list number falls even further than 6,23,000 has secured a seat.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-should-seek-support-of-other-cms-opposed-to-neet/article34920428.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang held for burgling house in Sriperumpudur||The Kancheepuram district police solved a case in which a high-end car and gadgets were stolen from a businessman’s guest house near Sriperumpudur, and nabbed the four thieves in Tiruvannamalai. Ravichandran, 49, of Ashok Nagar, was staying with his wife and other family members at his guest house in Nayapakkam village, near Sriperumpudur. On Sunday morning, they noticed that three LED televisions, a laptop and a high-end car had been stolen from the premises. Mr. Ravichandran lodged a complaint, and the police took up the matter for investigation. Kancheepuram Superintendent of Police M. Sudhakar visited the spot and expedited the efforts to trace the suspects. “We checked for fingerprints and analysed all records of known criminals. We inquired about recent visitors to the house. We suspected that someone familiar with the layout could be the mastermind. The accused were nabbed and stolen properties were recovered,” Mr. Sudhakar told The Hindu . G. Praveen Kumar, 24; G. Vijayachandran, 24; P. Lokesh, 22, from Nathankollai in Tiruvannamalai; and G. Prakash, 23, of Chengalpattu, have been arrested. The police said Vijayachandran said he and his associates decided to commit the burglary to make quick money. They visited the house as AC mechanics before executing the plan. On Saturday night, the gang entered the house by scaling the terrace and burgled it before driving away in the car, the police said.  We inquired about recent visitors to the house. We suspected someone familiar with the layout could be the mastermind M. Sudhakar Superintendent of Police, Kancheepuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-held-for-burgling-house-in-sriperumpudur/article34920453.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New dean appointed for optometry institute||Dr. Karpagam Damodaran, a senior consultant, cataract surgeon and uveitis specialist, has been appointed by Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospital as the new dean of Dr. Agarwal's Institute of Optometry (DAIO). The institute offers a wide range of courses, including UG and PG programmes, at its campus in the city. The courses offered include a four-year B.Sc Optometry programme and a two-year M.Sc Optometry programme in association with Alagappa University and Prist University respectively.  Annual intake The institute also offers fellowships in Clinical Optometry and conducts various certification courses, with an annual intake of about 100 students. Sudha Bala, director, Dr. Agarwal's Eye Hospital, said, “Dr. Karpagam is planning to create campuses in more cities in India and establish its [institute’s] presence abroad, especially in Africa and Mauritius.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-dean-appointed-for-optometry-institute/article34920414.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||26,000 passengers ride Metro on day one||On the first day of the resumption of services, Chennai Metro Rail catered to nearly 26,000 passengers on Monday. This is about 20% of pre-COVID-19 levels. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), about 25,000-30,000 passengers may ride the Metro for the first few days after resumption of services. “This has been along expected lines. People going to north Chennai, Chennai airport, CMBT and Chennai Central largely decided to take the trains on the first day. The other terminal stations like Alandur, Thirumangalam and Wimco Nagar saw a reasonable number of passengers,” an official said. ‘Still many curbs’ “We still have a lot of restrictions in place. So, until we see a lot of relaxations, like the reopening of malls, beaches or places of worship, we may not have any significant improvement,” the official added. Chennai Metro Rail is levying a fine of Rs. 200 on passengers not wearing masks. It has also deployed a team of staff to check if physical distance is being maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26000-passengers-ride-metro-on-day-one/article34920415.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Power supply hit due to poor maintenance’||Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji on Tuesday told the Assembly that there was a need to do maintenance work at power utilities as it was not carried out in the last nine months and the disruption in power supply would end in 10 days. He said repair of pillars and transformers, insulators and lines damaged by tree branches had to be carried out. He said maintenance work had not been done even in former Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam’s Theni district. The Minister said Tangedco’s debt was Rs. 2.42 lakh crore and it was paying Rs. 13,000 crore as interest. “Now as per the direction of our Chief Minister, we are holding talks with banks and we would get a rebate of Rs. 2,000 crore,” he said while responding to Pollachi V. Jayaraman (AIADMK). Mr. Senthilbalaji rejected the claim of the AIADMK that it made Tamil Nadu a power-surplus State, saying if it was so why was Tangedco not providing electricity connection to waiting farmers. “The AIADMK government purchased power from private operators to achieve the surplus,” he said. The Minister said the confusion in paying electricity tariff had been sorted out, and so far 11,40,000 consumers had paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-hit-due-to-poor-maintenance/article34920449.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Desilting initiative launched in two more areas in city||Metrowater launched its mass desilting programme in more areas on Tuesday. The 10-day programme, which will go on till June 30, aims at removing silt and flushing the city’s sewer network ahead of the northeast monsoon. On Tuesday, Rural Industries Minister T.M. Anbarasan and Rajya Sabha MP R.S. Bharathi launched the work at 24th Street, Thillai Ganga Nagar, in Alandur. The work will be executed in 48 densely populated streets in Alandur zone. Similarly, Central Chennai MP Dayanidhi Maran inaugurated the work at Makkis Garden in Thousand Lights. Sewer networks in 801 streets had been identified for the desilting initiative, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-initiative-launched-in-two-more-areas-in-city/article34920457.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three hospitals get oxygen plants from DRDO, NHAI||With the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) completing civil and electrical works, oxygen generating plants have been commissioned at hospitals in K.K. Nagar, Perambalur and Virudhunagar. “The hospitals themselves provided the copper tubing, from which the oxygen is supplied to the beds. The plants were provided by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO),” said an official in the NHAI. Following a shortage of oxygen for COVID-19 patients in hospitals across the country, the Central government had announced that the DRDO would supply oxygen plants and that the NHAI would undertake the civil works. Tamil Nadu was sanctioned plants at 142 hospitals after consultation with the State. “Work to install others is in progress and some are likely to be commissioned shortly,” another official said. Meanwhile, the Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL) has set up a makeshift hospital with oxygen supplies on its campus in Manali. “We have diverted oxygen from our refinery by laying a new pipeline to this facility that can house up to 150 persons at a time. But since the number of patients is less, right now oxygen required to support them is being supplied. Also, work to install an oxygen bottling plant is nearing completion,” a company official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-hospitals-get-oxygen-plants-from-drdo-nhai/article34920458.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theatre owners hoping for concessions from government to resume business||The members of the Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners’ Association are hoping that the State government will soon decide to reopen multiplexes and theatres. They also hope to meet Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to seek concessions for reviving the exhibition industry. The members are expected to urge the government to abolish local body tax (entertainment tax), extend the validity of C-form licence from one year to three years and remove the archaic ‘operator licences’ non-applicable in the digital era. Some theatre owners told The Hindu that the State should consider giving concessions on electricity tariff and reforming certain regulations related to renovation and constructions within the theatre premises. Tiruppur Subramaniam said he hoped the government would soon reopen theatres as cases begin to come down. “We are hoping that an announcement will be made on June 28 or July 5. We will try to meet the Chief Minister in the coming weeks,” he said. Mr. Subramaniam predicted that the era of traditional big single-screen theatres will soon be over and smaller theatres would be the way to go. “Since last year, around 125 theatres have shut down. Big screens need more money to operate. In this scenario, it is not possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theatre-owners-hoping-for-concessions-from-government-to-resume-business/article34920459.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||House pays tributes to Ki. Rajanarayanan, Vivekh||The Assembly, led by Speaker M. Appavu, adopted condolence resolutions over the passing away of actor Vivekh, writer Ki. Rajanarayanan, freedom fighter K. Thulasiah Vandayar, former member of the Constituent Assembly T.M. Kaliyanan Gounder and the former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University M. Anandakrishnan. The Speaker made obituary references for 13 former legislators — M. Pandurangan, A. Mohammedjan, A. Pappasundaram, C. Aranganayagam, T.C. Vijayan, V.S. Raji, K.R. Rajendran, S. Sahadevan, L. Sulochana, K.P. Raju, K. Ramachandran, M. Anbalakan and J. Panneerselvam. Members of the House observed a few moments of silence in remembering the departed souls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-pays-tributes-to-ki-rajanarayanan-vivekh/article34920436.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala slams AIADMK leadership over RS seat||Former interim general secretary of the AIADMK V.K. Sasikala has criticised the party leadership for “having squandered” one Rajya Sabha seat to the party’s principal rival, the DMK. In a conversation with one of her supporters over the phone, an audio clip of which was released by Ms. Sasikala’s office on Tuesday, she alluded to the party’s decision of fielding deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy in the recent Assembly election despite having made him an MP a year ago and the consequent resignation of Mr. Munusamy from the Upper House on getting elected to the Assembly from Veppanahalli. Ms. Sasikala pointed out that there were several “senior and young” persons in the party and any one of them could have been given the Rajya Sabha ticket. Her office released five audio clips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-slams-aiadmk-leadership-over-rs-seat/article34920423.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Another case booked against Kebi Raj||One more case has been booked by the Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) against martial arts instructor Kebi Raj. The accused Kebi Raj, 41, was arrested last month, following a complaint from a former trainee. The CB-CID has asked his victims to come forward and file complaints. Following this, a woman living in a foreign country has now lodged a complaint against him. She alleged that she was sexually assaulted by him while training under him in his academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-case-booked-against-kebi-raj/article34920456.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cement makers agree to slash prices by Rs. 25 per 50 kg bag||Cement manufacturers have indicated to the State government that they will slash prices by Rs. 25 per bag. A letter from the South Indian Cement Manufacturers Association president N. Srinivasan, addressed to the Principal Secretary, Industries Department, on Tuesday said in deference to the request of the Chief Minister, cement manufacturers were willing to reduce the price. On Tuesday, the price of cement hovered between Rs. 420 and Rs. 490 per 50 kg bag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cement-makers-agree-to-slash-prices-by-rs-25-per-50-kg-bag/article34920460.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco launches dedicated helpline||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has launched 'Minnagam', a service call centre to register various electricity complaints by the consumers. Tangedco has introduced a dedicated helpline bearing 9498794987 replacing 1912, which has been integrated with the new service number, wherein consumers throughout the State could register complaints on all issues related to electricity.Previously consumers could give complaints only regarding power disruptions. The dedicated service call centre was inaugurated by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at Tangedco's headquarters on Anna Salai recently. A press release said the service call centre functioning round-the-clock in three shifts would have 195 telephone operators to manage the calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-launches-dedicated-helpline/article34920420.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bill to amend Fiscal Responsibility Act tabled||The State government on Tuesday tabled a Bill in the Assembly seeking to amend the Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003, to extend the time limit set out to eliminate the revenue deficit and reduce fiscal deficits to 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product by March 31, 2024. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons in the Bill introduced in the House by Minister for Finance and Human Resource Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, the 15th Finance Commission, in its report for 2021-26, had recommended an extra annual borrowing space for the States, of the magnitude of 0.5% of their Gross State Domestic Product for each of the first four years of the award covering the period 2021-22 and 2024-25, based on certain performance criteria in the power sector. Target fixed Further, the Finance Commission had recommended fixing the net borrowing limit to the Gross State Domestic Product at 4%, 3.5% and 3% for 2021-22, 2022-23, and 2023-24 respectively, it added. The Bill is expected to be taken up for consideration during this ongoing session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bill-to-amend-fiscal-responsibility-act-tabled/article34920435.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Appointment of non-Tamils under the lens||Finance and Human Resources Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Tuesday said a study would be conducted into the appointment of non-Tamils in various government posts in seven departments during the AIADMK regime and the same would be rectified in the future. Responding to Tamilaga Vaazvurimai Katchi (TVK) member Panruti T. Velmurugan, Mr Rajan said all aspects, including the Government Order for amendments in rules for their appointment, would be studied and rectified. He said the Governor’s address had promised to accord priority to students who had education in Tamil medium and studied in government schools in government jobs. Mr. Velumurugan, who alleged large-scale corruption, demanded a White Paper. The Minister said the member could hand over the documents in his possession to the government, which was preparing a White Paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appointment-of-non-tamils-under-the-lens/article34920447.ece
23 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kumki Kaleem reaches Mettupalayam||The Forest Department on Tuesday brought kumki (trained elephant) Kaleem of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) to Mettupalayam for the operation to radio-collar a wild elephant nicknamed Baahubali. A modified truck carrying Kaleem from Kozhikamuthi elephant camp of ATR reached a location near Mettupalayam around 8.30 p.m. Two more kumkis A Forest Department official told The Hindu that two more kumkis would be brought to the location for the operation from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. The official said that the field staff of the Department have been monitoring the movement of the wild elephant codenamed as ‘MP20T1’ for over a week for the operation. Tranquillising and radio collaring of the elephant would be done at a convenient location in the coming days after the completion of all preparations, said the official. Orders issued The Chief Wildlife Warden has already issued orders to radio collar the tusker for study purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kumki-kaleem-reaches-mettupalayam/article34920495.ece
23 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pricol donates anaesthesia workstation||Pricol Limited handed over an anaesthesia workstation to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Tuesday for use at the operation theatre. Vanitha Mohan, chairperson of Pricol, said in a release that as part of the COVID-19 management initiatives in the district, the company committed contribution of Rs. 1 crore to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Part of this, which includes two-day salary contribution by the employees of Pricol, is donated as essential equipment and materials to the CMCH. Based on the request of the Dean of CMCH A. Nirmala, an RT-PCR testing equipment was handed over last month. Now, a state-of-the-art anaesthesia workstation had been handed over to the hospital. This integrated anaesthesia workstation would serve as a complete anaesthesia and respiratory gas delivery and monitoring system. It combined advanced ventilation features, gas delivery and agent vapourising with patient monitoring and information management to form an integrated anaesthesia care station, the release said. Collector G.S. Sameeran and Dean of CMCH A. Nirmal received the workstation on Tuesday.  Staff Reporter from Salem adds  The Indian Red Cross handed over 65 medical oxygen concentrators for Salem district to Collector S. Karmegham here on Tuesday. The concentrators worth about Rs. 70 lakh were donated by the Scottish Government and facilitated by World Orthopaedic Concern UK. The concentrators were of five litres and 10 litres capacity. Salem MP S.R.Parthibhan distributed masks, sanitisers worth Rs. 1 lakh to frontline workers They were donated by a businessman here. In Namakkal, ICICI Bank donated oxygen concentrator worth Rs. 2 lakh and District Collector Shreya P.Singh received the device from Bank authorities. The alumni of College of Engineering, Guindy, donated oxygen concentrators to government hospitals at Salem and Namakkal recently. The batch which graduated in 1995 along with C.N.Ramdas Champions Development Trust, Hunger Collective, Medical Oxygen for All donated 13 oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 18 lakh to five government hospitals in Namakkal. Oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 8 lakh were also distributed to hospitals in Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pricol-donates-anaesthesia-workstation/article34920477.ece
23 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police seize 2.12 lakh litres of IMFL in Western districts||The police seized 2.12 lakh litres of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) meant for illegal sales from the eight districts in the West Zone during special drives conducted from June 1 to 15. According to the police, 1,740 cases were registered in connection with illegal sale of IMFL, arrack and toddy. The police seized 2,12,497 litres of IMFL, 7,508 litres of illicitly distilled arrack, 19,451 litres of fermented wash and 2,547 litres of toddy from the persons involved in these cases, said a release issued from the office of R. Sudhakar, Inspector General of Police, West Zone. Deputy Inspector Generals of Police M.S. Muthusamy (Coimbatore range) and C. Mageshwari (Salem range) coordinated the special drives against illegal sale of liquor, ganja, banned tobacco products and lottery. The Superintendent of Police in each district supervised the special drives in which 3,550 persons were arrested in 1,959 cases. The police arrested 56 persons involved in the sale of ganja and seized 43 kg of the contraband from them. As many as 806 persons were arrested for gambling from whom Rs. 4,78,290 was seized. A total of 29 persons were arrested for selling lotteries. The police also seized 110 four-wheelers and 455 two-wheelers used by the persons involved in these cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-seize-212-lakh-litres-of-imfl-in-western-districts/article34920490.ece
23 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. cremates all bodies piled up in mortuary||Around the third week of May this year, the district administration reached out to the Coimbatore Corporation asking for steps to reduce the bodies piling up at the mortuary in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. That was the period that the city was in the grip of the second COVID-19 wave. The Corporation under the then Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian assessed the situation and called for a meeting with the management of the NGOs or trusts that managed its 11 crematoria in the city. By June 22, the Corporation had cremated all bodies the had piled up at the mortuary at the two government hospitals and attended to the bodies that arrived every day ever since. The Corporation sources said, at the time of starting the task, the mortuary was full with 25 bodies and was getting more than 50 a day. To the managements of the NGOs or trusts, the Corporation said crematoria should start functioning at 6 a.m. and finish work by 10 p.m. Prior to this, the crematoria stopped taking bodies after 6 p.m. The Corporation also posted its men in each of the 11 crematoria for coordination, the sources said and added that it also deployed vehicles for transporting the bodies to the crematoria. And before lifting the bodies, the Corporation informed the kin of the deceased so that a maximum of two persons were present to oversee the process and complete formalities. At the mortuary too, the Corporation worked in tandem with the two government hospitals for seamless transportation of bodies. After putting in place the system, the Corporation had cremated more than 1,500 bodies. This included cremation of bodies that arrived a day earlier or in the morning. Death certificates As a part of this process, the Corporation also uploaded on its website the death certificates of those cremated, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-cremates-all-bodies-piled-up-in-mortuary/article34920472.ece
23 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps in Coimbatore today||The Health Department will administer Covaxin through different centres across the district on Wednesday. Each of the 13 Upgraded Primary Health Centres (UPHC) in Coimbatore rural will have 150 each doses of Covaxin on Wednesday. A total of 41 PHCs have been allotted 4,100 doses,100 each for every PHC. Valparai PHC has been allotted 150 doses and Mettupalayam urban health centre will have 200 doses. PHCs at Vadugapalayam and Kamatchi Nagar in Pollachi municipality, government hospitals at Sulur and Thondamuthur will have 100 doses each. Periyakuyili (400), Mathvarayapuram (300), Vellalore (200), Vellamadai (300) and Kurumbapalayam (300) are other places where Covaxin will be available on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-in-coimbatore-today/article34920475.ece
23 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man beats wife to death with cricket bat||The Saravanampatti police are on the lookout for a man who beat his wife to death using a cricket bat late on Monday. The police said that Kumar aka Laventhiran (49) murdered his wife Kavitha (32) at their rented house in Gandhima Nagar. As per the complaint lodged by Kavitha’s relative Nagarajan, the woman married Kumar, a Sri Lankan refugee, after separating from her first husband 12 years ago. Kavitha worked in a spinning mill at Gandhima Nagar and Kumar did building demolition works. Mr. Nagarajan said in the complaint that he went to Kavitha’s house around 6 p.m. on June 19. When enquired about Kavitha, Kumar had told him that she had left for her friend’s house a week ago after he scolded her for talking to friends over phone. On Monday, he went to the house again and found Kumar assaulting Kavitha with a cricket bat. According to Mr. Nagarajan, Kavitha died on the spot and Kumar fled the scene. N.G. Arun, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore East, said special teams of the police were searching for Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beats-wife-to-death-with-cricket-bat/article34920488.ece
23 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special Sub-Inspector suspended for graft||Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam has suspended a Special Sub-Inspector (SSI) attached to the Negamam police station, after the officer was found to have accepted cash from gamblers for not registering a case against them. SSI A. Yesubalan was placed under suspension by the SP based on an inquiry conducted by the Inspector of the Negamam police station. A senior police officer said the Negamam police station received information that some persons were playing cards for money at Mettuvavi on Sunday. Yesubalan went to the place where six persons were gambling and three of them ran away. The SSI let the three men go after accepting Rs. 7,000 from them. The incident came to the attention of the SP who tasked Negamam inspector for an inquiry. Yesubalan was suspended based on the inquiry report. According to the police, a case will be registered against the six persons who were involved in gambling on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-sub-inspector-suspended-for-graft/article34920489.ece
23 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Collector dons PPE, visits COVID-19 ward||Collector G.S. Sameeran on Tuesday wore personal protective equipment and visited the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital to assess the medical care provided and interact with COVID-19 positive persons. A release from the district administration said, he learnt about the facilities created to treat children, if they turned COVID-19 positive. At the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, the administration had set up 30 beds with intensive care facility, 100 beds with oxygen support and 370 ordinary beds. And, at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, the administration had set up 100 beds with intensive care support and 70 beds with oxygen support. During his interaction with the doctors and administrative staff, Dr. Sameeran also learnt about the infrastructure development work that was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-dons-ppe-visits-covid-19-ward/article34920471.ece
23 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 50% of teachers, staff in govt., aided schools vaccinated||Nearly 50% of the teachers and staff members in government and government-aided schools in Coimbatore district have been vaccinated against COVID-19 as of Tuesday. According to Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer (CEO) M. Ramakrishnan, out of the 11,326 teachers and staff in government and aided schools in the district, 5,570 were vaccinated as of Tuesday and the coverage was 49.18%. On Tuesday, a special vaccination drive was organised at 12 centres across the district, wherein 1,497 teachers and staff were vaccinated, he said. As per the availability of vaccine shots, the vaccination drive for teachers and staff members would be held in phases to expand the coverage in the coming days, Mr. Ramakrishnan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nearly-50-of-teachers-staff-in-govt-aided-schools-vaccinated/article34920474.ece
23 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No power supply||June 24   Kalapatti sub-station (9 a.m. to noon): Areas under Cheranmanagar, SITRA, Valiampalayam, Texpark feeders.  2 p.m. to 5 p.m. : Areas under Nehru Nagar, HUDCO, Seriyampalayam, Kalapatti and Zee School feeders.  Seeranaikenpalayam and Madhampatti sub-stations: 10 a.m. to 1 p.m . : Anna Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Tank Bed line, Lakshmi Nagar, Gokulam colony, Indra Nagar, Radhika Avenue, TNAU agri apartment, Madathur, Devi Colony, Weavers Colony, Rams Nagar, New Thillai Nagar (10, 11, 12, 14 avenues) Super Garden avenue, Venus Garden, Classic Garden, Ananya Avenue, EB Colony, Chinnammal Nagar, SV Nagar, Harini Arcade, part of Karunya, Chadivayal, Mukathuvayal, Mangalampalayam, Iruttupallam, Dheenadhayalan Thottam, Krishnapuram, Chennanur, Karadimadai, Mathipalayam, Vadivelampalayam, Mugasimangalam, Pathampadhi, Perumal Koil padhi.  1 p.m. to 4 p.m. : Theethipalayam, Om Sakthi Nagar, Ramakrishna College Road, Kuppannur, Arumuga koundanur, P & T Colony, AS Garden.  ERODE   9 a.m. to 1 p.m.:   Minnapalayam line, June 23: Annamalai Kottai, Kottai Pudur, Minnapalayam, Kuttapalayam, Palamangalam, Kovilpalayam and Pappavalasu.  Kurukkuvalasu line, June 23: Anjur, Nadupudur, Nallachellipalayam, Muthugoundanpalayam, Paruthikottampalayam and Valanthankuttai.  Kudineer line, June 24: Palamangalam, Veerasangili, Kosakattur and Pumping Station.  Namma Goundam Palayam, June 24 : Nadupalayam, Siluvampalayam, Valaithottam, Marangkattur and Chetti Thottampudur.     Periyandipalayam, June 24, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Uthukuli Road, Melapalayam, P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power-supply/article34920478.ece
23 June 2021||Dharampuri,TAMIL NADU||Couple arrested for lifting new born||A couple was arrested for lifting a new born child from the government medical college hospital here on Tuesday. The incident took place on Saturday when Malini, who delivered the baby boy, had left the child on the bed for toilet and returned to find her son missing. Following a compliant lodged by Arul Mani, father of the child, police arrested Thanjaya and her husband Jaan Basha near Indur here. It came to light that the accused Thanjaya got acquainted with Malini on Saturday while in the hospital. Speaking to The Hindu, Superintendent of Police C. Kalaichelvan said as per the preliminary investigation, the couple Thanjaya and Jaan Basha had been married for two years and the woman was said to have had abortions. The couple, desperate for a baby, had lifted the new born. The two were arrested and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-arrested-for-lifting-new-born/article34920487.ece
23 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s family members arrested for killing lover||The parents and two brothers of a young woman were arrested in Dindigul district in connection with the murder of her 21-year-old lover on Monday night. The victim, Bharathiraja, who was hit with heavy stones, and the girl, Parameswari, 20, belonged to the same community, police said. Parameswari, a resident of Moongilpatti Mullai Nagar, upon learning that her parents had planned to get her married to another youth, alerted Bharatiraja, hailing from Pudupatti near Natham. On Monday night, Bharatiraja arrived near Parameswari’s house on a two-wheeler. Her family members objected to this and soon her brother Malaichami and others attacked him with stones, leaving him in an unconscious state with severe bleeding injuries. On information, a 108 emergency ambulance service rushed him to the Government Hospital, but he was declared ‘brought dead’. A police team, including Natham Deputy Superintendent of Police Sugumaran and Inspector Raja Murali, went to the spot and questioned the suspects. The police said based on their “confession”, they arrested the girl’s parents Rasu, 63, and Alagunachi, 58, and brothers Malaichami, 22, and Balakumar, 28. The police registered cases and produced them before a Judicial Magistrate Court, which remanded them in judicial custody. A senior police officer said, “We have registered a case of murder. The question of “honour killing” needs to be examined.” Executive director of Madurai-based NGO Evidence A. Kathir felt that it was a clear case of ‘honour killing’. The heinous crime could not be described as “something which happened out of emotional outburst,” or that it was not a “planned” attack. The family members of the girl had committed the crime citing “status”, he claimed. Though the girl and the boy might be from the same caste, this incident was an “honour killing,” he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girls-family-members-arrested-for-killing-lover/article34920675.ece
23 June 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Woman’s kin arrested for killing lover||The parents and two brothers of a young woman were arrested in Dindigul in connection with the murder of her 21-year-old lover on Monday night. The victim and the girl belonged to the same community, the police said. Parameswari, 20, a resident of Moongilpatti Mullai Nagar, had informed her lover Bharatiraja about her arranged marriage. On Monday, he arrived near her house on a two-wheeler. Her family members objected to this and soon her brother Malaichami and others attacked him. Though he was rushed to a government hospital, he was declared brought dead. Police said that based on the confession, they arrested the woman’s parents Rasu, 63, and Alagunachi, 58, and brothers Malaichami, 22, and Balakumar, 28. A senior police officer in Dindigul said, “We have registered a case of murder. The question of honour killing needs to be examined.” Madurai-based organisation Evidence’s executive director A. Kathir said it was a clear case of honour killing. The family members of the woman had committed the crime citing their status, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womans-kin-arrested-for-killing-lover/article34920462.ece
23 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Taluk level panels formed to control virus spread in Erode||An executive committee vested with the responsibility to take effective steps to control and monitor the spread of COVID-19 at each taluk was constituted in the district. Collector H. Krishnanunni said that each committee will be headed by an officer in the rank of a Deputy Collector and will comprise block medical officer, Inspector of Police, revenue tahsildar, block development officer and executive officers. Monitoring The committees will be monitored by senior officials in the district. Additional Collector (Development) / Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) will head the committees comprising the taluk committees of Erode, Modakkurichi and Kodumudi, Assistant Collector (Training) will head Perundurai, Chennimalai and Bhavani committees, District Revenue Officer will head Sathyamangalam, Nambiyur, Bhavanisagar and Talavadi committees and Project Officer (Mahalir Thittam), Tamil Nadu State Rural Livelihood Mission, will head Ammapettai, Anthiyur, Gobichettipalayam and T.N. Palayam committees. Mr. Krishnanunni said that only recognised private hospitals and laboratories should provide treatment for COVID-19 positive patients and test swab samples respectively. Also, all the private hospitals, clinics, CT scan centres with private laboratories should inform the district administration on fever cases and persons with symptoms they are treating everyday to the district administration. Violations “If violations are found, action will be taken under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005”, he added. He said that to monitor the private hospitals and CT scan centres, laboratories, two zonal officers and Joint Director of Health Services were appointed, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taluk-level-panels-formed-to-control-virus-spread-in-erode/article34920479.ece
23 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Triage centre shifted to marriage hall||The triage centre functioning at Kalaimagal Girls Higher Secondary School on Meenatchi Sundaranar Road was shifted to the Corporation Marriage Hall, near the bus stand. Text books have started arriving at the school and distribution is expected to begin soon. Hence, the centre has been shifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/triage-centre-shifted-to-marriage-hall/article34920481.ece
23 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Consumers asked to send images of meter reading||Since door-to-door-assessment cannot be carried out by Tangedco officials for June, consumers were asked to send images of meter reading to local officials for calculation of bills. A release from K. Indirani, Superintending Engineer, Erode Electricity Distribution Circle, said thatbill period for June, 2019 can be paid as an approximate bill for the current month. They can also pay the April 2021 bill for the current month, which will be adjusted during August billing. Consumers can also send images of readings through Whatsapp to one of the mobile numbers given below so that bill amount could be sent as sms to the registered mobile numbers. Contact numbers for sending the readings, Erode Circle Whatsapp complaint number (944585-51912), Executive Engineers Town/Erode (94425-91822), South/Erode (94458-52180), Perundurai (94458-52190), General/Erode (94458-52150), Senior Assessment Officer/Erode (99446-20145), Finance Control Officer/Erode (99944-56233) and Supervising Engineer/Erode Electricity Distribution Circle/Erode (94458-51900). Also visit www.tangedco.gov.in for reading details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumers-asked-to-send-images-of-meter-reading/article34920491.ece
23 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 claims famed lyricist Poovachal Khader||Poovachal Khader, who died in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday at the age of 72 while undergoing treatment for COVID-19, was a prolific lyricist who penned several all-time hit songs in Malayalam cinema. Over five decades In a career that spanned over five decades, he wrote over a thousand songs for more than 350 films. He was so busy in the late 1970s and 80s that he took leave from his job at the Public Works Department – he had a diploma in Engineering – to concentrate on his alternative career in cinema. Poovachal Khader, who used to write poetry from his student days and went on to pen songs for the stage and radio, caught attention right from his early days in the film world. His two songs in the 1973 film Kattu Vit ha chavan – Neeyente prarthana kettu… and Mazhavillinanjnathavaasam… – were hits. Then the songs of Ulsavam (Aadya samaagama lajjayil… and Swayamvarathinu) established him as a lyricist to reckon with. Chart-toppers Among his chart-toppers are Na a th a a nee varum kalocha… (Chamaram), Shararanthal thiri thaa nu … (Kayalum Kayarum), Sindoora sandhyaykku mounam… (Choola), Ente janmam neeyeduthu…(Itha Oru Dhikkari), Etho janma kalpanayil… (Palangal), Ponveene… (Thalavattam), Naanamaavunno… (Aattakalasam),  Poomaaname… (Nirakkoottu) and Anuraagini itha en… (Oru Kudakkeezhil).  The accent on meaningful lyrics may have become less in Malayalam film music by the time Poovachal’s career peaked, but he came up with beautiful poetic lines in song, such as Naathaa nee varum and Aadya samaagama lajjayil… (Ulsavam). That was also the time when a tune was composed first and the lyricist was asked to write lines accordingly. He was still able to write some fine lines. Not many know that he wrote one of the most popular light songs in Malayalam – Jayadeva kaviyude…, which was set to a lilting tune by M.G. Radhakrishnan. Through songs like that, Poovachal will always be remembered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-claims-famed-lyricist-poovachal-khader/article34920310.ece
23 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Containment zones come down||The number of containment zones has come down drastically in the district following drop in the number of active COVID-19 positive cases. According to the data released by the health department, there are a total of 22 containment zones in the district as on at 8 p.m. on Monday. It comprises nine zones in rural areas and 13 in urban areas. Any street that has three or more COVID-19 positive cases are identified as containment zones and are barricaded. The three positive cases can be from a single residence or from various houses. The containment zones are in place for 10 days after the last positive case was reported. Earlier, when the total positive cases in the district were at peak during the second wave, the number of containment zones in the district had even crossed 200. But, as the total positive cases came down during the complete lockdown, the number of containment zones have also come down. Currently, the containment zones in the urban areas are in K. Pudur, Thirupalai, Anaiyur, Ponmeni, Shanthi Nagar, Reserve Line, Sundararajapuram, Villapuram, Karpaga Nagar and K.K. Nagar. In rural areas, the containment zones are present in Alanganallur, Checkanurani, Kallikudi, and Valayankulam. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said that kabasura kudineer is distributed to all residents within the containment zones. In addition, swab samples are lifted from all residents within the containment zones for RT-PCR tests. A senior corporation official said that although containment zones are barricaded, there is still movement of residents from the zones to other places. ‘It is difficult to restrict the movement of all residents within the containment zones. However, it is strictly ensured that people from COVID-19 positive homes, do not leave their residences,’ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-zones-come-down/article34920685.ece
23 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MUFA stages online protest||The Madurai Kamaraj University Faculty Association (MUFA) members participated in a protest through an online platform on Tuesday condemning the manner in which the applications (2017) for Career Advancement Scheme were scrutinised. Around 70 members including various faculty members of Madurai Kamaraj University participated in the protest. In a petition submitted to the MKU Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan, the MUFA said that CAS applications, which received negative observations from external examiners alone, could be scrutinised. It opposes the present state of affairs of MKU administration in the CAS promotions of 2017 and 2020. The scrutiny of CAS applications of 40 members carried out from June 8 is undemocratic and unplanned because the process was not officially informed to the applicants either by mail or letter. The MUFA urged the VC not to proceed further with the scrutiny of CAS 2017 applications. However, the Vice Chancellor did not listen to any of the demands, said MUFA treasurer J. Balasubramanianm. So, this protest was conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mufa-stages-online-protest/article34920693.ece
23 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Order passed by the authority should be reflected in records’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed that once an order is passed by the authority declaring a transaction to be fraudulent and it has become final, the same has to be recorded in the relevant register and must be reflected in the encumbrance certificate. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that the Registration Act provides a mechanism to the authority concerned to deal with a complaint pertaining to a fraudulent transaction. Once an authority exercises such a power, conducts an enquiry and finds that the transaction was fraudulent, the order passed by the authority should be reflected in the records. The authority on one hand cannot state that he will declare the transaction to be fraudulent and then send the party to a civil court to cancel the document. Declaring a transaction to be a fraudulent one, virtually makes that document void in the eye of law. Once a document is void in the eye of law, it is non est and there is no necessity for a party to unnecessarily spend his time in a civil court seeking for cancellation of such a document. It would be a wasteful exercise without any purpose, the judge said. The court was hearing the petition filed by S.R.M. Packiri Rajan of Dindigul district. He filed the petition challenging the District Registrar’s decision to reject his representation seeking cancellation of an entry made in the encumbrance certificate. The judge observed that in the present case, the authority, after conducting an enquiry, had found the transaction to be a fraudulent one and thereby, the document executed became non est in the eye of law. It is stated that this order had become final. Once such orders are passed, there is no requirement to cancel the document and it is enough if a necessary entry is made in the encumbrance certificate itself reflecting the proceedings of the authority concerned declaring the transaction to be a fraudulent one. Once such an entry was made in the records, it automatically reverses the earlier registration of the fraudulent document, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-passed-by-the-authority-should-be-reflected-in-records/article34920687.ece
23 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC ultimatum to remand prisoner’s family||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has on Tuesday made it clear that if the family members of the remand prisoner P. Muthu Mano, murdered in Palayamkottai Central Prison, did not receive the body and perform the last rites, then the court would direct the authorities to take steps to perform the last rites. The family members have refused to accept the body even two months after conduct of post mortem. The court had directed the family to accept the body of the deceased and perform the last rites. It had made it clear that it could not pass orders on the relief sought by the family till they received the body. It was hearing the petition filed by Pavanasam, father of Muthu Mano. The petitioner sought a judicial inquiry into the death of his son inside the Central Prison. Muthu Mano was murdered inside the Central Prison by a few inmates. The case is being probed by the CB-CID. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that if the petitioner was not going to follow the order of the court, then he had no regard or respect for the court. After the petitioner sought time, the court granted him time to think over and take a decision in this regard. The case was adjourned to June 29. During the course of the hearing, the petitioner Pavanasam appeared before the court via video conferencing and submitted that people were assembling in front of his house and raising slogans against police atrocities. The State submitted that a direction be given at the earliest as police bandobast was being deployed in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-ultimatum-to-remand-prisoners-family/article34920688.ece
23 June 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||125 cases in Madurai district||Madurai recorded 125 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, with which the district’s overall tally of positive cases went up to 71,566. A total of 185 persons were discharged from hospitals and healthcare facilities in the district. Two fatalities were also reported in the district, increasing its death toll to 1,075. Virudhunagar on Tuesday registered six deaths to have an overall toll of 519. All the victims were aged above 50. Three of the deaths were reported on May 30, June 9 and 10. A total of 98 persons tested positive and 148 persons were discharged in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/125-cases-in-madurai-district/article34920686.ece
23 June 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Redress mode||People can convey their grievance through whatsapp (9342421149), Facebook (District Collector Nagapattinam) or Twitter (Collector_NGT), Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/redress-mode/article34920747.ece
23 June 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter held for murder||Police have arrested a history-sheeter for allegedly stabbing to death a dismissed police constable. Police said Sri Saravanan, 35, of Kalai Nagar in Kottar, who was attached to Manimuthar 12 Battalion and removed from service in 2019, had enmity with history-sheeter Ranjit Kumar, 31, of the same area. When an altercation broke out between them on Monday evening, Ranjit Kumar allegedly stabbed Sri Saravanan. After getting treated in a private hospital at Vettoornimadam, Sri Saravanan filed a case with Kottar police. When he returned home at night, Ranjit Kumar who was waiting near the victim’s house, allegedly stabbed him. Though the family members rushed him to the Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaripallam, doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. Superintendent of Police V. Badrinarayanan formed a special team that nabbed Ranjit Kumar at night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-held-for-murder/article34920676.ece
23 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Video of SSI asking for caste of accident victims draws flak||A video of a Special Sub-Inspector of Police asking for the caste and other personal details of an accident victim has gone viral on social media here and has drawn the ire of the public. Sources said that Periyasamy and Ramachandran, both construction workers, were travelling to Coimbatore on a two-wheeler on Monday. They got trapped under a truck while trying to overtake it near Kumarapalayam. Passersby immediately alerted the police. Both of them were severely injured and an ambulance reached the spot to take them to hospital. However, the Special Sub-Inspector, who visited the spot, allegedly kept the ambulance staff waiting with the stretcher and went on collecting the name, caste and other personal details from the victims. The patients were later taken to Erode government hospital for treatment. Superintendent of Police Saroj Kumar Thakur said the officer was transferred to the Armed Reserve and an inquiry was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-of-ssi-asking-for-caste-of-accident-victims-draws-flak/article34920493.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Apex court adjourns Perarivalan’s bail plea||The Supreme Court on Tuesday adjourned by three weeks the hearing of a plea for bail filed by former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict, A.G. Perarivalan, who said that the "stalemate" over his release from prison is "completely political". A Vacation Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari was informed that the petitioner's side had circulated a letter for adjournment of the case. Advocate Ashok Panigrahi, appearing for the Union of India, told the court about the adjournment letter. Advocate Joseph Aristotle represented the State of Tamil Nadu in the case. "After sleeping over for five years in the Article 161 (pardon) petition and sitting over the recommendation of the State Cabinet to release the petitioner for more than good two-and-a-half years, the Union of India, on February 4, has filed an affidavit [in the Supreme Court] stating that Governor has sent the petition to the President, whereas the law is clear that Governor does not have independent discretion," Perarivalan, represented by advocates Prabu Ramasubramanian and K. Paari Vendhan, has contended in the bail application. The bail application said Perarivalan had been "under the hangman’s noose for 16 years, and 29 years in solitary confinement out of the total 30 years of incarceration". He has suffered the pain and trauma of the death row syndrome. "The pain was equally felt by the aging and fragile parents due to the uncertainty between life and death, and hope and despair," the application said. Perarivalan was allowed parole only twice in 30 years. "There was not a single untoward incident, breach of conditions or misconduct during the parole," the application pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supreme-court-adjourns-perarivalans-bail-plea/article34920427.ece
23 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 284 new COVID-19 cases, 433 recoveries||Puducherry recorded a solitary COVID-19 death and 284 new cases with a test positivity rate of about 3% on Tuesday. A 36-year-old woman with diabetes mellitus died at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMCRI), taking the cumulative death toll to 1,727. The death count by region is 1,381 in Puducherry, 212 in Karaikal, 102 in Yanam and 32 in Mahe. While Puducherry accounted for 223 of the new cases detected from 8,842 tests, Karaikal accounted for 39, and Yanam and Mahe accounted for 11 each. The test positivity rate was 3.21%, case fatality rate 1.5% and recovery rate 95.72%. With 433 patients recoving in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 3,214. Of this, 544 patients were in hospitals and 2,670 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,15,364 cases against 1,10,423 recoveries. Of an estimated 12.41 lakh tests administered to date, over 10.67 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 56 healthcare personnel, 28 frontline workers and 16,699 members of the public took their jabs in the last 24 hours. The total number of people vaccinated in Puducherry so far is 4,31,781, including 36,922 healthcare workers, 22,799 frontline staff and 3,15,833 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-284-new-covid-19-cases-433-recoveries/article34920468.ece
23 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Electoral rolls for civic polls in U.T. to be published on June 28||The State Election Commission will come out with the final electoral rolls for the local body elections by June 28 to mark another step towards fulfilling a long-delayed exercise in decentralisation of governance in the Union Territory. According to State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas, the ward-wise draft electoral rolls of municipalities and commune panchayats have been readied and the final electoral rolls will be published on June 28. The local body polls were held in 2006 in the Union Territory and since then the process has been on the backburner due to differences between the local government and the Centre over ward-wise demographic data on backward classes that hobbled the ward delimitation exercise. The process of conducting the civic body elections was put back on track by a series of orders of the Supreme Court. In 2018, a full seven years after the the term of office of the elected municipalities, commune panchayats and village panchayats ended in 2011, the top court had directed the Union Territory to hold the panchayat and municipal elections expeditiously. The Supreme Court, through an order of March 5, 2021, directed the Government of Puducherry and the State Election Commission to complete the delimitation exercise within two months from the date of the order. The elections are to be conducted within four months of completing the delimitation exercise. In 2019, the appointment of a SEC to oversee the elections was also caught up in controversy after the then Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi refused to authenticate the choice of the the government, led by former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, and initiated a fresh process that culminated in the appointment of Mr. Thomas. In March 2020, the Madras High Court quashed a writ challenge by then Local Administration Minister A. Namassivayam challenging the Lieutenant Governor’s decision to reject the nominee of the cabinet for the SEC’s post. “It is a combination of procedural wrangling and an absence of political will that held up the civic body elections in the Union Territory for such a long period,” an official said. According to a press statement from Mr. Thomas, the Local Administration Department had completed the exercise of delimitation and issued related notifications on June 4. The State Election Commission had also issued notifications regarding appointment of District Electoral Officers/Regional Electoral Officers, notification for appointment of Returning Officers and Assistant Returning Officers. Puducherry has two municipal councils while Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam enclaves have one municipality each. There are 10 commune panchayats (five each in Puducherry and Karaikal), in addition to 98 village panchayats across the four regions. The SEC has appealed to the electors to approach the officials deputed for the purpose of addition, deletion and shifting and other claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electoral-rolls-for-civic-polls-in-ut-to-be-published-on-june-28/article34920461.ece
23 June 2021||RAJAPALAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver seeks govt. support to maintain intellectually challenged half-brother||An autorickshaw driver, A. Velayutham (41), is finding maintenance of his intellectually challenged half-brother tough after his father and stepmother died of COVID-19 last year. Their father A.K. Arunachalam was a social worker, who had been helping the poor during the first wave of the pandemic in Chennai by distributing essential goods. Arunachalam and his wife Geetha died after getting infected with COVID-19 in June last year, leaving their intellectually challenged son, A. Manikandan (35), under the care of Mr. Velayutham. “He too was infected with COVID-19 and I stayed in Chennai for more than a month to treat him and brought him back to Rajapalayam,” said Mr. Velayutham. In the last one year, he could not go for work regularly as his presence was necessary to take care of Manikandan, he said. “He needs attention for everything, from eating to washing. My wife cannot handle him alone as sometimes he starts to behave strangely,” Mr. Velayutham said. With two teenage girl children, wife and now the half-brother under his care, Mr. Velayutham is finding it difficult to meet the needs of the family and those of his brother. “My father was a recipient of several awards, including from the President of India, for his social work for the differently abled, especially the visually challenged, though he himself was partially blind,” the auto driver said. Stating that the monthly assistance of Rs. 1,000 given to Manikandan was not enough even to buy diapers for him, Mr. Velayutham wanted the State government to help put his brother in a home where he could be taken care of. “With debts mounting in the last one year, I am not able to afford him a private nurse or put him in a home,” he rued. He has written a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin seeking his help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-driver-seeks-govt-support-to-maintain-intellectually-challenged-half-brother/article34920677.ece
23 June 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Teacher held under POCSO Act||A science teacher handling classes for ninth standard and other senior sections, working in a government-aided private school here in Mudukalathur near here has been arrested on charges of sexual misconduct among others on Tuesday. Following a complaint from a girl student's parents, the police registered a case and held inquiries with the suspect. Based on the confession, the teacher, who was identified as Habeeb Mohamed (36) of Peria Pallivasal Street, was arrested. A senior officer said that they were examining the calls made and also held inquiries with other students and teachers. The incident had gone viral in social media as the audio conversation was circulating over the last two days. Mudukalathur police have registered a case under POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-held-under-pocso-act/article34920678.ece
23 June 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration against Sri Lanka for dropping bus scrap in sea||A large number of fishermen affiliated to the AITUC staged a demonstration by stepping into the shores here on Monday. The members condemned the Sri Lankan government for dropping their bus scrap in sea recently. The fishermen here claimed that it would damage their nets and boats. The Sri Lankan government had been determined to spoil the livelihood of the fishermen from Tamil Nadu. Under some pretext or the other, they indulged in activities which were ‘anti-Tamils’, they said. Leading the demonstration, AITUC office-bearers S Muruganandam, Sendhil Vel and others urged the State government to immediately take it up with the Centre and ensure that the wornout buses dropped in the sea were removed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demonstration-against-sri-lanka-for-dropping-bus-scrap-in-sea/article34920673.ece
23 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Positivity rate on the decline in Salem’||District Collector S. Karmegham said the total positivity rate (TPR) in the district is reducing and advised the public to adhere to COVID-19 safety protocols to prevent an increase in cases. The Collector told presspersons the daily caseload was reducing and the positivity rate was around 6% in Salem at the moment. He said medical oxygen requirement had also gone down in the district and about 60% oxygen beds were vacant. He added that about 300 beds were vacant at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and around 500 beds at the Steel Plant treatment centre. Mr. Karmegham said the public should avoid bringing children to public places unnecessarily and they should avoid taking part in gatherings. Awareness had improved among the public in rural areas as well, he added. According to him, vaccination rate had improved in the district and the public were now eagerly coming forward to get vaccinated. The number of centres had been increased and the public need not travel for long distances to get vaccinated. According to health officials, until Monday, 4.89 lakh persons have received first dose vaccination and 1.36 lakh persons second dose. As on Monday, there are 57 containment zones in the district covering 1,012 houses and 3,632 persons are under quarantine. As many as 6,382 samples were collected and 511 persons tested positive on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-on-the-decline-in-salem/article34920484.ece
23 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea to protect old gallows in Thanjavur||Residents of Sevappanaicken Lake Westbank in Thanjavur town have urged the government to protect an old building complex in their area that was reportedly used as a gibbet during monarchy and colonial era. A group of persons descended on the brick complex and attempted to raze it down on Monday.  Local residents gathered in large numbers and prevented them from pulling down the centuries-old structure, which they claimed was used to hang convicted persons during the monarchy and colonial eras. Talking to the media, treasurer of Periyakovil Meetpu Kuzhu Pazha.Rasendran and Ravikumar, an engineer residing in the area, urged the government to safeguard the structure that was a piece of history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-protect-old-gallows-in-thanjavur/article34920752.ece
23 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Outfit member found dead||The Tamizh Puligal district deputy secretary Thirunavukarasu, 35, was found dead with multiple injuries in a pay-and-use public toilet at Angurpalayam under Cumbum south police station limits on Monday night. Following a complaint from the victim’s wife Jothimani, 28, the police have registered a case of murder. Superintendent of Police Dongre Pravin Umesh visited Cumbum south police station. The police secured two suspects. Relatives of the victim gathered and police pickets were posted. The body was sent to Theni Government Medical College Hospital. The police said Thirunavukarasu had taken the public toilet on contract from municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outfit-member-found-dead/article34920679.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Carnatic music loses doyenne Ponnammal||Doyenne of Carnatic music and Padma Shri award winner Parassala B. Ponnammal died at her residence at Valiyasala here on Tuesday afternoon. She was 96. Her death brings to an end a lifetime devoted to the pursuit of Carnatic music. A torch-bearer of pure Carnatic music tradition, Ms. Ponnammal followed in the tradition of greats such as Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, Muthiah Bhagavathar, and Papanasam Sivan. Born in Parassala in November 1924 to R. Mahadeva Iyer and A. Bhagavathy Ammal, she began learning Carnatic music while very young and has many firsts to her credit. She was the first female student of the first batch of the Sree Swathi Thirunal Music Academy, as the present Swathi Thirunal College of Music was known then, and completed the Ganabhooshnam course with first rank. She became the first female faculty member of the college and then its Principal, and of RLV College of Music and Fine Arts, Tripunithura. In 2006, she scripted history when she became the first woman to perform at the famed Navarathri Mandapam here, and went on to perform for 10 consecutive years. She enthralled music lovers in the State and in Tamil Nadu even in her 80s, and was teaching students till last year. Model teacher Carnatic vocalist K. Omanakutty terms her a model teacher, fount of knowledge on music, and a practitioner of traditional Carnatic music. “I am fortunate to have had a teacher like her. She was very soft-spoken and never lost patience with her students. Her vast wealth of disciples are her biggest contribution to Carnatic music. Her death is an irreparable loss.” Singer B. Arundhathi was not her student but had a very close bond with Ms. Ponnammal. She says be it raga alapana, niraval, or kalapana swaras, Ms. Ponnammal’s manodharmam embodied the purest aspect of music. “She was fluent in Malayalam, Tamil, and Sanskrit, and rendered Swathi Thirunal’s Bhakthi Manjari on AIR.” She was a recipient of the State government’s Swathi award and the Sangeet Natak Akademi award in 2009 and the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi award, among other honours. She is survived by sons D. Mahadevan and D. Subramaniam. Her husband R. Devanayakam Iyer pre-deceased her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carnatic-music-loses-doyenne-ponnammal/article34920318.ece
23 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Essential items given to refugees||Member of Parliament K. Kanimozhi distributed essential commodities to the residents of the Srilankan refugee camp at Thappaththi near Ettaiyapuram in the district on Tuesday from her personal funds. In the presence of Collector K. Senthil Raj, she distributed 15 grocery items to 382 families with 1,282 members of the refugee camp and nutritious food to 35 pregnant women in the camp. The refugees appealed to the MP to arrange for Indian citizenship, reservation in admission to professional courses and employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/essential-items-given-to-refugees/article34920681.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New initiative to protect senior citizens||Police have come out with an initiative aimed at ensuring the safety and security of senior citizens residing alone in the central zone comprising nine districts. A list of senior citizens living alone has been compiled from inputs from all police stations with a view to putting in place the initiative called Kaaval Vizhuthugal.  The initiative comes in the backdrop of recent murder of senior citizens staying alone in Perambalur and Pudukottai districts. The Deputy Superintendent of Police of District Crime Records Bureau in each district has been nominated as the nodal officer to monitor its implementation by police and to carry out periodic review. The central zone has 238 police stations including 29 All Women Police stations in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. “We have collected a detailed list of senior citizens staying alone police station-wise in central zone under the initiative,” Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan told The Hindu here on Monday. Data shows that the number of senior citizens staying alone in the zone is over 2,300. Pudukottai district tops the list with a little over 1,200 followed by Tiruvarur with 567. As part of the initiative, ‘patta’ books will be placed in the houses where senior citizens live alone. “Beat officers will make weekly visits to such houses and interact with the elderly citizens to find out their grievances, if any,” said Mr. Balakrishnan. The Beat Officers will record an entry in the ‘patta’ books every time they visit such houses. Police personnel have been briefed about the initiative and its monitoring by their superiors in each district. Mr. Balakrishnan visited a few houses where aged women stayed alone in Tiruvarur Town last week and interacted with them. The law enforcers are exploring the possibility of introducing e-beat system with QR code as part of the initiative to replace the ‘patta’ books system in due course. Senior citizens are most vulnerable and soft targets for anti-socials, he points out. In Pudukottai district, a 75-year-old woman, a widow living alone, was murdered in her house at Vadakku Imanampatti village recently. She was found dead in the verandah of her house and her ear and nose studs were reported missing. The murder occurred in Ganesh Nagar police station limits. The murder of a 62-year-old man and his wife in Perambalur district was reported at Allinagaram village in Kunnam police station limits. Gold jewellery weighing around 16 sovereigns and Rs. one lakh cash were reportedly stolen from the house. The couple were staying alone in the village. Both cases were under investigation. Mr. Balakrishnan says the Superintendent of Police of each district will reviewing the initiative periodically. Field-level officers other than the Beat Constables will also carry out random visits to houses where senior citizens stay alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-initiative-to-protect-senior-citizens/article34920754.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||MSME revival: industry associations seek seat at proposed expert panel’s table||Industry associations here are hopeful that the decision of the State government to constitute an expert committee to formulate schemes for revival of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises will pave way for infusion of vibrancy into the ailing fabrication sector. Known for decades as one of the prominent fabrication hubs in Asia, the industrial units under MSME purview in the region have been turning sick over the last few years due to a combination of factors such as setback in the order position for BHEL, impact of COVID-19 and general slowdown in the economy. For long, the small and medium scale industries in the region have been seeking a special financial package for extricating themselves from a state of collapse. Referring to Governor Banwarilal Purohit’s statement in the Assembly that an expert committee consisting of industrialists, banking and financial experts and government officials will be constituted to formulate schemes for revival of MSMEs, representatives of industry associations believe the government will form the committee with members drawn from the small and medium scale industries’ associations. ‘Welcome development’ “The move to form an expert committee is a welcome development. Having representatives of industries in the MSME sector will be ideal to solve problems industries are facing in the short and long run. We have requested the government to give representation to BHEL Small Industries’ Association in the proposed expert committee in consideration of prominence of Tiruchi region for fabrication and machining,”" association president Rajappa Rajkumar said. The MSME policy 2021 recognises small and medium scale industries as the biggest employer after agriculture in the country. One of the strategic initiatives underlying Vision Tamil Nadu 2023 is to boost creation and sustenance of several MSME clusters across the State, the MSME 2021 policy document states. While the formation of the expert committeee to accord a thrust to MSME sector is a step in right direction, the purpose it will serve will, for sure, depend on the choice of members, R. Ilango, president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Industries Association said. “Our immediate need is interest-free loans and moratorium for payment of existing loans.” In the prevailing scenario, small and medium industries find themselves in a piquant situation of sourcing more funds for survival. But the intended purpose of revival of financial health will not be served if the quantum of debt-servicing keeps rising,. Also, the State and Central Governments must seriously consider the necessity to pay workers half the salary for the duration of complete lockdown, through the Employees' State Insurance Corporation. Another factor confronting the manufacturing units is the billing method for power consumption. “The levy of fixed charges even in the absence of demand has hit the industries very hard,” Mr. Ilango added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-revival-industry-associations-seek-seat-at-proposed-expert-panels-table/article34920746.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Monuments provide impressive backdrop for yoga sessions||Lecture-demonstrations and awareness programmes marked International Yoga Day in the city on Monday. The newly formed Tiruchi Circle of Archaeological Survey of India, in association with South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanjavur, organised yoga sessions at three of its protected monuments – the lower rock-cut cave at Rockfort, Brihadeswara Temple, Gangaikondacholapuram, and Fort Vattakottai in Kanyakumari district. The event at Fort Vattakottai was one of the 30 locations from where such events were live streamed by the Union Ministry of Culture. In Tiruchi, Rajasekhar, yoga master, and his students presented a demonstration followed by cultural events and martial arts presentation in the presence of T. Aruj Raj, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, Tiruchi Circle, and Sudharsan, Joint Commissioner, HR& CE Department, Tiruchi. Jalendran, yoga master from Thanjavur, along with his students, presented yoga and cultural activities at Sri Brihadeswara Temple in the presence of Mariappan, organiser, South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanjavur, and Sankar, Conservation Assistant. The programmes at Vattakottai Fort was coordinated by R. Kalaiselvan, Assistant Superintending Archaeological Engineer, and V.P.Yateeskumar, Assistant Archaeologist, ASI, Tiruchi Circle. The yoga demonstration was presented by Gnanappan Asan and students of various organisations. Golden Rock workshop At the Central Railway Workshop, Golden Rock, a group of about 50 employees and officers participated in a yoga demonstration. A. Selvam, trainer, Art of Living, conducted the demonstration and guided the participants in the common yoga protocol advised by the Ministry of AYUSH. Shyamadhar Ram, Chief Workshop Manager presided over the event. Due to the pandemic, the number of participants was restricted and the event was held in the spacious auditorium in the workshop training centre maintaining personal distancing and other safety protocol. However, the event was live streamed in which about 100 employees joined and practised yoga. The session was organised with special focus onpranayama. T. Sankaran, Workshop Personnel Officer, and A. Clement Barnabas, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineer, spoke. The National Service Scheme unit of Saranathan College of Engineering in association with Vivekananda Yoga Centre, Srirangam, conducted a yoga programme on virtual mode. R. Sridhar and T.Santhanakrishnan were the trainers. They demonstrated various asanas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monuments-provide-impressive-backdrop-for-yoga-sessions/article34920745.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘No entry’ to retail traders at Gandhi Market in Tiruchi||The gates of Gandhi Market were locked by authorities of Tiruchi Corporation on Tuesday morning, thereby preventing retail traders from doing business. On information that retail traders had resumed trading along with their wholesale counterparts at Gandhi Market, the officials visited the market in the morning and locked some of the gates. They told the traders that permission had only been given to wholesale trading only at night. No one should trade during daytime. It is said that a section of retail traders expressed strong reservations over the decision to deny access to them durign the day. They said it was a partisan approach. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said the State government had given permission only to wholesale traders to operate in their markets. The traders should cooperate with the authorities in preventing the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-entry-to-retail-traders-at-gandhi-market-in-tiruchi/article34920758.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||1,078 more persons test positive for COVID-19 in central region||The central region on Tuesday reported 1,078 more fresh cases of COVID-19. Thirty-four deaths on account of the virus were also recorded from the region in the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Thanjavur district reported the maximum number of 372 fresh cases among the central districts followed by 231 cases in Tiruchi. Nagapattinam district reported 107 cases and the other five districts in the region reported less than 100 cases each. In Karur, 94 more persons tested positive. It was 92 fresh cases n Tiruvarur, 78 in Pudukottai and 71 in Ariyalur.  Lowest number Perambalur district reported the lowest of 33 cases. Thirty-four deaths were also recorded with six each in Ariyalur, Nagapattinam and Perambalur. Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Tiruchi reported four deaths each. Three persons died in Tiruvarur and one in Karur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1078-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-central-region/article34920750.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body to revive proposal for bus terminus in Srirangam||Tiruchi Corporation plans to revive a proposal to build a new bus terminus in Srirangam. It has been a long-pending demand of residents of Srirangam as well as tourists and pilgrims visiting Ranganathaswami Temple. Though the proposal was originally mooted about 10 years ago, the demand gained strength when former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa was elected to the Assembly from Srirangam constituency in 2011. The State government implemented or planned a slew of projects in Tiruchi, particularly Srirangam constituency, between 2011 and 2016. Building a bus terminus in Srirangam was among the projects planned. The corporation unveiled a plan to build a bus stand in Srirangam in 2012-13 and earmarked Rs. 9 crore for the project. It identified a 6.6-acre site near Yatri Nivas on Panchakarai on the banks of the Kollidam. A detailed project report was also prepared then. But it was put in cold storage after disqualification of Jayalalithaa as MLA in 2014. Due to persistant demand, the civic body took up the proposal again in 2019 after a gap of about seven years. A new detailed project report was prepared to execute the project at the same location. It proposed to implement it at a cost Rs. 23 crore and sought the services of Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDCO) to validate the project. Subsequently, a team of TUFICDCO officials inspected the project site. Since a number of objections were raised, the civic body shelved the project. After the DMK came back to power, the bus terminus plan has been revived. Confirming the development, a senior official of the Corporation told The Hindu that the proposal was being redrawn taking into account of various factors including volume of traffic. The land situated close to Yatri Nivas on Panchakarai would no longer be the site of the bus terminus. A few sites in Srirangam had been shortlisted for it. A clear picture would emerge within a few weeks, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-to-revive-proposal-for-bus-terminus-in-srirangam/article34920756.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Auto drivers for 50% reduction in fuel prices||A section of auto drivers affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) staged a demonstration here on Tuesday demanding reduction in prices of petrol and diesel by 50%. The demonstration headed by AITUC Auto Drivers Association -Woraiyur branch secretary P. Durairaj was organised on Kura Street in Woraiyur. Tiruchi district AITUC general secretary K. Suresh and others participated in the stir that lasted about 30 minutes. The auto drivers raised slogans demanding that the Centre reduce the fuel prices and withdraw the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019. They wanted the Centre to provide Rs. 7,500 per month to every auto driver who lost their livelihood during the COVID-19 pandemic. Similar demonstrations were held at Edamalaipattipudur, Manapparai, Marungapuri, Somarasampettai, Thuraiyur and Maravanur in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-drivers-for-50-reduction-in-fuel-prices/article34920762.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Build barrage across Cauvery: farmers’ body||The district unit of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to Communist Party of India, has urged the State government to initiate steps to build a barrage across the Cauvery between Mukkombu and Mutharasanallur in the district to prevent depletion of ground water table. In a representation submtited to Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru here recently, Ayilai Siva.Suriyan, district secretary of the association, pointed out that the stretch of the river from Mukkombu to Tiruchi was heavily exploited for supplying drinking water to various cities and towns up to Ramanathapuram. Huge borewells had been sunk on the river bed to pump lakhs of litres of water every day for the numerous drinking water supply schemes. The stretch of river between Mukkombu and Grand Anicut had water flow only for about six to months in a year only during Mettur irrigation season. During the rest of the year, the water schemes and agriculture fields along the course were dependent on ground water for sustenance. “Even now borewells are being sunk for drinking water schemes and their expansion and the quantum of water pumped from the river bed is set to increase in future. There is a possibility of ground water depletion and the drinking water sources and agricultural fields may not get adequate water when there is no flow in the river,” Mr. Suriyan said. The check dam, built near Kambarasampettai following a request of farmers when the Ramanathapuram combined drinking water supply scheme was implemented, had been of much benefit. Similarly, construction of a barrage between Mukkombu and Mutharasanallur, with a capacity to shore up about one tmc (thousand million cubic feet) of water would greatly help in preventing depletion of ground water on the stretch, Mr. Suriyan suggested.  It will help prevent depletion of ground water on the stretch between Mukkombu and Mutharasanallur Ayilai Siva.Suriyan Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/build-barrage-across-cauvery-farmers-body/article34920763.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Close TASMAC outlets’||A group of about 30 members of the Makkal Adhikaram staged a demonstration here on Monday demanding the closure of TASMAC liquor outlets. The hour-long demonstration held at Kura Theru in Woraiyur area in the city was led by the outfit's Tiruchi zonal coordinator Chezian, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/close-tasmac-outlets/article34920743.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||First reactor in Kudankulam stopped for fuel replacement||The first reactor of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP) was stopped on Tuesday for the scheduled and mandatory annual fuel replacement. For this preplanned replacement, the first reactor was stopped at 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. The annual exercise, which was done last on May 31, 2020, is expected to consume 45 to 60 days to replace 33% of the spent uranium fuel bundles with fresh enriched ones. Consequently, the supply of 465 MW power to Tamil Nadu from the first nuclear reactor with a capacity of 1,000 MWe has been hit. As per the standard operating procedure of the 1,000 MWe VVER (water-cooled water-moderated) reactors built with Russian technical knowhow, the used fuel should be replaced at the end of a fuel cycle. In the process, the spent fuel bundles would be removed and replaced robotically. The unloading of the spent fuel from the reactor’s core and the loading of fresh fuel assemblies would be completed with the help of fully-automated refuelling equipment. During the fuel outage, of the 163 enriched uranium fuel assemblies in the 1,000-MW VVER reactor, 53 spent fuel assemblies would be removed and replaced with fresh bundles, sources in the KKNPP said. Construction delayed On the progress of the construction of the third and fourth reactors, the sources said the work had been badly hit by the pandemic. “The COVID-19 outbreak has hit the progress of the project really hard… It has delayed the project by more than 18 months, and has consequently increased the project cost. We are trying our best to bridge this gap,” the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-reactor-in-kudankulam-stopped-for-fuel-replacement/article34920464.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Suicide bid by woman||A woman set herself on fire following alleged harassment and threat by an usurer. Police said P. Rekha, 32, of Vellankuzhi under Veeravanallur police station limits, whose husband Pratap is working in Chennai as a cook, allegedly set herself on fire on June 17. She was admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. When Mr. Pratap came to Tirunelveli, Ms. Rekha told her husband that she had borrowed Rs. 10,000 from a youth from the same area. When she could not repay the amount with the exorbitant interest, he allegedly verbally abused and threatened her. Veeravanallur police are investigating after Ms. Rekha’s declaration went viral on social media. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suicide-bid-by-woman/article34920682.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||KKNPP first reactor stopped for fuel outage||The first reactor of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP) was stopped at 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday for the scheduled and mandatory annual fuel replacement. The exercise, which was done last time from May 31, 2020, is expected to last 45 to 60 days for replacing 33% of the spent fuel with enriched uranium fuel bundles. The process is done by fully automated refuelling equipment. Consequently, supply of 465 MW power to Tamil Nadu from the 1,000 MWe reactor has been hit. As per the standard operating procedure for the 1,000 MWe VVER reactors built with Russian technical knowhow, used fuel should be replaced with fresh fuel assemblies at the end of a fuel cycle. During the fuel outage, of the 163 enriched uranium fuel assemblies in the reactor, 53 spent fuel assemblies would be replaced, sources said. The work on construction of the third and the fourth reactors had been badly hit by COVID-19 pandemic outbreak. “It has delayed the project by more than 18 months and elevated the project cost,” the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kknpp-first-reactor-stopped-for-fuel-outage/article34920683.ece
23 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Body of missing infant in Palladam traced, exhumed||The Palladam police on Tuesday exhumed the remains of a baby girl who was buried on June 12, allegedly by her parents after her death. The police said that they received information last week regarding a 36-year-old woman from JKJ Colony in Palladam, who gave birth to a baby in Palladam Government Hospital on June 12 and was referred to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital for further treatment. From there, the woman allegedly absconded with the baby and returned to Palladam with her husband, the police said. Following directions from Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, a nurse from a local primary health centre visited the woman at her residence in Palladam, where she claimed that the baby had allegedly died on the same day and that she, along with her husband, had buried the body without informing any officials, according to the police. Based on the information, Palladam Village Administrative Officer Muthulakshmi conducted inquiries and lodged a complaint at Palladam police station on June 19. A case was registered under Sections 176 (Omission to give notice or information to public servant by person legally bound to give it) and 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code. Palladam Tahsildar S. Devaraj said that the police had requisitioned exhumation of the body for an autopsy for the investigation, following which a team from Coimbatore Medical College Hospital visited Palladam on Tuesday. The body was buried in a plot on Palladam-Poomalur road at Kalivelampatti, and the autopsy was carried out on the spot in the presence of the police and Revenue Department officials. The autopsy began at around 10 a.m. and lasted for nearly three hours, according to the Tahsildar. The police said that further action would be initiated based on the autopsy report. In the meantime, a team of police personnel would monitor the woman and her husband to ensure that they do not abscond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-missing-infant-in-palladam-traced-exhumed/article34920486.ece
23 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Council resolutions online||Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati announced on Tuesday that the public shall access the resolutions of the Corporation Council online. The resolutions from January 2018 to May 2021 shall be accessed through the linkhttps://www.tnurbantree.tn. gov.in/tiruppur/council- resolution-2/.   Members of NGO Ini Oru Vidhi Seivom Trust donated 40,000 surgical masks to the district administration, Tiruppur Corporation and Tiruppur City Police on Tuesday to support their efforts in curbing the spread of the virus. NGO’s founder Kavitha Jenarthanan said the members donated 15,000 masks each to Collector S. Vineeth and Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati and 10,000 masks to Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha.   A private lab near Shevapet was sealed on Tuesday for violating COVID-19 norms. According to officials, the lab was found collecting swab samples without government’s approval. Based on recommendation from Deputy Director of Health Services, Salem Corporation Commissioner T.Christuraj directed City Health Officer to seal the premises. The Corporation warned of stern action against those violating government regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/council-resolutions-online/article34920473.ece
23 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Do not spread wrong message about Arasu cable TV, warns Collector||Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan has warned local cable television operators that stern action will be initiated against them if they indulged in activities resulting in loss of revenue to the government. In a press release, she cautioned them against encouraging customers to switch over to private DTH services by spreading false message that Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation signal would not be available or suggest replacement of TACTV set top boxes with private player’s equipment on their own. It would result in revenue loss to the government, she said and warned them not to indulge in such activities. Customers could lodge complaints by dialling 94980 17916 if the service provider changed the set top box without their consent. She said LCT operators must ensure that TACTV set top boxes provided to customers were collected and handed over to the Corporation if the customer/s moved out of the operational area of LCT operators. Any laxity on the part of the operators in ensuring that the customers returned their set top boxes while shifting their residence would be dealt with severely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-spread-wrong-message-about-arasu-cable-tv-warns-collector/article34920755.ece
23 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 helpline launched in the Nilgiris||A dedicated COVID-19 care helpline was launched by several service organisations in Coonoor in collaboration with the Nilgiris district administration on Monday. In a release, the service organisations that include the Coonoor Citizens’ Forum and “Clean Coonoor,” said the helpline was set up to provide information and guidance to the Nilgiris residents on RT-PCR test centres, ambulance services, public and private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in the area, as well as assisting in ensuring home delivery of medicines, groceries and food to people who require assistance. People manning the helpline would also provide information on vaccine centres, funeral services and volunteers to deliver goods to people’s houses. “Under the initiative, the 24-hours multi-lingual helpline operators (supported by Information Evolution India Pvt. Ltd.) respond to queries on phone and WhatsApp free of cost. An extensive directory covering various businesses and services around the district, including Ooty, Coonoor, Kotagiri, Gudalur, and Pandalur have been aggregated for the purpose,” the release said. The same information can be accessed via the local website www.nilgiriscovidcare.in. The initiative aims at supporting the district administration’s official helpline 1077. “The aim is to reduce the workload for the government helpline which is inundated with calls on numerous COVID-19 related issues,” said a representative from one of the NGOs that is spearheading the initiative. The Nilgiris COVIDCARE helpline can be reached via phone at 93424-99889.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-helpline-launched-in-the-nilgiris/article34920482.ece
23 June 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Keeping children fed and engaged during the pandemic||In a bid to take care of children from marginalised communities during the COVID-19 pandemic, a trust has been feeding 150 of them in Vellore district. They are left alone at home as schools are closed and their parents go in search of work. They have also been conducting academic activities to keep them engaged. The Hope House is a non-governmental organisation working for children in need of care and protection since 2005. They run government recognised homes to provide institutional care for children. “We also provide non-institutional care. Last year, we started identifying underprivileged families with children struggling for food as their parents are unemployed. As schools are closed, they are unable to benefit from the Noon Meal Scheme,” said Ruby Nakka, director of the NGO and a physiotherapist. They feed 150 children in four parts of Vellore — near the Karigiri Hospital, Suryakulam, Sugar Mill and a Rajasthani community in front of VIT. “We ensure they are given food at least once a day,” said N. Subramani, home superintendent of the NGO. “We teach basic alphabets and numbers, Thirukural , arts, crafts and music. However, during the recent complete lockdown, we could not do so as there were strict travel restrictions. But we will resume soon and will continue doing it till schools reopen,” Mr. Nakka said. Dhara Singh, from Rajasthan, whose eight-year-old child is being provided food by the trust, said it was a very helpful move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keeping-children-fed-and-engaged-during-the-pandemic/article34920466.ece
23 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||SCPCR member inspects illegal cracker unit||Member of State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, V. Ramaraj, on Tuesday inspected the site where an explosion claimed four lives, including that of a child and a pregnant woman, on Monday near Sattur. “Children should not be allowed in cracker units, be it legal or illegal. We are more concerned about the safety of children. Not only a five-year-old boy died, but also a pregnant mother,” he said. The police arrested two persons and investigation was under way, he added. Meanwhile, he inspected Annai Sathya Home for Children here and some of the private children’s home. Local people told Mr. Ramaraj that there was no watchman and one of the homes did not have the compound wall. Sri Lankan refugees at Kullursandhai complained that most of the children born to the inmates of the refugee camps did not have birth certificates. “The birth certificates have to be issued by Sri Lankan embassay. It was an important document to access various services, including education and to seek citizenship back at the Island nation,” Mr. Ramaraj said. District Child Protection Officer Ganesan was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scpcr-member-inspects-illegal-cracker-unit/article34920674.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SC sets September 15 deadline for civic polls||“This court granted four months’ time to delimit the nine newly constituted districts in accordance with law and thereafter hold elections for their panchayats at the village, intermediate and district levels on December 6, 2019. Instead of four months’ time, the respondents have taken a little more than 18 months and now seek six months to complete the exercise of conducting elections,” Justice Gupta observed. Appearing for the State Election Commission, senior advocate P. Narasimha said the local bodies elections had already been held, and then the nine districts were created. The delimitation had to be done before holding the elections. There was no delay on the part of the State Election Commission. The pandemic had hit the State in the meanwhile. The court initially said the elections in the districts should be held in two months by August 31. Mr. Narasimha said two months was too short a period. He urged for more time. The election machinery had been moved to West Bengal for the recent Assembly election, and it would take time for it to be set up in Tamil Nadu. “This is not about the efficiency of administration. It is a health matter... Tamil Nadu is having the highest number of COVID cases,” he said. Senior advocate P. Wilson, for Tamil Nadu, agreed with Mr. Narasimha, submitting that considering the “unusual circumstances [caused by COVID-19], what the SEC says is true”. Justice Gupta, however, stood firm initially. “If you do not want August 31, then we will say August 15.” However, the Bench had a short discussion, after which Justice Gupta informed the lawyers that Justice Bose was agreeable to the extension of the deadline to September 15. “We grant extension of time till September 15 to complete the entire process,” Justice Gupta said in the order. In December last year, the court had granted an extension of six months to complete the delimitation and conduct the elections in the nine districts. A Bench, led by the then Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, had allowed an application filed by the State Election Commission to complete the delimitation, which was interrupted by the outbreak of the pandemic in March. The court had on December 11 last ordered the completion of delimitation in the nine districts in three months. The districts are Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tirupathur, Ranipet, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-sets-september-15-deadline-for-civic-polls/article34920452.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Extending coverage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extending-coverage/article34920470.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report ‘Steel firm cheats SBI of Rs. 391 cr.’ published on June 19, the term “devolvement of Letter of Credit” was erroneously mentioned as “development of Letter of Credit”. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article34920419.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Nandha Engineering College: Toy Hackathon finale, 10 a.m.    Adithya School of Business Management: Webinar on ‘IBM: Reposition Yourself - Decision Dynamics’, 11 a.m.  D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Online interaction on ‘New Product Development in FMCG industry’, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article34920480.ece
23 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||1.8 lakh vaccinated in two days in Belagavi district||Belagavi has vaccinated over 1.80 lakh people aged above 18 in two days. This is part of the 10.29 lakh vaccinated till now. The State government has set a target of covering 37.05 lakh people aged above 18. This is around 67% of the estimated 55 lakh population in the district. Officers said that they have reached out to nearly 30% of the targeted population. However, the number of those who have received their two doses remains very low. Only 1,58,949 people have been given both the doses, out of the 10,02,136 vaccinated in the district till now. On Tuesday, officers of the Health and other departments and various city and town municipal corporations administered vaccine to 1.01 lakh people. On Monday, they gave vaccine to 79,000 people. Members of Legislative Assembly inaugurated the vaccination drive in some centres and encouraged people to get vaccinated. MLA Abhay Patil sat at the registration counter and helped enter the names of those who had queued up. As many as 500 vaccination centres had been set up in the district, of which five were in private hospitals. Belagavi stands second in the list of districts with the highest vaccinations per day, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol said in a meeting of officers here on Tuesday. He said that the second dose will be administered after 12 weeks of the first dose, as per the Union government guidelines. He asked Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath to monitor and ensure that all those who have been given just one dose are traced and persuaded to take the second dose within 12-16 weeks from the date of their first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/18-lakh-vaccinated-in-two-days-in-belagavi-district/article34920547.ece
23 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NIA arrests accused in fake currency case||National Investigation Agency (NIA) officers have arrested a West Bengal resident in Chikkodi in Belagavi district in connection with a fake currency circulation case. Four personnel from NIA arrested Sarifulla Abubakar Siddique from a rented house in Chikkodi on Monday, sources in the Belagavi District Police said. He was a resident of Babupura in Malda district of West Bengal before shifting to Chikkodi. Chikkodi Police had three years ago seized fake currency with a face value of Rs. 82,000 and registered a case. The case was handed over to NIA in April 2018. A Special NIA Court held five persons guilty and sentenced them to six years imprisonment.  Sarifulla Siddique has been taken to West Bengal where he will be produced before a court in Malda, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nia-arrests-accused-in-fake-currency-case/article34920542.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 3.4 lakh children likely to be hit during third wave: Panel||The high-level expert committee set up by the State government to analyse, advise and control the third wave of COVID-19 has estimated that around 3.4 lakh out of the total 2.3 crore population in the State, who are in the 0-18 age group, might get infected during the peak. The 13-member panel, headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty, based on projections by IISc., has said that 80%-85% of children are likely to get mild disease (asymptomatic). “Most of these children can be managed at home with clear guidelines on home isolation. About 15% of infected children may not have facilities for home isolation and may require COVID Care Centres (CCCs),” according to the interim report submitted by the panel to the Chief Minister on Tuesday. Paediatric intensive care “While about 6% of children may need specialist care and close monitoring, they may need facilities for tele-consultation to review their status frequently, and nearly 7% of children may need facilities that can provide supplemental oxygen and close monitoring. About 2% of children may need paediatric intensive care facilities,” the report stated. In the best case scenario, where the infection is mild and less transmissible, the capacity requirement will be the lowest with minimum number of patients requiring medical intervention. In such a scenario, 90% of the affected children will be asymptomatic and only 2% will be critical. While 13,602 will require hospitalisation, 6,801 will need ICU/HDU beds and 30,605 will need CCC beds. In a moderate scenario, 85% of the affected children will be asymptomatic and 2% will be critical. As many as 23,804 children may require hospitalisation, while 6,801 may require admission to ICUs. Besides, 43,358 would require beds at CCCs. In the worst case scenario, where the infection is particularly virulent and transmissible and a maximum number of patients need medical intervention, 80% of cases will be asymptomatic and 4% will be critical. While 27,205 children will need hospitalisation, 13,602 will need ICU/HDU beds and 54,409 CCC beds, according to the report. Bengaluru is likely to be the worst hit with 45,958 children getting infected during the third wave peak, followed by Belagavi where 28,546 are likely to be hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-34-lakh-children-likely-to-be-hit-during-third-wave-panel/article34920390.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘PIL petition led to 2-year delay in metro work’||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL) on Tuesday told the High Court of Karnataka that work on a metro project is running two years behind schedule compared to other metro projects in the country in view of a PIL petition through which the court is examining the process of approval granted for felling trees. Senior advocate Uday Holla, appearing for BMRCL, told the court that it would cost Rs. 85 lakh per day for the BMRCL and the delay would impact the project implementation. When a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj told him that all this was because of not following the procedure for granting permission for felling trees by the competent authorities, Mr. Holla said that metro project is being delayed for ‘no fault of BMRCL’ as it is the Tree Officer/Authority who has to ensure compliance. These submissions were made during the hearing of the petition filed in 2018 by Dattatraya T. Devare and the Bangalore Environment Trust on the issue of felling of trees for metro and other projects without following the provisions of the Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976. The court, after ordering constitution of TEC in April 2019, has been continuously monitoring the process followed by the committee and the State’s authorities in processing application for felling trees. Translocation Meanwhile, Bench directed that the Technical Expert Committee (TEC), set up on direction of the court, should specify the exact places for the trees to be translocated after being uprooted for the metro project in the city. The court also said that the TEC, while identifying the places for translocation, should bear in mind the Section 8(5) of the Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976, which prescribes planting trees in the same site or other suitable sites to compensate number of trees felled. As far as possible, translocation should be at the same site where the tree was and if not, in a nearby area, the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pil-petition-led-to-2-year-delay-in-metro-work/article34920385.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No hike in water tariff as of now: BWSSB||In a relief to citizens who have already been burdened with soaring fuel prices and annual electricity tariff hikes amidst job losses and salary cuts due to the pandemic, the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) has ruled out any increase in water tariffs for now. BWSSB chairman N. Jayaram told The Hindu, “There are no such plans as of now.” Only recently, the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC), in its order revising electricity tariffs across the State, had also allowed a hike in tariff for water supply. “The Commission has increased the tariff for LT water supply installations by 10 paise per unit only from the existing rate of Rs. 4.85 per unit to Rs. 4.95 per unit. The rate for HT water supply installations is also increased by 10 paise per unit from Rs. 5.45 per unit to Rs. 5.55 per unit,” it said in its order. Overall, the KERC had approved an average increase in tariff by 30 paise per unit for all electricity supply companies for the ongoing financial year. Last revision The last time the BWSSB had revised tariff was in 2014, which was by 20%. Officials had explained how the electricity bill, including for pumping water, takes up a third of the revenue. Last year, after the KERC had revised electricity tariffs, the BWSSB had cited financial stress and deemed a revision inevitable. The average domestic charge is Rs. 7 per kilolitre up to 8,000 litres and Rs. 11 from 8,001 to 25,000 litres. Sources said the BWSSB raises around Rs. 120 crore from consumers every month and around Rs. 30 crore goes for operational costs and Rs. 12 crore for payment of salaries. Much of the remaining amount goes towards electricity. The BWSSB bears the operational costs, while project costs are borne by the government. An official, on condition of anonymity, said while the other utility - Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) - has been allowed year-on-year hikes, the BWSSB has been awaiting revision in tariffs since 2014. “We have been bringing this to the notice of the government every year, including this year. But due to the pandemic, there has not been a push for revision as of now,” said the official. The pandemic and the electricity tariff hike have taken their toll on the water board, too. “Of the average revenue of Rs. 110 crore, more than Rs. 80 crore goes towards electricity. In addition, due to COVID-19, there has been a variation in revenue. We have also lost six staff members to COVID-19,” said a senior BWSSB official.   We have been bringing this to the notice of the government every year, including this year. But due to the pandemic, there has not been a push for revision as of now. BWSSB official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-hike-in-water-tariff-as-of-now-bwssb/article34920383.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mobile units for door-to-door triaging on anvil||After setting a target to administer 30 lakh vaccine doses over 30 days, the BBMP has set another – to ensure 100% physical triaging of all those who test positive for COVID-19. To this end, in all likelihood it will roll out at least one mobile triage unit attached to each of the 141 primary health centres (PHCs) in the city by the month-end. BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep told The Hindu that already, over 50% of hospital admissions are happening through these centres. All the 14 wards under Rajarajeshwarinagar zone have mobile triage units, while nearly 60% of patients in Mahadevapura zone are admitted in hospitals after a physical triage. Before the third wave hits, the civic body is working towards ensuring 100% admissions happen only after physical triage. “If and when the cases increase, more mobile units may be added,” he said. A death audit recently showed that 910 COVID-19 patients, who were in home isolation, had died. These deaths, the official said, could have been due to wrong classification during tele-triage. Patients may have not divulged complete details of their health condition or co-morbid conditions or the patients’ condition may have deteriorated during home isolation, said officials. “This is why physical triaging becomes important. Before the next wave is here, we hope to have more mobile triage units in place,” said Mr. Randeep. The Ward Decentralised Triage and Emergency Response (DETER) Committees, which will soon be activated, will also be attached to the PHCs. At the peak of the second wave, there were over 50 physical triage centres. However, following the drop in cases and daily number of those testing positive, the number of centres was reduced to 16. To ensure 100% physical triaging of COVID-19 patients, the Central Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS) had also been tweaked. Under the upgraded version, patient details can be captured and beds, if needed, can be booked at the physical triage centres itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mobile-units-for-door-to-door-triaging-on-anvil/article34920381.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges, schools prepare for physical classes||Although the State government is yet to take a final decision on when schools and PU colleges can reopen, managements have started preparing to resume physical classes. Most are in the process of conducting vaccination drives while others have ensured that teaching and non-teaching staff as well as parents of students have received their shots. Parents, however, remain cautious with many pointing out to reports claiming that children will be the worst affected during the third wave.  The recommendations of the government-appointed expert committee for schools and colleges to be opened in a phased manner has given a new impetus to management of education institutes. A source in the Higher Education Department said they will begin vaccination on college campuses from July 1. They plan to start offline classes in colleges soon after their staff and students are vaccinated. “We want the State government to ensure that parents and teachers are vaccinated at the earliest and on priority basis so that we can resume physical classes,” said D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. He added that the academic loss among children during the pandemic is far more than the 30% pointed out by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. Lokesh Talikatte of Recognised Unaided Private Schools Association (RUPSA) expressed a similar view. “Last year has been disastrous for children not just academically, but also psychologically. We want learning to continue this academic year and do not want the repeat of the last academic year,” he said.  Parents and parents’ associations want a series of consultations to be held before a decision is made on reopening. B.N. Yogananda, member, Karnataka Private Schools Parents Association Coordination Committee, said there was a need for proper deliberation on the issue and for the State government to weigh the pros and cons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-schools-prepare-for-physical-classes/article34920393.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka starts releasing financial aid to artists||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday launched a financial assistance scheme for artists who are under distress because of the second wave of COVID-19. A total of Rs. 6.23 crore is being provided to over 20,000 artists. A sum of Rs. 3,000 each would be credited to the bank accounts of artists through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). The State government has announced a Rs. 2,050-crore package for people in different sectors affected by the pandemic. Minister for Forests and Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbavali said that more than 17,000 artists were given assistance during the first wave. Potable water Meanwhile, the Chief Minister instructed officials to provide tap water connection to 25 lakh rural households in 2021-22 under the Union government’s flagship scheme Jal Jeevan Mission. Reviewing the progress of the scheme, he said about 91.91 lakh rural households and more than 28 lakh households have been provided functional tap water connections. Mr. Yediyurappa directed officials to achieve the target of providing 25.17 lakh tap water connections in rural areas of Karnataka within the stipulated time in the current financial year. Officials informed Mr. Yediyurappa that so far, 435 multi-village schemes have been completed in the State, while work on 69 schemes was under progress and approval given to 30 schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-starts-releasing-financial-aid-to-artists/article34920403.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CD scandal: Petition of woman’s father dismissed||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by the father of the woman embroiled in the Jarkiholi CD scandal alleging that his daughter’s statement was recorded “under pressure, influence, and coercion” and it was not of “her free will and volition”. Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order while accepting the arguments made on behalf of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) that the woman had already made a statement before a Division Bench last month stating that she was in a safe place and was not under anyone’s control. Contending that the woman had stated before the magistrate that she had recorded her statement without any coercion, P. Prasanna Kumar, special public prosecutor of the SIT, has also contended that the evidential value of her statement recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure could be examined during the trial of the case. It was also contended on behalf of the SIT that the woman’s father had no locus standi to challenge her statement, recorded voluntarily under the provisions of the Cr.PC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cd-scandal-petition-of-womans-father-dismissed/article34920396.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Police chief’s statement on noise meters ridiculous’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday described as “ridiculous” the claim of the Director-General and Inspector General of Police that 143 noise meters were enough for the entire State as there were only 143 Deputy Superintendents of Police/Assistant Commissioners of Police authorised to take action under the provisions of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. Pointing out that Dy. SPs/ACPs have jurisdiction over several police stations, the court said it was not at all practical to have noise meters based on the number of such officers when for Bengaluru city itself more than 100 noise meters were said to have been procured. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order while hearing PIL petitions, through which the court is monitoring the enforcement of the provisions of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules. As it was pointed out that there were discrepancies in the number of noise meters procured by the authorities, the Bench directed the DG&IGP to file an affidavit stating the number of noise meters procured and to also submit a practical estimation of the number of noise meters required for the entire State for effective enforcement of the rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-chiefs-statement-on-noise-meters-ridiculous/article34920400.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Post-COVID care needed||Children who suffer from severe COVID-19 infection, especially those who may need invasive ventilation will need enhanced care on follow up, the report by the 13-member panel said. They can develop post discharge complications - infections (pneumonia, invasive fungal infections including mucormycosis), thromboembolism, progressive fibrosis and hypoxemia apart from Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C). However, as children have good regenerative capacity the likelihood of persistent pulmonary dysfunction and need for home oxygen therapy is likely to be less, the report added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/post-covid-care-needed/article34920386.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to take up genome sequencing||With cases of the new Delta variant of COVID-19 being detected in Maharashtra and Kerala, the BBMP is now banking on genome sequencing to ascertain if the variant is detected in the city. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Tuesday announced that the civic body will take up genome sequencing of 5% of samples that have tested positive for COVID-19. “Though there is no restriction on inter-State travel as per the Centre’s guidelines, we have been insisting on RT-PCR tests for those coming to the city from other States,” he said. Civic officials had been directed to keep a close watch on wards with higher positivity rate. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa flagged off three mobile vaccine vans earlier in the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-take-up-genome-sequencing/article34920387.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 2 cr. doses administered||Karnataka on Tuesday recorded a milestone by administering two crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines so far. With 3,89,490 doses administered on Tuesday, the total number of doses administered touched 2,00,87,816. The highest number of vaccinations were done in BBMP limits (75,043 doses), Mysuru (37,320 doses), and Vijayapura (24,166 doses). The State reported 3,709 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,15,029. Of these, 803 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 139 deaths, the toll rose to 34,164.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-2-cr-doses-administered/article34920391.ece
23 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP executive meeting||An executive committee meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State unit will be held in Bengaluru on June 26. Announcing this at a press conference on Tuesday, BJP State general secretary Ravikumar said the meeting would be a hybrid one as party national general secretary and State in-charge Arun Singh would participate through videoconference while Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, State party president Nalin Kumar Kateel, and several Union Ministers would physically participate. Ahead of this, a State party office-bearers’ meeting is to be held on June 25. The BJP State unit is also set to observe the martyr day of its founder Syama Prasad Mukherjee on Wednesday by holding various programmes, including about 300 webinars to create public awareness on his life and ideology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-executive-meeting/article34920404.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Norms relaxed in four more districts||In a continuation of the relaxation orders, after assessing the current COVID-19 situation in the districts, the government on Tuesday permitted thefunctioning of all shops (other than air-conditioned shops, AC shopping complexes, and malls) from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. in four more districts. The districts — Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Davangere, and Chamarajanagar — will see relaxation of norms till 5 a.m. on July 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/norms-relaxed-in-four-more-districts/article34920405.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two labourers electrocuted||Two youths died of electrocution on Nala Road in Kalasipalyam on Monday after coming in contact with a high tension wire. The victims, Mariyappa, 22, and Rangappa, 19, hailed from Raichur district. They had completed cleaning a stormwater drain for a private company at Mallasandra in T. Dasarahalli. “Once they were done, they went to Nala Road to meet friends. On the way, they stopped to relieve themselves where they touched a mesh that had come in contact with a high tension wire. They died on the spot,” said an officer. A case of death due to negligence has been registered against Bescom officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-labourers-electrocuted/article34920379.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disruption in water supply on June 23, 24||In view of linking of a 900 mm pipe near Pillappanna Katte Rakaluve on June 23 and 24, there will be disruption in water supply on these days in the many areas across the city. Some of these are Nagapura, West of Chord Road, Mahalakshmi Puram, Manjunathnnagar, Shivanagar, Mahaganapathi Nagar, Shankar Mutt, Thimmaiah Road, Basaveshwara Nagar, HBCS, Shakthi Ganapathi Nagar, Kamala Nagar, Kamakshipalya, and surrounding places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-water-supply-on-june-23-24/article34920380.ece
23 June 2021||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Delta Plus variant: One case in Mysuru||One case of Delta Plus variant was reported on June 2 from Mysuru, confirmed V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka. “The sample was collected in May and sent to the genome sequencing lab in NIMHANS from Mysuru. The variant was not named Delta Plus then. The male patient was asymptomatic and had not been vaccinated. We have been told that he is doing fine now,” said Dr. Ravi. That apart, a sample from Tamil Nadu tested at the NCBS/in-STEM genome sequencing lab in Bengaluru has reported a Delta Plus case, he said. The highly contagious Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has mutated further to form the ‘Delta Plus’ or ‘AY.1’ variant. “There is an extra mutation in the spike protein in this variant. We still do not know if it is more contagious than the other variants. The only difference noted is that Delta Plus is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for COVID-19 recently authorised in India,” Dr. Ravi added. Meanwhile, health officials in Mysuru maintain that they have no information about samples of COVID-19 positive patients from Mysuru showing any mutant variants. However, Mysuru district health officer K.H. Prasad sought to play down the genomic confirmation as the sample had been collected in May and there was no need to panic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delta-plus-variant-one-case-in-mysuru/article34920394.ece
23 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSRTC bus services begin||The KSRTC division in Hassan has begun bus services. It operated buses to Bengaluru, other districts and taluk centres from Hassan. A press release here on Tuesday said that 36 buses operated on Bengaluru-Hassan route on Monday and 18 buses on Chikkamagaluru- Belur route, 18 to Sakleshpur, 22 to Holenarasipur, 17 towards Arkalgud and Konanur and 13 on Hassan-Arsikere route. A bus was also sent to Belagavi as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-bus-services-begin/article34920543.ece
23 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||All shops to open on three days||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, on Tuesday, issued an order allowing all shops, except for air-conditioned malls and commercial complexes, to do business between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. In the order issued on June 20, he had allowed only shops that sell essential shops to open on these three days. The fresh order has allowed shops to do business without differentiating them on the lines of selling essential and non-essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-shops-to-open-on-three-days/article34920554.ece
23 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Repair roads and fill potholes quickly, Minister tells municipal officials||With complaints pouring in regarding bad condition of roads in the twin cities, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has directed the municipal officials to quickly take up and complete road repair and pothole filling works. Speaking to presspersons after performing bhoomi puja for concrete road work worth Rs. 40 lakh at Siddeshwar Nagar in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Shettar admitted that as various roads had been dug up for various ongoing development works, roads were not in motorable condition. But he had asked the officials to immediately take up repair works. “Various developments works are under way. I have asked the officials to complete the concrete road work in front of the Divisional Railway Manager’s office in Hubballi at the earliest and allow vehicular movement on the stretch,” he said. Mr. Shettar said that the station road work had been taken up under the Smart City Scheme and the authorities had assured him of completing the road work in 10 days. Mentioning that the ring road-related works are going on at full speed, he said that work on the road connecting Vijayapura Road with Gadag Road had been completed. “If work on Gadag Road to Bidnal Bridge is completed and vehicular movement allowed, it will reduce traffic burden on Kittur Chennamma Circle. Once the stretch is declared open for vehicular movement, work on the elevated corridor at Kittur Chennamma Circle will be initiated,” he said. Oxygen for industry Regarding oxygen requirement for industries, Mr. Shettar said that of the 1,200 tonnes of oxygen had been allocated to the State, keeping 500 tonnes for COVID-19 management, 400 tonnes of oxygen will be allocated for industries on priority basis by the Deputy Commissioner. He clarified that no industry has complained about shortage of industrial oxygen, he said. Mr. Shettra said that 358 acres has been allotted to Aequs and 150 acres to Rajesh Exports at Belur Industrial Estate and both together are expected to invest Rs. 25,000 crore. Regarding the FMCG cluster, the proposal on giving tax and other exemptions is being considered by the Finance Department, he said. BJP leaders Mallikarjun Savakar, Santosh Chauhan, Thippanna Majjagi, Rajanna Koravi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/repair-roads-and-fill-potholes-quickly-minister-tells-municipal-officials/article34920549.ece
23 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Food kits given to slumdwellers||As part of CSR initiative, Hubballi-based Swarnaa Group has been extending assistance to people affected by COVID-19-induced lockdown and on Tuesday, it gave away food kits to slumdwellers. Managing Director of Swarnaa Group V.S.V. Prasad distributed 100 food kits to slumdwellers of Sonia Gandhi Nagar and Gabbur Beedi Plant. Announcing that the group will continue such activities, Mr. Prasad called on the people to follow the COVID-19 protocol strictly. Hanumathappa Doddamani, Manjula Doddamani and others who coordinated the distribution were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-kits-given-to-slumdwellers/article34920545.ece
23 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Buses can operate; hotels, all shops to do business from today||Relaxing lockdown conditions further, Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra said on Tuesday that all shops, except air-conditioned ones, in the district can do business from Wednesday. They can operate from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., he added. The Deputy Commissioner said that buses can also operate. The extended window period is valid till 7 a.m. on July 5 except during the weekend curfew. Air-conditioned shopping complexes and malls cannot do business till further order. Dr. Rajendra said in an order that buses can operate in the district from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. with 50% occupancy. Passengers are not allowed to travel standing. Buses have been allowed to operate only till 1 p.m. to enable people reach home before 2 p.m., he said and added that inter-district buses can operate. However, buses cannot operate within the district during the weekend curfew. Walking and jogging in parks and gardens are allowed from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. Salons and beauty parlours can do business and hotels can also be open till 2 p.m. with 50% occupancy. However, during the weekend curfew only parcels can be bought from hotels and other eateries. Meanwhile, in a video message, in-charge of Dakshina Kannada and Minister for Welfare of Backward Classes Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that many owners of textile and other shops, both essential and non-essential, had complained that life has become difficult for them due to the lockdown and hence, the conditions should be relaxed to enable them to re-open their shops. “I met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday and discussed the matter. The Chief Minister instructed the Chief Secretary to issue necessary orders allowing all commercial establishments to re-open. Mr. Yediyurappa has asked the concerned to take all steps to bring down test positivity rate in the district to less than 5%.,” the Minister said. Mr. Poojary said that he is appealing to people to take vaccine against COVID-19 and stop wandering unnecessarily and follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. And, night curfew from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. and weekend curfew from 7 p.m. on Friday to 7 a.m. on Monday will be in force in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/buses-can-operate-hotels-all-shops-to-do-business-from-today/article34920550.ece
23 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Arrested man’s link to drugs supply in Kerala being probed||The police are probing into a link that a Nigerian national arrested in Bengaluru on Monday in connection with two cases of drug trafficking in the city is said to have in the supply of narcotic drugs to different parts of Kerala. The police arrested Stanely Chima of Abuja in Nigeria and Mohammed Rameez of Uppala in Kasaragod district of Kerala in Bengaluru on Monday. They were produced before a court in Mangaluru which remanded the two to judicial custody on Tuesday. They were arrested in connection with two cases of drug trafficking registered in Konaje Police Station some days ago. The police had recovered 235 grams of MDMA in these two cases. Earlier, the police had arrested five men in this connection. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here on Tuesday that the police have recovered audio clips of a conversation between Rameez and Chima where the former makes a claim that he has a network of associates in all the 14 districts of Kerala for distribution of drugs. The former then seeks from the latter weekly supply of good quality MDMA and other narcotic drugs to him. “We are verifying this information and trying to trace others associated with these accused in Kerala and in Dakshina Kannada,” Mr. Kumar said. Chima had in 2018 been arrested by the K.R. Puram Police in Bengaluru for violation of the provisions of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and also of the Passports Act. He was later released on bail. He is accused of supplying narcotic drugs from Bengaluru to his contacts in Mangaluru and Kerala, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arrested-mans-link-to-drugs-supply-in-kerala-being-probed/article34920553.ece
23 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man charged with setting son on fire||The police on Tuesday arrested 51-year-old Vishwanath Shetty on the charge of setting his son Swameet Shetty (25) on fire in their house at Kopparigeguttu of Jeppinamogaru in the city on Monday. The Kankanady Police rushed to the house following calls from residents. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Tuesday told reporters that the police found Swameet Shetty with burns and he was immediately shifted to a private hospital in Kuntikana. He is stable. Mr. Kumar said that inquiry revealed that there was a fight between Vishwanath Shetty and Swameet Shetty on Monday night over putting cows and hens in their sheds in the house. In a huff, the former poured petrol over his son and set him on fire. Vishwanath Shetty has been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-charged-with-setting-son-on-fire/article34920552.ece
23 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||17 deaths, 453 new cases in twin districts||As many as 17 COVID-19 patients died and 453 new cases were reported in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts on Tuesday. Dakshina Kannada recorded 15 COVID-19 deaths and 374 new cases. With 556 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 6,820 and test positivity rate was put at 5.68%. As many as 16,826 people have received their vaccine. There were 32 cases of mucormycosis. A fine of Rs. 88.75 lakh has so far been collected in 73,066 cases of people not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing, said a bulletin from the Dakshina Kannada district administration. In Udupi district, two COVID-19 patients died and 79 new cases were reported. With 219 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 1,520. There are four cases of mucormycosis. As many as 9,466 persons have received their vaccine. A fine of Rs. 47.42 lakh has so far been collected in 41,938 cases of norms violation, said a bulletin from the Udupi district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-deaths-453-new-cases-in-twin-districts/article34920551.ece
23 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Pool at DC’s residence had no approval: report||The construction of a swimming pool at Jala Sannidhi, the heritage structure housing the official residence of the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru, did not have “prior administrative approval” and “serves no public interest”, according to a report submitted by Mysuru Regional Commissioner G.C. Prakash. Mr. Prakash, who had been asked by the Principal Secretary to the Department of Revenue to inquire into the construction of an indoor pool in the residence of the Deputy Commissioner during the recent tenure of IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri, has submitted a three-page report to the government identifying six lapses. The lapses include the absence of approval from either the technical department or the Public Works Department for the work estimate of Rs. 32,55,131, the absence of an executive order for the construction of the swimming pool, and the absence of an agreement with the persons executing the work. Besides, the report also cites the absence of any approval from the Heritage Conservation Committee, which is mandatory for taking up any conservation, renovation, or beautification work at heritage structures, as per the heritage regulations of the Urban Development Department. The Regional Commissioner has concluded the report by pointing out that the construction of the swimming pool at the Deputy Commissioner’s office served no public interest. The office of the Commissioner of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage, Mysuru, too had received no request for permission for the construction of a swimming pool and a gym inside the Deputy Commissioner’s residence, the report states. The government had ordered the probe on May 31, based on complaints from JD(S) leader and former corporator of Mysuru City Corporation K.V. Mallesh and former Minister and JD(S) MLA S.R. Mahesh, days before Ms. Sindhuri was transferred from Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pool-at-dcs-residence-had-no-approval-report/article34920397.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Committee for staggered reopening of schools in State||Noting that the possibility of schools being areas of large transmission has not been proved anywhere in the world, the interim report stated, “There is an urgent need to offer scientific and definitive guidance for school reopening as any delay in achieving near normalisation of schooling will be more detrimental than COVID-19 itself.” The panel has also recommended that the government provide a health cover of Rs. 2 lakh to each student attending on-campus classes, in a bid to encourage parents to send children back to schools. The panel has suggested that classes be held in a staggered manner on different days and shifts. It also suggested that schools should be directed to use the services of a counsellor and a nurse. “Children suffering from chronic ailments and those who are on regular medication should get consent from their doctors to attend on-campus classes,” it stated. Children under stress “The loss of formal learning during the pandemic is almost 50% of the expected academic learning. This is more so in disadvantaged and marginalised children,” stated the report. It said school closure had resulted in stress, anxiety, and depression among children and their families. “It is pertinent to understand that education is the fundamental right of a child. Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition further worse,” it said. The panel has also recommended augmentation and upgrading of neonatal ICU/special newborn care units, paediatric ward beds, and paediatric ICU/HDU beds in taluk hospitals, district hospitals, and medical colleges. Recruiting additional manpower should be done on priority, the report stated. It recommended setting up of exclusive children’s hospital with 250 beds with provision for 20-bed PICU/HDU/NICU in facilities such as Indira Gandhi Institute Of Child Health in backward districts. The panel has recommended adding a micronutrient powder to milk given to children attending anganwadis. “The existing anganwadi-based supplementary nutrition programme should be restarted at the earliest,” it said, giving the option of home delivery. The panel has recommended that the government should explore food fortification of rice, atta, edible oil, salt, and milk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committee-for-staggered-reopening-of-schools-in-state/article34920395.ece
23 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Ambalappuzha to be turned into an e-taluk||Ambalappuzha taluk will be transformed into an e-taluk. Revenue Minister K. Rajan, who reviewed the functioning of the Revenue Department in the district on Tuesday, said an e-office system would be implemented in Ambalappuzha by digitising all files. “Conversion to e-taluk will be completed in 100 days,” Mr. Rajan said. The Minister said all village offices in the State would be made ‘smart’ in five years. “Our aim is to make available mutation of property among other services online. The government will take steps to complete various processes, including a digital survey in a time-bound manner,” he said. The Minister urged officials to play a proactive role in making village offices smart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambalappuzha-to-be-turned-into-an-e-taluk/article34920734.ece
23 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Woman found dead in husband’s house||A 19-year-old married woman was found dead at her husband’s house at Vallikunnam on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Suchitra, wife of Vishnu. According to the police, she was found hanging in her bedroom in the morning. “On finding that the room is locked from inside, her mother-in-law informed neighbours. Although she was rushed to a nearby hospital, her life could not be saved,” said an official. The Vallikunnam police said they were informed about the incident around 10 a.m. The police have registered a case of unnatural death. The police conducted an inquest and shifted the body to the Government Taluk Hospital, Kayamkulam. “Prima facie it is a case of suicide. The exact cause of death could be ascertained only after receiving the post-mortem report,” said R. Jose, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Chengannur. The police have not yet received any complaint regarding the death, he said. Suchitra from Krishnapuram, near Kayamkulam, married Vishnu, an army man, in March 2021. After marriage, Vishu returned to Uttarakhand in April. (Suicide prevention helpline number: DISHA 0471- 2552056, 1056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-found-dead-in-husbands-house/article34920735.ece
23 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Timber mafia axed 705 ‘royal trees’ in four districts||An ongoing investigation of the Forest Department has found that 705 ‘royal trees’, rosewood and teak are categorised so, on land assigned under the Kerala Land Assignment Rules, 1964, have been axed in four districts in the State. These trees were felled by a timber lobby in Wayanad, Thrissur, Malappuram, and Kasaragod districts misinterpreting a government order. While 161 trees, 101 rosewood and 60 teak, were felled in Wayanad, 509 trees, including 500 teak and nine rosewood, were cut from Thrissur. As many as 11 each huge rosewood and teak were felled in Kasaragod and 13 teak trees in Malappuram, sources said. The Forest Department has launched a State-wide probe into the allegation of illegal felling of reserved trees. The investigation and compilation in the other districts are under way, the sources said. The massive felling of endangered tree species such as rosewood came to light after a team of forest officials seized 54 pieces of rosewood logs worth Rs. 60 lakh from a sawmill at Perumbavoor in Ernakulam on February 9. The logs were transported from Wayanad after felling it from revenue pattaya land under the cover of the controversial order issued on October 24, 2020. The police registered cases against 68 people in connection with the felling of trees in Wayanad and charged them under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. The Biological Diversity Act, 2002, was also recently invoked against them as per a directive of the special investigation team probing the scandal. Judicial probe sought Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday moved Governor Arif Mohammed Khan demanding a judicial inquiry into the theft of rosewood trees from assigned land in South Muttil village in Wayanad. ( With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/timber-mafia-axed-705-royal-trees-in-4-districts/article34920320.ece
23 June 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Crude bombs seized||During a check conducted by the police bomb squad and the dog squad, four crude bombs were detected hidden in a plastic bucket at Poyiloor Thattil Peedika in Kannur on Tuesday. The bombs were found in the backyard of an unoccupied house owned. The Kolavallur police registered a case and started an investigation. The bomb squad defused the seized crude bombs. The search operation was led by Kolavallur SI Bijoy and CPO Deepesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crude-bombs-seized/article34920613.ece
23 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vyttila, Kundannoor 2nd phase development report ready||The Public Works Department (NH wing) has readied a report on the second phase development work on Vyttila and Kundannoor junctions in order to seek their inclusion in Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) projects. This is because traffic congestion prevails at the two junctions even after six-lane flyovers built by the PWD were commissioned in January. Pedestrians too find it difficult to cross the junction. All this can be prevented if land is acquired at all four sides of the junction to widen the bell mouths, a PWD official said. The agency has envisaged a survey in pursuance of its report in order to ready a DPR to include the second phase development of the two congested junctions in projects listed under KIIFB. The opinion of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which owns the Edappally-Aroor NH bypass, too has to be sought. But the long-pending demand for a four-lane underpass linking S.A. Road with Thripunithura — in order to streamline traffic flow in east-west direction — does not find mention in the report readied by the PWD. Moreover, the PWD has not returned possession of the flyover sites at the two junctions back to the NHAI, it is learnt. Mayor M. Anilkumar had recently convened a meeting on decongesting the city, including the two junctions. “Officials of the NHAI, PWD (Roads wing) and traffic police were present. The Kochi Corporation will take the lead in convening yet another meeting so that the opinion of the PWD (NH wing) and the NHAI can be consolidated and a common ground arrived at to kick-start second phase development works. There is a need to lessen the circumference of the new roundabout and islands at Vyttila Junction, while paver blocks at Kundannoor must be relaid to ensure a smooth ride for motorists,” he said. The Vyttila United Forum had submitted a memorandum signed by 4,000 people to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan before the Vyttila flyover works began, suggesting elevated U-turns on either side of the junction. “This would have done away with the need for signal lights at the junction. The flyovers cater mostly to long-distance vehicles, leaving intra-city and regional traffic to wait on end in snarls beneath. At the same time, a two-lane stretch on the northern side of the roundabout is lying totally vacant, due to shoddy planning by the PWD,” forum chairman Thampy V.R. said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vyttila-kundannoor-2nd-phase-development-report-ready/article34920621.ece
23 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,491 test positive in Ernakulam, 1,021 recover||As many as 1,491 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. A test positivity rate of 10.17% was recorded when 14,658 tests were done. Thrikkakara recorded 58 new cases, Keezhmad 57, and Palluruthy 45. Kadungalloor, Thripunithura and Maradu registered 43 new cases each, Mundamveli saw 40, Kalamassery and Pallipuram 38 each, and Choornikkara 34. Nine health workers have tested positive. The source of infection could not be traced in 26 cases. Puthenvelikara recorded 29 cases, Karumaloor and Njarakkal 28, Edathala 26, and Fort Kochi 25. A total of 1,021 recoveries were recorded on the day. The active caseload stands at 14,263. While 142 people were admitted to hospitals on Tuesday, 180 were discharged. While 9,594 people are recovering from the infection at home, 1,018 patients are at private hospitals, 461 are at government hospitals, and 1,671 people are recuperating at FLTCs, SLTCs and domiciliary care centres. As many as 39,502 people remain in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1491-test-positive-in-ernakulam-1021-recover/article34920610.ece
23 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Black effluent detected in illegal outlet to canal||Effluent black in colour were detected from an illegal outlet into the canal connecting the Periyar river and Edayattuchal paddy fields located close to the industrial area at Edayar in Ernakulam district in Kerala. The unauthorised pipe with six-inch diameter was revealed when the officials of the Irrigation Department carried out digging work along the banks of the river recently. However, the source of the illegal discharge was not ascertained as the work had to be stopped midway in view of technical and practical hurdles in carrying out such a major exercise. Senior officials of the State Pollution Control Board pointed out that the water in the canal connecting the Periyar and Edayattuchal paddy fields was found to be yellow in colour. Samples were taken from both the illegal PVC outlet and the canal to ascertain the source of pollution, they said. The Irrigation Department officials had closed the illegal outlet before they wrapped up the inspection work on Saturday. The canal joins the Periyar river at the upstream of Pathalam bund regulator. The presence of an illegal pipeline into the canal was suspected by the State Level Monitoring Committee on Solid Waste Management appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and found mention in its report on the pollution of the Periyar river and Edayattuchal and Chakkarachal paddy fields. Water quality affected The board had filed a report before the tribunal on June 8 stating that discharge of any sewage/trade effluent to this canal will ultimately reach the river Periyar at upstream of Pathalam bund, affecting the water quality. Earlier inspections had found the presence of effluent in the canal suspected to be owing to the illegal discharge through unauthorised outlets. The board was awaiting action on the part of the Irrigation Department in making the concealed canal accessible for inspection. An attempt to study the possibility of illegal outlets into the canal in January had failed. The report before the tribunal stated that directions were issued to the Irrigation Department to provide inspection chambers/manholes at definite intervals along the entire stretch of the canal to identify unauthorised outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/black-effluent-detected-in-illegal-outlet-to-canal/article34920617.ece
23 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Municipality yet to act on debris management’||The State Pollution Control Board in Kerala has informed the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that the Maradu municipality is yet to provide facilities as per the provisions of Solid Waste Management and Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016. The board pointed out the lapse in its additional status report filed before the Bench on the case related to the non-compliance of norms in the removal of debris that emerged following the demolition of the apartments in Maradu on the basis of an order by the Supreme Court. The secretary of the local body was given strict directives to submit action plans as per the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016 and to follow the waste management guidelines according to the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The local body has not submitted its reply to the notice issued by the board on April 4 on the lack of facilities and the failure to obtain authorisation under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016. The municipality had a daily generation of about 14 metric tonnes of solid waste as per its population, according to the estimates by the board. Inadequate space Antony Asanparambil, chairman of the municipality, said that lack of adequate space was a major hurdle before the civic body in setting up centralised facilities for solid waste management. "The efforts to transport the biodegradable waste to the Kochi Corporation's facility at Brahmapuram did not succeed, as the site had exceeded its carrying capacity. We are now focussing on source-level initiatives for management of biodegradable waste," he said. The chairman said that about 1,700 bio bins will be distributed among the households at subsidised rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/municipality-yet-to-act-on-debris-management/article34920618.ece
23 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sooraj moves HC to quash vigilance case||A petition was filed by T.O. Sooraj, former PWD Secretary, before the Kerala High Court on Tuesday, seeking to quash the corruption case registered against him in connection with the flaws in the construction of the Palarivattom flyover. According to him, the inquiry into the case and subsequent registration of FIR by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) were vitiated as they had been conducted without approval from the State government as mandated under Section 17(A) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. In fact, the previous sanction of the State government was required since the offences alleged against him and others related to recommendations made and decision taken by the public servants including the petitioner. The main allegation against him was that he had permitted the contractor to compromise on the design of the flyover as well as the quality of its constructions. The petitioner said that he was not in fact implicated in the inquiry report. He was subsequently arraigned as accused in the case, according to the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sooraj-moves-hc-to-quash-vigilance-case/article34920622.ece
23 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||43 cases on felling trees in Wayanad, HC told||A total of 43 cases have been registered in connection with the illegal felling and removal of rosewood trees from Muttil South village in Wayanad, the State government informed the Kerala High Court on Tuesday. The submission was made by Director General of Prosecution (DGP) T.A. Shaji when an anticipatory bail pleas by the accused in the cases, Anto Augustine and two others, came up for hearing. Anto Augustine, Josekutty Augustine and Roji Augustine — the first, second and third accused respectively — submitted in their petition that they had cut and removed the trees after obtaining all valid permits and licences. Arrest warrant pending The DGP submitted that of the 43 cases, the petitioners were arraigned as accused in 37 cases. In one case, a non-bailable arrest warrant was pending against them. The court adjourned the petition to June 23 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/43-cases-on-felling-trees-in-wayanad-hc-told/article34920625.ece
23 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Row over drinking water project in Thrikkakara||The long-pending Manakkakadavu drinking water project has seen ruling and opposition parties in Thrikkakara municipality lock horns over its feasibility. The ruling United Democratic Front (UDF) council led by Congress party veteran Ajitha Thankappan said that the project would not be in the best interest of people in the eastern wards of the municipality as the quality of water from Kadambrayar had been found not fit for human consumption. She said the project was envisaged to solve drinking water shortage in eastern wards like Thengode, Edachira, Vallyattumugal and Navodaya among others but that the water had been found to be too polluted to be used for drinking water supply. However, Opposition leader and senior CPI(M) member in the council M.K. Chandrababu said that the project, initially proposed by the LDF, was being sabotaged purely on political grounds. He said that there was an urgent need to solve drinking water shortage in the eastern areas of the municipality, which the present council was not addressing. The municipal chairperson said that water available in the Kadambrayar had been tested and found to be polluted and it would not be healthy for people. She said the money set aside for the drinking water project would be utilised to implement another project that would solve the drinking water shortage in the entire eastern belt of the municipality.  K.K. Gopakumar of Thrikkakara Jana Munnettam, a movement not affiliated to leading political fronts, said that the municipality had over a hundred public open wells, which could be utilised to solve the problem of drinking water shortage in some of the areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-drinking-water-project-in-thrikkakara/article34920619.ece
23 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||To Europe to pursue her dream course in sports||In the nearly three years when she was employed with an oil public sector major, Aisha Nazia, a mechanical engineer, took multiple sabbaticals to escape the monotony of her job. And every time, she made use of the breaks to be associated with the management of premier sporting events like the Indian Super League (ISL), FIFA Under-17 World Cup and National Games. As she found that to be her real calling, Ms. Nazia, in fact, later quit her job. Now, the 26-year-old stands on the cusp of something really promising as one among the 30 candidates from as many countries chosen for the prestigious postgraduate sports executive programme, FIFA Master, endorsed by the global football governing body FIFA. While a merit scholarship has halved the course fee, she still has to raise another Rs. 28 lakh, for which she has now hit a crowdfunding platform. “I chose crowdfunding since I can't take another bank loan without collateral since I have already taken a housing loan. I have so far raised Rs. 3.50 lakh, though mostly from friends and family,” says Ms. Nazia. With the Non Disclosure Agreement of FIFA running out, she is now planning to go full throttle with the fund-raising. The FIFA Master programme comprises three modules taught across three universities in Europe — Humanities of Sport at De Montfort University, Leicester, England; Sport Management at SDA Bocconi School of Management, Milan, Italy; and Sport Law at Université de Neuchâtel, Neuchâtel, Switzerland. Elite clubs It packs in 80 field trips to elite clubs and headquarters of diverse sports like football, Formula 1, National Basketball Association (NBA) and much more. “It gives us exposure at the highest level of sports management with the opportunity to be hired by some of them,” she says. Football remains her first love, especially Indian football. “I want to work closely with the development of Indian football,. ” says Ms. Nazia. Sustainable sports management through the infusion of technology by bringing down carbon footprint is another area that interests her. As her dream journey is set to begin on September 16, the youngster remains confident of raising enough funds to power it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/to-europe-to-pursue-her-dream-course-in-sports/article34920667.ece
23 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||School hands over study kits to 535 students||The authorities at the Government Higher Secondary School, Vennala, have provided “study gift” kits to 535 students of Classes 5 to 10 as a support amidst the financial crisis faced by parents in this pandemic situation. Each kit consists of 10 notebooks, instruments box, ink pen, ink, five chart papers, 20 A4 size papers, crayons, pens, reading books and a sapling. “The kits were provided as many students had faced difficulties in buying study materials in view of the pandemic crisis,” said Jolly Sebastian, Headmistress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-hands-over-study-kits-to-535-students/article34920623.ece
23 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kanam tests positive, hospitalised||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran was admitted to a private hospital in Kochi on Tuesday after he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Mr. Rajendran took to social media to inform that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and urged those who came in contact with him over the last few days to remain under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kanam-tests-positive-hospitalised/article34920637.ece
23 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Aisha warned for ‘flouting’ protocol||District Collector of Lakshadweep Asker Ali, in his capacity as chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), has issued a warning to filmmaker Aisha Sultana asking her not to flout standard COVID-19 protocol prevalent in the Union Territory failing which stringent action will be taken against her. The caution notice accuses Ms. Sultana, who arrived at Kavaratti on June 19 to make herself available for questioning by the police in a case of sedition charged against her, of violating the home quarantine requirement.  Ms. Sultana told The Hindu that the charges were vindictive and largely untrue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aisha-warned-for-flouting-protocol/article34920639.ece
23 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Police slap charges on Kiran Kumar||The Sooranadu police have recorded the arrest of Kiran Kumar, husband of Vismaya whose body was found at his home in Sasthamcotta on Monday. He has been slapped with charges under Sections 498A (subjecting a woman to cruelty for dowry) and 304B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code. According to police officers, more sections will be charged against him after getting the autopsy report. The 24-year-old BAMS student had sent a string of messages to her kin that she was subjected to domestic violence. During interrogation, Kiran Kumar reportedly told the police that the injuries on his wife were inflicted by him. As per his statement, the couple had an argument on Sunday night and Vismaya committed suicide after that. “Inspector General of Police, South Zone, Harshita Attaluri, will supervise the probe and strict action will be taken against all culprits,” said State Police Chief (SPC) Loknath Behera. Visamaya’s family has come up with a serious allegation that she was murdered. According to her father, the bruises and marks in her body point to homicide. Her body missed all tell-tale signs of hanging and the ligature mark was found towards the bottom of her neck. Her family also alleges that Vismaya was taken to hospital nearly two hours after her death. State Women’s Commission member Shahida Kamal, who visited Vismaya’s house in Nilamel to take the statement of her family, said the commission had asked for regular updates and the case would be closely monitored. Former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Transport Minister Antony Raju had ensured him that departmental action would be initiated against Kiran Kumar, an employee of the Motor Vehicles Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dowry-death-case-registered-against-vismayas-husband/article34920315.ece
23 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,525 cases in Kollam||The district reported 1,525 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,032 recoveries on Tuesday. While 1,516 patients contracted the disease through contact, the others include two NRIs, two persons from other States and five health workers. Kollam has 33,199 people under observation and the number of samples collected is 15,64,545. While 4,146 people completed home quarantine, the Health Department has traced 2,71,724 primary and 17,297 secondary contacts. Alappuzha The district reported 740 COVID-19 cases and 1,043 recoveries on Tuesday. It also recorded 18 COVID-19-related deaths. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 9.68%. Of the fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 734 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of six others remains unknown. The 740 cases include 70 logged from Alappuzha, 44 from Panavally, 39 from Punnapra North, 29 from Vallikunnam, and 25 from Mannar. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district fell to 8,412. ( With input from   Alappuzha bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1525-cases-in-kollam/article34920737.ece
23 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Death of newborn: Kerala woman held||The Paripally police on Tuesday arrested Reshma, a 22-year-old resident of Kalluvathukal, after a DNA report confirmed her as the biological mother of a newborn who was found abandoned last January. The one-day-old infant was seen on the premises of the house where Reshma was living with her family and he had died the same day due to infection. Though the accused had feigned ignorance initially, she later confessed to the crime. “We collected blood samples of nine suspects and the baby’s DNA profile completely matched with Reshma and her husband Vishnu,” said Station House Officer T.Sathikumar. The baby boy, who weighed 3 kg, was found in a heap of dry leaves near the house on January 5. Though he was first taken to the Government Medical College Hospital, Paripally, and later to SUT, Thiruvananthapuram, his life could not be saved. “The baby was left there one entire night and his umbilical cord was seen at 10-metre distance. According to her confession, Reshma wanted to get rid of the baby as she was planning to leave her home with Anandu, her Facebook friend,” said Mr.Sathikuamr. Her family, including her husband, was unaware of her pregnancy. “We are cross-checking all statements and since the accused is COVID positive, there are some technical difficulties to conduct interrogation. We will get in touch with the cyber cell to find the identity of her Facebook friend,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-for-death-of-newborn-in-kerala/article34920316.ece
23 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||35-year-old found dead||The Punalur police on Tuesday registered a case after a woman was found dead at her house at Manjamankala. The deceased has been identified as Liji and the 35-year-old reportedly set herself afire. The incident took place when she was alone at home. “Liji and her husband are nurses. As per primary investigation, she ended her life following family issues. According to her parents’ statement, she was not facing domestic violence or dowry harassment. Post-mortem examination report is awaited,” said an official. (Suicide prevention helpline: 0471-2552056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/35-year-old-found-dead/article34920738.ece
23 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Less than 10,000 active cases in Kozhikode||The active COVID-19 caseload dropped below 10,000 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. Only 817 people tested positive for the virus and 992 people recovered from the infection, the district medical officer said in a release. The number of people under treatment now is 9,987. There were 806 cases of local transmission of the infection. Kozhikode Corporation reported 226 locally acquired infections. As many as 8,370 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate was 9.99%. Mega vaccination A mega COVID-19 vaccination camp of the Kozhikode Corporation will begin at Tagore Centenary Hall from 10 a.m.on Wednesday. Of the 300 doses available per day, 150 doses will be administered to those who have registered online for the second dose of the vaccine. On the first day, the remaining 150 doses will be administered to 20 people each from wards 6,7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 who have completed 84 days after their first doses, by spot registration through the ward level Junior Public Health Nurse (JPHN). On Thursday, the same number of doses will be administered to people from wards 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21. On Friday, the second doses will be administered to those from wards 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29. Besides, 50% of the total available doses will be provided through spot registration as second doses in all the vaccination centres under the corporation. Those who require the second doses may contact the ward JPHN or Asha worker and fix the date before reporting at the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/less-than-10000-active-cases-in-kozhikode/article34920609.ece
23 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Main campus of Udayam project launched||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday virtually opened the fourth and main campus of Udayam project of the Kozhikode district administration on the premises of the Institute of Dermatology at Chevayur here on Tuesday. The Chief Minister appreciated the efforts made by the district administration to provide a home to the street dwellers and wished that the Udayam project would be able to provide financial stability and independence to the people the district administration had picked up off the street at the beginning of the COVID outbreak in 2020. Udayam is a project that envisions complete rehabilitation of rough sleepers. Apart from the new campus, there are three other campuses at Mankavu, Vellimadukunnu, and East Hill. The fourth campus was funded by former MLA, VKC Mammad Koya, and Daya Rehabilitation Trust and is supported by Uralungal Labour Contractors’ Cooperative Society and Satkriya, an organisation under the Indian Institute of Architects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/main-campus-of-udayam-project-launched/article34920607.ece
23 June 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||Madin Academy offers help to tribal children||Madin Academy here on Tuesday came forward to help the three forlorn tribal families living at Suprikkat colony in Thottappally forest area on top of Kakkadampoyil hills. As a first step, the academy offered a TV set to address the online learning issue of the children at the hamlet. Madin Academy chairman Sayed Ibrahim Khaleel Bukhari handed over the TV set to a group of social workers here on Tuesday.  The Hindu on Tuesday had reported the plight of the tribal families, especially their children without any access to online schooling. Mr. Bukhari said Madin would provide food kits to the families every month. “We are also willing to build safer houses for them,” he said. When Madin Academy offered a TV set, a philanthropist in the Motor Vehicles Department offered funds for the antenna. “The KSEB has offered to provide connection as soon as we build a shed for the online study of the children,” said Greeshma Praveen, Chaliyar panchayat councillor. She said it would be ready in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/madin-academy-offers-help-to-tribal-children/article34920615.ece
23 June 2021||MALAPPURAM/PALAKKAD,KERALA||More youths may be part of gold smuggling gangs, say police||Many more youngsters were suspected to have been involved in the gold smuggling gangs whose activities got partly exposed with the accident that killed five persons at Ramanattukara, near Kozhikod, on Monday morning. Although eight persons from Cherpulassery were arrested, the police said they were yet to get good leads to reach the kingpins of the gangs. Two persons had escaped from the scene soon after the accident. Those in police custody were Saleem P., 29; Mubashir M., 27; Mohammed Fayas, 29; Suhail M., 24; Fasal C., 24; Mustafa V., 26; Shanid K.V., 32; and Hassan P.P., 35. “Most reports we read about the incident on social media and in local newspapers were either spiced or cooked up. Even the story about the exchange of gunfire between the Koduvally and Cherpulassery gangs was false. No such thing happened. What really happened was a planned dacoity that resulted in a chase, but no fight took place between them,” said Sujith Das S., District Superintendent of Police. Criminal history The police said two of the five dead had criminal history. There were cases against Nasar Vadakkethil, 28, and Thahir Shah, 21, in the Cherpulassery and Koppam police stations. Involved in attack The police officers said they had been involved in an attack on a house at Mappattukara. Mr. Das said that those in police custody had gone to provide cover for the gold smuggling gang. The gangs based in Koduvally and other parts of the State were likely to turn inactive for a few weeks from now, according to police officers. The police officers said that they would also look into possible links between gold smuggling and drug rackets in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-youths-may-be-involved/article34920611.ece
23 June 2021||MYSURU,KERALA||COVID halts bid to replace KRS sluice gates||The replacement of 136 sluice gates at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) across the river Cauvery has been affected by COVID-19 and the restrictions on the use of oxygen for industrial purposes when the second wave of the pandemic peaked during April and May. The replacement of all the gates was to be completed by June 2022, but work slowed down because of the pandemic and is now likely to be completed only by June 2023, according to Shankare Gowda, chief engineer, Irrigation (South), Mysuru. Fabrication of the sluice gates is being taken up near the dam. Though a letter was sent to the office of the Deputy Commissioner in Mysuru to ensure supply of oxygen for this purpose, it was not cleared because of the medical crisis, which peaked during April and May. KRS was one of the 22 dams approved under the Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project in Karnataka for taking up both structural and non-structural measures to extend its lifespan and enhance dam safety. The project, funded by the World Bank, entails an expenditure of Rs. 58.46 crore to replace 136 sluice gates and is being implemented by the Karnataka Water Resources Department. Of the 136 sluice gates, 25 spanning different levels along the reservoir have been replaced so far following third-party inspection and approval, which included World Bank consultants and the State project management unit. Another eight gates, which have received approval following inspection, are ready for installation. Work on this scale is being taken up for the first time since the completion of the dam in 1932. Impact of rains The bulk of the work at the dam takes place during the dry season. Now that inflow to the reservoir has increased with the onset of the southwest monsoon, the exercise will stop. But in case monsoon is weak this year and the water level goes below the 100 feet mark by December, the exercise can resume, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-halts-bid-to-replace-krs-sluice-gates/article34920306.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||24-hour police helpline to report gender crime||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday announced a round-the-clock police helpline (94979 96992) for women to report instances of dowry harassment, domestic violence and other gender crime. Mr. Vijayan said the outlawed and universally condemned practice of dowry had reared its head again in Kerala. Continuing demand for dowry had driven several newly married women to suicide. A few had also suffered torture at the hands of their husband or in-laws. He pointed out that domestic violence and dowry harassment ran against the grain of the Indian Constitution, which guaranteed equal right and protection for all genders. The dowry culture smacked of misogyny and a retrograde outlook that sought to relegate women to a subaltern position in society. Email ID The law of the land prohibited discrimination based on gender. The government would uphold the law. He said District Police Chiefs would directly intervene in complaints received at the helpline and also aparajitha.pol@kerala.gov.in. Pathanamthitta District Police Chief R. Nishanthini would be the nodal officer. The State Police Chief would monitor the follow-up action on the complaints received. Mr. Vijayan said demanding and receiving dowry was anathema to Kerala’s progressive culture. “Men should not think dowry is a right. Some women in Kerala had set an example for society by spurning suitors who demanded dowry,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said people should not treat marriages as an occasion to exhibit wealth. Marriage was a covenant between two consenting persons. “Men should not think that beating their wife was a sign of masculinity. Women equate suffering in silence with marital fidelity,” he said. School curriculum The government would include gender equality in school curriculum. It would insist on equal rights for women in all spheres of life and would not tolerate gender harassment at workplace. The Chief Minister said Kerala could not allow misplaced anti-feminist notions to take root in a progressive society. The State’s path was forward. It aspired to become a knowledge-based economy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/24-hour-helpline-to-report-dowry-harassment-cm/article34920321.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Need to fix waterlogging: Riyas||Tourism projects and road development in the capital district will be completed in a time-bound manner, Minister for Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. Addressing a press conference at the city Corporation here on Tuesday, the Minister said waterlogging remained a major problem in the city. To find a permanent solution to it, the support of Railways was needed. All government departments needed to work together to address the problem of waterlogging. 80% complete Nearly 80% of the work on 11 city roads had been completed, and the remaining would be finished in a week, Mr. Riyas said. These included the Attakulangara-Killipalam road, Edapazhnaji-Jagathy road, and SS Kovil Road-Manjalikulam road. Cleaning of drains such as Peroorkada-Mannamoola drain and DPI-Jagathy drain was under way. Trees were being cut wherever necessary with the permission of the Forest Department. Supervision of the Public Works Department works had been entrusted to officials concerned, including the Chief Engineer, and reports submitted to the Minister’s office. Strict action would be taken against officials guilty of lapses in implementation, he said. Tourism projects in the district too would be completed on time. There were 49 tourism projects for the city, of which 20 were ongoing. An important project that would change the face of the city was the Travancore Heritage Tourism project, tendering for which was under way. Some of the areas that needed to be prioritised were increasing the number of tourist destinations, even by offering different kids of experiences; making interventions after understanding the possibilities of domestic tourism in the wake of COVID-19; attracting foreign tourists, particularly those from China and Japan who constituted the maximum number of tourists worldwide; giving incentives to those in the sector who were hard hit by COVID-19; and promotion of Kerala Tourism Development Corporation. Throwing open PWD rest houses to the public was under consideration, he said. Shanghumughom A study for a permanent solution to the coastal erosion at Shanghumughom had been entrusted to the Indian Institute of Technology, the Minister said. Construction of the road at Shanghumughom would begin once the sea turned calm. The Minister visited the city Corporation control room after a meeting with Mayor Arya Rajendran and Corporation Secretary Binu Francis to discuss the emergency repairs to city roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/need-to-fix-waterlogging-riyas/article34920659.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. may relax curbs on places of worship||The State government will consider allowing places of religious worship to open by restricting entry to a maximum of 15 people at a time. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Tuesday that banks can function on Tuesdays and Thursdays also. However, the public cannot access the banks on these days. All government institutions and banks in category A and B areas will be allowed to operate with up to 50% employees and those in category C, with up to 25% staff. At present, there are 277 local bodies with an average test positivity rate of less than 8% in the last seven days (A category), 575 between 8% and 16% (B category), 171 in the 16-24% range (C category) and 11 with over 24% (D category). Mr. Vijayan said liquor shops in local bodies bordering Tamil Nadu will remain closed because of the lockdown in that State. Opening of the main tourist destinations in the State is also under consideration, restricting entry to only those who have completed two doses of vaccination. Mr. Vijayan said that according to experts, the declining case graph of the second wave can surge again and result in a third wave if social interactions increase post lockdown and disease transmission intensifies. Or else, the third wave can happen when the second wave has almost receded, with the arrival of a new mutated virus variant, which is highly transmissible with immune escape potential. While the timing, pace or the intensity of the third wave remains outside all predictions, the State’s attempt is to prevent a third wave or a surge in disease transmission in the next few weeks when a considerable number of patients are still being treated in hospitals. This is a collective responsibility of the State and all its citizens, he added. The clinical profile of those three patients in whom the delta plus variant was detected does not lend itself to a conclusion that this new variant may lead to a third wave in the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-may-relax-curbs-on-places-of-worship/article34920629.ece
23 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister: plan to lease out Devaswom land||Minister for Devaswoms, SC, ST, and Backward Classes Welfare K. Radhakrishnan has said the government is mulling a proposal to lease out unutilised land held by cash-strapped Devaswom boards to generate revenue. While Indian Overseas Bank has offered to take such land on lease and develop infrastructure, no decision has been taken yet on the proposal. Speaking to mediapersons at a meet-the-press here on Tuesday, Mr. Radhakrishnan said several assets held by the Devaswoms were lying neglected at a time when their revenue was drying up, with the boards relying on the government to meet their expenses. “A pragmatic approach, and not unnecessary controversies, was the need of the hour to help the Devaswoms stand on their own,” he said. The Minister also hinted at the possibility of a social audit of various schemes being undertaken for the welfare of Backward Classes, including the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Mr. Radhakrishnan said around 20,000 tribal school and college students in 60 areas lacked Internet and electricity connectivity, which hindered digital learning. While their education was being provided priority, the government had adopted steps to distribute IT devices to 36,000-odd Scheduled Caste students who lacked them. Referring to the Tamil Nadu government’s move to appoint women priests in temples, he said Kerala could not replicate every decision of other States in religious matters owing to “varying tolerance levels”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-plan-to-lease-out-devaswom-land/article34920634.ece
23 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA launches six IT-based initiatives||Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine on Monday formally launched six IT-based initiatives of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) that are designed to streamline services dealing with grievance redressal, water supply interruption, and file movement. The initiatives are aimed at ensuring speedy service to consumers and enabling them to access KWA services from home during the COVID-19 pandemic. Aqua Loom, a software developed by the KWA IT wing with the collaboration of the students of TKM Engineering College, Kollam, enables consumers to register their complaints online. The e-filing system is aimed at transforming KWA offices into paperless offices and networking them for brisk file movement. The SMS alert service enables the KWA to promptly pass on the billing information to consumers via SMS to mobile numbers notified along with the consumer number. Once the consumer pays the bill, the receipt information also is sent to the mobile numbers. As part of the IT initiatives, the KWA has launched a Service Interruption Information System for passing on information to the consumers regarding interruptions in water supply via SMS. The State-run water utility has introduced a Contractors’ Licence Management System for online registration, renewal, upgradation and fee payment for KWA contractors..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-launches-six-it-based-initiatives/article34920665.ece
23 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala to oppose move to bring natural gas under GST||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said that the State will oppose the Centre’s move to bring natural gas and molasses used for captive consumption under the Goods and Service Tax (GST) regime. “The issue had figured in the GST Council. Already, many States have come out against the move and it will be opposed as the proposal is detrimental to the States,” Mr. Balagopal said during a meet-the-press programme here on Tuesday. The Finance Minister said the State would also press for an extension of the GST shortfall compensation for another five years in view of the economic crisis driven by the pandemic, and the dip in revenue and rise in expenses. The States were looking for more financial assistance from the Centre to tide over the crisis. But, the Centre was trying to bring all taxes under it in the GST regime. To a query, Mr. Balagopal said he could not support the move to bring petrol and high-speed diesel under GST. Many States had a higher tax for petrol and diesel than in Kerala. Under the GST regime, the State could fix taxes for petroleum products and alcohol alone. The Finance Minister denied any move to raise the retirement age of State government employees and teachers. “It is one way to stabilise the financial position of the State that is facing acute crisis. We have no plan to increase the retirement age.” The government is looking into the report of the committee on statutory pension. The government is for collecting the tax arrears and taking stern steps against those evading tax. “Many are willingly giving money for charity, but are reluctant to pay taxes to the government,” he said. The government would seek the cooperation of traders and the business community in improving tax collection, he said.  Kerala cannot support move to bring petrol and high-speed diesel under GST. K.N. Balagopal Finance Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-to-oppose-move-to-bring-natural-gas-under-gst/article34920624.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,617 fresh cases, 11,730 recoveries||The State reported 12,617 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,17,720 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate, which went below 10% on Monday, was 10.72% on Tuesday.. The active case pool, which went below the one lakh mark on Monday, went above one lakh on Tuesday with a total of 1,00,437 patients. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 11,730. The cumulative fatality now stands at 12,295 with the State adding 141 deaths, which occurred in the past two or three days, to the official toll list on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the number of new COVID patients with moderate or serious disease who were admitted to hospitals was 1,971. ICU admission The number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals now stands at 26,495. ICU admission of critically ill COVID patients, in both public and private hospitals, was 2,491 on Tuesday, with those requiring ventilator support numbering 1,030. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 28,29,460 cases. Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,603, followed by Kollam 1,525, Ernakulam 1,491, Thiruvananthapuram 1,345, Thrissur 1,298, Palakkad 1,204, Kozhikode 817, Alappuzha 740, Kottayam 609, Kannur 580, Pathanamthitta 441, Kasaragod 430, Idukki 268 and Wayanad 266 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12617-fresh-cases-11730-recoveries/article34920627.ece
23 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,345 new cases in capital, 1,212 recoveries||The district recorded 1,345 fresh cases and 1,212 recoveries as the number of active cases increased to 11,814 on Tuesday. The test positivity rate stood at 9.13% when 14,721 people were subjected to tests. While most of the cases have been attributed to contact transmission of the infection, the source of infection was unknown in 90 cases. Four health workers were among those who tested positive. The death toll rose to 2,593 in the capital when 31 more recent deaths, reported between June 17 and 21, were attributed to the disease. There are currently 44,153 people who are undergoing quarantine in the district. These include 2,379 people who entered quarantine during the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1345-new-cases-in-capital-1212-recoveries/article34920660.ece
23 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NOC only for NBA-accredited colleges||The A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has decided to provide no-objection certificates (NOC) for new courses only to those engineering colleges having National Board of Accreditation (NBA) accreditation. The Syndicate approved recommendations that were submitted by its affiliation standing committee in this regard.In the case of colleges that were yet to receive NBA accreditation, they will have to fulfil three additional criteria. These include a minimum of 50% average pass percentage over three years, student intake in more than half of the total number of seats, and a high ranking in the academic audit conducted by the KTU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/noc-only-for-nba-accredited-colleges/article34920661.ece
23 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Another case of dowry death near Vizhinjam?||A 24-year-old was found dead with burns in a house near Vizhinjam on Monday midnight. Despite taking the woman’s husband into custody, the police viewed the incident as a suicide case. The deceased was identified as Archana of Venganoor. She died in the couple’s rented house in Venniyoor nearby after allegedly setting herself ablaze around 11 p.m. Her husband Suresh, who attempted to flee, was detained. The couple was married a year ago. Archana’s parents, who alleged foul play, claimed she used to be harassed by her husband’s family for dowry. Her father, Asokan, also told mediapersons that Suresh had recently bought a bottle of diesel that could have been used to set her on fire. However, despite maintaining that Archana was doused in diesel, the police dismissed the possibility of Suresh having any role in the incident. Details verified The incident took place after Archana was miffed over Suresh going for work late on the particular day against her wish. The police also claimed to have verified the details provided by Suresh regarding his whereabouts on the day.  (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-case-of-dowry-death-near-vizhinjam/article34920740.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lockdown restrictions slightly eased||The State has decided to allow certain relaxations on the lockdown based on the average weekly test positivity rate (TPR) in local bodies. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Tuesday that while the disease transmission had declined, the pace at which the epidemic curve was going down was not as expected. TPR static In comparison to the previous week, the TPR remained unchanged in 605 local bodies. While it improved in 319 local bodies, the situation worsened in 91 local bodies. Till the TPR goes below 5%, strict vigil will have to be maintained and total compliance to all COVID protocols will have to be ensured. People should fully cooperate with this to prevent further lockdowns, he said. At present, there are 277 local bodies with an average TPR of less than 8% in the last seven days (A category), 575 between 8% and 16% (B category), 171 in the 16-24% range (C category) and 11 with over 24% (D category). From June 24, for the next one week, restrictions will be allowed in the A and B category local bodies, while total lockdown will continue on weekends across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-restrictions-slightly-eased/article34920630.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM declines to respond to Sudhakaran||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said he would not any more respond to Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran’s utterances. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Sudhakaran had disowned a newspaper’s claim that he had trounced Mr. Vijayan in a brawl in Brennan College in 1967. Mr. Sudhakaran had said the journalist had fabricated the episode. “Why should I react to a claim Mr. Sudhakaran says he never made,” Mr. Vijayan asked. When pressed repeatedly by journalists, Mr. Vijayan refused to rise to the bait. “I am not above criticism or new to it. But my reaction as CPI(M) State secretary and now as Chief Minister cannot be the same,” he said. When pressed why Mr. Vijayan had not complained to the police when he learned that Mr. Sudhakaran had plotted to kidnap his children in the 1990s, Mr. Vijayan said: “That is the difference.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-declines-to-respond-to-sudhakaran/article34920631.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC results: special counselling for students||The Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell, under the higher secondary wing of the General Education Department, will conduct special counselling sessions for students when the SSLC results are announced, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a five-day career guidance programme for students who have appeared for the SSLC examinations. They will be familiarised with education opportunities according to their aptitude and employment opportunities. These include vocational higher secondary, technical higher secondary, and polytechnics. Career guidance support for higher secondary students and activities to ensure their mental health is under way. School Souhruda clubs and their coordinators are heading these activities. An 118-day career guidance webinar called ‘After Plus Two’ was held recently for students who had appeared for the Plus Two examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-results-special-counselling-for-students/article34920633.ece
23 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Crime Branch to probe Vazhakode quarry blast||The Crime Branch will investigate the blast occurred at an abandoned quarry at Vazhakode near Wadakkanchery on Monday night. A special team has been formed for the investigation. Assistant Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, P. Sasikumar will lead the five-member team. “Confusion prevails on how explosive materials reached the defunct quarry. A huge pit was formed at the site of the explosion. All such details will be investigated,” Deputy Inspector General of Police A. Akabar, who visited the site on Tuesday, said. District Police Chief (Thrissur city) R. Adithya also visited the quarry. Bomb squad and forensic experts examined the site. The District Collector has sought a report from the police. Meanwhile, the condition of one of the five injured remains critical. The critically injured is Alikunju of Vazhakode. The explosion, which killed one person and injured five, took place at a defunct quarry at Vazhakode near Wadakkanchery at 8 p.m. on Monday. The deceased was Abdul Noushad, brother of the quarry owner. The quarry is owned by former panchayat president Abdul Salam. Though the quarry was closed following the order of the Subcollector a few years ago, it started functioning later. However, the quarry has not been functioning for the past one-and-a-half years. It is still not clear how the blast occurred in a defunct quarry. Reverberations of the blast were felt even kilometres around the area. Many houses near the quarry suffered minor damage in the blast. People in the area, who thought it was a tremor, ran out of their houses. According to the quarry owner, unused detonators for granite explosions had been buried in the quarry. They must have gone off accidently. Fish farming had been done in the pond in the abandoned quarry. According to the Wadakkanchery police, the blast occurred in an open area inside the quarry. There was a small pond-like area near the site of the blast. A fishing net was recovered from the blast site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-branch-to-probe-vazhakode-quarry-blast/article34920616.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Push to start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/push-to-start/article34920663.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cart-ing protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cart-ing-protest/article34920636.ece
23 June 2021||AGIRIPALLI (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Three children drown in tank||Three children allegedly downed in a local tank in Eedara village in the district. The bodies were fished out on Tuesday. K. Sashank (11), his sister Chandrika (9) and neighbour K. Jagadish (8) left their homes to play on Monday morning. They did not return home till evening. Following a complaint lodged by the siblings’ mother, the Agiripalli police registered a case and tried to trace them. Police formed five teams to trace the children. Their bodies were seen floating in the tank on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-children-drown-in-tank/article34920352.ece
23 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed after truck hits stationary van||The driver of a goods van was killed on the spot when a truck rammed his stationary vehicle on National Highway No.44 at Loluru in the district in the early hours of Tuesday. The driver, identified as Mehboob Pasha(33), was on his way to Chikballapur in Karnataka when he accident occurred. According to the Singanamala police, the van was flung into the nearby field due to the impact. The police informed his family members in Chikaballapur, who came to collect his body from the Government General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-killed-after-truck-hits-stationary-van/article34920769.ece
23 June 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 23.23 crore collected as penalty from lockdown violators||The police have so far collected Rs. 23.23 core as penalty from lockdown violators in the last 15 months in Anantapur and Kurnool districts. While over Rs. 20.05 crore was collected in Kurnool, Anantapur accounted for over Rs. 3.18 crore. While the police department in Kurnool district has been ensuring strict compliance to the lockdown norms, its proximity to Telangana and Karnataka made their job difficult. Superintendent of Police K. Fakeerappa said 10,879 cases were booked against 21,975 persons for various violations under the Disaster Management Act in 2020 and 2021, and Rs. 13,76,65,752 was collected a penalty from violators. In Kurnool district, 2,29,436 people were fined for not wearing mask in public places, 1,52,883 of them were during the second wave in 2021. In Anantapur 2,58,344 persons were penalised, including 1,60,891 during the second wave. An amount of Rs. 69,08,581 was collected as a penalty from motorists who violated lockdown norms, and 7,867 vehicles were seized during the 15-month period. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu said that 22,688 cases were booked under 188 of IPC & the DM Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-2323-cr-collected-as-penalty-from-lockdown-violators/article34920771.ece
23 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||My dream is to make women entrepreneurs, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday released the second tranche of YSR Cheyutha benefit crediting Rs. 4,339.39 crore into the accounts of 23.14 lakh women beneficiaries. Under the scheme, a financial assistance of Rs. 18,750 would be provided every year to women belonging to SC, ST, BC and minorities in the age group of 45-60 to support their families financially. So far, the State government has spent Rs. 8,943 crore on this scheme in the last two years. “This is yet another scheme close to my heart and it fulfils my dream of seeing women as entrepreneurs. Our government had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with multinational companies such as Amul, Allana, ITC, HUL, P&G and Reliance, and several banks to support women entrepreneurs to establish grocery stores, dairy farms and other businesses. Through this scheme, around 78,000 women have started grocery stores, where goods will be supplied below the market rate to help them earn an additional profit of around Rs. 10,000. Similarly, 1.19 lakh women have opted for dairy sector and are getting an additional income of Rs. 5-15 on each litre of milk supplied to Amul. Also, around 70,000 women have shown interest in rearing sheep and goat units to increase their family income,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. In the first year, the State government had provided Rs. 1,510 crore for the beneficiaries of YSR Cheyutha through banks. Call centre He said if any eligible beneficiary was left out, she could apply at the village secretariat concerned and the applications would be verified immediately and the benefits would be provided. The government had set up YSR Cheyutha Call Centre 0866-2468899, 9392917899 to connect the beneficiaries with corporate companies and banks. A command control centre was also set up to monitor the call centre and provide training and assistance to the beneficiaries. About six lakh widows, single and specially-abled women in the said age group, who were already receiving monthly social pensions, were also entitled for the scheme. The beneficiary could use the amount as per her wish without any restrictions. Priority to women’s welfare Reiterating that the government gave priority to women’s welfare, the Chief Minister stated that the government had made laws to provide 50% reservation to women in all nominated posts and nominated works, which had never happened before in any State. “We have two senior women leaders in the State Cabinet, the Deputy Chief Minister and the Home Minister, and we have even brought the Disha Bill which is yet to be approved by the Centre. Special Disha police stations have been set up in each district to crack down on crime against women and Public Prosecutors have also been appointed to oversee Disha cases in each district. We had brought Disha and Abhay apps for immediate help for women in distress. Besides, 900 mobile patrolling teams were also set up, especially in those sensitive areas where crime is likely to occur. A woman police officer has been appointed in the village and ward secretariats,’’ said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/my-dream-is-to-make-women-entrepreneurs-says-jagan/article34920312.ece
23 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure protection of women’||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that he was enraged by the incident where a woman was allegedly molested on the Krishna river bank at Seetanagaram in Tadepalli in front of her fiancé. “The unfortunate incident that took place overnight at Prakasam Barrage has enraged me and such incidents should not have happened. The government and the police department should do everything they can to prevent such incidents from repeating. I strongly believe that true freedom is achieved only when women can walk freely in the middle of the night without fear. As your protector, I will work hard to prevent such incidents from happening in the future,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Jagan had directed the DGP to form special teams to nab the accused and promised that stringent action would be taken against them. Minister for Home and Disaster Management, Mekathoti Sucharita, handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh to the mother of the victim. The Minister, along with Collector Vivek Yadav and other officials, met the family of the victim at the Government General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-protection-of-women/article34920781.ece
23 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aadhaar enrolment drive for physically challenged||Collector Vivek Yadav has said that a special drive on enrolment of Aadhaar for physically challenged persons would be launched to help them avail all the benefits eligible under the government welfare schemes.   The ward/village volunteer will identify physically challenged persons who do not have Aadhaar cards, collate the names and submit the list to the Welfare Education Assistant (in rural areas) and Ward Welfare Secretary (in urban areas). The Welfare Education Assistant/Ward Welfare Secretary would have to collect the data from the volunteer and submit to the Municipal Commissioner/MPDOs for consolidation.  They will visit the homes of persons with 100% disability, bedridden persons and mentally challenged persons with Aadhaar enrolment kits. Regional Director, Municipal Administration and CEO, ZP would consolidate municipality-wise and ward secretariat-wise data and send them to AO, Mee-Seva, Guntur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aadhaar-enrolment-drive-for-physically-challenged/article34920357.ece
23 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revive Yadavalli society, Collector tells officials||Ending the stalemate over the lands belonging to the Yadavalli Weaker Section Land Colonisation Society, District Collector Vivek Yadav ordered that the revival of the society at Yadavalli in Chilakaluripet constituency should be taken up immediately. Mr. Yadav, along with Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar and other Revenue officials, inspected the lands at Yadavalli and later convened a meeting at his office. Based on the directions of the National SC and ST Commission, the Collector said that the society should be revived. A grama sabha should be convened on June 23, followed by publication of the draft list of members, and after allowing two days to receive objections, the final list would be published on June 29. A team of officers led by Mr. Dinesh Kumar, PD, DRDA, District Cooperative Officer, DD, Social Welfare, ED, SC Corporation, and District Tribal Welfare Officer would oversee the process. The society was established in the year 1975 during the tenure of Kathi Chandraiah, who was then Collector, with an intention of providing livelihood to land less Dalit and Tribal farmers. An area of 416.53 acres which was distributed among 120 Dalit and Tribal farmers. The farmers were not given individual pattas but have been formed into a society. Later, the government provided the farmers with a bull so that they could be used in farming. In 2008, former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy sanctioned a Lift Irrigation scheme worth Rs. 2.50 crore and two-thirds of land was cultivated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revive-yadavalli-society-collector-tells-officials/article34920358.ece
23 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release arrears, Buggana urges Nirmala||Minister for Finance Buggana Rajendranath Reddy called on Union Minister for Finance Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi and urged the latter to release pending arrears. The Minister said the State finances had been hit by lockdowns over the last one year. The State government was also spending heavily in treatment of patients infected with COVID-19 and now Mucormycosis. Chief Secretary Adityanath Das and secretary Finance S S Rawat were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-arrears-buggana-urges-nirmala/article34920779.ece
23 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||RVR and JC College gets NAAC A+ grade||RVR and JC College of Engineering, Chowdavaram, has been given A+ grade by the National Assessment and Accreditation Committee (NAAC). The grading has been given on the basis of an NAAC report on infrastructure, teaching faculty, and other facilities. An NAAC peer committee had visited the college during February 17-18, 2021 and interacted with the teachers and the students. RVR and JC College secretary Rayapati Gopalakrishna said that the college had received the NAAC A + certificate from NAAC, Bengaluru on Tuesday.  College treasurer Kondabolu Krishna Prasad congratulated the staff and the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rvr-and-jc-college-gets-naac-a-grade/article34920359.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana urges KRMB again to stop ‘brisk work’ on RLIP||Telangana government has requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to rein in Andhra Pradesh and stop the brisk pace of work going on pertaining to Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) taken up by the latter in violation of AP Reorganisation Act, River Water Disputes Act and National Green Tribunal order. In a letter addressed to Chairman of KRMB J. Chandrashekhar Iyer, Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation) of Telangana Rajat Kumar drew the river board’s attention to seven letters written to it by Telangana since January last year in the same matter and also referred to NGT order banning work on the project. By taking up RLIP and expanding the water drawal capacity of the existing Pothireddypadu Head Regulator facility, A.P. is planning to draw 80,000 cusecs water from the foreshores of Srisailam reservoir and carrying out works at a brisk pace in violation of standing NGT orders besides the provisions of APRA and also the riparian rights of Telangana, Mr. Rajat Kumar said in the letter. He reminded the KRMB Chairman about the direction given by NGT “to take appropriate decision in the matter at the earliest”, while passing the order in a petition filed by a resident of Narayanpet district on October 29 last year. He stated that NGT had also directed A.P. not to proceed with the work on the project and told the board would be at liberty to take appropriate action against A.P. on the basis of investigation conducted by it independently. However, no action has been initiated against A.P. in spite of the fact that it was going ahead with the project with brisk pace of works. The Special Chief Secretary of Telangana has also attached a few documents and recent photographs on the progress of RLIP works. Mr. Rajat Kumar also pointed out that KRMB had also failed to ensure that the NGT orders were followed by A.P. as that State was going ahead with the project work at a brisk pace in utter violation of the green tribunal orders. He stated that the photographs attached to the letter would make it clear that the measure of work going on at the site could not be simply taken as preliminary work required for preparation of the detailed project report, as claimed by A.P. some time back. Telangana has also faulted the KRMB inaction of not sending a fact finding committee as directed by NGT so far and requested it again to protect the legitimate rights and claims of Telangana people on Krishna waters by stopping the illegal activity of the A.P. Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-urges-krmb-again-to-stop-brisk-work-on-rlip/article34920585.ece
23 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana to reopen schools in phases||Kerala decided to allow certain relaxations in the current lockdown based on the average weekly test positivity rate (TPR) in local bodies. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Tuesday that while disease transmission had declined, the pace of the epidemic curve’s drop was not as fast as expected. A mixed picture Compared to the previous week, the TPR remained unchanged in 605 local bodies. It improved in 319 local bodies but worsened in 91 others. Strict vigil should be maintained until the TPR was below 5%. People should cooperate to prevent further lockdowns, he added. There were 277 local bodies in Kerala with an average TPR of less than 8% in the last seven days (A category), 575 between 8 and 16% TPR (B category), 171 in the 16 to 24% TPR range (C category) and 11 with over 24% TPR (D category). Kerala reported 12,617 new cases on Tuesday and the TPR was 10.72%. Cumulative fatalities stood at 12,295 as 141 more recent deaths were added to the official list. Fatalities in single digit Andhra Pradesh reported 53 deaths and 4,169 new infections on Tuesday. The daily TPR was 5.60% and the overall positivity rate of 2.12 crore samples tested remain at 8.73%. The cumulative tally increased to 18,57,352 and the toll reached 12,416. All the districts reported new deaths in single digit and Chittoor reported the highest toll at 7. East Godavari had 743 new infections and West Godavari 695. TPR falls Karnataka on Tuesday reported 3,709 new cases. Of these, 803 were from Bengaluru Urban. The State witnessed 139 deaths.The State now has 1,18,592 active patients. The TPR for the day touched 2.87%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 3.74%. As many as 1,29,099 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 86,405 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,30,18,369. Fewer new cases Tamil Nadu reported 6,895 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Of the 37 districts, 16 logged fewer than 100 cases each. Fresh coronavirus infections have been declining gradually in the State. Tuesday’s daily count took the State’s overall case tally to 24,36,819. Another 194 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 31,580. Western districts, though registering a steady decline in fresh cases, continued to account for the considerable number of cases in the State. Vaccination A total of 2,49,701 persons, including 1,49,271 persons in the 18-44 age group and 71,004 persons aged 45 to 59 years - were vaccinated across the State on Tuesday. This took the overall coverage till date to 1,26,49,762. The vaccination was held in 2,018 sessions.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-to-reopen-schools-in-phases/article34920325.ece
23 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GGH-Kakinada gears up for third COVID-19 wave||East Godavari Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Keerthi on Tuesday directed the Government General Hospital (GGH-Kakinada) authorities to prepare for the third wave of COVID-19 by arranging 200 beds in the paediatric ward. In a meeting with doctors and health officials here, Ms. Keerthi asked them to buy necessary equipment such as X-Ray machines, ultrasound scanners, ECG devices and ventilators to be used in the children’s ward. GGH-Kakinada is a major destination for paediatric services in the region, covering East Godavari, West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ggh-kakinada-gears-up-for-third-covid-19-wave/article34920795.ece
23 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Citizens’ Welfare Association opposes new tax system||The Kakinada Citizens’ Welfare Association (KCWA) on Tuesday launched a two-day campaign against the proposed property tax and draft on the new taxation system in the urban bodies, appealing to the public to raise their voice against the move by the State government. Former Kakinada municipal chairman Jyothula Seetarama Murthy flagged off the vehicle campaign here, asking urban dwellers to submit their opinion on the new tax system to the Municipal Commissioner before July 8. KCWA Convener Doosarlapudi Ramanana Raju has said that a round-table conference would be conducted in the first week of July to intensify the protest against the new tax system. The civic society representatives opposed the State government's move to hike the existing tax on property, water, and library cess.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citizens-welfare-association-opposes-new-tax-system/article34920796.ece
23 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC stays plan to shut down dairy farms in Lakshadweep||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed the Lakshadweep administration’s decision to close down dairy farms run by its Animal Husbandry Department and remove meat from the menu of the midday meal scheme of schools on the islands. The Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar passed the stay order on a writ petition filed by Ajmal Ahmed of Kavarathi island challenging the Animal Husbandry Department’s order and the decision of the district task force to drop non-vegetarian items from the menu of the midday meal scheme of schools. The petitioner contended that the decision to close down the dairy farms was taken as part of the administration’s efforts to implement the proposed Animal Preservation (Regulation), 2021 which bans slaughter of cow, calves, bulls and so on and also the sale and purchase of beef and beef products. Well-maintained system The closure of dairy farms would curtail the source of milk products and compel islanders to purchase the same imported from Gujarat. The Administrator was adopting measures to destroy the well-maintained dairy farms and other infrastructure established on the islands for promoting them. Since 1950s The petitioner pointed out that the Lakshadweep administration started to provide midday meal in 1950s, which included cooked meat for schoolchildren from the pre-primary to elementary stage. The programme was later extended up to class 12. The decision of the district task force to alter the menu for the midday meal was part of the Administrator’s ill-motivated intention to implement his hidden agenda. In fact, the new menu was implemented without deliberations and consultations. There was also a proposal to entrust the preparation of food for the midday meal to a non-governmental organisation, Akshayapatra, based in Bengaluru. No complaints so far The midday meal was now being prepared in the kitchen attached to each school and was functioning in all schools without any complaint. These decisions were nothing but interference with the right to choose the food habit of the island people guaranteed by the Constitution. The petitioner termed the decisions of the Administrator illegal and unsustainable in law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-stays-plan-to-shut-down-dairy-farms-in-lakshadweep/article34920313.ece
23 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 more persons die in South Coastal A.P.||After reporting four deaths on Monday, South Coastal Andhra Pradesh’s toll rose to 1,794 in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday as 10 more persons succumbed to the virus. Casualties were reported in double-digit once again as 10 patients-- six in Prakasam district and four in SPSR Nellore district--died of COVID. Prakasam district accounted for 901 deaths and SPSR Nellore district for 893 since the beginning of the pandemic, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, as many as 593 persons, including 357 in Prakasam district, tested positive for the disease during the period taking the cumulative tally to over 2.44 lakh in the region, including more than 1.25 lakh in SPSR Nellore district. 688 recoveries The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by 95 during the period in the region as 688 patients, including 430 in Prakasam district, were declared recovered. Active cases With this, the active cases came down to a little more than 9,000 in the region, with Nellore accounting for 3,712 cases and Prakasam for 5,290. Recovery rate continued to improve in the two districts, registering 95.57% as over 2.33 lakh patients, including more than 1.12 lakh in Prakasam district, have recuperated so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-more-die-in-south-coastal-ap/article34920772.ece
23 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja smuggling racket busted, five persons arrested||The Prakasam police busted a marijuna (ganja) smuggling racket with the arrest of five persons near Tangutur late on Monday. A special investigation team constituted by Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal nabbed five members of an elusive marijuana smuggling gang during vehicle check at the Tangutur toll plaza and seized 400 kg of the contraband valued at Rs. 0 lakh. Probe conducted by the SIT members led by Singarayakonda Circle Inspector V. Srinivasulu revealed that the accused, who allegedly sourced the contraband from Visakhapatnam district, were reportedly transporting it first to Tirupati and from there to Chennai and Puducherry for further transportation to foreign countries, Ongole Deputy Superintendent of Police K.V.V.N.V. Prasad said. Vehicles seized Two vehicles used to transport the contraband were also seized. The arrested Balli Jojisai Kumar (20), Makireddy Appalanayudu (30), Magapu Gangadhar (21), all from Visakhapatnam district, and Sheikh Mainuddin(40) and Uppalapati Anji of West Godavari District, were sent for remand on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-smuggling-racket-busted-5-held/article34920773.ece
23 June 2021||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five held for ‘exploiting’ tribal girls in W. Godavari||The police arrested five persons over allegations of exploitation of tribal girls at K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) in West Godavari district. The Buttaigudem police registered cases under Sections 370 (Exploitation), 420 IPC, SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Trafficking against Korla Ramana Reddy, Naresh, Ramana, Saradhi and Varma, who were arrested on Tuesday. A hunt was on to nab ITDA Project Officer (PO) R.V. Suryanarayana, who was the main accused in the case, said Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik.  Complaint against PO  The former ITDA PO, who was transferred and surrendered to the government following sexual harassment charges, and his accomplices reportedly lured Koya and Kondareddy tribal girls on the pretext of providing them jobs, the police said. Based on the allegations made by a tribal girl, who completed TTC course, that the PO had promised to provide her a job and sexually harassed her, Collector Kartikeya Misra relieved Mr. Suryanarayana from duties a few days ago. Mr. Misra directed Eluru Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) P. Rachana and the District Level Committee on Sexual Harassment to probe into the allegations and submit a report. On the other hand, the SP constituted a team headed by Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K. Latha Kumari to investigate the charges. “During investigation, police observed that the ITDA PO had conducted the illegal activities in his private guest house located at Jangareddygudem and he was assisted by the other accused,” an investigation officer said.  Modus operandi  Mr. Narayan Naik told The Hindu that the modus operandi of the accused was to trap tribal girls by promising them jobs and sending them to the PO’s guest house. “Exploitation of tribal girls was happening for the last one year. Based on the complaint lodged by a victim, the police registered a case and took up investigation. We are trying to find out how many girls were trapped and how many were involved in the activities of the gang,” the SP said. “Ms. Rachana is likely to submit her inquiry report on the sexual harassment on Wednesday. The District Level Committee on Sexual Harassment too will submit its report shortly. Action will be taken against the accused as per law, irrespective of the cadre, and justice will be done to the victims,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-held-for-exploiting-tribal-girls-in-w-godavari/article34920351.ece
23 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Papikonda National Park getting ready for tiger census||The Rajamahendravaram Wildlife Division is preparing the ground for the All India Tiger Estimation-2022. It will install more than 200 camera traps in Papikonda National Park (PNP) spread over 1,013 square kilometres in East and West Godavari districts. Nearly 300 Forest Department personnel from the two districts will be deployed in the exercise that aims at identifying the potential sites across the national park and the adjacent forest. The preliminary exercise involves finalising the places to install the camera traps to record the presence of tigers. Three tigers were recorded in PNP, declared as a national park in 2008, as claimed by the Forest Department in 2016. The park was covered in the Tiger Census-2018 but the number of big cats present there was not mentioned. “The training of the forest staff to be deployed, including the Divisional Forest Officers and Rangers, commenced on Tuesday. The field exercise will begin in October by installing more than 200 camera traps in PNP and the adjoining forest covers,” said Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife-Rajamahendravaram) C. Celvam. The Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society is training the forest staff. “The inputs from the local communities in and around PNP will be taken during the field study to identify the potential sites where the census will be carried out,” Chief Conservator of Forests (Rajamahendravaram) N. Nageswara Rao told The Hindu . The forest staff from the divisions of Kakinada, Eluru, and Chintoor were present in the workshop held here on the All India Tiger Estimate-2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/papikonda-national-park-getting-ready-for-tiger-census/article34920314.ece
23 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||United Breweries staff begin relay hunger strike||CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao on Tuesday urged the State government to ensure justice to employees and workers of United Breweries, which had reportedly reduced production due to the lack of orders from the Excise Department of the State government. Mr. Govinda Rao formally launched the relay hunger strike at the United Breweries office located near Ranasthalam in Srikakulam district. He said that employees were able to get work only for ten days a month with the introduction of lay-offs. “The employees and workers hardly get Rs. 4,000 each per month. It is not at all sufficient to lead a basic life. In this backdrop, the government should come to the rescue of the staff and find out a solution,” said Mr. Govinda Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/united-breweries-staff-begin-relay-hunger-strike/article34920798.ece
23 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu has no moral right to talk about farmers’ issues, says Killi||Former Union Minister and YSR Congress Party leader Killi Kruparani on Tuesday said that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had no moral right to talk about farmers’ issues since the State government was taking all steps to boost their morale by implementing various welfare schemes, including Rythu Bharosa. Addressing the media here, she said that the State government released Rs. 390 crore dues to the farmers. Ms. Kruparani said that people of the State would not believe Mr. Naidu as he had ‘betrayed’ all sections of the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-has-no-moral-right-to-talk-about-farmers-issues-says-killi/article34920800.ece
23 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government schemes blessing for needy during pandemic: Speaker||Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam on Tuesday said that the welfare schemes launched by the State government had come as a blessing to the poor who had been facing untold miseries because of coronavirus pandemic. He asked the philanthropists to join hands with the government and help the downtrodden sections of the society at this crucial juncture. Mr. Thammineni Seetharam felicitated Sura Srinivasa Rao who have provided food to nearly 22,000 people, apart from distributing 5,000 kits comprising essential goods to court clerks, private school teachers, priests and others in the last 45 days. Mr. Seetharam said that such service activities would inspire others and make them to extend their helping hand to the needy people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-schemes-blessing-for-needy-during-pandemic-speaker/article34920802.ece
23 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cricketer alleges police harrasment||Veteran cricketer Budumuru Nagaraju who represented teams of Andhra Pradesh, Air India and others alleged that police personnel had registered false cases and harassed him without giving a chance to take the legal aid. Addressing the media , Mr. Nagaraju alleged that influential people had filed many false cases previously. “On the pretext of investigating the cases , the Tekkali police took me to the police station and beaten me up. I request the State government to conduct an inquiry and take action against the personnel who had misused their power,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cricketer-alleges-police-harrasment/article34920783.ece
23 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jyestabhishekam begins at Tirumala||The annual event of Jyestabhishekam, also popularly known as ‘Abhidheyaka Abhishekam’, took off to a ceremonial start at the temple of Lord Venkateswara on Tuesday. As part of the festivities, special rituals like ‘Sata Kalasa Pratista Avahanam’, ‘Nava Kalasa Pratista Avahanam’ and ‘Maha Shanti Homam’ were carried out at the temple followed by ‘Snapana Thirumanjanam’ to Lord Malayappa and his two consorts. Later in the evening, the golden armours (that protect the idols from wear and tear) were ceremoniously removed and in their place the deities were adorned with a diamond armour marking the conclusion of celebrations on the first day of the three-day event. The religious proceedings were carried out in the presence of pontiffs of the temple. Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy and Deputy Executive Officer Harindranath were among others who took part in the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jyestabhishekam-begins-at-tirumala/article34920774.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on retaining wall in Krishnalanka gathers pace||The works for the construction of a flood protection wall between the Krishnalanka area and the Krishna river are under way. As part of it, some encroachments were being removed to provide a clear site for the retaining wall construction. VMC officials allocated houses through a draw to 168 families relocated from the area on Tuesday. The encroachments were identified and residents were compensated and rehabilitated, according to government officials. Over 524 houses and other structures were removed to pave the way for the construction of the wall. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy laid the foundation stone for the construction of the 1.5 km- long retaining wall on March 31. The project taken up by the Water Resources Department will protect over 3,000 households and 31,000 people living in the low-lying areas of Ranigari Thota, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar, Taraka Rama Nagar and other localities of Krishnalanka prone to flooding. The project cost was estimated at Rs. 122.90 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-on-retaining-wall-in-krishnalanka-gathers-pace/article34920356.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 53 COVID deaths||The State reported 53 deaths due to COVID-19 and 4,169 new infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The daily tally increased as the number of samples tested also increased compared to the previous day. The daily positivity rate of the 74,454 samples tested was 5.60% . The cumulative tally increased to 18,57,352 and the toll reached 12,416. The death rate remains at 0.67%, while the recovery rate increased to 96.43% with 17,91,056 recoveries so far. In the past day, 8,376 patients have recovered leaving 53,880 cases active. All the districts reported deaths in single digit while Chittoor reported the highest (7). It was followed East Godavari and Prakasam (six each), Krishna and Srikakulam (five each), Anantapur, Kadapa and Nellore (four each). Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported three deaths while Guntur, Kurnool and Vizianagaram reported two each. East Godavari reported 743 new cases followed by West Godavari (695), Chittoor (472), Krishna (368), Prakasam (357), Guntur (273), Anantapur (264), Visakhapatnam (251), Nellore (236), Srikakulam (180), Kadapa (160), Kurnool (126) and Vizianagaram (80).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-53-covid-deaths/article34920777.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JAC finds fault with govt. job calendar||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Nirudyoga Joint Action Committee (APN- JAC) on Tuesday said that the job calendar released by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy recently was not in sync with the promises he had made to the unemployed youth during his padayatra in the run-up to the 2019 elections. In a letter addressed to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, they reminded him the promise of filling the nearly 2.3 lakh vacant posts in the government departments and conducting mega DSC examinations every year. JAC State president Samayam Hemanth Kumar said the Chief Minister had assured last year to fill 6,500 posts in the Police Department annually, but as per the calendar, only 450 posts were being filled. “In the last 12 years, no appointment has been made in the Grandhalaya wing,” he pointed out. An assurance was given that a digital library would be set up for every 2,000 households and appointments to the posts thus created would be made through the DSC. He demanded that priority be given to candidates who had passed library science course and adequate training in operating computers. Age relaxation sought He also sought immediate steps to fill the vacant posts in the libraries of polytechnic, junior and degree colleges besides in model schools and District Grandhalayas. Relaxation of age up to 47 years for candidates belonging to Other Castes and effective implementation of reservations for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) were long-pending demands, he pointed out, demanding that an age bar of 44 years be continued permanently for the DSC posts since two years of the candidates were wasted on account of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jac-finds-fault-with-govt-job-calendar/article34920788.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 deaths in State 14 times more than what govt. claims: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has said that the party would organise protests in all Assembly constituencies in the Sate on June 29 to ‘expose the failures’ of the YSRCP government in managing the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Naidu held a meeting with the important leaders of the party and the Assembly constituency in-charges on Tuesday. “An IIM professor had analysed the figures pertaining to deaths owing to coronavirus infection in the State and found that total fatalities were 14 times more than what the government had claimed,” Mr. Naidu said in the meeting. ‘Irrigation sector neglected’ Referring to the irrigation projects, the former Chief Minister alleged that the YSRCP government had neglected the irrigation sector during its two- year tenure. “Many problems pertaining to the construction of the Polavaram project have surfaced after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy assumed the office. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy who criticised the Pattiseema irrigation project grounded during the TDP’s tenure is now planning to to draw water through lift irrigation schemes from the Godavari Rriver,” he pointed out. Special Category Status Mr. Naidu also accused the government of ignoring issues pertaining to Special Category Status (SCS) for Andhra Pradesh. “The government is spending crores of rupees on publicity to divert people’s attention from its failures. It has failed on all fronts, latest being the irregularities in the Group-I mains examination. The government is adamant to conduct the 10th and intermediate examinations amid the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-deaths-in-state-14-times-more-than-what-govt-claims-naidu/article34920786.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna district reports 368 cases||Krishna district reported 368 new COVID infections and five deaths in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally increased to 98,657 and death toll rose to 1,070. Vijayawada city reported only 38 new infections while Nuzvid revenue division reported 155 infections in the past day. Vijayawada revenue division, excluding the city, reported 111 new cases. In Machilipatnam and Gudivada divisions, only 39 and 24 cases were reported respectively. As of Tuesday, 32 hospitals including 11 government hospitals were treating COVID patients and out of 443 ICU beds, 294 were unoccupied. There were 4,338 active cases and 3,219 patients were under home isolation. Over 28,000 people were under home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-district-reports-368-cases/article34920354.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seetanagaram case: cell tower data helps police identify two youths||The police, which rounded up several suspects in the sexual assault case, reportedly zeroed in on two youth, who allegedly assaulted the girl on the Krishna river bank, at Seetanagaram village, a couple of days ago. The accused allegedly sexually assaulted the victim, who came to Pushkar Ghat along with her boyfriend around 9 p.m. on Saturday. When her boyfriend tried to rescue the girl, the accused allegedly thrashed him, tied him up and allegedly committed the crime. They reportedly took away the mobile phones and other valuables from the youngsters. The Guntur Urban district and the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate police took into custody some suspects. Based on the cell tower network of the mobile phones, which were operated in the locality, police identified that two youth, who moved on the river bank on Saturday evening, allegedly resorted to the crime. “Due to darkness, visibility was not clear on the sand dunes on the river bank when the incident occurred. However, we are trying to play the voice of the two youth to the victim and her boyfriend to confirm their identity,” an investigation officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seetanagaram-case-cell-tower-data-helps-police-identify-two-youths/article34920775.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nearly 42,000 vaccine doses administered||Two days after setting a record by vaccinating 13.74 lakh people against COVID in a day, the State administered 41,928 doses as of 8 p.m. on Tuesday. According to the CoWIN portal, vaccine doses were administered at 357 centres, including 297 government centres and 60 private centres, across the State on Tuesday. On Monday, 48,785 vaccine doses were administered. In Guntur, over 16,000 doses were administered on Tuesday and only a few hundreds were administered in Anatapur, Kurnool, Srikakulam and Prakasam. So far, 1.40 crore doses were administered and 1.13 crore beneficiaries received at least one dose. About 27.51 lakh people were fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearly-42000-vaccine-doses-administered/article34920778.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks action against IPS officers||TDP politburo member Varla Ramaiah on Tuesday wrote a letter to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, urging him to direct the DGP to initiate action against IPS officers P.V. Sunil Kumar and Moka Satti Babu for their ‘unconstitutional conduct’. He alleged that Mr. Sunil Kumar, Additional DGP (CID), was making derogatory statements unsuitable to the conduct of a civil servant. “He has been carrying out divisive activities under the banner of Ambedkar India Mission (AIM),” he said. In a meeting of the AIM , Mr. Ramaiah said derogatory comments were passed by Mr. Satti Babu, Additional SP of Krishna District, in support of terrorists, adding that both the officers had violated the service rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-seeks-action-against-ips-officers/article34920784.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mudragada writes to CM in support of Ashok||Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to ask his party members (YSRCP) not to insult TDP leader P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju. In a letter to the Chief Minister , Mr. Padmanabham said the comment made by YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy that the TDP leader would be sent to jail shortly was unfortunate. “I have never seen him (Mr. Ashok) talking in a disrespectful manner with anyone,” said Mr. Padmanabham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mudragada-writes-to-cm-in-support-of-ashok/article34920787.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM welcomes Vamsadhara Tribunal verdict||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has welcomed the judgment of the Vamsadhara Tribunal permitting Andhra Pradesh to construct Neradi barrage across the Vamsadhara river. He directed the officials to focus on the construction of the barrage, once the gazette was released. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to prepare an action plan for the construction works and said the judgment would benefit both Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. The Chief Minister said he would invite the Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and other public representatives for the foundation-stone laying ceremony of the barrage, adding that the policy of the Andhra Pradesh government was to move forward with mutual cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-welcomes-vamsadhara-tribunal-verdict/article34920319.ece
23 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ALC students provide aid to tribal people||Students and faculty of Andhra Loyola College (ALC) distributed provisions to Yanadi tribals residing at the dumping yard, at Pathapadu, on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday. The students, along with those of Andhra Loyola Institute of Engineering and Technology (ALIET) and Andhra Loyola College Alumni Association (ALCAA) visited Yanadi Colony to distribute the items, said Rector Fr. Bala Showry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alc-students-provide-aid-to-tribal-people/article34920360.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. pushing State into a debt trap, says Veerraju||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has alleged that the YSR Congress Party government has reduced the governance to borrowing and distributing it to various sections of the people, adding that it is pushing the State into a debt trap. “The government is now planning to auction the State’s assets to raise loans and the BJP is opposing it. The government should correct the anomalies in the system to ensure prudent use of the available funds to create infrastructure and employment. Focus should be laid on extending the benefits of welfare schemes to the intended beneficiaries,” Mr. Veerraju told the media . Referring to the ‘job calendar’ released by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy recently, he said that the government had no money to create jobs . The petroleum complex proposed in Kakinada has the potential to create 1.5 lakh jobs. “The Centre had sought Rs. 900 crore as the viability gap funding (VGF) per annum. But, the State government said it had no money and wanted the Centre to bear the burden. Similarly, the Centre had sought land for a medical college in Visakhapatnam, but the government had said it was not in a position to contribute Rs. 50 crore for the project,” said Mr. Veerraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-pushing-state-into-a-debt-trap-says-veerraju/article34920789.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spreading cheer amidst pandemic situation||With the COVID-19 pandemic continuing to have a profound effect on the mental health of people as they cope with loss, grief and anxiety, a team of city-based organisations are finding ways to spread cheer amidst the gloom. Mother Earth Environmental Consciousness Society (MEECONS), in association with Trendsetters Charitable Trust (TCT), has started an initiative called The Good Vibes Project by roping in artistes, yoga instructors, mental health therapists and musicians to conduct free online sessions. The first event that was held in the last week of May received an encouraging response from viewers as well as participants. Back in April, Dr. Sahithi Sanku went through an emotional upheaval after her entire family tested positive for COVID. The experience spurred her into bringing together a community that would spread good vibes and take people’s minds off negativity and stress. Dr. Sanku, along with Ravi Kanth Reddy Sathi, founder of MEECONS, P.V. Aditya, founder of High Spirit Events that supports independent artistes in the city, and the team of TCT, joined hands to start The Good Vibes Project to organise its first week-long event packed with music, yoga, and awareness sessions by doctors and performances by stand-up comedians, beatboxers and rappers. “The objective of the project is not just to spread positivity but to also motivate local artistes and help them connect with an audience,” said Ravi Kanth. The project is also a fund-raising initiative to support ‘Donate A Breath’ campaign by MEECONS and TCT for procuring oxygen concentrators and cylinders that being provided for COVID-19 treatment. “We are planning to start group therapy sessions with a therapist or a psychologist for those dealing with grief or handling care-giver fatigue or stress,” said Sahithi. The World Health Organisation has warned that mental health problems could be the next pandemic after COVID-19. “The increase in the number of fatalities and a feeling of helplessness have taken a toll on the mental health of both men and women. We want to address this through our events,” said Sahithi. The Good Vibes Project team is planning to start an ‘online buddy’ system for one-on-one support. “We will create a Google form for volunteers who are willing to extend their support and a separate form for people who wish to have a ‘buddy’. The idea is to help people stay connected in times of distress to battle anxiety and depression,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spreading-cheer-amidst-pandemic-situation/article34920814.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One arrested for ‘confining and assaulting’ a person for loan recovery||The city police on Tuesday arrested a man for allegedly confining a person and grievously assaulting him with a knife to recover money from him. The arrested was identified as B. Venkatesh (34) of Madhurawada area. Another accused in the case N. Gowri Shankar is yet to be nabbed. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that one Bandaru Madhu Sandeep Kumar of Qatar had asked Venkatesh and Gowri Shankar to collect Rs. 78,000 from Ravuri Enosh Joseph, which he had loaned to him. The accused reportedly confined Mr. Joseph and injured him with a knife and also assaulted him to recover the money. They also reportedly took away his car and mobile phone, all worth around Rs. 10.10 lakh. Based on the complaint from Mr Joseph, the city police arrested Venkatesh and recovered the vehicle and mobile phone from him. Mr. Suresh Babu said that Gowri Shankar was an ex-offender and had four cases against him. A manhunt has been launched for the accused and further investigation is on. The role of Sandeep Kumar and another person Akhil is also being investigated, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-arrested-for-confining-and-assaulting-a-person-for-loan-recovery/article34920805.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Increase number of posts to be filled in govt. departments, JAC urges Chief Minister||Andhra Pradesh Nirudyoga Joint Action Committee(JAC) has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to increase the number of posts in accordance with the promises made by him in the past and make the job calendar issued by him more meaningful. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Tuesday, JAC State president Samayam Hemanta Kumar recalled that Mr. Jagan had announced during the Police Martyrs Meet in 2020 that 6,500 posts would be filled in the Police Department every year. But, in the recent job calendar only 450 police posts were notified causing severe resentment among unemployed youths, Mr. Kumar said. They are worried that they would exceed the upper age limit for entry into employment, he said. Mr. Kumar said that the upper age limit should be increased for general category candidates for police constables from 23 to 25 years, for SI from 25 to 30 years and for DSP from 28 to 30 years on a permanent basis. Similarly, the age limit for other examinations, conducted by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission(APPSC), should be increased to 47 years for this notification temporarily as two precious academic years have been lost due to COVID-19, he said. The upper age limit for the District Selection Committee (DSC) exam candidates should be permanently increased to 44 years, Mr. Kumar said. The posts announced in the job calendar for Group 1 and 2 posts are a mere 36 and they should be increased. The Group 3 and 4 posts have not been announced and these vacancies should also be filled without any delay. It was also promised that the DSC exam would be held every year but not even one post was notified. He sought immediate announcement of a mega DSC. Similarly, no post has been filled in the Library Department for the last 12 years. The JAC leader sought establishment of digital libraries for every 2,000 population and filling up vacancies through the DSC exam. He also sought filling of vacancies in other departments also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/increase-number-of-posts-to-be-filled-in-govt-departments-jac-urges-chief-minister/article34920810.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resident welfare association seeks withdrawal of property tax hike notification||Members of Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (APFERWAS), Visakhapatnam, have submitted a memorandum to the Mayor and corporators of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) council and urged them to immediately withdraw and cancel the draft notification released by the GVMC on June 3 regarding increase in property tax. Federation representatives comprising president Uday Shirname, associate president K.S.R. Murthy and general secretary M. Durga Prasad met the Mayor, Deputy Mayor and other important floor leaders at their offices on Tuesday and expressed concern over the proposal ahead of the GVMC council meet, scheduled to be held on Wednesday. They said that the decision of levying property tax based on market value of the property rather than on the rental value, will impose a heavy burden on the common man. They also questioned why the decision was taken without discussing the proposal in the GVMC council meeting. This is totally an undemocratic way of functioning, they said. The APFERWAS members said people have been facing financial problems due to the COVID-19 pandemic. They also demanded that the GVMC officials completely abolish property tax for this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resident-welfare-association-seeks-withdrawal-of-property-tax-hike-notification/article34920791.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive launched for staff||Patra has recently launched a COVID-19 vaccination drive for its employees in collaboration with Apollo Hospitals here. The four-day drive, initiated by the MD Lakshmi Mukkavailli, was coordinated by senior facility Manager Bhargav Bhamidipati and his team. The company announced the employees would be reimbursed the cost of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-launched-for-staff/article34920790.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 3 deaths, 251 new COVID-19 cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 251 new COVID-19 infections, in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,47,778. The death toll also rose to 1,013 after three more persons succumbed to the virus. On a positive note, 477 persons undergoing treatment for coronavirus recovered in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has reduced to 3,414, while the number of discharges/recoveries has increased to 1,43,351.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-3-deaths-251-new-covid-19-cases/article34920792.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dependents of ESI insured COVID-19 victims to get relief||The ESI Corporation has approved the 'ESIC COVID-19 Relief Scheme' to provide succour to the families of ESI insured persons, who died due to COVID-19. The scheme provides relief amounting to 90% of the average daily wages of the insured person, split among all the dependents of the insured person, in case of his/her death due to COVID-19. The relief shall be paid monthly directly to the bank accounts of the dependents. The scheme shall be effective for a period of two years from March 24, 2020. At least 70 days of contribution in respect of the insured person should have been paid/payable during a period of maximum one year, immediately preceding the diagnosis of COVID-19 disease, resulting in death, for the dependents to be entitled to the relief. The insured person, who died due to COVID-19, must have been registered on the ESIC online portal at least three months prior to the date of diagnosis of COVID-19, resulting in his/her death, according to Jose Martin, in-charge Deputy Director, ESI Corporation, Sub Regional Office, Visakhapatnam. The claim, made in the prescribed claim forms (available at the nearest branch office of ESIC) along with COVID-19 positive report (original/attested copy) and death certificate (original), should be submitted to the nearest Branch Office. Proof of age and identity of the dependents shall be given by means of Aadhaar or birth certificate issued by the competent authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dependents-of-esi-insured-covid-19-victims-to-get-relief/article34920803.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Marwari Sammelan’s free meal programme concludes||Thousands of patient attendants benefited from the free meals, organised by the AP Pradeshik Marwari Sammelan, affiliated to the All India Marwari Federation programme, at the King George Hospital (KGH) and the Victoria Government Hospital (VGH), which concluded on Tuesday. The sammelan had originally planned to take up the service for 21 days, which had ended on June 12. It was, however extended by 10 more days in view of the tremendous support by the organisation members. The food packets were distributed to the patient attendants at the two government hospitals as they were facing difficulties in getting meals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/marwari-sammelans-free-meal-programme-concludes/article34920804.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Endowments officials demolish under-construction building||Officials from the Endowments Department demolished an under-construction building near the DRM office at Station Road here on Tuesday, alleging that it was unauthorised. According to sources, the land belong to Sri Venkateswara Swamy Devasthanam, Allipuram, and was given on lease to some persons in 1993. The officials said that notice was served long ago on the persons to vacate the site, since their lease period had ended. However they did not respond. The officials said that as per the lease conditions, the private persons were also not allowed to build any permanent construction in the given land. The private persons said that they have not received any notices regarding the demolition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/endowments-officials-demolish-under-construction-building/article34920806.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIM-V graduate writes a book on personal finance||Anuj Suneja, who just passed out from IIM-Visakhapatnam, has authored a book by name ‘Casual Finance – A Millennial’s Guide to Personal Finance ’, which will be launched on Wednesday by Amazon, Flipkart and Kindle. Mr. Anuj, who passed out with a degree in Applied Psychology from Delhi University and completed his MBA-Finance from IIM-Visakhapatnam, had written this book during his study in the city. Speaking to The Hindu here on Tuesday, he said no one talks about money in the education system of our country, no school is teaching about managing money, saving taxes, and how to invest. “While all these are fundamental and indispensable life skills, there is no one place to learn these. Hence I decided to write a book that serves the purpose of a one-stop-shop for all the financial needs of millennials and Gen Z,” he said. Writing a foreword for the book, Radhakrishnan Pillai, author of ‘Corporate Chanakya’ and Director of Chanakya International Institute of Leadership Studies (CIILS), University of Mumbai, has said, “It is a great book for beginners who want to understand the basics of finance. It is interesting to note that the world of finance has been evolving over generations, yet the principles of finance remain the same. In this book, Anuj covers up all that is needed to know about the world of wealth creation, investment, saving and retirement planning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iim-v-graduate-writes-a-book-on-personal-finance/article34920808.ece
23 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All parties should launch united stir for special status: Chalasani||Pratyeka Hoda Sadhana Samiti president Chalasani Srinivas on Monday said all parties in the State should launch a joint agitation demanding Special Category Status. Addressing the media here, he said that there was no use of resignation of MPs for getting special status. Instead all MPs from the State should stage a dharna in front of the house of the Prime Minister in Delhi, Mr. Srinivas said. He said it was not correct to sell Gangavaram port and the State government should have retained its 10% share. Mr. Srinivas said they will once again launch direct agitation demanding special status after normalcy is restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-parties-should-launch-united-stir-for-special-status-chalasani/article34920809.ece
23 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to provide jobs to 1998 DSC candidates||Andhra Pradesh SC and ST Teachers’ Association president Samala Simhachalam on Tuesday urged the State government to ensure justice for candidates of 1998 District Selection Committee (DSC) as they were not given jobs till date due to administrative and legal tangles. In a press release, Mr. Simhachalam said that it was nice on the part of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to offer jobs to 2008 DSC candidates. “The same of kind of support is needed for the candidates who have been waiting for posts for the last 23 years. Many of them have only a few years of service left even if jobs are offered, so there won’t be too much burden on the government,” said Mr. Simhachalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-provide-jobs-to-1998-dsc-candidates/article34920799.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Struggling for a hold||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/struggling-for-a-hold/article34920794.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homeward bound||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/homeward-bound/article34920812.ece
23 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Clamour for fee regulation as schools, colleges get set to reopen||Voices for regulating school and college fee are growing louder even as the government gears up to reopen physical classes in a phased manner starting from July 1. The demand is that the government should direct the educational institutions to collect fee on a monthly basis as schools and colleges were demanding on term payments, which most parents can ill-afford at this time. That transportation fee, which schools and colleges insist to be paid in full otherwise should also be regulated to monthly payments, is the argument of parents. After a review on the opening of educational institutions, Education Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy said schools and colleges will be asked to collect only the tuition fee. But the government is unwilling to force them to follow the suggestion through an order. Officials said the government wants to ensure only 30% of the fee is collected from parents but the question remains what steps will be taken to strictly implement that. Reopening opposed Meanwhile, a section of parents is strongly opposing reopening of schools before the entire population above 18 years is vaccinated as the fear of a possible third wave haunts them. The Hyderabad Schools Parents Association (HSPA) has launched an online petition on change.org to defer physical classes till the vaccination is completed. And the response to the petition seems to suggest that parents overwhelmingly support it. Laxmi Tutika, a parent, said the government should first focus on vaccinating the children and reconsider reopening educational institutions so soon. Parents seem to be worried over the experts’ claim about the third wave affecting mostly children. Santosh Ayyappan, one of those who signed the petition, argued that children should not be put at risk given the third wave warning. Private schools happy However, private schools welcomed the reopening decision, saying that it has been far too long that students have stayed away from school, and further delay would impact their learning abilities. Sreenivas Reddy, chairman of Telangana Recognised Schools Managements Association, said teachers have been asked to get vaccinated before schools reopening and the government should give priority to them in the inoculation drive. The association, which has over 9,000 budget schools as its members, says the reopening would bring children back to education. Mr. Reddy added that all budget schools collect monthly fee and he doesn’t see any tussle with parents on that ground. Chava Ravi, general secretary of Telangana State United Teachers Federation, also welcomed the decision and said the government should support teachers in implementing COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clamour-for-fee-regulation-as-schools-colleges-get-set-to-reopen/article34920573.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC targets 1 cr. saplings||GHMC has set itself a target of planting one crore saplings in GHMC area under the Telangana Ku Haritha Haram mass afforestation programme during the year 2021. Tree plantation is being taken up by the GHMC under various categories such as avenue plantation, colony plantation, institutional plantation, open space plantation, and graveyard plantation under Haritha Haram. As of now, about 9.55 lakh saplings have been planted at various locations, a statement from GHMC informed. For the year 2020, the civic body had a target of planting 2.5 crore saplings under the programme. As on January 23, close to 88 per cent of the target had been achieved, with plantation of almost 2.2 crore, in all categories, the statement said. The plantations were taken up in 406 locations of open spaces in layouts, which are being developed as tree parks with walking tracks and seating areas. This year, dense plantations in the lines of Miyawaki model are being taken up additionally at 45 locations. A total 600 nurseries have been grounded in all the zones of GHMC and works are in progress for supply of plants. All the nurseries have been geo-tagged and uploaded in the TGFMIS’ (Telangana Forest Management Information System) website. A target of 25 lakh plants has been given for each zone, for raising a total of 1.5 crore plants for entire GHMC area for the current year. GHMC has claimed 86.28 per cent overall achievement in Haritha Haram programme between 2016-17 and 2019-20. For a total of 3.21 crore target during the four years preceding 2020-21, the total achievement was nearly 2.77 crore saplings, the note claimed. However, of the total achievement, only 22.79 lakh saplings were actually planted by GHMC at various locations, while the remaining 2.54 crore were distributed to organisations and individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-targets-1-cr-saplings/article34920578.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Surplus’ tag for some AP staff till posting||The government has decided to treat close to 700 Class III and IV employees of Telangana origin who are relieved by the Andhra Pradesh government as surplus manpower and these employees will be posted against the available vacancies in the coming days. In a major relief to these employees who are waiting for postings, it has been decided to provide them with ad hoc salary of Rs. 30,000 a month till they are posted in the available vacancies. The ad hoc salary would be payable with effect from the date of joining until further orders subject to adjustment against the pay and allowances admissible to them after joining regular posts. Orders have been issued to the Director of Treasuries and Accounts (DTA) for taking further action in this direction. The development follows relieving of 698 Class III and IV staff including 13 appointed on compassionate grounds by the neighbouring State following a series of communications addressed by the State government. These employees were allotted to Andhra Pradesh during the State bifurcation against their willingness and options exercised for allotting them to Telangana. The government had initiated the process for bringing them back after obtaining an undertaking from them that they would work anywhere across the State taking the last rank in the respective cadres. The employees accordingly signed the proforma circulated by the government for returning to Telangana and 491 employees have submitted their joining reports to the special unit constituted in the office of the DTA. These employees, however, are awaiting posting as they are subject to available vacancies and this had caused hardships to them as they were not paid salaries since past few months. The government had therefore taken a decision to ensure payment of ad hoc salaries to them to ensure that their problems were mitigated to a large extent till they were given postings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/surplus-tag-for-some-ap-staff-till-posting/article34920594.ece
23 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Move to revamp historic Mahbub Chowk Market||Every year during monsoon, the Mahbub Chowk Market turns into a stinky unpassable mess that makes everyone gag. Rats scamper about on the cracked flooring and large cats chase them. The pitched roof with asbestos sheets leaks at five places as the sections have collapsed. The grand multi-foil entrance arches, the granite columns, the Palladian parapet are hidden behind tin sheets or advertisement boards. Two proposals Now, there are two new proposals on the table to rework the historic Mahbub Chowk precinct near Charminar. “The first proposal is an adaptive reuse by retaining the historic footprint of the structure while adding an additional floor. The second proposal is razing the old structure and building on its foundation to create a contemporary place that blends in with the historic character of the place,” says G.S.V. Suryanarayana Murthy of Kshetra who has been roped in by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation for the project. The trigger to redesign and reuse the market space was a Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University audit in 2018 that listed out structural cracks and a weak foundation of the building and dismissed it as “not fit for living.” From that period, there have been multiple proposals for adaptive reuse of the .8 acres on which the market exists. The new proposal which is gaining traction involves adaptive reuse to turn the markets into traditional markets on the lines that are found in Turkey and Iran. The second proposal is to move the existing meat shops from the central part to the periphery and creation of a central zone free for a crafts bazaar, restaurants and showrooms to cater to the needs of tourists who throng the area. It will also involve the creation of a basement parking space for 90 cars and 104 two-wheelers in an area notorious for absence of parking space. Voice of dissent But not everyone is enthused about the proposed changes. “Technically, we are against the demolition of the old structure. It needs to be conserved and preserved. It needs to be restored and managed according to the needs of such a structure and precinct,” says Anuradha Reddy of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), after a preliminary assessment done recently. “A heritage impact assessment and a social impact assessment need to be done before any step is taken,”she added. “Some people came to inspect the place but we don’t know anything else. We should not be moved till an alternative arrangement is made. This market is close to the city and I have grown up managing this shop,” said Arif, whose chicken shop is near one of the entrance arches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/move-to-revamp-historic-mahbub-chowk-market/article34920566.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LVPEI part of global study||ENGINE or Eyecare Nurtures Good health, Innovation, driving-safety and Education, a multi-national five-year project designed to leverage high-quality research to drive lasting policy change and achieve an improved quality of life for people in low and middle-income countries, has begun. Four countries It comprises four research trials in India, Vietnam, Bangladesh and Zimbabwe, to examine the impact of glasses on promoting better living, from childhood to old age, and the impact on multiple Sustainable Development Goals, said Rohit Khanna, director of Gullapalli Pratibha Rao International Centre for Advancement of Rural Eye Care at the L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI). In collaboration with the Queen’s University of Belfast, LVPEI and nearly 30 other partners from the USA, UK, Vietnam, Bangladesh, Zimbabwe and India, are working on a suite of studies to explore the impact of vision care on the global level with funding support of £3.5 million from the Wellcome Trust and Chen Yet-Sen Family Foundation, said a press release. Vision disability Poor vision is the world’s largest unmet disability affecting 2.2 billion people. About 8.8 million people in India are blind, and another 47 million people are visually impaired with 70% of blindness preventable. The project is led by Nathan Congdon of Queen’s University Belfast, UK, and Dr Khanna of LVPEI, various universities, non-government organisations, public health bodies, etc. From LVPEI, public health specialists Srinivas Marmamula and Asha Latha Metla and retina consultant Raja with Suvarna Alladi from NIMHANS at Bangalore, Pallab Maulik from the George Institute for Global Health India, New Delhi, and Shashidhar Komaravolu from the Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India, Hyderabad Deccan chapter, are the other collaborators.  The focus is on reducing road traffic injuries, enhancing learning among millions of African children with long-sightedness, slowing the onset of cognitive decline and dementia among elderly persons struggling with poor sight. “The study in India and Vietnam are first trials to examine how low-cost vision care can slow down the pace of cognitive decline with ageing and safe roads,” added Dr Khanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lvpei-part-of-global-study/article34920570.ece
23 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. opts for phased reopening of schools||Official guidelines with regard to opening schools and colleges are likely to be issued in a couple of days, but the State government in principle seems to have opted for phased opening of schools. Timings Classes for standard 8 to 10 students would start from July 1 and the timings would be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. In the subsequent phase, classes for students of standard 6 and 7 will start from July 20 and from August 16, for students in standard 3 to 5. Intermediate classes will be open from July 1 with permission given to run physical classes. It is for the colleges to decide whether or not to offer both online and offline classes simultaneously. Offline classes However, classes for degree and polytechnic courses will be held offline from July 1. Commissioner for Collegiate Education Navin Mittal has already issued orders for physical classes. Residential schools The State government is still struggling with the idea of opening up the residential schools as they are linked with hostels. A meeting with the Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Ministers has been called on Wednesday to take a final decision in this regard. The government is worried that a large congregation of students in the hostels will be unmanageable if the cases start rising again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-opts-for-phased-reopening-of-schools/article34920574.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banks told not to withhold Rythu Bandhu amounts||The State government has issued clear instructions to banks against withholding the amounts credited in the farmers’ accounts under Rythu Bandhu scheme. The instructions follow reports on instances that some banks were not allowing farmers to withdraw their Rythu Bandhu amount and were adjusting the same against old dues. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is understood to have taken a serious view of the reports and asked the Finance department officials to hold an emergency meeting with bankers. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, accompanied by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, and Finance Principal Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, convened a meeting with bankers on Tuesday. The meeting asked the bankers to credit back any amount withheld or adjusted into the farmers’ accounts at the earliest. When bankers said no such instructions to withhold the Rythu Bandhu amounts were issued, Mr. Harish Rao wanted strict instructions to be issued to bank branches against withholding/adjusting funds meant for Rythu Bandhu. District collectors on their part were directed the monitor the situation at the district level while a State level team would monitor the issues being faced by farmers. In addition, toll free numbers – 18002001001 and 04033671300 – would be set up to address issues faced by farmers and these number would work from 8 am to 8 pm. Bankers were also instructed to expedite disbursal/renewal of crop loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banks-told-not-to-withhold-rythu-bandhu-amounts/article34920593.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nearly 1,200 new cases, 10 deaths logged||The daily positivity rate of COVID-19 infection slipped below 1% — 0.94%, to be precise — with 1,175 new cases being reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Tuesday. Ten deaths were also reported during the day. A total of 1,24,907 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total to 1.77 crore. The tally reached 6,15,574 and the death toll stood at 3,586. The case fatality rate was at 0.58% against 1.3% at national level. With 1,771 infected persons were declared recovered on Tuesday, their cumulative total has gone up to 5,95,348. The recovery rate in the State is 96.71% against 96.45% at national level. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department, the number of active cases stood at 16,640 as of Tuesday evening with 5,969 undergoing treatment in various hospitals. The remaining 10,671 were in home and institutional isolation. Hyderabad/GHMC area continues to contribute the highest number of daily cases with 133 being reported on Tuesday. In 24 districts, the cases reported were in double-digit numbers with a highest of 76 in Khammam and in the remaining eight districts, the cases were in single-digit numbers with a lowest of three in Kumram Bheem-Asifabad district. Meanwhile, a total of 1,52,169 doses of COVID-19 vaccine were administered to different categories of recipients, including 1,11,661 given to those in the 18-44 age group during the 24-hour period till 9 pm of Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nearly-1200-new-cases-10-deaths-logged/article34920569.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to join second phase of IIPH’s ‘Project No Fever’||Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad, in partnership with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, Dakshas Foundation and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, has invited educational institutions, residential welfare associations, gated communities and non-governmental organisations to join, volunteer and support the second extended phase of ‘Project No Fever’. The project started last year as a community-based initiative to fight viral fevers in the twin cities and is aimed at creating and designing integrated community-based vector containment strategies to support, empower and create awareness to reduce incidence of dengue fever and its complications, said IIPH-Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy. Dengue and COVID-19 share common clinical and laboratory features, confusing diagnosis and management and also exist as co-infection exhibiting illness with overlapping signs and symptoms such as fever and aches which can cause confusion and may contribute to the delay in the diagnosis and treatment. Considering this dual risk, in addition to prevention and control measures, it is critical to be aware about the symptoms, warning signs, and basic home care to ensure protection of oneself and their families. Nearly 2,000 persons, including 900 school children, and 20 RWAs participated through webinars on dengue control and prevention in the first phase. A total of 2,173 cases were reported in 2020 while from January to May this year, 237 cases were reported in Telangana. In GHMC region, there were 141 cases in January to June 2020 before the programme began and 219 cases were reported in the next six months of last year. Recently in the post programme period from January to May 2021, only 39 cases were reported as per GHMC data. “Decrease in cases could be possibly attributed to the increased awareness among the residents due to collaborative efforts of ‘Project No Fever’ along with extensive fumigation and anti-larval operations carried out by GHMC,” Dr Murthy said, in a press release. One can contact via Telegram and WhatsApp (77021-69118) or send an e-mail to ‘projectnofever@iiphh.org’ to participate in the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-to-join-second-phase-of-iiphs-project-no-fever/article34920571.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cricket betting racket busted, five arrested||Five persons have been arrested for organising online cricket betting even as the Pakistan Super League is in progress, and seized a betting board, a laptop, 33 mobile phones, a television, an Internet router and Rs. 20.50 lakh in cash, police said on Tuesday. According to the police, Gunturi Satya Pavan Kumar (32), Uddara Raju Satheesh Raju (41), both from West Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh are the organisers. Ch Trinath (29) and Nandipamu Bhaskar (31), both residents of Nuzveedu in Andhra Pradesh are allegedly betting operators. Jakkapudi Prasad (25), a resident of Akividu town in Andhra Pradesh, is another betting operator. The prime accused, identified as Somanna, a resident of East Godavari is absconding. The arrests were made based on credible information. The racket was being organised allegedly at Pavan Residency, Bhandari Layout in Nizampet. Police said that Somanna has been organising the betting in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Gunturi Satya Pavan Kumar and Uddara Raju Satheesh Raju allegedly took mainline access from Somanna. Ch. Trinath, Nandipamu Bhaskar, and Jakkapudi Prasad operated the communicator board and laptop. They allegedly have access to several bookies in Hyderabad and took a commission. The agents allegedly provided them with access to online betting apps. While in many cases cash transactions are online, in some other cases they are in cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cricket-betting-racket-busted-five-arrested/article34920580.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. staff to wait one more month for revised pay?||It is likely to take one more month for the State government staff to receive salaries commensurate with their revised pay scales. The employees are anxiously waiting for their revised salaries with 30 per cent fitment benefit for the last two months, but the cumbersome process involved in finalizing the new pay scales is said to have delayed the process. Implementation of the new pay scales would entail pay fixation along with major components like dearness allowance, house rent allowance and city compensatory allowance which vary depending on the location of the employees. In addition, calculation with regard to the arrears from April 1, 2020 as assured by the government should form part of the exercise leading to delays. The government had circulated the guidelines over pay fixation for all the departments and options were obtained from the employees for shifting to new pay scales. According to officials, pay scales fixed at the department level should be circulated to the Pay and Accounts Office (PAO) in the State capital and director of treasury and accounts (DTA) at the district level after completing employee-wise calculations. The PAO and DTA would enter the new scales into records after duly verifying the details following which new scales will come into effect. The Finance department embarked upon development of a software for making the entire process easier and the new software is being gradually deployed at different levels. “The revised pay scales will be paid with effect from next month,” was how a senior Finance official responded when contacted. It may be recalled that the government had assured that employees would be paid one year’s arrears – from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 - at the time of retirement while the arrears due from July 1, 2018 till March 31, 2020 had been deemed as notional arrears. Arrears from April this year will be paid in cash. As regards the arrears from April, the official said the department would credit them into the accounts of the employees in the coming days before the end of the financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-staff-to-wait-one-more-month-for-revised-pay/article34920595.ece
23 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Is CM aware of Dalit woman’s custodial death: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka has wondered whether Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was aware of the fact that a Dalit woman died in Addagur police station in the State and her son was beaten severely by the Addagudur police. There is no response from the government on the death of a woman in a police station and no minister or MLA seem to be bothered to enquire about the incident, he said at a press conference alleging that life of a Dalit doesn’t seem to be of any value to this government. Mr. Bhatti said it was quite surprising that the woman and her son were brutally beaten and tortured on the allegation of stealing Rs. 2 lakh from their employer. Despite their pleas of not committing the crime the police tortured them, he said and asked is Rs. 2 lakh a big enough amount to be beaten to death? He said Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has already been apprised of the development through a letter and the party would pproach Human Rights Commission. ‘Promises ignored’ Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao has the habit of making tall promises and ignoring them after political interests are served, Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy alleged. At a press conference here, he asked what happened to the election promise of pensions to those above 57 and unemployment allowance of Rs. 3,016 per month to the graduates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/is-cm-aware-of-dalit-womans-custodial-death-bhatti/article34920598.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3 held for trading in PDS rice||The North Zone Task Force of Hyderabad Police busted a PDS rice racket, spread across three police station limits, and apprehended three persons for illegally selling large quantities of rice meant for public distribution.Police said the accused Mohd Qadir, Mohd Sami, and Mohd Qadir allegedly bought the PDS rice from food security card holders at lower prices and sold them at much higher prices in other States. Other accused Mohd. Dawood, Karim and Akbar are absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-held-for-trading-in-pds-rice/article34920583.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No water supply||There will not be water supply to the following areas for a day starting from 10 p.m. on June 25 up to 10 p.m. on June 26, due to the utility shifting for facilitating construction of a flyover near Tolichowki, a press note from the HMWSSB informed. The areas to be affected include Shaikpet reservoir areas, Jubilee Hills, Film Nagar, Prashasan Nagar, Thattikhana reservoir areas, Gachibowli, Madhapur, Ayyappa Society, and Kavuri Hills reservoir areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-water-supply/article34920579.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Solar PV cell trial production||Solar PV cells and module manufacturing firm Premier Energies has commenced trial production of polycrystalline cells with 19.2% efficiency at the new plant it has established at E-City Hyderabad with an investment of Rs. 483 crore. The formal inauguration of the plant is expected in July. The manufacturing unit is capable of producing Black Silicon MCCE textured multi-crystalline cells as well as mono PERC cells.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/solar-pv-cell-trial-production/article34920584.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP leader held during CM’s visit||BJP leader G. Narayana Reddy and his followers were arrested by the police when he tried to stage a protest during Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s visit to the Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district on Tuesday. Mr. Reddy claimed to have tried to present a memorandum but having being denied an opportunity, tried to hold a demonstration at Turkapally mandal headquarters. The BJP leader has been demanding the Chief Minister to announce a ‘better rehabilitation and resettlement package’ for farmers of three villages losing their lands for Baswapur Reservoir. Fair compensation was being denied to villagers of three villages of — BN Timmapur, Labbanaik Tanda and Choklanaik Tanda, he claimed. He wanted the compensation to be on the ‘general consent’ as was also given to land oustees for the Yadadri temple by the Yadadri Temple Development Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leader-held-during-cms-visit/article34920586.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2.1L ryots get Rs. 651 crore on day 7||About 2.1 lakh farmers with a landholding of 13.02 lakh acres were paid investment support of Rs. 651.07 crore under the Rythu Bandhu scheme on the seventh day of the benefit disbursement on Tuesday. So far, about 59.71 lakh farmers with a landholding of 133.27 lakh acres have received the Rythu Bandhu benefit of Rs. 6,663.79 crore. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said on Tuesday that against the normal rainfall of 95.4 mm till date this season, the actual rainfall recorded in the State was 137.6 mm, about 40% excess. About 13 lakh quintals of various seed required for the kharif cultivation was already positioned and the farming community had already taken up sowing operations. As part of encouraging organic cultivation, the government had provided green manure crop seed worth Rs. 61.52 crore to the farming community on subsidy and they would be sufficient for improving soil nutrition in about 14 lakh acres. On fertilizer, the Minister said a total of 8.64 lakh tonnes of various fertilizer including 4.41 lakh tonnes of urea was positioned so far. Sowing of kharif crops was taken up in 18.88 lakh acres so far with cotton sown on 14.82 lakh acres and redgram in 1.58 lakh acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/21l-ryots-get-rs-651-crore-on-day-7/article34920591.ece
23 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Construct new building for OGH: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president, N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Tuesday demanded that the State government o construct a new building for the Osmania General Hospital in the vacant land on the OGH premises immediately. In a statement, he said the present heritage structure should not be disturbed and the seven-acre vacant land on the premises should be used for the new building. The government should give a grant of Rs. 1000 crore for the new OGH building to be developed into multi super speciality hospital. He regretted that Osmania hospital’s name was not mentioned in the three new multi super speciality hospitals being proposed by the government. Mr. Reddy said he had visited OGH last year and examined the issues being faced by patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/construct-new-building-for-ogh-uttam/article34920596.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wedding guests assaulted over music||Around 10 persons who were attending a marriage in Nampally PS limits were injured after a group of men who objected to marfa band music being played there barged into the venue and assaulted the band members and guests, police said on Tuesday. According to police, the wedding took place late on Monday night in Laxmi Nagar Community hall. The accused have been identified as Ahmed, Khaja Naseeruddin Qadri, Khaja Muneeruddin, and Saleemuddin Qadri. A two-wheeler of one of the guests was also damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wedding-guests-assaulted-over-music/article34920582.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||For Briefs/ MoU signed for supply of pond ash||The Mancherial Project Implementation unit of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has singed a memorandum of understanding with NTPC-Ramagundam for lifting 6.66 lakh cubic metres (LCM) of ash pond from the thermal power project over the next four months for its two national highways projects in Telangana. According to a press release, 3.01 LCM pond ash would be used for the 40-km four-lane NH-161 from Kandi to Ramsanipalle and 3.65 LCM for the 52.6-km four-lane NH-363 from Repallewada to Telangana/Maharashtra border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-briefs-mou-signed-for-supply-of-pond-ash/article34920590.ece
23 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Old buses turn shelter for passengers||Making optimum use of its resources for the convenience of commuters, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has deployed some of its old buses at select traffic generating points in Khammam and various other parts of the old undivided Khammam district to serve as temporary bus shelters for the benefit of passengers. The well-intended move to use the old buses with poor fuel economy for providing shade from sunlight and shelter on a rainy day is also expected to help the public transport entity earn the goodwill of passengers. The TSRTC authorities have deployed a bus at the NTR Circle abutting the bypass road in the town to help commuters bound for Yellandu and other places sit in the bus until the arrival of the vehicles they are waiting to board for reaching their respective destinations. Encouraged by good response to the move, the officials of the TSRTC Khammam region are contemplating implementing the novel idea in Madhira, Kothagudem and elsewhere in the erstwhile composite Khammam district. Despite the COVID-19 induced crisis, the TSRTC Khammam region earned a revenue of Rs. 2.20 crore through its Parcel, Courier and Cargo (TSRTCPCC) services so far since the launch of the scheme in June last year, TSRTC sources said. “We serve drinking water and make the passengers comfortable while waiting in the bus as per the COVID-19 safety precautions, '' said one of the crew members of the bus stationed at NTR circle on Yellandu road. “We consider it a good opportunity to win over the hearts of commuters and enhance the reputation of the public transport entity,” he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/old-buses-turn-shelter-for-passengers/article34920601.ece
23 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Expired seed seized, one held||The Siddipet district police have seized Rs. 1.9 crore worth seeds for which date was expired. The seed was being prepared for sale. The seed was seized at Bandamylaram village in Mulugu mandal and Srinivas, stated to be managing director of Kurnool Seeds was arrested by the police. According to Gajwel Assistant Commissioner of Police Narayana, the police received information on Monday night that expired seed was being packed on the outskirts. Paddy and maize seed were brought from Kurnool, recycled and being packed. Mr. Narayana called upon people to send WhatsApp message to 79011 00100 if they came across cases of t spurious or sub-standard seed .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expired-seed-seized-one-held/article34920599.ece
23 June 2021||Vasalamarri,TELANGANA||‘No stopping ‘Mission Bangaru Vasalamarri’||“Not by words but by actions great things are achieved. And the day when every resident of Vasalamarri spreads love and laughter, practises ‘one for all and all for one’ and works for the development of the village, B. Vasalamarri will be achieved. B stands for Bangaru,” Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao told the residents here on Tuesday. Mr. Rao said, “The whole of Vasalamarri is my family this day onwards,” assuring that all necessary help and aid would be provided by the government to help achieve a self-supporting and ‘role model Vasalamarri’ for themselves. Vasalamarri located on the Bhongir-Pragnapur road in Turkapally mandal in the district borders with Mr. Rao’s Gajwel Assembly constituency and is even closer to his farm house at Erravelli. And it was thea stroke of luck that Mr. Rao had stopped his convoy on October 31, 2020, and listened to the grievances of Vasalamarri, marked by migration, poor housing and livelihood issues. Soon Mr. Rao announced his adoption plan with an outlay of Rs. 100 crore. On Tuesday, Vasalamarri opened up its lands to accommodate hundreds of SUVs and cars, in a never-before event, as Ministers, MLAs, the district administration and the police and security forces nearly competed with the village’s 2, 600-strong population. The grama sabha was also a mega event with rain-proof canopy, LED screens and sound reinforcement system. Mr. Rao, who explained examples of Ankapur of Nizamabad, Ramunipatla of Medak, Erravelli of Gajwel, and Bangladesh’s Prof. Hashmi’s reflections on micro credit and women empowerment, believed that Vasalamarri too would join the league if its residents joined hands. “You have been to Ankapur for an awareness trip. That village’s development committee has its effect on 300 villages. In future, 100 more villages should come to see and learn from Vasalamarri,” he said, instructing village leaders to form committees on sanitation, greenery, sramadanam and agriculture, and set up a special fund. Likening caste-based occupations to social service providers, such as of barbers and launders, to explain unity, KCR told the villagers that “development will be the only caste”. Addressing the grama sabha, Mr. Rao said District Collector Pamela Satpathy would be Village Special Officer and instructed her to profile each household in the village. He also announced that Bhuvanagiri municipality would be sanctioned Rs. 1 crore and each of the remaining five municipalities would get Rs. 50 lakh. The 421 gram panchayats in the district would also be sanctioned Rs. 25 lakh for developmental works. Mr. Rao assured the residents that he would visit the village often and the ‘Dalitawada’ next time. “But why Vasalamarri?” KCR questioned himself and told the gathering: “I have travelled this route umpteen times since the movement, but never did anything for it. I don’t know, god put a thought in my mind and I stopped my convoy. You are fortunate, our mission will not stop now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-stopping-mission-bangaru-vasalamarri/article34920589.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two in police net for Rs. 55-lakh bank heist in east Delhi||A 34-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly decamping with over Rs. 50 lakh after breaking into a bank from an adjoining under-construction building in east Delhi’s Farsh Bazar, the police said on Tuesday. Six months ago, the bank officials had called him for renovation work at the strong room, which is inside the premises, they said. The accused, Hariram, was wearing a helmet at the time of the crime to hide his identity. The police said another person, 39-year-old Kalicharan, was arrested in connection with the crime. The accused are both residents of Vishwas Nagar. On Monday at 10.15 a.m., the police received information regarding the burglary in a bank in Vishwas Nagar. During preliminary probe, the police found that two holes were made — one into the server room of the bank and another in sthe trong room in the basement. The accused had fled with Rs. 55,03,330 cash from the vault, a senior officer said. Teams were formed to collect details of frequent visitors, guards, contractual staff and of people who entered the locker room in the last six months, the police said. A CCTV camera installed near an ATM located near an under-construction building, was found facing upward, the officer said. “The direction of the camera was changed but it captured the palm and some portion of the face of the person,” he added. During the probe, three prime suspects were apprehended by the police. Detailed analysis revealed that the person who tampered with the CCTV was Hariram. “Hariram was then apprehended. He tried to mislead the police by saying that a person gave him Rs. 1,000 to change the direction of the camera but later confessed to the crime,” said DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram. Delayed by lockdown Hariram said when he was called for renovation work, he conducted a detailed recce of the place. “He gathered all the information about the cash and possible entry and exit routes,” an officer said He got access into the under-construction building by replacing old locks with new ones, the DCP added. Hariram further revealed that his heist plan had been ready for last three months but could not do it due to the lockdown in the city. As soon as he got an opportunity, he entered the under-construction building, made small holes there and another one in the strong room. He said he wanted to use the money for gambling. On his instance, Rs. 54,48,730 was recovered from a house in the same area where he was working as a guard, and Rs. 49,200 from Kalicharan. The accused had spent the rest of the money. Hariram, who comes from Madhya Pradesh, is a trained construction worker. He lives in the city with his wife and two children. Kalicharan has a small business and is also involved in illegal gambling activities, the police added.  Hariram [main accused] said when he was called for renovation work, he conducted a detailed recce of the place Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-in-police-net-for-rs-55-lakh-bank-heist-in-east-delhi/article34920517.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Day after godown fire, human remains found||A day after a fire broke out at the shoe godown in Outer Delhi’s Udyog Nagar and six workers were reported to be missing, the Delhi Fire Service found on Tuesday charred human remains on the first floor of the building. The police said the remains will be sent for DNA profiling to ascertain the identity even as a search operation is under way to trace the six workers. They added that it is yet to be ascertained if the remains found belong to more than one person. The fire broke out on Monday at the building where shoes were assembled and packed for sale. As many as 35 fire tenders and around 140 fire personnel were pressed into service to douse the blaze. The men reported to be missing have been identified as Sonu, Vikram, Shamshad, Abhishek, Ajay and Neeraj, said the police. Sonu and his brother Vikram had come to Delhi from Ghazipur for work, their family members told the police. Owner absconding Meanwhile, the godown owner Pankaj Garg and his father are absconding, police said. “There is extreme heat inside the building, causing hindrance in the examination. After the remains are retrieved, they will be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Rohini for DNA profiling. The samples will be collected from the family members of those reported missing for DNA matching, which will help us in ascertaining the identity,” said DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh. During a search operation at 7 a.m. on Tuesday, Assistant Divisional Officer Rajesh Kumar Shukla also sustained severe injuries as he slipped from the staircase of the building, said a senior fire official. He sustained injuries in his ribs and is undergoing treatment at Balaji Action hospital, he said. A three-member team of forensic experts from FSL visited the spot on Tuesday for an examination, but they could not carry out their operation due to the extreme heat inside the building. “Once the temperature reduces, our team will visit the spot again,” said an FSL official. Prima facie, an electric short-circuit is suspected to be the reason but only a detailed examination will reveal the exact cause of the fire. The terrace of the two-storey building has collapsed and due to extreme heat and water used to douse the blaze, the structure of the building remains weak, a senior police officer said. The police said they have written to the civic authority concerned seeking details about the building’s plan and its legality. No fire safety The building did not have any fire safety equipment in place and was heavily jammed with highly combustible materials due to which the fire spread faster, according to fire officials. “We are scanning the building and its adjacent premises. Our teams have managed to enter some parts of the building,” the officer said. The building has been declared dangerous by the area's civic body on Monday following the blaze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/day-after-godown-fire-human-remains-found/article34920520.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Not allowed to fly without RT-PCR report, man creates ruckus at IGIA||A man from Uttar Pradesh was arrested for creating ruckus at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) after allegedly being denied boarding by an airline for not carrying a mandatory RT-PCR test report, the police said on Tuesday. The 36-year-old passenger, Suraj Pandey, a businessman, was arrested on Monday based on a complaint received from Deputy Manager of Vistara Airlines Deepak Chadha. Mr. Chadha said the passenger had come to IGIA’s Vistara airline counter to board his flight for Mumbai but did not have an RT-PCR report, which is mandatory as per government guidelines. He was then not allowed to board the aircraft, the police said. The airline official said at 3 p.m., Mr. Pandey turned violent and started shouting. “He got onto the baggage belt and started walking on it,” the police said. DCP (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said: “From the contents of the complaint, CCTV footage and enquiry conducted so far, Mr. Pandey committed offence under relevant sections of the Delhi Police Act. Subsequently, he was arrested, and his medical examination was also conducted.” Since it was a bailable offence, the accused passenger was released on bail and will be produced before a court here, he added. An official statement issued by the Vistara spokesperson said: “He behaved badly with our staff and other customers. His acts threatened the safety of ground operations. We have provided a full refund of the booking to the customer and notified the authorities of the incident.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/not-allowed-to-fly-without-rt-pcr-report-man-creates-ruckus-at-igia/article34920516.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Police file FIR in DSSSB exam questions case||The Delhi Police registered a case against unknown persons following the HC’s in a case of caste-based questions being allegedly asked in the primary teachers’ recruitment exam by the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB), officials said on Tuesday. The FIR was registered on Monday against unknown persons. The court said whether the DSSSB was aware of the contents of the papers set or not, is a matter which can be ascertained only through investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-file-fir-in-dsssb-exam-questions-case/article34920515.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for cheating people on the pretext of providing them jobs||A 28-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of providing them jobs, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said the accused has been identified as Ashish Rana, a resident of Najafgarh. The police said they received a complaint by one Sartaj Khurana on June 12, who said he had received a call from a woman named Muskan — “executive of a leading job portal”. She had asked him to pay Rs. 10 on their websitewww.naukricareer.in., promising him a job. Next, the victim paid Rs. 10 but instead Rs. 5,000 got debited from his account. During investigation, the police nabbed the accused. During interrogation, the accused allegedly told police that he used to purchase data of job seekers from job portals and create similar websites before calling the victims. The accused would ask them to pay Rs. 10 on the payment page of his fake website, which would direct them to a payment gateway. This way he would get all the details added by the victim and make further transactions. “From the online accounts, the money is routed to fake bank accounts and taken out via ATMs the same day. Accused further disclosed that he along with his accomplices had been operating several websites from last one year,” Mr. Meena said, adding that efforts are being made to trace his accomplices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-for-cheating-people-on-the-pretext-of-providing-them-jobs/article34920518.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||76-yr-old man held for killing his wife over ‘family issues’||A 76-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing his wife in north-east Delhi’s New Usmanpur on Tuesday afternoon, the police said. A senior officer said a PCR call was received regarding the murder of an elderly woman in Brahmpuri. On reaching the spot, the police found 70-year-old Zenab lying dead and her daughter-in-law injured. The two were rushed to hospital where Zenab was declared brought dead and her daughter-in-law was discharged after treatment. During investigation, it was revealed that Zenab’s husband Haji Abdul Kareem often quarreled with her over family issues. A similar incident took place on Tuesday when Kareem got a kitchen knife and slit her throat. “When the daughter-in-law tried to intervene, she also got injured,” the officer said. A case under relevant sections was registered. The couple has four sons and two daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/76-yr-old-man-held-for-killing-his-wife-over-family-issues/article34920522.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth held for abducting 15-year-old girl||A 19-year-old youth has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping a minor from south Delhi’s Neb Sarai, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said the accused has been identified as Tanzeel Ahmed, a carpenter, who belongs from Bijnor. The police said they received a complaint from a 25-year-old man that his 15-year-old sister has been missing since 7 a.m. on Monday. The victim’s elder sister suspected the involvement of a boy whom the minor had met on a dating application, said an officer. A kidnapping case was then registered and investigation was taken up. A team was sent to Bijnor with the girl’s family from where she was rescued. “The girl is a student of Class VIII. Further investigation is in progress,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/youth-held-for-abducting-15-year-old-girl/article34920521.ece
23 June 2021||Mumbai,||Won’t arrest Param Bir till July 3, govt. tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court that it would not arrest senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh till July 3 in a case registered against him under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, appearing for the State government, said his earlier statement that the police would not arrest the former Mumbai Police Commissioner, would continue till July 3. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar posted a petition filed by Mr. Singh, seeking quashing of the FIR registered against him on a complaint of police inspector Bhimrao Ghadge, for hearing on July 2. On that day, the court would also hear another petition filed by the senior IPS officer challenging two enquiries set up against him by the State government. Mr. Ghadge made a series of allegations of corruption against Mr. Singh and other officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/wont-arrest-param-bir-till-july-3-govt-tells-hc/article34920534.ece
23 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra adds 8,470 fresh COVID-19 cases, 188 deaths; 9,043 patients recover||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 8,470 new novel coronavirus cases — up from 6,270 cases a day ago — taking its COVID-19 tally to 59,87,521, while 188 fresh deaths pushed the toll to 1,18,795, the State Health Department said. As many as 9,043 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered cases to 57,42,258, a statement said. There are now 1,23,340 active cases in the State, where the recovery rate is 95.9%, while the fatality rate is 1.98%. The Health Department said 2,16,861 people were tested for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours and added that so far, 3,98,86,554 tests had been conducted. Mumbai city reported 568 new cases and 10 deaths, taking its infection tally to 7,21,099 and the toll to 15,315. In the wider Mumbai division, comprising the city and its satellite towns, there were 1,784 cases and 33 deaths. This took the cumulative caseload in the region to 15,79,123 and the deaths to 31,401. The Nashik division recorded 662 cases and 19 deaths. The Pune division added 2,206 cases and 37 deaths, of which 17 came from Satara district alone, the statement said. The Kolhapur division registered 3,019 fresh cases and 66 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-adds-8470-fresh-covid-19-cases-188-deaths-9043-patients-recover/article34920536.ece
23 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Protest: traffic diversion in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Traffic Police have announced a diversion in vehicular movement on Thursday, anticipating a law and order situation caused by the protest planned by project affected people and BJP workers against the naming of the Navi Mumbai international airport. Even though the police are yet to give permission, organisers claim close to one lakh people will participate. All heavy motor vehicles and light motor vehicles travelling from Mumbai towards Pune will be diverted from Airoli toll plaza via Mahape-Shilphata road to reach Kalamboli. Vehicles from Pune will be diverted from Purusharth petrol pump at Kalamboli to Airoli via Taloja MIDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/protest-traffic-diversion-in-navi-mumbai/article34920537.ece
23 June 2021||Hong Kong,||Press must not subvert government: Lam||Media outlets in Hong Kong must not “subvert” the government, the city’s leader said on Tuesday, rejecting U.S. criticism of recent action against a pro-democracy newspaper under a powerful new security law. Hong Kong has long hosted a vibrant international and local media scene but press freedoms have slipped dramatically in recent years. Last week, authorities froze the assets of Hong Kong’s largest pro-democracy newspaper Apple Daily , using the national security law Beijing imposed on the city in 2020. Two of the paper’s executives were charged with “collusion”, a national security crime, over what police said were articles calling for international sanctions against China and Hong Kong’s leaders. “It’s not a problem to criticise the Hong Kong government, but if there is an intent to organise activities to incite the subversion of the government then that is, of course, a different thing,” Chief Executive Carrie Lam said when asked about Apple Daily and press freedom in the city. “Media friends should have the ability to distinguish between them,” she added during her weekly press conference. Unlike mainland China, where the press is overwhelmingly state-owned and heavily censored, semi-autonomous Hong Kong has free speech protections baked into its mini-Constitution. But an ongoing campaign by China to root out dissent after pro-democracy protests in 2019 has deepened unease over the business hub’s future. The new security law has criminalised a host of political views and the action against Apple Daily has left the media wondering what opinions or reporting could trigger an investigation. U.S. criticism rejected Echoing other officials, Ms. Lam said the prosecution of Apple Daily was not an attack on “normal journalistic work” and that the paper was trying to undermine China’s national security. The U.S. was among multiple Western nations that criticised the police operation against Apple Daily , saying it undermined press freedoms as well as Hong Kong’s reputation as a safe place to do business. Ms. Lam rejected those suggestions. “Don’t try to accuse the Hong Kong authorities of using the national security law as a tool to suppress the media, or to stifle the freedom of expression,” she said. “All those accusations made by the U.S. government, I’m afraid, are wrong.”  Apple Daily has long been a thorn in Beijing’s side, with unapologetic support for the pro-democracy movement and scathing criticism of authoritarian leaders. The arrests and asset freeze last week have crippled its ability to continue operations. In a Facebook update, the paper’s union said it had been told Saturday would be the last edition if management decide to fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/press-must-not-subvert-government-lam/article34920246.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Why is China targeting cryptocurrencies?||The price of the world’s most prominent cryptocurrency Bitcoin has more than halved in the last two months after hitting a peak in mid-April. The second-most valuable cryptocurrency, Ether, has seen a similar fall from its peak last month. China’s crackdown against cryptocurrencies, which are those that aren’t sanctioned by a centralised authority and are secured by cryptography, is said to have a lot to do with the crashing of the value of cryptocurrencies. What has China done? In recent weeks, China has reportedly cracked down on crypto mining operations. The country has over the years accounted for a large percentage of the total crypto mining activity that takes place. In purpose, Bitcoin miners play a similar role to gold miners — they bring new Bitcoins into circulation. They get these as a reward for validating transactions, which require the successful computation of a mathematical puzzle. And these computations have become ever-increasingly complex, and therefore energy-intensive in recent years. Huge mining operations are now inevitable if one is to mine Bitcoins. Access to cheap electricity has made mining lucrative in China. According to the Cambridge Bitcoin Electricity Consumption Index, China accounted for nearly two-thirds of the total computational power last year. Xinjiang and Sichuan provinces accounted for nearly half of this. Now, provincial governments one by one have acted against these mining operations. The latest to do so is Sichuan, which was a hydroelectric-based crypto mining hub. But that’s not all. A few days back, the People's Bank of China directed banks and payment firms to pull the plug on cryptocurrency trading. Actually, there is little change in the policy as far as China is concerned. It first imposed restrictions on cryptocurrencies way back in 2013. It then barred financial institutions from handling Bitcoin. Four years later, it barred what are called initial coin offerings, under which firms raise money by selling their own new cryptocurrencies. This is largely an unregulated market. What China wants? An inter-ministerial committee report in India two years ago noted that in 2017, the government of China also banned trading between RMB (China’s currency renminbi) and cryptocurrencies. It said, “Before the ban, RMB made up 90% of Bitcoin trades worldwide. In under a year, the trades between RMB and Bitcoin had fallen to under 1% of the world total.” The report also noted that China had decided to prohibit mining within its jurisdiction. While the miners had stopped their activities for some time, the steep increase in the price of Bitcoin had brought many back into action. The fact that cryptocurrencies bypass official institutions has been a reason for unease in many governments. Not just that. The anonymity that it offers aids in the flourishing of dark trades online. While many countries have opted to regulate the world of cryptocurrencies, China has taken the strictest of measures over the years. According to observers, the latest set of measures are to strengthen its monetary hold and also project its new official digital currency. An AFP report said, “China launched tests for a digital yuan in March. Its aim is to allow Beijing to conduct transactions in its own currency around the world, reducing dependency on the dollar which remains dominant internationally.” Offshore platforms This time, its focus is on what has been a loophole all along — of offshore platforms enabling those in China to trade in cryptocurrencies. A Reuters report said the People’s Bank of China asked banks and payment firms to “identify those involved in cryptocurrency transactions and promptly cut their payment channels.” It said, “China Construction Bank, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) , Agricultural Bank of China (AgBank) and Postal Savings Bank of China attended the meeting, along with Alipay, the ubiquitous payment platform owned byfintechgiantAnt Group.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/why-is-china-targeting-cryptocurrencies/article34920249.ece
23 June 2021||Washington,||No military solution to Afghan situation, U.S. tells Taliban||The United States’ UN Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield told the Taliban that there is no “military solution” in Afghanistan, as American troops approach a September 11 deadline for complete withdrawal from the country after two decades there. Afghanistan has seen an increasing level of violence in recent months, as the Taliban makes territorial gains. “To the Taliban, we reiterate that the military path will not lead to legitimacy. As many of us have stated, including my colleagues on this Council from Europe, Russia and China, there is no military solution in Afghanistan. The world would not recognise the establishment in Afghanistan of any government imposed by force, nor the restoration of the Islamic Emirate. There is only one way forward and negotiated and inclusive political settlement, through an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned process,” Ms. Thomas Greenfield told the UN Security Council at a virtual meeting on Afghanistan, which included External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Afghanistan’s Foreign Affairs Minister Mohammed Hanfeef Atmar. “…The parties to this conflict must press forward on a peaceful resolution in Afghanistan which protects the gains of the last two decades…,” Ms. Thomas-Greenfield said, adding that there was an “unacceptable” level of violence against women, girls and ethnic and religious minorities. “We will use our full diplomatic, economic and assistance toolkit to support the peaceful, stable future, the Afghan people want and deserve. And we will continue to support the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces in securing their country,” Ms. Thomas- Greenfield said. The U.S. intelligence and defence establishments are still working out how they will gather intelligence and conduct counter-terrorism operations in Afghanistan after September 11 this year, the New York Times reported. Last week, NATO committed to training Afghan security forces after U.S. troops withdraw from the country. “Everyone who can influence the parties involved, including Afghanistan’s neighbours, should step up now to secure the region and promote peace and stability. Like us, Afghanistan’s neighbours want to ensure terrorists can never use Afghanistan to threaten the security of any country. An Afghanistan at peace with itself and its neighbours can link the economies of South and Central Asia, and provide safety and security for all,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-military-solution-to-afghan-situation-us-tells-taliban/article34920250.ece
23 June 2021||Geneva,||At UNHRC, ‘grave concerns’ raised over Xinjiang||More than 40 countries led by Canada voiced grave concerns at the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on Tuesday about China’s actions in Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Tibet — triggering a fierce backlash from Beijing. The widely anticipated joint statement had been in the pipeline for several days and was delivered on day two of the 47th session of the council in Geneva. “We are gravely concerned about the human rights situation in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region,” Canada’s Ambassador Leslie Norton said. The statement was backed by Australia, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain and the U.S., among others. Beijing must allow UN rights chief Michelle Bachelet and other independent observers “immediate, meaningful and unfettered access” to Xinjiang, and end the “arbitrary detention” of Uighurs and other Muslim minorities, it said. “Credible reports indicate that over a million people have been arbitrarily detained in Xinjiang and that there is widespread surveillance disproportionately targeting Uighurs and members of other minorities and restrictions on fundamental freedoms and Uighur culture,” it said. The statement cited reports of torture or cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment or punishment, forced sterilisation, sexual and gender-based violence, and forced separation of children from their parents. Aware that the statement was coming, China responded — before it was delivered. Beijing’s representative read out a statement on behalf of a group of countries “deeply concerned about serious human rights violations against the indigenous people in Canada”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-unhrc-grave-concerns-raised-over-xinjiang/article34920244.ece
23 June 2021||Washington,||U.S. shares plan to allocate 55 mn vaccine doses globally||The Biden administration, on Monday announced how it would allocate 55 million of the 80 million doses from its vaccine supply to other countries. It is unclear how many doses India will receive in this second allocation. The administration already outlined its plans to share the first 25 million doses of its stockpile both bilaterally and via COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access, abbreviated as COVAX — an international coalition to distribute vaccines globally. Three quarters of the 80 million are being shared via COVAX and one quarter directly. Of the 80 million, 60 million are AstraZeneca vaccines, not yet approved for use in the U.S. Of the 55 million doses, 41 million will be shared via COVAX. Of this, approximately 14 million will go to Asian countries, including India, some 10 million for Africa (coordinated by the African Union) and approximately 16 million for Latin American countries. Another 14 million doses will be shared “with regional priorities and other recipients”, the White House statement said. This includes African, Asian, Eastern European and South American countries as well as three South Asian countries — Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The specific number of vaccines will be determined and shared as the administration works through logistical and regulatory specifics for each region, the White House said. At the G7 in the U.K. last week, President Joe Biden announced that the U.S. would purchase and donate 500 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine to low and middle-income countries. The G7 also committed to provide a total of 1 billion vaccine doses from this summer onwards. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has estimated that the world needs 11 billion vaccines to respond to end the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-shares-plan-to-allocate-55-mn-vaccine-doses-globally/article34920252.ece
23 June 2021||Kabul,||Taliban capture Afghanistan’s main Tajikistan border crossing||The Taliban captured Afghanistan’s main border crossing with Tajikistan, officials said on Tuesday, with security forces abandoning their posts and some fleeing across the frontier. The seizure of Shir Khan Bandar, in the far north of Afghanistan, about 50 km from Kunduz city, is the most significant gain for the Taliban since the United States began the final stage of its troop withdrawal in May. “Unfortunately this morning and after an hour of fighting, the Taliban captured Shir Khan port and the town and all the border check posts with Tajikistan,” said Kunduz provincial council member Khaliddin Hakmi. Separately, an Army officer said: “We were forced to leave all check posts... and some of our soldiers crossed the border into Tajikistan.” “By morning, Taliban fighters were everywhere, hundreds of them,” he added, on condition of anonymity. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid confirmed the insurgents had seized the crossing, across the Pyanj River. “Our Mujahideen are in full control of Shir Khan Bandar and all the border crossings with Tajikistan in Kunduz,” he said. Insurgents and Afghan forces were engaged in fierce battles on Monday on the outskirts of Kunduz city itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-capture-afghanistans-main-tajikistan-border-crossing/article34920253.ece
23 June 2021||Yangon,||Six killed in Myanmar clashes||Four protesters and at least two officers were killed as Myanmar soldiers battled an anti-junta civilian militia with small arms and grenades in the country’s second city Tuesday, authorities and military sources said. Fighting has flared across Myanmar since the February coup as people form “defence forces” to battle a brutal military crackdown on dissent, but clashes have largely been restricted to rural areas. Acting on a tip-off, security forces raided a house in Mandalay’s Chan Mya Tharsi township on Tuesday morning, the junta’s information team said in a statement, and were met with small arms fire and grenades. Two officers were killed during the raid, military sources told AFP, and at least ten were wounded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/six-killed-in-myanmar-clashes/article34920247.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Countering a political act that has a legal garb||Aisha Sultana, a film-maker from Lakshadweep, was recently booked for the alleged offences of sedition and statements prejudicial to national integrity. A crime was registered based on a complaint by a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Ms. Sultana then moved the Kerala High Court for pre-arrest bail. The court allowed interim bail to her on June 17. Ms. Sultana thus got temporary relief from incarceration. The court will pass its final orders in the application shortly. Ms. Sultana’s case is only one among the numerous sedition cases recently registered in the country. In Lakshadweep, people have had sedition slapped against them for putting up placards or posters against the Prime Minister. Ms. Sultana’s case also reveals the regime’s political strategy to threaten dissidents. Background and implications Ms. Sultana is alleged to have used the word ‘bioweapon’ in a television discussion about the recent developments in Lakshadweep and its draft reforms. She said it while deliberating over the Lakshadweep Administrator’s actions and omissions that allegedly contributed to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic on the island, which was free from the virus in 2020. Ms. Sultana indicated in her petition before the court and to the media that she is apologetic about the word used. In an interview she said that her “bioweapon remark” was a “mistake” and that she was “entrapped”. Hindutva forces have relied heavily on this subsequent posture which she publicly made, to strengthen their stand. They tried to create a false sense of moral victory and legitimacy to back their position, which they thoroughly lack. Ms. Sultana is not a political activist. And it is probable that she may not be very articulate or even be able to present strong arguments on the affairs of the nation. It seemed like she was partly accusing herself or acknowledging the ‘mistake’ in some way. This self-accusation was, however, unwarranted. When the purpose of the sedition law is to curtail opposing ideas, her rescission had the effect of legitimising the state’s wrongful action. Lessons from history Ms. Sultana’s case is a case study for those who are concerned about the country’s liberal values. The offence of sedition under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was inserted in the Code in 1870. In the great trial of 1922, Mahatma Gandhi, charged with sedition, described the provision as “perhaps the prince among the political sections of the IPC designed to suppress the liberty of the citizen.” Gandhiji, who himself was a lawyer, made two points in his statement given on March 18, 1922. One, he admitted the charge of preaching disaffection towards the then existing regime. Two, he justified his act and said that it was his duty to do so as it is “a sin to have affection for the system (under the British Raj)”. He explained that “Affection cannot be manufactured or regulated by law. If one has no affection for a person or system, one should be free to give the fullest expression to his disaffection so long as he does not contemplate, promote, or incite to violence. (https://bit.ly/3vP9S2x)” This statement is not only political but also legal. Curiously, this assertion that Gandhiji made in the court was indirectly laid down as the law by the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court of India in Kedar Nath Singh (1962) which said that incitement to violence is the gist of the offence of sedition . This proposition was followed by the top court consistently, till Vinod Dua (2021), where the Court said that a journalist cannot be booked for sedition for expressing dissent. The law was clear even when Gandhiji was convicted and sentenced. Evidently, the charge and the conviction were political, not legal. Even today, the very registration of crimes against political opponents under the draconian laws is essentially a political act, though it takes a legal form. According to the report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), between 2016 and 2019 there was a 160% increase in the registration of sedition cases whereas the conviction rate during this period fell from 33.3% to 3.3%. Thus, the process itself becomes the punishment.  Therefore, one needs to build up a political defence as well as legal defence against such charges. Litigation is not merely a means for the redress of grievance. When the charges are under ‘political sections’, as Gandhiji eloquently described, they need to be countered by a political praxis as well. Only such a course would expose the egregious motive of the state in accusing its citizens of the offence of sedition without any legal or factual foundation whatsoever. Only such a resistance would be able to re-educate our judicial institutions constitutionally and historically, and to ensure dialogic democracy. Unfortunately, Ms. Sultana’s subsequent expression of regret does not pass this political test. She could have asserted that the word she used was correct and proper. It was possible for her to justify it as an imagery capable of exposing the regime’s unprincipled approach in Lakshadweep. It needs to be told that the British Raj used the draconian provision only when they alleged that a speech or a writing resulted in violence,or there was at least a remote connection between the overt act and social disturbance. Bal Gangadhar Tilak was tried in 1897 on an accusation that the articles in Kesari , a Marathi paper owned by him, incited violence that led to the killing of two British officers. Tilak was convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 18 months. In 1908, he was again tried and later sentenced for writing “seditious” articles and by connecting them with certain instances of ‘social disorder’. Post-Independence, in Kedar Nath Singh , the accusation among others, was that Kedar Nath, a Forward Communist Party leader, had asserted his belief in a revolution “in the flames of which the capitalists, zamindars, and the Congress leaders of India….will be reduced to ashes....” The Court said that “comments, however strongly worded, expressing disapprobation of actions of the Government, without exciting those feelings which generate the inclination to cause public disorder by acts of violence, would not be penal”. In Balwant Singh (1995), slogans for an independent Sikh nation were found to be not seditious for want of the ingredient of incitement to violence. None of these prominent cases relied on the mere use of words to make out the offence. A new judicial activism But after 2014, cases of sedition are frequently and intentionally registered solely based on words spoken, written, or tweeted. This can have a chilling effect on people’s movements. The clear political object behind the invocation of the law is to create an atmosphere of fear. This, in a way, is the price which the country had to pay for the retention of the law of sedition, among other draconian laws. Therefore, the Supreme Court of India and the High Courts should take suo motu cognisance of the incidents where the state ostensibly uses draconian laws to suppress criticism and protest. This is difficult, but not impossible. Such suo motu proceedings would reflect the kind of judicial activism that our time demands. The organised Bar, especially at the State level, must perform its libertarian role by constantly demanding for a judiciary that values freedom and acts for it. Kaleeswaram Raj is a lawyer in the Supreme Court of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/countering-a-political-act-that-has-a-legal-garb/article34920234.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The politics of an aerial snare||On May 23, a Ryanair flight was forced to make an emergency landing in Minsk by a MiG-29 fighter jet of Belarus. The dissident Belarussian journalist, Roman Protasevich, who was travelling in the commercial, civilian aircraft, was subsequently arrested. The whole operation, it is alleged, was carried out on the orders of President Alexander Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus for 27 years. Global reaction The incident received considerable global attention. The European Union (EU) and the U.S. denounced it and called for a thorough investigation by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). EU-based carriers have since heeded the call to avoid overflight of Belarus. Belarusian flights have been barred from overflying EU airspace or landing at its airports. Air France, British Airways, Lufthansa, KLM and a host of other airlines have implemented their own suspensions. At a special meeting convened on May 27, the ICAO Council expressed strong concern at the incident and launched a fact-finding investigation. Official requests for information were sent out to the countries involved in the event. Belarus and Poland have provided some preliminary details. Information is awaited from Greece, Ireland, Lithuania and Switzerland. An interim report is expected to be presented to the ICAO Council by the end of its current session, on or near June 23. The report is expected to be considered only at the next session, which begins on September 13. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen called the incident an “attack on democracy”, an “attack on freedom of expression”, and an “attack on European sovereignty”. The U.S., EU, and the U.K. have slapped further sanctions on Belarus. How justified was Belarus in taking such a decision? The answer lies at the junction of Belarus’s domestic laws as a sovereign country and international laws governing the action that states can legitimately take to deal with threats to security, real or perceived. Not the first of its kind The flight that the 26-year-old fugitive blogger boarded was operated by the Irish low-cost airline, Ryanair. It was on its way from Greece to Lithuania. While traversing the airspace of Belarus, an ostensible ‘bomb scare’ forced the aircraft to make an emergency landing in Minsk for standard checks. It turned out to be a false alarm. Mr. Protasevich, whose presence on board is suspected to be the real reason behind the action, was taken into custody soon after. According to media reports, Mr. Protasevich, who had fled Belarus for Poland in 2019, had been in Greece to attend an economic conference with other Belarusian dissidents. There, the blogger also covered the visit of exiled Belarus Opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya. If convicted, he could face a long prison term or worse. After all, Belarus is the only country in Europe that hands down the death penalty. Mr. Protasevich’s case is not the first of its kind. Abdolmalek Rigi, head of the Jundullah militant group, accused by Iran for fomenting attacks in the province of Sistan-Baluchistan, was similarly arrested in February 2010. According to Iranian media reports, Rigi’s plane was forced to land in Bandar Abbas by Iranian aircraft while on a flight from Dubai to Bishkek in Kyrgyzstan. Rigi was subsequently tried and executed. Itek Air, a small Bishkek-based airline, folded up in 2010 for unrelated reasons. There is no direct parallel between Mr. Protasevich and Rigi except that both men were wanted by the governments of their respective countries and their custody was secured through very unconventional means. Pressure to divert passenger aircraft from preordained flight paths could be on grounds of a security threat or for political reasons. In 2013, during the manhunt by the U.S. for National Security Agency whistle-blower Edward Snowden, Bolivian President Evo Morales’s plane was forced to land in Austria after several European countries refused the aircraft permission to enter their airspace, allegedly due to pressure from the U.S. According to reports, there was suspicion that Mr. Snowden might have boarded the President’s plane in Moscow. As it turned out, Mr. Snowden, who later obtained asylum and stayed on in Moscow, was not in the aircraft. Following the incident, seven Latin American countries voiced their concerns to the then UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-Moon, who asserted that “a Head of State and his or her aircraft enjoy immunity and inviolability”. An issue with many dimensions The issue of the use of military aircraft to neutralise potential threats posed by civilian aircraft acquired a different kind of urgency in the aftermath of terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001. Generally speaking, international law grants sovereignty to nations over their airspace as it does in territorial waters. The Convention on International Civil Aviation, better known as the Chicago Convention of 1944, to which Belarus is a signatory state, prohibits any unlawful intervention against a civilian aircraft. At the same time, it has various provisions under Article 9 which permit a sovereign state the right to impose restrictions, including enforced landings at a designated airport in its territory, in “exceptional circumstances or during a period of emergency, or in the interest of public safety”. Once a flight has landed, Article 16 provides the host country the right to board/search the aircraft. This is probably the clause that provided cover for the local authorities to board Mr. Morales’s aircraft in Austria in 2013. But the Chicago Convention applies only to civilian aircraft of the contracting parties. In this case, the national carrier, Belavia Belarusian Airlines, is not involved though it is part of the targeted sanctions by the EU. International law might also have to be examined in light of the International Air Services Transit Agreement (IASTA), also concluded in Chicago in 1944. According to this agreement, contracting states grant to one another the freedom of air transit in respect of scheduled international air services, that is, the privilege to fly across territories without landing. Belarus is not a signatory of IASTA. For that matter, neither is Russia, which is the main supporter of Mr. Lukashenko. Given the multiple interpretations possible under the Chicago Convention and related agreements, the investigation could be a long-drawn-out affair. The International Court of Justice does consider ICAO-related cases, but it cannot enforce its decisions. The United Nations Security Council is a divided house and, in any case, does not consider unlisted agenda unless the case constitutes a major threat to international peace and security. This is not a matter that easily lends itself to technical consideration, given that it goes beyond the issue of a forced landing of a civilian airliner to encompass broader geopolitical issues. A meaningful outcome from the ICAO investigation may therefore prove evasive. Sujan R. Chinoy, a former Ambassador, is the Director General of the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi; views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-politics-of-an-aerial-snare/article34920242.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The picture is clear, it is top-down misinformation||When asked what source of false or misleading information about the novel coronavirus they are most concerned about, many more Indians highlight domestic political actors than worry about activist groups, foreign governments, or journalists. Source of prime concern Nearly one in four (23%) in our recent survey say that the Government, politicians or political parties are the source they are most concerned about. That is more people than worry about misinformation from platforms such as Facebook (16%) or YouTube (14%). Among platforms, only messaging applications (e.g. WhatsApp) generate more widespread public concern among our respondents. They are named by 28%. Meanwhile, Indian authorities often seem mostly interested in going after alleged misinformation from activists (only 9% of our Indian survey respondents identify activist groups as the most concerning source of false or misleading information about the coronavirus), select journalists and news organisations (named by 13%), or on Twitter (which just 4% identify as the platform they are most concerned about). Our survey (https://bit.ly/3xECltc) only covers English-speaking Internet users in India, so while it captures an important minority, the data are not representative of India’s overall population. Still, it provides insight into how many Indians see the “infodemic” that has accompanied the pandemic, an immense wave of information that, unfortunately, also includes some false and misleading material, rumours, and attempts to exploit the crisis for propaganda or for profit. The picture is clear — many Indians think that misinformation about the pandemic often comes from the top. Are they right? Both academic research and independent journalism suggest that they might well be. ‘Network propaganda’ Study after study around the world has found such “network propaganda” (https://bit.ly/3zQ1djM), where misinformation is spread by some top politicians, nakedly partisan news media who cheer them on, and well-organised communities of political supporters active on social media and messaging applications. Top-down misinformation from politicians, celebrities, and other prominent public figures are a small part of the false and misleading claims one can come across online in terms of raw volume, but our research (https://bit.ly/3zJKVst) during the pandemic shows it accounts for a large share of social media engagement. Even when political actors are not busy drumming up outright propaganda in the media and on digital platforms, authorities also sometimes risk misleading the public in other ways. In country after country, reporters have found that official COVID-19 death tolls are far lower than the actual excess deaths recorded during the pandemic – as The Hindu found in Tamil Nadu (https://bit.ly/3gWGyBG) by comparing Civil Registration System data with the officially reported figure. Unproven claims And politicians have sometimes promoted supposed coronavirus remedies with no scientific basis. Former President of the United States Donald Trump and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro are prominent international examples. In India, some politicians have, for example, claimed that cow urine can protect people against COVID-19, even as the Indian Medical Association (IMA) pointed out there was absolutely no evidence for this, just as the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare last year came under severe criticism from for recommending a range of unproved, alternative remedies to prevent or treat the disease. Some misinformation circulates peer-to-peer on social media and on encrypted messaging services as people share supposed miracle cures and ineffective alternative health tips in good faith or carelessly. This can create problems. But arguably, far more problematic is when people in positions of authority and prominent public figures promote measures that have no scientific basis in the middle of a deadly pandemic. Examples from India One prominent example is the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Haryana State government announcing last month that it would hand out one lakh Coronil kits to COVID-19 patients for free. The ayurvedic remedy was launched in June last year by Baba Ramdev’s company, Patanjali Ayurved, and at a press conference the yoga guru claimed (https://bit.ly/3gKUPCI) the remedy guaranteed “100 per cent recovery from COVID-19 within seven days of consuming the medicine”. Hours later, the central government asked Patanjali Ayurved to stop advertising the drug (https://bit.ly/3gVPjfd) and the Uttarakhand Ayurveda Department responsible for licensing the remedy pointed out the licence was for an immunity booster, not a cure. In February this year, Ramdev’s company falsely claimed Coronil was certified by the World Health Organization (WHO) — a claim WHO immediately pointed out was untrue. And the yoga guru appeared at an event with Union Minister of Health Harsh Vardhan promoting alternative medicines for COVID-19 patients, leading the IMA to ask the Minister how ethical it is “to promote the product in unethical, wrong and false ways to the whole country? (https://bit.ly/3wMJjwk)” The promotion and provision of what the IMA describes as an “unscientific medicine” marketed with “false and baseless” claims is an example of how misleading information from prominent public figures and people in positions of authority can lead to bigger problems than random falsehoods spread by ordinary people online and offline. If authorities in India are serious about addressing misinformation, they might take a cue from the fact that much of the Indian public clearly recognise that misinformation often comes from the top, and spend less time worrying about activists, journalists, and Twitter, and more time thinking about how to ensure that citizens can trust that the health remedies promoted by their own governments and by prominent political figures are actually safe and effective. Professor Rasmus Kleis Nielsen is Director of the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism at the University of Oxford and co-author of the ‘2021 Reuters Institute Digital News Report’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-picture-is-clear-it-is-top-down-misinformation/article34920236.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Chores and conversations: how to keep children engaged||The pandemic-related lockdowns have not been easy for anyone, but they have been particularly difficult for children, parents, teachers and the elderly. Learning from home Children have been mostly indoors for over a year. Toddlers may not remember this period later, but for older children, there is little at home to stimulate their curious, active minds. With schools remaining shut, children have been attending online classes. Many parents have reported that their children, especially in the 4-6 age group, have been finding it hard to focus during online classes. Mothers have said during counselling sessions that their children have shown disinterest and lack of motivation. Some don’t participate during class; they keep themselves busy on their parents’ phones and other gaming sites, or by chatting with their friends. To make matters worse, children are inclined to unwind after a long day of virtual learning by again being on their gadgets. Parents deal with this problem in various ways: they grab and hide the devices, turn the WiFi off, and beg and plead with their children to fall in line. But these requests often fall on deaf ears and finally the parents give in. Once the pandemic ends, a great challenge is going to be to cure children of their screen addiction. Studies have found that limiting the use of online time can lead to significant reductions in loneliness and depression.  Since this is a new system for schools too, teachers are unable to constantly keep track of what the children are up to. Online tests and assessments cannot always be monitored. Some parents have said that they have caught their children cheating during tests. Teachers too are heading towards a burnout. They have had to learn new ways of making virtual classes engaging and fun and prepare content accordingly. While in the classroom, teachers give special attention to children with learning difficulties, this hasn’t been possible during the pandemic. Children with dyslexia, dyscalculia, etc. have it especially hard at a time like this. It has become almost entirely the parents’ responsibility to help the child, when they themselves are overburdened. With no day-care centres, after-school care centres, play dates, sleepovers, birthday parties and so on, it has become the task of the parents to help in their children’s education, look after them, and entertain them, all while doing their own work. Higher school students have reported different issues. There have been challenges in learning in the absence of laboratories and field visits. Many are set to graduate from school without having met their friends for over a year. While this may not be a problem for all students and some enjoy being at home, others may find it more challenging to re-enter social life and should do so slowly. Entrance exams have been postponed for college admissions and so, students feel demotivated to prepare. Further, the pandemic has exacerbated the divide between the rich and poor. The lesser privileged children who have had little or no access to smartphones, computers and Internet have reported feeling dejected. School dropouts are becoming a problem. How can parents help? While the situation can improve only when the pandemic abates and schools reopen, parents and teachers can do a few things to keep the children happy and engaged. If parents are proactive and positive, this could have a big impact on their children. Children pick up quickly on parents’ fears and so it is important for parents to remain calm and patient and meet their children’s concerns in an age-appropriate manner. If parents show that they are resilient, children too will learn to be that way. To keep the children engaged at home, parents can assign them tasks and chores. They can train their children to cook, clean, and focus on basic hygiene. All this will help the children throughout their adult life. Parents should also look out for signs that indicate that the child is having trouble coping. If children are unable to follow a routine, sleep poorly, and constantly complain of anxiety, fear, etc., parents should take note. All these emotions could have a long-term impact on the children. Parents can also set an example by doing a digital detox. Spending time with young children and listening to their stories is important as they require a lot of attention. If parents are unavailable, children will seek out others online, which could be dangerous. Pursuing hobbies, exercising, and hitting the outdoors while following COVID-19 protocols will all help keep the body and mind active and refreshed. Each child is unique and needs to be dealt with differently. Nandini Raman is a Chennai-based counsellor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/chores-and-conversations-how-to-keep-children-engaged/article34920239.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A welcome spike||India began the week with a record, by administering over 8.6 million doses of vaccine on a single day, an impressive feat even from a global perspective. For most of May, India struggled to deliver over 2 million doses a day and beginning June, managed to hike it to over 3 million doses daily. These are substantial numbers, but inadequate, given that the benefits of mass vaccination would be discernible — in terms of reducing hospitalisation and mortality — only after a large percentage of the population is inoculated. By that metric, India is a global laggard with only 17% of the population covered by at least one dose and less than 4% by two. The U.S., in comparison, has inoculated at least 53% and the U.K. 64% with a single dose. In that light, India on a single day being able to administer over twice the previous weeks’ daily average makes plausible the Centre’s aspiration to inoculate all of India’s adult population by the year-end. So far, about 25% of them have been administered at least one dose and to reach the 944 million adult population, it requires above eight million jabs every day until the year-end. While India has, as part of its polio vaccination programmes, administered vaccines to millions of children in a day, a one-day record is not evidence that the trend is sustainable. Most States substantially increased their daily count on June 21 but three stand out: Haryana, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. However M.P., records show, never peaked over five lakh a day until Monday when it nearly quadrupled this number. Haryana’s historic high (and average) has hovered around 1.5 lakh but it more than tripled that on Monday and Karnataka, with a previous high of 2.6 lakh, multiplied that fivefold with 11 lakh jabs. To substantially increase vaccination, both the number of vaccination sessions and doses administered must increase. Some States had organised mass vaccination drives and the rules allowing spot-registration of those between 18-44 years unlike the previous requirement of pre-registration on CoWIN may have helped with the boost. India’s vaccination programme primarily rests on the shoulders of Covishield and by August the numbers of Covaxin are expected to at least equal the monthly supplies of Covishield. Were that to happen, it would help with administering at least between five to six million doses a day and ought to prompt the Government to rethink its policy of a 12-16 week gap between Covishield doses to ensure that more people are fully vaccinated. The threat of a third wave and new forms of the delta variant make speedy, complete inoculation a priority, and this ought to be the driving force of India’s vaccination programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-welcome-spike/article34920107.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Policy creep||Barely 11 months after the Government notified the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020, the Department of Consumer Affairs has mooted a set of sweeping amendments, ostensibly “to protect the interests of consumers... and encourage free and fair competition in the market”. Among them is a norm stipulating the appointment of a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies, and another requiring e-commerce entities offering imported goods or services to ‘incorporate a filter mechanism to identify goods based on country of origin and suggest alternatives to ensure a fair opportunity to domestic goods’. A third mandates a fall-back liability on online marketplaces in the event of non-delivery of goods or services to the consumer. Registration has also been made mandatory for all e-commerce players; specific ‘flash sales’, including ‘back-to-back’ ones, are set to be banned; and all entities must provide information within 72 hours on any request made by an authorised government agency probing any breach of law including cybersecurity issues. While on the face of it none of these new rules appears exceptionable, especially when e-commerce tops the National Consumer Helpline’s complaints chart, there is still a distinctly discernible pattern to the changes. Following on the heels of the recent IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, the draft e-commerce amendments show the Government’s increasing keenness to exercise greater oversight over all online platforms. The Centre also appears to be signalling its intent to dig in its heels in an intensifying stand-off with Walmart’s unit Flipkart, and Amazon, which are both now in court battling an attempt by the Competition Commission of India to reopen a probe into their business practices. The two large e-commerce players have had to contend with accusations that their pricing practices are skewed to favour select sellers on their platforms and that their discounting policies have hurt offline retailers. The fact that the latest changes expressly seek to ensure that none of an e-commerce entity’s ‘related parties and associated enterprises is enlisted as a seller for sale to consumers directly’ could also impact several platforms that retail products supplied by vendors with arm’s length ties. The enforcement of many of these norms is bound to spur protracted legal fights. Asserting that the amendments were not aimed at conventional flash sales, the Government said it was only targeting certain entities engaged in limiting consumer choice by indulging in ‘back-to-back’ sales wherein a seller does not have the capability to meet an order. In trying to address shortcomings in its rules from last year, the Government appears to be harking back to an era of tight controls. Overregulation with scope for interpretative ambiguity risks retarding growth and job creation in the hitherto expanding e-commerce sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/policy-creep/article34920108.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling the Hindutva bugbear||Ever since the Sachar Committee Report of 2006 demonstrated that the socio-economic conditions of Muslims have worsened compared to Dalits, some have argued that Muslims have become India’s new Dalits. It is further proposed that the two communities should forge an alliance to fight the Hindu Right to restore secularism because together they constitute a significant number: Muslims constitute 14.2% of the population and Dalits, 16.63% (Census 2011). Differences There are some basic differences between the two communities. Muslims are historically a multi-class community, whereas Dalits are evolving into one, boosted by reservation policies. There are further nuanced differences. Consider rhetorical questions such as: who is the Shah Rukh Khan or Sania Mirza or Bismillah Khan of Dalits? In the psychological domain, discrepancies are equally apparent. A working class Muslim can embrace the Red Fort or the Taj Mahal as a proud legacy of his ancestors, but Dalits have no such iconic symbols. Thousands of years of subjugation of Dalits by upper caste Hindus have presented them as people not worthy of history or even without history. The Hindu Right has weaponised the history of Muslims against them. Therefore, BSP leader Mayawati had compelling reasons to build statues of Dalit icons, which received flak from many upper caste Hindus. Dalits continue to suffer from organised violence unleashed by upper caste Hindus. The flogging of a Dalit family in Una in 2016 is a case in point. Some Dalits, research suggests, have occasionally participated in violence against Muslims in riots (in Gujarat in 2002, for instance). In modern India, Muslims have not participated in organised violence against Dalits, nor have they systematically raised their voice against it because Muslims are quite lost as a political community. This explains their failure to organise a worthwhile resistance against lynching. Whatever protest occurred was spearheaded by secular forces with artists and intellectuals at the forefront. Muslims almost seemed like benign onlookers. The anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests were a face-saver, but those too was below the potential of a 200 million-strong community. In rare instances, there are warm social relationships between a fraction of the Pasmanda community, Dalit Muslims and Dalit Hindus. Nevertheless, social bonding between the Ashraf Muslims and Hindu Dalits is constricted. B.R. Ambedkar knew this. Once he chastised a Muslim man who declined to offer him water by saying untouchability has no place in Islam. In his speech on conversion on May 31, 1936, Ambedkar exhorted Dalits to leave the Hindu fold for any religion including Islam. In recent years, upper caste Hindus have gravitated towards the Hindu Right causing the breakdown of the secular project for at least two reasons. First, upper caste Hindus have been persuaded by the Hindu Right’s campaign that Indian secularism is a Muslim project. In every election, the BJP deploys incendiary concepts such as ‘appeasement’ and ‘vote bank politics’ with greater intensity to deepen the politics of polarisation. This triggers asymmetric counter-polarisation among Muslims. Second, policies of the Western states in the post-9/11 era contributed to Islamophobia’s rise. This swayed the Indian diaspora, drawn mainly from upper caste Hindus. They fail to register the distinct multicultural profile of Indian Muslims. While a good fraction of upper caste Hindus is now wedded to the Hindu Right’s majoritarian project, plenty embrace it for circumstantial reasons and remain indifferent to Muslim suffering. The paradox of Indian democracy is that upper caste Hindus, a tiny minority, control the labyrinth of power in all spheres. Even historically, the Mughals and the British had to have upper caste Hindus in their army and bureaucracy to run their empire. Therefore, the upper caste Hindus have to be on board to restore India’s wounded secular project because Dalit-Muslim alliances are not enough. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Millia Islamia and is author of the coming book, ‘Shikwa-e- Hind: The Political Future of Indian Muslims’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tackling-the-hindutva-bugbear/article34920240.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Chinese articles dropped in Bihar||New Delhi, June 22: Preliminary investigation has shown broadly that the Chinese literature airdropped by balloons in Bihar villages on June 18 last was of Kuomintang Chinese origin and it would therefore be far-fetched to link it with communist or naxalite activites, the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Mr. Ram Niwas Mirdha, told the Lok Sabha to-day. Mr. Mirdha was replying to a volley of supplementaries after making a statement in response to a calling attention motion on the reported air-dropping of Chinese literature, banner, garments, torchlights, biscuits and transmitters for the naxalites by a Chinese plane in the fields of Tidarampur and Palani villages in Monghyr district of Bihar last week. Mr. Mirdha told Mr. Bibhuti Mishra (Cong. R) and four others, who raised the issue, that a full report had not yet been received from the Bihar Government, which was inquiring into it. He was, therefore, unable to give details of the articles recovered and whether or not a tranmitter was among them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/chinese-articles-dropped-in-bihar/article34920237.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI / Mumbai,||Kalrock-Jalan cleared to restart Jet||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Mumbai, on Tuesday approved the resolution plan of Kalrock Capital and entrepreneur Murari Lal Jalan for the revival of Jet Airways two years after the airline shut down operations due to a cash crunch. The NCLT, in an oral order, gave 90 days to the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation for allotting airport slots to the airline. ‘Date can be extended’ The bench also said that if further extension of the effective date was required, the Jalan-Kalrock consortium could approach the tribunal again. In an affidavit, the government had submitted that Jet Airways did not have a claim over airport slots held by it earlier. These slots were allocated to different airlines after Jet Airways suspended flight operations in April 2019. “The Consortium maintains its stand that it wants to work alongside the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and all its competitors to put Jet Airways back in the skies,” the Jalan-Kalrock consortium said in a press statement. ‘Delhi, Mumbai slots full’ “I am confident that the DGCA and Ministry of Civil Aviation will give fair consideration to the business proposal for Jet’s revival,” Ashish Chhawchharia, Jet Airways’ Resolution Professional (RP) and partner, Grant Thornton, said. “Apart from airports such as Delhi and Mumbai, on preliminary analysis, it appears that other airports have sufficient slots, whereas some are likely to expand their capacity.” The bid by the consortium of Kalrock Capital and Mr. Jalan was approved by the Committee of Creditors in October last year. ‘Claims total Rs. 15,432 cr.’ As per the resolution plan, the Kalrock-Jalan consortium has proposed to repay financial creditors and employees about Rs. 1,200 crore over five years and intends to reestablish Jet Airways as a full-service airline with 30 aircraft. This contrasts with claims totalling Rs. 15,432 crore from financial and operational creditors which were admitted by the RP. “Surprisingly, the NCLT order is a massive clean-up,” said Kapil Kaul, CEO and director, CAPA Advisory. “It will allow the new promoters to develop a viable business case subject to significant capitalisation,” Mr. Kaul added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kalrock-jalan-cleared-to-restart-jet/article34920094.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||NMDC net, revenue leap on robust ore demand||Mining major NMDC’s said its consolidated net profit surged to Rs. 2,836 crore for the quarter ended March from Rs. 315 crore in the year-earlier period on the back of iron ore demand and realisation remaining robust. Total income more than doubled to Rs. 6,933 crore. Iron-ore production rose 30% to 12.31 million tonnes. Iron ore sales increased 29% to 11.09 MT. These are the best-ever production and sales figures for any quarter since inception, NMDC said. Total income for FY21 increased 29% to Rs. 15,722 crore while net profit surged 76% to Rs. 6,277 crore. The company said net profit and total income for the quarter as well as the turnover for the fiscal were new records. “All forecasts suggest the global rally in the sector will continue in FY22, giving us the confidence to achieve targets for the fiscal while pushing [forward] some exciting initiatives that will bring in lasting improvement to efficiency and performance,” said CMD Sumit Deb. In FY21, it produced 34.15 MT and sold 33.25 MT iron ore, which were 8% and 6% higher respectively and “achieved in an undoubtedly challenging year.”  Q4 profit and total income as well as FY21 turnover were new records||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-net-revenue-leap-on-robust-ore-demand/article34920084.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Tying reforms, incentives helped widen adoption’||India has moved from a model of ‘reforms by stealth and compulsion’ to a new model of ‘reforms by conviction and incentives’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Tuesday, referring to States being granted additional borrowing limits last year under a reform-linked window. Observing that raising adequate resources for public welfare while ensuring sustainability was proving to be one of the biggest challenges during the pandemic, the PM noted that States were able to borrow an extra Rs. 1.06 lakh crore in FY21. “For a large nation with complex challenges as ours, this was a unique experience. We have often seen that for various reasons, schemes and reforms remain unoperational, often for years,” he said in a post on the job search and social networking portal LinkedIn. “Officials who have been working on these reforms suggest that without this incentive of additional funds, enactment of these policies would have taken years. This was a pleasant departure from the past where the Centre & States came together to roll out public-friendly reforms in a short span of time amidst the pandemic,” Mr. Modi wrote. ‘Four specified reforms’ In May 2020, under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package, the Centre had permitted States to borrow an additional 2% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), but half of it was contingent on implementation of four specified reforms. Twenty-three States availed of additional borrowings of Rs. 1.06 lakh crore out of a potential Rs. 2.14 lakh crore. “Each of the reforms was linked to improving the ease of living to the public and particularly the poor, the vulnerable, and the middle class. Secondly, they also promoted fiscal sustainability,” Mr. Modi wrote. Seventeen States that facilitated ration-card portability and installed electronic point-of-sale devices at fair price shops were granted additional borrowings amounting to Rs. 37,600 crore, the PM noted. Similarly, 20 States completed reforms to ease the red tape faced by businesses to avail borrowings of Rs. 39,521 crore. “The third reform required States to notify floor rates of property tax and of water & sewerage charges, in consonance with stamp duty guideline values for property transactions and current costs respectively, in urban areas. 11 States completed these reforms and were granted additional borrowing of Rs. 15,957 crore,” he added, stressing that the urban poor would benefit the most from this step. The least traction was seen for the Centre’s reform idea of replacing free electricity for farmers with a Direct Benefit Transfer. “13 States implemented at least one component, while 6 States implemented the DBT component,” the PM said in his post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tying-reforms-incentives-helped-widen-adoption/article34920090.ece
23 June 2021||KALPETTA,||Scant supply, demand surge boost ginger prices||Providing fresh hopes to ginger farmers in South India, the price of ginger rhizomes has been spiralling on account of scant supply and huge demand. Spot prices of ginger rhizome touched Rs. 2,300 a bag (60 kg) in Kerala and Karnataka markets on Tuesday against Rs. 800 a few weeks ago. It was Rs. 3,000 a bag during the same period last year. High-quality ginger was trading at Rs. 2,400 a bag (60 kg) in Karnataka, trading sources said. Though the demand has increased, availability is restricted to some regions of Mysuru, Hassan and Shivamogga districts in Karnataka and a few pockets of Wayanad district in Kerala, Arun Anto, a ginger dealer, said. Moreover, the farmers were holding stocks anticipating better prices in the coming months, he added.  As per trade circles in Wayanad, the momentum may persist considering low availability of ginger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/scant-supply-demand-surge-boost-ginger-prices/article34920099.ece
23 June 2021||Guwahati,||International Tea Day auction sets price record||The first International Tea Day special auction, held on a digital platform, in eastern Assam’s Jorhat, considered the tea capital of the region, fetched record prices. More than 93% of the total tea on offer from at least a dozen niche tea gardens in eastern Assam were sold to buyers from Assam, Delhi Gujarat, Rajasthan and West Bengal, auctioneers said. The auction was conducted on June 21 — a month after the best leaves were plucked to mark International Tea Day on May 21 — by Mjunction Services Ltd., a B2B e-com firm. Orthodox tea from Pabhojan Tea Estate was sold for Rs. 4,000 a kg while speciality green tea from Diroibam Tea Estate and CTC tea from Hookhmol Tea Estate fetched Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 510 per kg, all record prices. “We have received the highest bid for our speciality green teas,” said Nazrana Ahmed of Diroibam Tea Estate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/international-tea-day-auction-sets-price-record/article34920096.ece
23 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Retail interest in stocks to spur infra’||Rising retail participation in the stock market — if it is here to stay — could enable a larger resource pool for financing India’s infrastructural requirements, Soumya Kanti Ghosh, Group Chief Economic Advisor, State Bank of India (SBI) said in a report. “Lower rate in other saving avenues amidst the low interest rate regime has led to greater interest by individuals in the stock market,” he said in the report by SBI’s Economic Research Department. “Another reason could be the significant increase in global liquidity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-interest-in-stocks-to-spur-infra/article34920088.ece
23 June 2021||Mumbai,||‘States’ debt costs rise as yields hit 7%‘||Despite the Rs. 10,000-crore liquidity infusion through the G-Sap route by the RBI last week and fewer States tapping the bond markets, their cost of borrowing has been heading north, as the coupon hit the highest level since mid-March at 7%. With this, the weighted average yields of State bonds have risen by a whopping 44 bps since the first auction of the fiscal on April 8, according to Care Ratings. Ahead of the Rs. 10,000-crore purchase of State debt on June 17, the average cost had fallen 20 bps to 6.75% at the auction on June 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/states-debt-costs-rise-as-yields-hit-7/article34920091.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘New utility to aid checks for I-T compliance’||The Income Tax Department on Tuesday said its new utility, developed to help TDS deductors and TCS collectors identify non-filers or ‘specified persons’ on whom higher rate of taxes will be levied, would help ease compliance burden. “To ease this compliance burden, the Central Board of Direct Taxes has issued a new functionality ‘Compliance Check for Sections 206AB & 206CCA.’ This is functional via the reporting portal of the I-T department https://report.insight.gov.in,” the CBDT said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/new-utility-to-aid-checks-for-i-t-compliance/article34920092.ece
23 June 2021||new delhi,||FM, Infosys review new I-T portal glitches||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman reviewed with Infosys officials the technical glitches that continue to mar the new income tax e-filing portal. She, along with Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj and CBDT Chairman Jagannath Mohapatra went point by point on the issues facing the portal with officials of Infosys that developed the site. While there was no official word on what transpired at the meeting, a statement issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India said “the glitches shall be addressed fast.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-infosys-review-new-i-t-portal-glitches/article34920097.ece
23 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Sun Pharma, Celgene to settle patent row over anti-cancer drug||Sun Pharmaceutical Industries has reached an agreement with innovator Celgene Corporation to resolve patent litigation pertaining to anti-cancer drug Revlimid (lenalidomide capsules) in the U.S. Under the pact, Celgene will grant Sun a licence to its patents, required to make and sell a limited quantity of generic lenalidomide capsules sometime after March 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sun-pharma-celgene-to-settle-patent-row-over-anti-cancer-drug/article34920085.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||For Business Pages DRL unveils in U.S. generic to lower triglyceride levels||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories has unveiled Icosapent Ethyl Capsules, 1 gm, in the U.S. market. The product has received the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval and is indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce triglyceride levels, the drugmaker said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/for-business-pages-drl-unveils-in-us-generic-to-lower-triglyceride-levels/article34920087.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Shami and Ishant’s incisive spells keep Kohli’s men in the contest||India was 64 for two in 30 overs in its second innings at stumps on the fifth day of the World Test Championship final against New Zealand here on Tuesday. Rohit Sharma (30) and Shubman Gill (8) were the batsmen dismissed, both falling to Tim Southee. The Kiwi speedster trapped Gill in front while Rohit shouldered arms to a delivery that nipped in and was adjudged lbw. At close, Cheteshwar Pujara (12) and skipper Virat Kohli (8) were at the crease. Earlier, Mohammed Shami’s artistry was on full display but New Zealand still managed to take a crucial 32-run lead after scoring 249. More intent New Zealand showed more intent inn keeping the scoreboard ticking with Kyle Jamieson (21) and Tim Southee (30) throwing their bats around for useful runs which certainly put the pressure back on India going into the final session of the day. The tea break was called after the fall of the last New Zealand wicket. Shami (4/76), after a mesmerising morning spell, got a couple of more wickets in the second session. He dismissed Colin de Grandhomme with a delivery angled in and Jamieson with a bouncer. Ishant removes Williamson During the final half-an-hour, India’s senior-most player Ishant Sharma (3/48) denied a half-century to a dogged skipper Kane Williamson (49) with a classic Test match dismissal — delivery rearing up and shaping out which was edged to Kohli at third slip. New Zealand scored 114 runs in the post-lunch session even as Shami and Ishant remained standout performers bowling their hearts out. Jamieson and New Zealand’s all-time third highest six-hitter Southee got some easy runs at the fag end which could prove to be useful in the final context. Ross Taylor (11) was dismissed as Shami reaped the rewards for finding the fuller length which enticed the batsman to go for a drive. Gill, at short cover, took a brilliant diving catch. Ishant then had Henry Nicholls (7) when the lanky speedster pushed his length fuller by a yard and the edge at second slip was taken by Rohit Sharma. B-J. Watling (1), in his last Test, got a ball that would have put the best in the business in trouble. Shami, who by then had started bossing the batsmen, bowled one that looked like shaping in but held its line after pitching, clipping the off-bail in the process. From 117 for 2, New Zealand was reeling at 135/5 at lunch. However, the disappointment for India was Jasprit Bumrah (0/57), who bowled short and wide. The moment Virat Kohli replaced Bumrah with Shami, things changed drastically as the senior pacer sowed doubts in the battmen’s minds. He didn’t look to make the batsmen play and Williamson was seen leaving delivery after delivery. His first four of the morning came in the 20th over of the day (69th for the day), a clip off Bumrah to the mid-wicket boundary. What Shami and Ishant did was to hit the six-metre length (good length) which did the trick during both sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shami-and-ishants-incisive-spells-keep-kohlis-men-in-the-contest/article34920331.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A peep into the future as Gill, Shafali and ‘DK’ hint at greatness to come||Three relative newcomers from India impressed in England last week. In Southampton, opener Shubman Gill played his inaugural Test in England like a veteran of many innings there. He was confident, untroubled, peaceful (a word not usually associated with sportsmen performing on the field). Class And he pulled the short rising delivery from the New Zealand fast bowlers between mid-wicket and mid-on after getting on top of the bounce — there’s class right there for you. Gill made only 28 before he was caught behind; a pull off the front foot against Trent Boult vying with a straight drive off Kyle Jamieson for the best of his boundaries. Watching Gill bat brings back memories of the early Sachin Tendulkar or Virat Kohli. Not in the way he bats, although there are similarities in the way he brings his bottom hand into play, but in the way he promises to carry India’s batting on his shoulders like them. Every generation needs a player around whom the batting revolves; there is a straight line from Sunil Gavaskar to Tendulkar to Kohli, and Gill seems equipped to extend that line. Early days yet These are early days yet, and Gill will have to display both the responsibility and the longevity of the other three, but the signs are encouraging at this stage. Gill top-scored with 91 in India’s memorable run chase in Brisbane earlier this year — it was only his third Test — having made 50 and 31 in Sydney in the previous Test and 45 and 35 not out in Melbourne on debut. A first century might start a sequence and take him over the line that separates the good from the great. Tendulkar’s first century came in his ninth Test, Kohli’s in his eighth. Gill might be the batsman to watch in the England series following the final of the World Test Championship. The focus on India’s bowling heroes and the blossoming of Rishabh Pant among the batsman has allowed Gill to do his stuff quietly in the background without undue pressure. High expectations Expectations have always been high, though, after he made a triple century in an under-16 match and later 268 against Tamil Nadu in the Ranji Trophy as a 19-year-old. In between, he was player-of-the-tournament at the Under-19 World Cup, so there is an inevitability about his progress. Beyond his game, Gill has, unusually for an international player and one so young, displayed a social consciousness in his tweets. A future India captain, perhaps? A second newcomer in England caught the eye in Bristol. Shafali Verma said hello to Test cricket with innings of 96 and 63 as India drew the women’s Test after following on. The last time India played a Test, Shafali was 10 years old. Soon she was disguising herself as a boy to attend camps in Rohtak, Haryana, where girls were actively prevented from taking up sport. Luckily Shafali’s father encouraged her, and at 15 she was good enough to play for India. That was two years ago, when she broke Tendulkar’s record as the youngest Indian to score an international fifty. It is not unusual for contemporary players to be compared with players of the past. It helps to understand the more recent performer. In fact, it is a two-way street, allowing those of an earlier generation to fix a current talent in their minds while giving younger fans an insight into an earlier player. Comparison There is something about Gill that has already invited comparison with Barry Richards for his on-side play. A more accessible comparison might be with Dilip Vengsarkar, a stylish batsman, tall and elegant while driving. Shafali’s natural sense of timing and reliance on her eye rather than solely on footwork immediately brought to mind Virender Sehwag who could drive the ball through the narrowest of gaps in the field or send it racing with what looked like the gentlest of pushes. The third star to emerge is the commentator Dinesh Karthik, who has channelled his natural exuberance beautifully and has worked out the balance between the technical and the anecdotal, side-stepping cliche and platitude, and communicating his sheer delight to the viewers. ‘DK’ is only 36, and as he pointed out, still an active player. But already he is the most promising commentator to emerge since Harsha Bhogle made his mark in Australia three decades ago. It’s been a long wait! Fit to be alongside the best Television’s insistence on appointing only internationals has given us some insufferable commentators (no names!), but here’s an international fit to be compared with the best in the world. There is a joy in discovering promising youngsters and then watching them live up to that promise. India have had great players, both men and women, but few great commentators. It’s all coming together in England this season. There’s much to look forward to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-peep-into-the-future-as-gill-shafali-and-dk-hint-at-greatness-to-come/article34920104.ece
23 June 2021||Copenhagen,||Indomitable Danes rout Russia, sweep into round of 16||Despair turned to exhilaration for Denmark as it claimed an astonishing 4-1 victory over Russia to scramble into the last 16 of Euro 2020 on a wonderful night here on Monday. Needing a victory to have any chance of progression, Mikkel Damsgaard lit the touchpaper with a 38th-minute wonder goal on a head-spinning night in the Parken Stadium. A dreadful mistake by Russia’s Roman Zobnin allowed Yussuf Poulsen to double the lead on the hour. A screamer Russia threatened a comeback when Artem Dzyuba converted a 70th minute penalty but Andreas Christensen’s screamer made it 3-1 before Joakim Maehle completed the rout. It was only half the story though as Denmark’s fate was never in its own hands and it was still indebted to Belgium which beat Finland 2-0 in St. Petersburg. Having lost its opening two games, Denmark went through as runner-up and will face Wales next. Belgium finished top of Group B with a maximum nine points with Denmark, Finland and Russia all on three points but with the Danes ahead on goal difference. Belgium’s win leaves the Finns facing a nervous wait to see if they can sneak into the knockout stages.  A much-changed Belgium side dominated the game but only found a breakthrough in the 74th minute courtesy of an own goal from keeper Lukas Hradecky, who fumbled a Thomas Vermaelen header over the line after it had crashed off the woodwork. Striker Romelu Lukaku clinched victory in the 83rd minute by swivelling to thump home a Kevin de Bruyne pass and score his third goal of the tournament. Belgium, the third after Italy and the Netherlands to win all three group games, will face one of the third-placed sides in Seville on June 27.  The results: Group B: Finland 0 lost to Belgium 2 (Hradecky 74-og, Lukaku 81); Russia 1 (Dzyuba 70-pen) lost to Denmark 4 (Damsgaard 38, Poulsen 59, Christensen 80, Maehle 82).    By The Numbers   1 - Denmark is the first side in Euro history to make the knockouts after losing the first two group games  4 - It scored four goals in a match at a major for the first time since the 1998 WC (4-1 vs Nigeria)  20 - Damsgaard (20y 353d) is its youngest scorer (major)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indomitable-danes-rout-russia-sweep-into-round-of-16/article34920337.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SFI nominates Srihari, Maana||Srihari Nataraj and Maana Patel have been nominated by the Swimming Federation of India (SFI) for the Universality Places for the Tokyo Olympics. Even as Srihari is chasing the ‘A’ qualification spot, which if achieved would get him a direct entry for the Games, the SFI had to make the nominations to meet the deadline of June 20. “We are still very hopeful that at least two Indian swimmers will make the ‘A’ cut. “The swimmers have improved their timings in Belgrade and we are expecting them to go faster in Rome,” said SFI Executive Director Virendra Nanavati in a release. Srihari and Maana have the highest FINA points among Indians, in the men’s and women’s sections, based on their performances in Belgrade (June 19-20).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sfi-nominates-srihari-maana/article34920340.ece
23 June 2021||London,||From clay, the focus now shifts to grass for Djokovic||Novak Djokovic is targeting a record-equalling 20th Major and sixth Wimbledon title from next week, edging him closer to becoming only the third man to complete a calendar Grand Slam. The World No. 1 has already won a ninth Australian Open and second French Open this season. That has put him halfway to emulating Don Budge (1937) and Rod Laver (1962 and 1969) in sweeping all four majors in the same year. It is a feat that even his closest rivals Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal have never managed and will probably never achieve. “Everything is possible,” said 34-year-old Djokovic after winning the French Open earlier this month when asked if the Golden Slam of all four majors and Olympic Games gold was a realistic target. “I’ve achieved some things that a lot of people thought would be not possible for me to achieve.” Djokovic memorably captured a fifth Wimbledon in 2019, saving two championship points to defeat Federer in the longest-ever final at the All England Club at four hours and 57 minutes. He was deprived of defending his title in 2020 when Wimbledon was cancelled due to the pandemic. Djokovic has won seven of the last 11 Slams as he ramps up his assault on the record of 20 Majors held jointly by Federer and Nadal. Nadal, the Wimbledon champion in 2008 and 2010, has already withdrawn from this year’s tournament. Eight-time winner Federer, meanwhile, will be 40 in August and won just one match on grass at Halle in the build-up to Wimbledon. The Swiss star has lost three finals to Djokovic at the All England Club in 2014, 2015 and the epic 2019 clash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/from-clay-the-focus-now-shifts-to-grass-for-djokovic/article34920342.ece
23 June 2021||PARIS,||Deepika and Ankita get good ranks||Indian recurve women archers Deepika Kumari and Ankita Bhakat earned second and fifth ranks respectively in the qualification round of the World Cup Stage-3 here on Tuesday. Their good ranking helped Deepika, who gathered 674 points to be behind Mexican Alejandra Valencia (680), and Ankita (664) get a bye in the first two rounds and make the third round of the elimination phase. Komalika Bari (648, 19th) and Madhu Vedwan (632, 46th) have been drawn against Elin Kattstrom of Sweden and Catalina Gnoriega of the USA respectively in the first round. The Indian women’s team collected 1986 points to come second behind Mexico (2000). India, which got a first round bye, will start the elimination phase from the second round. Atanu Das, who gathered 664 points to take the 23rd spot, was the best among the Indian men in the qualification round. Pravin Jadhav (662, 27th), B. Dhiraj (655, 50th) and Tarundeep Rai (650, 60th) were the other Indians in fray. Men’s team eighth The men’s team (1981) was placed eighth, while the mixed team (1338) was fifth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepika-and-ankita-get-good-ranks/article34920327.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Manpreet to lead men’s team||India on Tuesday named incumbent Manpreet Singh as the skipper of the men’s hockey team for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics where he will have two deputies in defenders Birendra Lakra and Harmanpreet Singh. India had announced a 16-member team for the showpiece event last week but refrained from naming the team’s leadership group. “...I am humbled to have this opportunity of representing India at the Olympics for the third time, this time as team Captain. It is a very proud moment for me to be given this charge,” Manpreet said in a statement issued by Hockey India. “Over these past few years, we have developed a strong leadership group and have successfully overcome the challenges posed by the pandemic to not drop our form and keep our minds and fitness focused towards doing well at the Olympics.” Under the mid-fielder’s captaincy, the Indian team has achieved important milestones, including winning the Asia Cup in 2017, claiming the Asian Champions Trophy in 2018 as well as winning the FIH Series Final in 2019 over the past four years. India also reached the quarterfinals of the 2018 World Cup in Bhubaneswar and performed exceedingly well in the FIH Hockey Pro League under Manpreet before the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted the schedule. Third Olympic Games This will be Manpreet’s third Olympic Games and under his leadership, the team has also improved its world ranking to No. 4. Chief Coach Graham Reid said, “All three players have been an integral part of the team’s leadership over these past couple of years and have shown a lot of maturity in guiding the youngsters during these challenging times. “Naming two vice-captains we believe will also strengthen our leadership in what is going to be a demanding tournament. We are confident that together they will guide the team to success.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manpreet-to-lead-mens-team/article34920365.ece
23 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘A confidence-booster before U-14 Worlds’||For someone who started playing chess to improve his memory, V. Praneeth has emerged as a tricky customer to his opponents ever since he won his first State title (under-7) in 2013. First appearance The 13-year-old Praneeth from the city grabbed the attention, winning the recent National under-14 online championship to pick his maiden national title in what was also his first appearance in this age group. Praneeth, another product from the stable of N.V.S. Rama Raju who also trained the likes of D. Harika, said it was a different kind of experience playing online. “Luckily, having played in the under-16 and the under-18 Nationals (finishing with 7.5 points from 11 rounds from both the events), I got used to the nuances of online chess and was better prepared,” Praneeth informed The Hindu . “Definitely, the last four rounds were most crucial and this title gives me the confidence before the World (under-14) championship this August,” he said. “Yes, like any chess player, I would like that Worlds to happen across the board,” he said with a big smile. Fan of Carlsen, Kasparov A fan of Magnus Carlsen and Gary Kasparov, Praneeth is keen to improve his middle and end-games, having impressed many with his positional play and very strong openings. Praneeth, who won the individual gold on the first board, representing India in the Asian Nations Cup (under-14) this March, is looking to keep improving his current ELO 2253. With father V. Srinivas (Assistant Commissioner in Commercial Taxes) and mother Lakshmi working as a lecturer in a Government Junior College here, Praneeth has the liberty to explore his skills in some of the major events in near future. “I think this National under-14 title is just the beginning of the journey to realise my first goal of becoming a Grandmaster,” said Praneeth, whose first coaches were IM Lanka Ravi and then Narasimha Rao before joining Raju’s camp five years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-confidence-booster-before-u-14-worlds/article34920559.ece
23 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Rabeeh inks deal with HFC||Hyderabad FC, as part of its efforts to strengthen its squad for the upcoming Indian Super League season, signed up young winger Abdul Rabeeh, the club announced on Tuesday. The 20-year-old Malappuram native becomes the second new addition for the club this season. Rabeeh started his youth career with MSP Higher Secondary School in Malappuram in 2013 and also featured in the AIFF Youth Leagues at the under-16 and under-18 levels, apart from the second division league. He spent the 2020-21 season with Luca SC, Malappuram, playing a crucial role for his side in the Kerala Premier League, where he was zeroed in upon by the HFC scouts. Good opportunity “Hyderabad FC is currently a club where most young footballers would love to play. The opportunity they are offering to youngsters like me, is something I cannot let go,” Rabeeh said. “Their major contribution to the national team gives all young players belief, and I cannot wait to be a part of the club and show my quality,” he said. A versatile winger who can also function as a full-back, Rabeeh joins as a Developmental Player. While he aims to break into the first team, the Reserve team coach Shameel Chembakath believes the youngster Rabeeh will be a valuable addition to the squad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rabeeh-inks-deal-with-hfc/article34920561.ece
23 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Juventus Academy to set up shop in India||The famous Juventus Academy will soon begin its India operations once the restrictions, which are in force due to second wave of COVID-19, are eased. Kerala based sports marketing firm Jovenes Estrellas Internazionale Private Limited has secured the franchise rights to operate the Juventus academies in India. It will launch Juventus Academy Kerala from four centres in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kottayam. The Juventus Kerala academies were supposed to become functional in April but the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic delayed the launch. “The second wave of COVID-19 has upset our plans,” said Mebin Sam Mathew the director of Jovenes Estrellas Internazionale. “But we are hopeful of starting the academies at three centres in August. The fourth centre at Labour India Public School will be launched in September. We will be expanding our operations and in due course of time we will have a pan Kerala presence. We will also be setting up centres outside Kerala in future.” The Juventus Kerala academy will follow the training and coaching methodology of Juventus Academy, Turin. The coaching will be imparted by coaches who have received training from Juventus Academy. Each centre, depending on its strength, will be assigned a foreign coach who will be assisted by an Indian coach. There will be periodic visits by head coaches from the Juventus academy. The trainees enrolled in the programme will get an opportunity to participate in the Juventus Academy World Cup and in other training programmes organised by it. The Juventus Kerala academies will be the first ones in the South Asia region. Juventus Academy runs around 160 centres in the world and in Asia it has centres in Japan, China, Thailand and Vietnam.  The Juventus Kerala academies were supposed to become functional in April but the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic delayed the launch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juventus-academy-to-set-up-shop-in-india/article34920602.ece
23 June 2021||Tokyo,||Tokyo venues ready to forge Olympic dreams||From a state-of-the-art aquatics centre to a historic martial arts arena whose roof resembles Mount Fuji, Tokyo’s Olympic sites are ready for action after a year’s virus delay. The 43 venues are located in two main areas: the “Tokyo Bay Zone” in the capital’s busy port district, and the more central “Heritage Zone” incorporating several sites from the 1964 Tokyo Olympics. With one month to go until the opening ceremony, here is a tour of the key venues:  Olympic Stadium: Used for the opening and closing ceremonies, as well as the athletics and some football matches, the 68,000-seater Olympic Stadium in central Tokyo has been built on the site of the 1964 stadium.  Aquatics Centre: The Aquatics Centre was completed in February 2020 but its grand opening was postponed by the virus. The 15,000-seat venue in the Bay Zone will be used for swimming, diving and artistic swimming events. The main pool features a movable wall allowing the 50m facility to be converted into two 25m pools, with the depth also adjustable.  Sea Forest Waterway: On a lush artificial island sits the Sea Forest Waterway where rowers will glide along eight competition lanes. Built to seat 24,000, the arena’s capacity will be reduced to 2,000 afterwards when it will host 30 competitions per year as well as canoeing and rowing classes.  Ariake Arena: The brand-new Ariake Arena will host Olympic volleyball and Paralympic basketball, with seating for 15,000.  Nippon Budokan: The renowned martial arts arena was first built for judo in 1964 and boasts a curved roof to resemble Mount Fuji. It will also host karate in 2020.  Kasai Canoe Slalom Centre: The first artificial canoe slalom course in Japan has vast concrete basins that slope at a two-degree gradient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-venues-ready-to-forge-olympic-dreams/article34920369.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Redfern to make history||Sue Redfern will become the first woman to officiate in an England men’s home international match after being appointed as fourth umpire for Wednesday’s first T20I against Sri Lanka in Cardiff. Alex Wharf had been due to fill the role, but Redfern was placed on standby in the event that the reserve day was activated in the World Test Championship final in Southampton. With persistent bad weather forcing the game into a sixth day, Redfern will now step in for the first of three T20Is between England and Sri Lanka. “It’s going to be a great experience,” Redfern told ESPNcricinfo . “I’m feeling pretty privileged. It’s unexpected but at the same time, it’s a great opportunity to showcase that females can officiate in a variety of environments.” Redfern is a regular on-field umpire on the women’s international circuit and stood in last week’s Test between England and India in Bristol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/redfern-to-make-history/article34920334.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Paras, Utkrisht cause upsets||Little-known Maharashtra-lad Paras Bhoire stunned second seed A. R. Ilamparthi (Tamil Nadu) in Tuesday’s third and final round to be among 76 leaders with three points in the National (under-12) open online rapid chess tournament. Fourth seed K. S. Heamish, also from Tamil Nadu, was the other major casualty of the third round. Punjab’s Utkrisht Tuli defeated Heamish to maintain his winning sequence. A record number of 774 players are in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paras-utkrisht-cause-upsets/article34920363.ece
23 June 2021||KOCHI,||Off-colour Neeraj still manages gold||Asian Games champion Neeraj Chopra won the javelin gold at the Karlstad Grand Prix, a World Athletics Continental Tour bronze event, at Karlstad, Sweden, on Tuesday. Neeraj, the top star at Karlstad with a personal best of 88.07m which came at Patiala in March, had a mediocre series. He clinched the title with a best of 80.96m, which came in his second throw. Neeraj opened with 79.07 and his series included three fouls (third, fourth and fifth). He appeared off-colour and his last throw was just 77.48. This was Neeraj’s second international meet this year. The 23-year-old had thrown 83.18m in his international season-opener in Lisbon a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/off-colour-neeraj-still-manages-gold/article34920328.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lahiri qualifies for Olympics||Anirban Lahiri is the only Indian to find a place in the men’s 60-player Final Olympic Golf Rankings, released on Tuesday. Lahiri just about made the ‘cut’ after being the 60th player on the list, headed by World No. 1 Jon Rahm of Spain. The women’s list of 60 players will be finalised after this week’s KPMG PGA Championship. The International Golf Federation (IGF) will confirm the final entry list on July 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lahiri-qualifies-for-olympics/article34920330.ece
23 June 2021||London,||Ramkumar advances||Ramkumar Ramanathan advanced to the second round of the Wimbledon Qualifiers but Prajnesh Gunneswaran bowed out here on Tuesday. Ramkumar beat Slovakia's 13th seed Jozef Kovalik 6-3, 6-0 in exactly an hour in his first round. Prajnesh, ranked 148, lost 6-1, 7-6(5) to Britain’s Arthur Fery, ranked 1038. "I had tendinitis (left-wrist) which started three weeks ago. It's fine now. But I just started playing. I only hit for two days and for less than an hour each. So just not in the best shape," Prajnesh told PTI . "If it wasn't Wimbledon. I wouldn't have played. Just didn't have enough time to get ready," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-advances/article34920333.ece
23 June 2021||Monaco,||Shubenkov cleared of doping||Russian former world champion hurdler Sergei Shubenkov was cleared on Tuesday in a “genuinely exceptional” doping case that was prosecuted in secret. Shubenkov’s positive test “resulted from his unintentional ingestion of residue from medication being used to treat a family member,” Athletics Integrity Unit said in announcing the verdict of an independent tribunal.   World champion Donavan Brazier’s Olympic dreams were shattered on Monday as the overwhelming favourite in the men’s 800 metres suffered a shock defeat in a make-or-break U.S. trials. The 24-year-old ran out of gas with 200 metres to go, finishing dead last. Clayton Murphy, 26, who picked up bronze at the Rio 2016 Olympics, won in a blistering, world-leading 1:43.17. Isaiah Jewett, 24, finished second with a personal best 1:43.85.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shubenkov-cleared-of-doping/article34920408.ece
23 June 2021||London,||Mount, Chilwell to extend self-isolation||England says players Mason Mount and Ben Chilwell will continue isolating until Monday next. The 10-day isolation comes after they came into contact with Scotland midfielder Billy Gilmour at Wembley Stadium after Friday’s game. England says the decision to extend the isolation followed talks with health authorities. They will train alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mount-chilwell-to-extend-self-isolation/article34920335.ece
23 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Prime Volleyball League to be launched||After a two-year gap, Baseline Ventures is putting things in place to organise the Prime Volleyball League (PVL) in the last quarter of the year. The League was last organised (it was then called the Pro Volleyball League) in 2019 successfully. Joy Bhattacharjya, CEO of Prime Volleyball League, said he is in talks with Sony TV to slot the dates. “We are getting the dates together. It is likely to be in one of the last three months of the year,” he said to The Hindu on Tuesday. Baseline has already roped in three franchise owners and is in advanced talks with others. Thomas Muthoot of Kochi Blue Spikers, Pravin Chaudhuri of the Ahmedabad Defenders and P.T. Safeer of the Calicut Heroes, return as founder-franchises of the new League. Modelled on NBA Joy said PVL is modelled on National Basketball Association (NBA). “Team owners also own a stake in the League. This means they have also invested in the operations and are long-term partners. It is a stable platform. This is how Major League Baseball, American Football is run,” said Joy. The VFI angle When queried whether the League requires the support of Volleyball Federation of India (there are two factions in VFI and the case is pending in Madras High Court), Joy said the PVL is structured in such a way that it will run irrespective of who comes to power. “Half of the tournaments [In India] are private leagues. As of now, Court hasn’t declared which is the elected National Federation. “Moreover, the Competition of Commission of India rules state that tournaments cannot be stopped where players are earning their livelihood,” he said. Joy expressed confidence that the League will have the best of players from India and abroad. “Don’t worry about it. We have already thought about it. We are confident of producing a good quality product,” he signed off.  It is likely to be in one of the last three months of the year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pvl-set-to-make-a-start-this-year/article34920367.ece
23 June 2021||BAD HOMBURG (GERMANY),||Riya goes down fighting||Two-time National champion Riya Bhatia put up a strong fight against Laura Siegemund of Germany before losing 6-2, 6(2)-7, 1-6 to the German World No. 55 in the first round of the €189,708 WTA tennis tournament on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-goes-down-fighting/article34920100.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 09:45 IST,||Sudoku — June 23, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-23-2021/article34921177.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘56% of people surveyed have antibodies against COVID-19’||Over 56% of 12,000-13,000 people whose blood samples were collected in April from different parts of the city, showed antibodies against COVID-19, a Delhi government source said. The samples were collected for the sixth serological survey, but the sample collection could not reach the target as it had to be stopped in April due to the surge in virus cases. The Delhi government is yet to officially announce the results of the study. Only 141 wards covered “The current survey shows a seroprevalence of 56.09%, which is almost the same as the previous one,” the source said. The fifth such survey done in January had shown a seroprevalence of 56.13%, but it had covered 28,000 people spread across all 272 wards of the city, whereas the current survey could reach only 141 wards, officials said. “We cannot completely compare this result with the previous survey as we have covered only 141 wards. At best, we can compare the wards from where we have collected samples this time with last time,” another official said. The next serological survey is likely to start in June end or July first week and this might show a considerable change, said officials. Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, said the result is almost same as the previous study due to two reasons: first, the study did not cover different types of population in the city and thus, is not truly representational. Secondly, after the previous survey in January, the cases were low till April and significant number of new people would not have been infected to develop antibodies against the virus. “IgG antibodies [which is measured in the serological survey] are developed about six weeks to 12 weeks after getting the infection. Since our peak of infection was in April-May, people with antibodies should be high now if we do a sero survey,” Dr. Kishore said. Past surveys The first such survey done in the city in June-July last year had shown that 23.4% people surveyed have developed antibodies against the virus. Similar surveys in August showed 29.1% people had antibodies, 25.1% in September, and 25.5% in October. Blood samples collected from across the city are tested in a lab using antibody testing kits to understand whether the person was infected by the virus and developed antibodies. A positive result would imply that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. This means that the person was infected at some point by the virus and developed immunity against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/56-of-people-surveyed-have-antibodies-against-covid-19/article34920529.ece
23 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SIT questions ex-CM Badal in firing case||Former Punjab Chief Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Parkash Singh Badal was on Tuesday questioned by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab police, probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incidents. The team, led by Additional Director General of Police L.K. Yadav, questioned Mr. Badal at his official residence here for over two-and-a-half hours. The Shiromani Akali Dal accused the Congress government of yet again politicising the SIT probe by deputing an unauthorised person to question the former Chief Minister during the investigation. Senior SAD leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema alleged that the run up to the questioning as well as making a former Director (Prosecution) a part of the team indicated that the Congress government was bent upon politicising the issue. “The retired officer, who did not hold any official position, was made part of the SIT team. The prosecution steps in only when the challan is presented in the court. How can the former Director, (Prosecution), be made part of the SIT team?” they asked, addressing a press conference here. The leaders said it was unfortunate that the State government was misusing the police force to target the SAD. “The SAD was committed to identifying those responsible for the heinous acts of sacrilege as well as ensuring strict punishment in the cases. The party would protest against any probe which seeks to politicise investigation into such cases as they were linked with the sentiments of the Guru Nanak Naam Leva sangat,” they added. ‘Narco test’ Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party MLA and Kisan Wing State president Kultar Singh Sandhwan and senior leader Manwinder Singh Giaspura said that ‘narco test’ of Mr. Parkash Singh Badal must be conducted. In 2015, incidents of sacrilege of religious text and police firing at people protesting against it took place in Faridkot. Mr. Prakash Singh Badal was the then Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sit-questions-ex-cm-badal-in-firing-case/article34920512.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Improve vaccination policy instead of targeting Delhi CM’||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi on Tuesday said Union Minister Hardeep Puri and other BJP leaders should concentrate on improving the vaccination policy instead of abusing Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. “BJP’s leaders and Ministers have only one job and that is abusing Arvind Kejriwal and the Delhi government. It is my request to Hardeep Puri, that instead of tweeting and holding press conferences, work on improving the country’s vaccination policy. Since the time, India’s vaccination policy has started, in every phase, it has been a failure,” Ms. Atishi said. Replying to a tweet by Mr. Puri, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, said: “Hardeep ji, please focus on providing enough vaccines for the youth, rather than just abusing Arvind Kejriwal all the time. Central government’s vaccination flip-flops have created a crisis situation all over country.” “Doctor sir! Is the Government of India going to provide any supply of vaccine to Delhi after June 21 or will the vaccines that the Delhi government bought, will that be only available in June? Only 15 lakh vaccines for Delhi even in the month of July? At this rate it will take 15-16 months [to vaccinate Delhi’s citiziens] [sic],” Mr. Sisodia said in a tweet in Hindi, responding to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Ms. Atishi said when the Delhi government raised the issue of the Capital not receiving vaccine stock and the Centre running a “fake” vaccination campaign, Mr. Puri via a tweet and the Centre through a press release told the Delhi government to use the 45+ stock for everyone. ‘U-turn by Centre’ “So, when the Delhi government was repeatedly asking to do the same, i.e., to let us use the 45+ vaccine for 18+, the Centre disapproved. And now, today, when their mistake is in front of everyone, the Centre quietly issued a press release saying that the vaccine meant for 45+ can be easily used for 18+ as well,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/improve-vaccination-policy-instead-of-targeting-delhi-cm/article34920525.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Capital records eight deaths, 134 new COVID-19 infections||The Capital reported 134 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,32,778, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, eight deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,933. Positivity rate A total of 67,916 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said, and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.2%. Of the total cases, 14,05,927 people have recovered and there are 1,918 active cases. The bulletin said that 263 positive cases, pertaining to earlier weeks were added on the ICMR portal on Monday by Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and associated Safdarjung Hospital. The Delhi government did not clarify how then the new cases as per Tuesday’s bulletin was less than 263. Delhi’s stock of Covaxin for 18-44 age group would last only for a day and for people of 45 years of age and above it will last for four days, according to a bulletin on vaccination. On Monday, 76,062 doses of vaccine were administered and a total of 66,02,835 doses have been administered till now, as per the bulletin. “The government must approve Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines as soon as possibleThe faster the vaccination, the safer India gets from the next COVID-19 wave,” Aam Aadmi Party leader Atishi said.  The government must approve Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines as soon as possible and make the same available to the people of India Atishi AAP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-records-eight-deaths-134-new-covid-19-infections/article34920526.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Father’s obligation cannot end at son attaining 18 years of age: HC||A father’s obligation would not end on his son turning 18 years as the entire burden of his education and other expenses cannot fall only on the mother, the Delhi High Court has said while granting Rs. 15,000 interim maintenance to a divorced woman for her adult son till he completes graduation or starts earning. The court said it cannot shut its eyes to the rising cost of living and it is unreasonable to expect that the mother alone would bear the entire burden for herself and for the son with the small amount of maintenance given by her estranged husband for the maintenance of their daughter. While dealing with the woman’s plea challenging a 2018 trial court order declining maintenance to her and granting it only to her two children who are living with her, the court said the entire expenditure of the son, on his turning major, is now being borne by the mother. “The petitioner no.1 [woman] has to take care of the entire expenditure of the petitioner no.2 [son] who has now attained majority but is not earning because he is still studying. The family court, therefore, failed to appreciate the fact that since no contribution is being made by the respondent [man] herein towards the petitioner no.2, the salary earned by the petitioner no.1 would not be sufficient for the petitioner no.1 to maintain herself,” Justice Subramonium Prasad said. The estranged couple got married in November 1997. They got divorced in November 2011 and the son and daughter are 20 and 18 years old. As per the family court’s order, the son was entitled to maintenance till he attained the age of majority and daughter would be entitled for maintenance till she gets employment or gets married.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fathers-obligation-cannot-end-at-son-attaining-18-years-of-age-hc/article34920655.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Less vaccination despite availability, says BJP||The Delhi BJP on Tuesday alleged that the Kejriwal government had deliberately administered less vaccine doses to citizens on Monday despite adequate availability. This raised a big question mark on the intentions and “mismanagement” of vaccine doses by the government, said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. 11 lakh doses available “Till June 21 morning, there were more than 11 lakh doses of vaccines. But still an atmosphere of panic was created as if there was acute shortage of vaccines,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “Kejriwal’s only aim is to somehow blame the Centre to hide his own shortcomings,” he said. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said he would urge Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal to handover vaccination to the three municipal corporations, which have done a “great job” despite alleged roadblocks created by the Delhi government. “Instead of trying to save the lives of Delhiites, Kejriwal is deliberately delaying the task of giving vaccine shots so that if something goes wrong, he could, as he always does, blame the Central government for it. This shows the mindset of Kejriwal and the extent to which he can go for cheap political gains,” Leader of the Opposition alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/less-vaccination-despite-availability-says-bjp/article34920533.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Teachers should help transitioning students’||To ensure smooth integration of students joining Class 6 in DoE schools from municipal feeder schools, Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister Manish Sisodia chaired a meeting with Municipal Commissioners of North, South and East Delhi Corporations at which several strategies were discussed. Mr. Sisodia said that due to the pandemic, there was a need to have correct contact details of students joining Delhi government schools from municipal schools so that their Class 6 teachers can reach out to them quickly. Last year, at the beginning of the session, only about 30-35% students’ phone number were correct due to which a large number of students could not be engaged. Mr. Sisodia said. He said that students and teachers have faced a lot of challenges due to the COVID crisis and that students’ transition should get support from their teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teachers-should-help-transitioning-students/article34920528.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||DoE announces results of Class 9 and 11 students||The Directorate of Education (DoE) on Tuesday announced the Class 9 and 11 results of students in Delhi government schools. It was the first time that the results were uploaded on the DoE’s web portal as well as sent to students via WhatsApp and SMS so that they do not have to visit schools to collect them. The DoE said that 2.58 lakh students were enrolled in Class 9 in 2020-21, out of which 2.45 lakh appeared for mid-term exams. Final results of students were evaluated based on mid-term and internal assessments. The passing percentage in Class 9 is 80.3%. Last year, the passing percentage of students was 65%, which increased to 85% based on project-based assessments, the DoE said. Similarly, out of 1.70 students in Class 11, 1.69 lakh students appeared for exams and 96.9% students were promoted to Class 12. In 2019-20, 99.25% students passed the compartment exams, the DoE said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doe-announces-results-of-class-9-and-11-students/article34920531.ece
23 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NSUI against UGC’s order on banners thanking PM||The NSUI on Tuesday condemned the UGC’s order to put up banners thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for vaccines. It questioned why he needed to be thanked as he has not addressed any issue the students had faced during the pandemic. NSUI national President Neeraj Kundan said that since the pandemic broke in India, the Centre focused only on building the image of the Prime Minister, leaving people to suffer. “They are doing the same this time, rather than prioritising to vaccinate students and focus on policies to compensate their lost academic year. The government is busy hiding their failures behind self-appreciating posters.” Mr. Kundan said. The NSUI in a statement said that the PM does not deserve a thank you and deserves questions as to why people of the country died under his watch. The NSUI questioned why no relief packages or fee, loan relaxations had been announced for the students. They also questioned the lack of vaccination policy for students. “The NSUI plans to reply to these PM posters at the university campuses by initiating a campaign of ‘thank you for what?’ posters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nsui-against-ugcs-order-on-banners-thanking-pm/article34920532.ece
23 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Spread awareness on laws, Haryana CM tells farmers||Amid controversies surrounding the Centre’s farm laws, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Tuesday said a group of 30-40 farmers having factual knowledge about the laws should be constituted to spread awareness among their peer groups in each village. He gave this suggestion to a group of representatives of farmer outfit, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Mann), led by Guni Prakash, who met the Chief Minister here. “Rather than agitating, every farmer should be well versed about the benefits so that those who are trying to spread misinformation and mislead them fail.” According to an official press release, Mr. Lal said if needed, training of the farmers be conducted. The delegation submitted a letter of support to the Chief Minister on the farm laws. “Those agitating on Delhi borders are political representatives,” alleged Mr. Prakash. Udhay Bhan, general secretary of the outfit, said, “The Opposition, especially the Congress, is playing politics with the lives of the farmers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/spread-awareness-on-laws-haryana-cm-tells-farmers/article34920508.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Managing crowd beyond our control’||With Delhiites thronging markets once again after the easing of lockdown and not maintaining social distancing, the city’s trader bodies on Tuesday said it is not possible for them to control crowds and the onus is on the administration and enforcement agencies. The Delhi High Court had on Friday taken cognisance of the violation of COVID-19 protocols in various markets in the city. Brijesh Goyal, Chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry, said traders can only ensure compliance of COVID norms inside their shops or offices. “But it is the administration and the police who have to ensure that the protocols are followed in streets and other public spaces,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/managing-crowd-beyond-our-control/article34920656.ece
23 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||8 rare pygmy hogs released in Manas National Park||Eight of 12 captive-bred pygmy hogs, the world’s rarest and smallest wild pigs, were on Tuesday released in the Manas National Park of western Assam. The remaining four would be released on June 25. Second batch This is the second batch to have been reintroduced into the wild under the Pygmy Hog Conservation Programme (PHCP) in a year. Fourteen of these animals were released in Manas in 2020. The PHCP is a collaboration among Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust of UK, Assam Forest Department, Wild Pig Specialist Group of International Union for Conservation of Nature and Union Environment Ministry and is currently being implemented by NGOs Aaranyak and EcoSystems India. Six hogs — two males and four females — were captured from the Bansbari range of the Manas National Park in 1996 for starting the breeding programme. The reintroduction programme began in 2008 with the Sonai-Rupai Wildlife Sanctuary (35 hogs), Orang National Park (59) and Barnadi Wildlife Sanctuary (22). With Tuesday’s release, the number of pygmy hogs reintroduced into the wild under the PHCP reached 142, which is more than their current original global wild population. “Manas has been doing well in conservation in recent years,” Amal Chandra Sarma, Manas’ Field Director said. “Conservation of pygmy hog was initiated by noted naturalist Gerald Durrell and his trust in 1971. The pygmy hog was brought back from near-extinction by the partnership effort, and now we are moving towards the establishment of a population across the entire range,” PHCP’s Project Director Parag Jyoti Deka said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/8-rare-pygmy-hogs-released-in-manas-national-park/article34920510.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||Party leaders were illegally detained: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party MP Sushil Gupta alleged that the police “illegally detained” him and other party leaders on Tuesday during the protest against the eviction of Khori Basti residents. “Today morning when I reached the village, the Haryana police detained me illegally. I made it very clear that they have detained me illegally and they have tried to suppress my right to protest,” Mr. Gupta said. “Our district president along with many other leaders of the AAP Haryana unit is still in jail. This is the real picture of the Haryana government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/party-leaders-were-illegally-detained-aap/article34920523.ece
23 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Delhi govt. depriving the poor of ration’||The BJP on Tuesday accused the Delhi government of snatching the rights of the poorest of the poor in the Capital by allegedly delaying the identification of such families. Quoting the Census 2011, Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta said that Delhi had 1,56,800 very poor families. Of these, only 68,732 receive ration. “Despite multiple orders from the Centre, the Delhi government has put a stop to the identification process of the remaining 90,000 very poor families,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “It is shocking that Food and Civil Supply Minister Imran Hussain ordered putting the identification process in abeyance on September 16, 2019,” he said. Mr. Gupta warned the AAP government that if it does not commence provision of ration card to the poor, the BJP would take to the street and expose the anti-poor face of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-depriving-the-poor-of-ration/article34920527.ece
23 June 2021||Ballia,||U.P.: Ambedkar statue damaged||A statue of Bhimrao Ambedkar was found damaged on Tuesday morning in Rampur Asli village here, leading to protests by locals, police said. They said some unidentified people damaged the statue late on Monday night. The incident led to protests by locals who blocked the Gadwar-Nagra road, Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-ambedkar-statue-damaged/article34920513.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Jamdani: deadstock to dresses||Revival isn’t new for this fabric. “ Jamdani has the potential to bring about an artisanal diversity by utilising modern techniques. However, for us to sustain the skill and artisans associated with it, we need to make it more mainstream and link it to fashion,” believes designer Anavila Misra. Most recently, Kolkata-based designer Kavya Singh Kundu used deadstock (saris, stoles and scarves) from weavers in Phulia, West Bengal, to create an upcycled collection. In ‘Tale as Old as Time’, she has experimented with cuts, switching up the traditional aesthetic to create versatile pieces such as one-shoulder dresses. “Going forward, we need to simplify the weave and work on more youthful and detailed silhouettes to make it more relevant,” she says, pointing to how a section of younger weavers are creating fresh, contemporary motifs, which are almost like abstract works of art. “These appeal to a younger demographic as well as to an international clientele, and will ensure that jamdani continues to have a future,” adds Kundu. Read the full story, with tips on where to stock up, on weekend.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jamdani-deadstock-to-dresses/article34920640.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘Dodge’y lifestyle||A gun-toting priest stopping you outside a church can be daunting. But for Smriti Bhadauria and Kartik Vasan, ambassadors of Indian van life, it’s just one of the many memorable experiences they’ve been making since they sold their condo in downtown Toronto last year and hit the road in a vintage, brown campervan, their dog Everest in tow. “When we entered the US, in the state of Oregon, in January, we were trying to take a picture of Mt Hood while driving through Portland,” recalls Kartik. “As we pulled into the parking lot of a church, a man waved us down. He seemed friendly, but when he got closer we realised he was holding a big gun in his hand. We remained calm and soon found out that he was the pastor of the church and was only cleaning his gun,” he laughs.  Breaking brown  The couple, in their early 30s, met in Toronto in 2014. A year earlier, Smriti had read about an old couple travelling from Patagonia (South America) to Alaska and the idea of caravanning had appealed to her. So, when she met Kartik, she shared it with him. “Smriti’s love for the outdoors and adventure completely changed my outlook towards life,” he says. But you could say that the travelling bug had bitten Smriti and Kartik well before that. “I’ve seen 100 cities in India, as my father had a touring job [as a power grid safety head],” says Smriti. Kartik’s father was a diplomat, because of which he grew up in seven countries. So, when they got the van in 2018 (a spur of the moment decision while on a camping trip), they started thinking about quitting their jobs and travelling with just their savings. However, it was not easy convincing their parents of their plan to live a nomadic life — working remotely, exploring nature and living in a 77 Dodge B200. Van life was a foreign idea. As Kartik recently told Condé Nast Traveller , “Our brown upbringing has conditioned us to live a certain way. My parents often call us and tell us, ‘Your friends just bought a home.’ But these are fleeting feelings. When you park in a beautiful spot, the moment just passes by.” The youngsters received the green signal once they tied the knot last year in February. Today, the two call their parents regularly and “show them beautiful sunrises and sunsets. This gives them peace of mind knowing that we are safe, working and still able to see new places”. Their Instagram, @thebrownvanlife, has over 8,000 followers too. Kartik and Smriti travel slowly — usually driving between three to five hours daily, and never at night — so they get to stay in a place for a few days. “We don’t burn too much fuel because it impacts the environment. All our electricals are solar powered, so we are eco-friendly and self-sustaining,” adds Kartik. The van is outfitted with a queen-size bed, a kitchen with a fridge, and a 20-gallon water tank.  Finding their balance  In January this year, the couple drove across several states in the US. “We were in a grocery store in Utah when they announced they had extra vaccine slots. So we walked in for yoghurt and came out vaccinated! Which was such a stress relief for our parents and for us,” says Smriti. After exploring the US for four months, they entered Mexico. “We are currently in Baja and ready for the ferry to Mainland Mexico,” she says. Detailed paperwork is a critical part of the venture. “We have Canadian permanent residency, but hold Indian passports. Our biggest advantage is our 10-year US visa that allows us to travel to all of North and Central American countries with a visa on arrival. People often feel we come from rich backgrounds or that we have a lot of savings, but the truth is we have worked really hard to obtain this lifestyle. The idea of letting everything go does not sit well with our Indian upbringing, so we decided to keep our jobs while living and travelling in different places,” says Smriti, who is in digital marketing. In fact, the duo had started planning their remote jobs early on, so they could support their caravanning lifestyle. “We work from 6.30 am to 1.30 pm, and then take the rest of the day to explore or cover distance. We have not monetised our trip yet; we fund it with our jobs,” says Kartik, an IT consultant.  Map to everywhere  The two have also tried to be distinct from their western counterparts. “Since we are possibly the only Indians pursuing this life full time, we did not have a reference point. We also realised that whatever we do might become a reference point for others. So it was important for us to bring representation into the dialogue. We discuss all the social and cultural issues Indian kids and adults might face starting a life like this,” explains Smriti. The duration of their journey is still unknown (though visiting 10 countries is one of their goals). “In terms of itinerary, our immediate goal is to get to Patagonia while exploring different countries in Central and South America, and experience all the cultures. We will go to Guatemala, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama and by next year enter Columbia to start the South American leg of the journey.” And Everest will play the role of a security guard everywhere. “Our photo model, best hiking partner, and optimism booster,” Smriti signs off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-dodgey-lifestyle/article34920644.ece
23 June 2021||June 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Bamboo toilet in Somerset House||The India Pavilion at the ongoing London Design Biennale 2021 (LDB) is mapping ‘hero stories’ — from innovator-engineer Sonam Wangchuk’s ice stupas (which melt in summer to generate water) to smokeless chulahs . All inventive, indigenous, and sustainable ideas developed in various parts of the country in the last few years. “It is quite an ‘aha’ moment to see what India looks like through the lens of its people and their efforts to make a sustainable world,” says architect Nisha Mathew Ghosh, 52, who has curated the pavilion. “It is exciting to imagine a future of collaborations to build this world of better ecological stewardship together.” The pavilion at Somerset House, titled ‘Small Is Beautiful: A Billion Stories’, comprises 150 entries segregated into five categories: Clean Air, Clean Water, Clean Earth, Clean Energy, and Forest. Ranging from product inventions to material explorations, each responds to the overarching theme of ‘Resonances’, as chosen by LDB’s artistic director, Es Devlin.  Back to nature  The India Pavilion engages with the ideas of sustainability through effective design. “All these projects are reactions to situations and contexts. For example, the Story of Fish [by landscape architect Prachi Chopade Wakaley] uses art as strategy — making a fish from waste glass bottles to remind people to keep their water sources clean; Pollinator People [by landscape architect Vidisha Barwal] uses the logic and process of pollination to offer a design for the recovery of ecosystems; and Forest Cabin [by Architecture Brio], shows you how to build lightly in a forest setting with least impact,” says Nisha. Among the plethora of intriguing projects, Bamboo Toilet — an initiative by Tata Trust, and designed by Delhi-based Shift Studio — has piqued interest. The brief was to build a toilet that would meet the needs of rural India, and Mayank Mishra of Shift Studio says they came up with a design that used bamboo and EcoSan technology (dry toilets that do not use water). Ideal for places that have scarcity of water, it converts human excreta into compost and fertiliser. “An individual unit will cost anywhere between Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 24,000, which can come down when built and managed by the community,”explains Mishra. “It was challenging to evolve processes to elevate bamboo from a craft material to an engineering level [meeting the needs for structural constructions].”  Travelling stories  Speaking of the showcase’s engagement with viewers at Somerset House, where the various projects are being screened on a large projection, Nisha explains, “It’s a showcase that is packed with ideas and needs a couple of hours to fully watch and observe.” Beyond the Biennale, she feels that the ideas, which have emerged from traditional wisdom, scientific temper, and the communities’ needs, must be shared with the entire country. “We could do a travelling exhibition,” she says. “These stories can be vital to bring about a change. People must know what’s happening in various parts of India.” Moreover, she believes the current situation underlines the need for solutions that are local and interconnected, while still recognising the value of the large scale. “The two need to work together for the preservation of our resources. If an earlier Indian austerity could be referred to, it was doing the most with the least, and I believe design will respond in this manner given the conditions around us. We don’t have a choice but to re-look at maximising the potential of our natural resources for the benefit of communities post pandemic, and this has to begin with great ideas.”  London Design Biennale is on at Somerset House   till June 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bamboo-toilet-in-somerset-house/article34920642.ece
