24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Banks get assets worth Rs. 8,441 crore from ED||The Enforcement Directorate has transferred assets worth Rs. 8,441.5 crore to public sector banks that suffered losses to the tune of Rs. 22,585.83 crore due to frauds committed allegedly by businessmen Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. All three accused had fled overseas. The agency said it recently transferred attached shares worth Rs. 6,600 crore to a State Bank of India-led consortium as per an order of the PMLA Special Court, Mumbai. On Wednesday, the Debt Recovery Tribunal, on behalf of the consortium, sold the shares of United Breweries Limited for Rs. 5,824.5 crore. Further realisation of Rs. 800 crore by sale of shares is expected by June 25. Owing to the help extended by the ED, the public sector banks earlier recovered Rs. 1,357 crore by selling the shares. “Thus, the banks shall be realising a total amount of Rs. 9,041.5 crore through sale of a part of the assets attached/seized by the ED...,” said the agency. As on date, of the total attachment worth Rs. 18,170.02 crore, assets valued Rs. 329.67 crore have been confiscated and properties worth Rs. 9,041.5 crore — amounting to 40% of the total loss to the banks — have been handed over to them. Based on the cases registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation, the ED had taken up a money laundering probe that helped unearth a complex web of domestic and international transactions and stashing of assets abroad by the accused persons and their associates. They had used dummy entities controlled by them for rotation and siphoning of the funds provided by the banks. As part of the investigation, the ED took steps to attach or seize assets worth Rs. 18,170.02 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/banks-get-assets-worth-rs-8441-crore-from-ed/article34941880.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru/Mysuru,||After Mysuru, another Delta Plus case reported in Bengaluru||A day after Karnataka’s first case of Delta Plus variant was reported in Mysuru, another case was detected in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the information had been shared with the Union Health Ministry and the government was carefully monitoring the emergence of new variants. Six more genome labs would be set up in the State. The Bengaluru patient is an 86-year-old resident of Ashok Nagar, who had symptoms of Influenza like Illness (ILI). He had got one dose of COVID-19 vaccine when his sample was collected in May and sent to the genome sequencing lab in NIMHANS. Meanwhile, Health officials in Mysuru are awaiting the results of one more batch of samples sent to NIMHANS for genome sequencing. Dean and Director of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMC&RI) Nanjaraj said that a total of 40 samples had been sent to NIMHANS last month in two batches. While the first batch of 21 samples sent in the first week of May had reported one case of Delta Plus, the results of the second batch of 19 samples sent about a fortnight later are still awaited. The youth, whose sample had shown Delta Plus variant in genome sequencing, was asymptomatic and did not have to undergo hospitalization. Sources clarified that both the persons found to have been infected with Delta Plus in Karnataka did not have any history of foreign travel. The new Delta Plus variant had been formed due to a mutation in the highly contagious Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and one of the drivers of the second wave. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, who also heads the State Genomic Surveillance Committee, said there is still no evidence to show if Delta Plus was more virulent and caused a severe form of disease. “The only difference noted is that Delta Plus is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for COVID-19 recently authorised in India,” he said. Asserting that available data did not justify unnecessary concerns being raised over Delta Plus, Dr. Ravi said if the variant was more virulent than the variants detected previously, cases should have surged across districts in Karnataka by now as both the samples were collected in May. “We should not speculate on the severity and transmissibility of the new variant unless there is more data available. All new mutations replace the previous mutation and Delta Plus too may turn out to be a variant that can replace Delta,” he explained. So far, a total of 40 cases of Delta Plus variant had been detected in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-delta-plus-case-reported-in-bengaluru/article34941924.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR,||Modi to meet J&K leaders today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will head the talks on Thursday with representatives of mainstream political parties from Jammu and Kashmir, which will be an attempt, many in the government say, to settle a “political equilibrium” with regard to the Union Territory (UT). This comes 22 months after the passage of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, removing the special status of J&K and splitting the erstwhile State into two Union Territories. Talks will be held at Prime Minister Modi’s official residence, 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, with Home Minister Amit Shah in attendance. The government is clear that there is no going back on the removal of Article 370, and while statehood can be discussed, the main agenda for the government will be seeking cooperation from the parties on the delimitation exercise under way for the Assembly seats. Parties that make up the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), such as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the National Conference (NC), however, will stick to their position of seeking the restoration of Article 370, and the immediate restoration of statehood, with the Congress and the National Panthers Party backing it . The passage of the Reorganisation Act was opposed tooth and nail by the mainstream Kashmir parties, with many leaders being immediately taken into custody and released months later in a staggered manner. Many of these parties, which stood for talks with all stakeholders and refused to fight Assembly polls till their demands were met.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-to-meet-jk-leaders-today/article34941876.ece
24 June 2021||SALEM,||SSI arrested for beating man to death||A Special Sub-Inspector in Salem district was arrested and booked for murder on Wednesday, after a 47-year-old farmer, whom he had indiscriminately beaten up with a lathi on Tuesday evening, died. The victim, A. Murugesan of Edayappati, was assaulted by SSI Periyasamy at the Pappinaickenpatti check-post in the Yethapur police station limits in Salem district. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the assault was triggered by an argument Murugesan had in an inebriated state with the uniformed personnel. Video clips of the SSI thrashing the victim, ignoring pleas for mercy, were shared widely on social media and served as a chilling reminder of the deaths of Jayaraj, a trader, and his son J. Bennicks after they were beaten up at the Sattankulam police station in Thoothukudi exactly a year ago. In the video, Murugesan’s relatives were heard pleading with the police to let him go. The policeman stopped wielding the lathi only after Murugesan fell unconscious. The video was shot by a relative of the deceased. Three constables — Murugan, Divakar and Balaji — of the Tamil Nadu Special Battalion were on duty and were witness to the incident. Police sources said Murugesan, along with his relatives T. Sivan Babu, 33, and R. Shankar, 23, was crossing the check-post on a two-wheeler when they were intercepted by the SSI. Since they were in an inebriated state, their vehicle was impounded. This triggered an exchange of words between Murugesan and the SSI, leading to the assault. After Murugesan fell unconscious, his relatives took him to the Primary Health Centre at Thumbal and later admitted him to the Government Hospital at Attur. But the doctors there referred him to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital, where he died on Wednesday morning. The victim is survived by his wife Annakili, 37, daughters Jeyapriya, 18, a first year B.Com student, and Jeyabrindha, 12, a Plus two student and son Kavipriyan, 13, a Class 8 student. As the news of the incident spread, the victim’s relatives gathered outside the Yethapur police station, demanding action against the SSI. Police personnel were deployed to prevent any untoward incident. Based on a complaint from the victim’s brother, A. Duraisamy, a case under Section 176 of the Cr.PC (inquiry by magistrate into cause of death) was registered by the Yethapur police. Later, the Section was altered to 302 (murder) and the SSI was arrested. C. Maheswari, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Salem Range, and M. Sree Abhinav, Superintendent of Police, held inquiries at the station. Murugesan’s relatives and PMK functionaries submitted a petition to the SP, demanding a government job for a member of the deceased’s family, besides adequate compensation. They said they would agree to a post-mortem only if their demands were met. Later, PMK president G.K. Mani assured the victim’s relatives that he would take up the issue with the Chief Minister. Following his assurance, they agreed to a post-mortem. After postmortem at Salem GH, the body was handed over to the relatives. The body was buried in a graveyard in the village by 10 p.m. in the presence of heavy police contingent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ssi-arrested-for-beating-man-to-death/article34941974.ece
24 June 2021||Chennai/Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala capital bucks excess deaths trend||Unlike other cities in India which registered excess deaths during the first and second COVID-19 waves, Kerala’s capital Thiruvananthapuram recorded a decrease in the number of overall deaths in 2020 and 1,196 “excess deaths” in 2021 (till May), according to the Civil Registration System data accessed by The Hindu through a Right to Information application. Compared with the pre-pandemic years (2015 to 2019) when the city corporation registered an average 16,652 deaths, in 2020, despite the pandemic, only 14,734 deaths occurred. If instead of averages, a year-by-year growth rate of deaths is considered, the city’s 14,734 registered deaths were fewer than the estimated 18,340 deaths in 2020. This is in line with the 2020 figures for the entire State of Kerala, released earlier this year, which showed that the absolute number of deaths in 2020 reduced by 11.1% compared with the 2019 figure. (This gap has closed to 7.9% now, according to the latest figures.) A natural reduction in deaths due to fewer road accidents and respiratory illnesses, such as COPD, H1N1 and pneumonia, besides water and food-borne illnesses as people stayed indoors was one reason. But the lower COVID-19 mortality in Kerala was also due to an effective public health response that stood out in comparison with that of other States. This factor is evident in Thiruvananthapuram as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-capital-bucks-excess-deaths-trend/article34941878.ece
24 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Inter second year students to be awarded first year marks||Second year Intermediate students who have been declared as ‘passed’ this year due to COVID-19 will, however, have to be content with the marks they scored in the first year examinations. The government has decided to award the same marks scored by them in each subject in the first year examinations. All students would be awarded the same marks, but they would get total marks for the practical examinations. This procedure, however, will be valid for this year only. In an order released on Wednesday, the government said that “the marks obtained by regular students in the Intermediate first year 2020 (general, vocational and bridge course) should be taken as the basis for awarding marks in the second year for this year, for each student”. Since practical exams were not conducted, 100% marks will be given to students in the practicals (general, vocational and bridge course). All second year students who failed in the first year subjects and paid the exam fee have already been granted minimum 35% pass marks. Similarly, private candidates will be awarded minimum pass marks in the failed subjects. Second year students (regular and private) who failed in Ethics and Human Values, and Environmental Education subjects will also get minimum 35% marks. Similarly, all candidates under ‘attendance exemption’ category appearing for additional subjects like general bridge course mathematics, vocational bridge course and general humanities courses will get 35% marks in first year backlog theory subjects and second year subjects. Students not satisfied with the results will get an opportunity to take exams as and when the situation becomes conducive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inter-second-year-students-to-be-awarded-first-year-marks/article34942126.ece
24 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Three sets of question banks released for Class 10 students in Dakshina Kannada||Supplementing the work of the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board, the office of the Deputy Director of Public Instruction and the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) have brought out two question banks of multiple choice questions (MCQ) for Class 10 students. They will release six more banks shortly. The MCQ bank for Mathematics named “Sopana”, for second language English named “Confidence”, for Social Science named “Sanchayana” have been released. The question banks for Science, Kannada, Hindi, Urdu and Sanskrit will be released shortly, said Deputy Director of Public Instruction, Malleswamy. The question bank will have a wide range of MCQ and it will include those featuring in the two sets of model question papers released by the KSEEB. Subject experts and teachers have been involved in this task. “This is our effort to make our children better prepared for the MCQ format of examination,” Mr. Malleswamy told The Hindu . This year, SSLC will be in MCQ format and each paper will be of 40 marks. Students need to mark the answers in OMR sheets. As many as 30,000 students from the district are writing the SSLC examination in July this year. The question bank on second language English has 495 questions related to prose, poetry, grammar and letter writing. A team of 37 English teachers from across the district was involved in bringing out this question bank framed by taking into consideration the reduced syllabi. The question bank on Mathematics in English and Kannada has a total of 303 questions. It is related to chapters such as arithmetic progression, triangles, linear equations, circles, constructions, coordinate geometry, quadratic equations, trigonometry, statistics and surface area and volumes. A team of 16 Mathematics teachers was involved in this task. The question bank on Social Science has 514 questions from 32 chapters and is framed by a team of 16 teachers. The overall task of preparing the question bank is being carried out under the direction of Joint Director and Principal of College of Teachers Education, Mangaluru, Cyprian Montheiro. Puttur Block Education Officer C. Lokesh, Senior Lecturers in DIET Babitha and James Cutinho, Puttur Block Resource Coordinator Naveeen Stephen Viegas, DIET Lecturer K. Pithambara, President of District High School Head Masters and PU Principals Association Jayashri and President of District High School Teachers Association Stany Tauro were also involved in it. Teachers are making efforts to reach these question banks to their students, Mr. Malleswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-sets-of-question-banks-released-for-class-10-students-in-dakshina-kannada/article34942091.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will hold Inter exams, State tells SC||The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday confirmed in the Supreme Court that it will go ahead and hold exams for Classes 11 and 12 (Intermediate first and second year) students as there is no “reliable alternative”. The State said it was “conscious of the difficult situation, but conduct of examination shall be in the best interests of the students and shall be conducted safely”. The Supreme Court had given the State 24 hours to take a call on whether or not it would conduct the State Board exams amid the pandemic. The CBSE, the ICSE and many States had cancelled their exams. “Even if there is one student fatality, the State will be held responsible,” Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari had warned the State government on Tuesday. Sharp decline in cases However, the State, in its affidavit filed through advocate Mahfooz A. Nazki on Wednesday, said the COVID-19 cases had seen a sharp decline from 19,981 on May 22 to 4,169 on June 22. It said it would tentatively conduct the exams in the last week of July. The timetable would be intimated to parents and students 15 days in advance. It said there was no “reliable alternative” to assess the performance of the students. Unlike the CBSE and other Boards, the Andhra system gives grades in Class 10 and not marks. The State Board had no reliable check on the internal exams conducted in various schools. The Common Entrance Test for professional courses in the State gives 25% weightage to marks scored in Intermediate. Precautionary measures The State said it had prepared elaborate precautionary measures. Exam officials would be vaccinated. Each hall would allow only 15 to 18 candidates. The exams for Classes 11 and 12 would be held on alternative days. The court scheduled a hearing on June 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/we-will-hold-exams-for-classes-11-12-says-ap/article34941851.ece
24 June 2021||Kolkata,||Fake vaccination centre busted||The Kolkata Police on Wednesday bused a fake COVID-19 vaccination centre and arrested one person who was operating the facility posing as an IAS officer associated with Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC). Several people, including Trinamool Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty, were vaccinated at the facility in the Kasba area. When she did notreceive any SMS or vaccine certificate after receiving her jab, the MP informed the police. The police arrested Debanjan Deb and recovered fake identification cards, forged documents bearing seal and signature of KMC authorities along with hand sanitisers and masks from the Centre. The accused had introduced himself as Joint Commissioner, KMC, and was using a vehicle with necessary government logos and signages. A senior police officer said they were looking into how he had managed to get vaccines for the centre which was not registered with KMC. “We have sent the vaccine samples to the lab and if they are found to be fake then people will need to be vaccinated again,” he said. The accused said he had bought the vaccines from the open market. Ms. Chakraborty said she went to the vaccination centre after receiving an invite to inspire people. Several people who were administered vaccines said they did not receive any message or certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fake-vaccination-centre-busted/article34942215.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Chautala to be released from Tihar||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Indian National Lok Dal president Om Prakash Chautala, who is serving a 10-year prison term in a teacher recruitment scam case, will be released from the Tihar jail as the Delhi government has granted a remission of his sentence, officials said on Wednesday. The 86-year-old leader was jailed on January 16, 2013 and is out on emergency parole since March 26, 2020. He will be released as part of a drive to decongest Delhi’s prisons given the pandemic situation. The Delhi government on Monday issued an order regarding special remission of six months to convicts who have already served nine years and six months of their 10-year prison term. According to sources, the authorities concerned at Tihar jail no. 2 informed Chautala’s lawyer Amit Sahni about the development via email on Tuesday. According to the communication, Chautala would be finally released after he formally surrenders before the jail authorities. Family ‘grateful’ Reacting to the development, Chautala’s younger son Abhay said his family will always be grateful to the people for their “love and prayers in times of crisis”. Chautala’s grandson Dushyant, who left the INLD and floated the Jannayak Janta Party in 2018, said he learnt about the development through media. “It is a matter of happiness,” he said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chautala-to-be-released-from-tihar/article34942051.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,||SSLC exam: One student per desk, COVID-19 students too can sit||While the dates of the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) are yet to be announced, the government on Wednesday issued detailed Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) on the conduct of the exam. Each classroom in a centre will seat only 12 students with one candidate per desk. Along with thermal screening, students will also have their blood oxygen levels tested with the help of oximeters. Only if their saturation level is above 94, will they be allowed to appear for the examination, stated the protocols issued by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI). COVID Care Centres In a significant move, students who have tested positive can appear for the examination at COVID Care Centres identified by the department. They will be provided transportation to reach the centre in 108 ambulances and have to wear N 95 masks. Students who are symptomatic and could not sit for the main exam, would be allowed to write the supplementary examination. The department stated that their supplementary examination hall tickets would be considered as their first attempt. The SOP, which was finalised by the State Technical Advisory Committee on COVID-19, also stated that teaching and non-teaching staff who were involved in examination duty should have had at least one dose of vaccination. In a press release, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the SOP had been sent to all examination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-exam-one-student-per-desk-covid-19-students-too-can-sit/article34941931.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Motor vehicle tax waived for June by 50%||The State transport department has decided to waive the motor vehicle tax for commercial vehicles by 50% for the month of June. Deputy Chief Minister Lakshman Savadi, who is also the Transport Minister, stated that this decision was taken in light of the restrictions that were imposed following the outbreak of the second wave of COVID-19. The waiver has been announced as a special case under section 16 (1) of the Karnataka Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1957, but does not apply to newly registered passenger vehicles, stated a press release from the transport department. ‘Too little, too late’ Private operators are unhappy with the sop, as they have been demanding a waiver for six months. “This is too little, too late,” said K. Radhakrishna Holla, president of Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association. “The lockdown and weekend restrictions were in place for more than 60 days. We had cooperated with the government when Road Transport Corporations went on strike earlier in April, despite not making any profit,” he said. Travel operators and owners of passenger vehicles were in financial distress and even banks that had announced a blanket moratorium for six months last year had not extended the same benefit this time around. “The second wave has hit us hard,” he said. Mr. Holla urged the government to announce at least 50% waiver in motor vehicle tax for six months. “We are still waiting for the official order to be issued. We will decide on the next course of action once the order is issued,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/motor-vehicle-tax-waived-for-june-by-50/article34941927.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Vizag set to become a hub for employment generation: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that Visakhapatnam is poised to become a major hub for employment generation. Addressing a review meeting on IT policy, Electronic Manufacturing Clusters (EMCs) and digital libraries on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that infrastructure being created by the government and the international airport would transform the city into an attractive destination. He also observed that the city had tremendous potential to become a centre for quality education. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the objective of the IT policy was to provide good jobs for the youth, and wanted that priority be given to imparting high-end skills to the students. ‘Promote WFH ecosystem’ He suggested that a top-notch IT university should be set up in Visakhapatnam. He also stated that incentives would be given to the IT companies every year, and instructed the officials to boost the Work From Home (WFH) ecosystem. The Chief Minister said the government was taking steps to provide high-speed Internet in the villages and set up digital libraries in the rural areas. It was targeted to provide Internet connectivity to 4,000 villages by December. Concept cities He directed the officials to identify land for the concept cities in Visakhapatnam, Tirupati and Anantapur, and wanted an action plan for the same. Officials informed the Chief Minister that construction works related to YSR EMCs were going on at a brisk pace, and they were scheduled to be launched in October. Industries and Information Technology Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Principal Secretaries Gopala Krishna Dwivedi (Panchayat Raj) and G. Jaya Lakshmi (Information Technology), Energy Secretary N. Srikant, Panchayat Raj Commissioner M. Girija Shankar, and YSR EMCs CEO M. Nanda Kishore were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vizag-set-to-become-a-hub-for-employment-generation-jagan/article34941873.ece
24 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records over 10,000 new cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 11,032 recoveries as against 10,066 new COVID-19 cases, with active cases dipping to 1,21,859. A total of 109 deaths during the last 48 hours, a further 54 during the past week, and 354 fatalities as part of the Health Department’s ‘reconciliation’ process pushed the State’s death toll to 1,19,303, with the case fatality rate rising to 1.99%. The total tally has reached 59,97,587, while total recoveries have risen to 57,53,290, with the recovery rate standing at 95.93%. “Of 4,01,28,355 laboratory samples tested thus far, 59,97,587 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 14.95%) have returned positive, with over 2.58 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported 1,199 new cases taking its total cases to 10,47,085. As per Health Department figures, 10 deaths were reported as the death toll rose to 16,379. As per district authorities, the active case tally has dipped below 8,500 while the death toll has reached 17,649. 863 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 863 new cases to take its tally to 7,21,963, while the active count rose to 18,711. As many as 23 fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,338. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra recorded more than 1,600 new cases, taking its total case tally to 1,44,785, of whom 9,142 are active. As many as 34 deaths saw the toll rise to 4,449. Pandharpur-Mangalwedha Assembly constituency of Solapur, which went to the polls in April, had contributed to nearly 30% of the cases and fatalities in the district in the second wave. Now, Pandharpur has been reporting a daily spike of less than 40 cases over the past few days despite the district reporting an average 350-400 cases a day. Satara reported 797 new cases and 17 fatalities, taking its tally to 1,87,414, of whom 7,061 are active. Its death toll has risen to 4,484.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-over-10000-new-cases/article34942290.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MPs protest at House panel meet on vaccine||A meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on science and technology on Wednesday to discuss “vaccine development for COVID-19” and “genetic sequencing of coronavirus and its variants” saw high drama with the BJP members objecting to deliberations on these subjects, claiming that any investigation into it could demoralise the scientific community. Sources said the BJP members staged a walkout when Chairman and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh refused to postpone the meeting as demanded by them. They argued that it was not the opportune time to debate “vaccine development” since the country was still fighting the pandemic. Countering them, Opposition members asserted that four lakh people had lost their lives and a forensic assessment of the pandemic was essential and urgent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mps-protest-at-house-panel-meet-on-vaccine/article34941932.ece
24 June 2021||Lahore,||Blast near Hafiz Saeed’s home, 3 killed||A car bomb killed three people in Pakistan’s eastern megacity Lahore on Wednesday in an attack officials believe targeted the police and security forces near the home of a banned firebrand Muslim cleric. “Our assessment is that the most obvious target was the police and security forces,” said provincial police chief Inam Ghani. He said the blast site, in the affluent neighbourhood of Johar Town, was near the home of Hafiz Saeed, the alleged mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai attacks. “The vehicle might have succeeded in reaching there had this police checkpoint not been present,” said Mr. Ghani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blast-near-hafiz-saeeds-home-3-killed/article34942048.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘BJP got 76% donations by electoral trusts’||Over 76% of the donations made by the electoral trusts, which submitted their annual reports for 2019-20 to the Election Commission of India and declared to have received funding, went to the BJP, a report of the Association for Democratic Reforms said on Wednesday. Out of the 21 registered trusts, 14 submitted their annual reports to the ECI and seven of those declared that they had received funds that were then given to parties, the report said. The seven trusts that were analysed received a total of Rs. 363.51 crore from various corporates and individuals. They gave a total of Rs. 362.91 crore to political parties. The Congress received Rs. 31 crore, followed by the Aam Aadmi Party with Rs. 11.26 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-got-76-donations-by-electoral-trusts/article34942288.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MPs protest at House panel meet on vaccine||A meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on science and technology on Wednesday to discuss “vaccine development for COVID-19” and “genetic sequencing of coronavirus and its variants” saw high drama with the BJP members objecting to deliberations on these subjects, claiming that any investigation into it could demoralise the scientific community. Sources said the BJP members staged a walkout when Chairman and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh refused to postpone the meeting as demanded by them. They argued that it was not the opportune time to debate “vaccine development” since the country was still fighting the pandemic. Countering them, Opposition members asserted that four lakh people had lost their lives and a forensic assessment of the pandemic was essential and urgent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mps-protest-at-house-panel-meet-on-vaccine/article34941874.ece
24 June 2021||guwahati,||NGO plea against former NRC Coordinator||The NGO, whose July 2009 petition in the Supreme Court led to the exercise of updating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, has filed a police complaint against former NRC State Coordinator Prateek Hajela. In its first information report (FIR) with the Additional Director General of Police of the Criminal Investigation Department on June 21, the Assam Public Works (APW) said Mr. Hajela manipulated the family tree verification during the NRC update exercise. Mr. Hajela did this in collaboration with some officers of migrant background, data entry operators, a few minority leaders, and some ‘anti-national elements’, APW’s Aabhijeet Sharma said in the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngo-plea-against-former-nrc-coordinator/article34942216.ece
24 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Maoist leader dies of heart attack post-COVID||The CPI (Maoist) Telangana State committee secretary Haribhushan alias Yapa Narayana, 52, died of heart attack after battling COVID-19 for several days deep in the forests of neighbouring Chhattisgarh State on Monday, police said. Haribhushan, who was recently inducted into the CPI (Maoist) Central Committee, carried a reward of Rs. 40 lakh on his head. A native of Madagudem in Mahabubabad district, Haribhushan, also known as Lakma Dada, rose up the banned outfit’s ranks swiftly by playing a key role in the Maoist movement in the Dandakaranya forest region, sources added. Talking to newsmen in the district headquarters town of Kothagudem on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said they had received reliable information about the death of Haribhushan due to a heart attack in Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar division on June 21. Haribhushan had been suffering from COVID-19 for the past few days, he added. Several top Maoist leaders and lower-rung cadres including Kukati Venkanna, Sharada, Sonu, Vinod, Nandu, Eduma, Deve, Mula Devender Reddy, Damodar and Bhadru are also suffering from COVID-19, he said. The SP said the CPI (Maoist) outfit has totally lost its existence in Telangana State following the death of Haribhushan. “The proscribed outfit’s leadership is responsible for the death of Sobrai, Nandu and Haribhushan, who succumbed to the coronavirus infection due to lack of treatment,” he charged. “Preventing the ailing Maoist leaders and cadres from coming out to avail medical treatment amounts to violation of human rights,” the SP said, renewing his appeal to the “ailing rebels” to surrender .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maoist-leader-dies-of-heart-attack-post-covid/article34942127.ece
24 June 2021||Chennai,||Police assault incident, an aberration, says DGP||Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy described the police assault on a farmer, which led to his death in Salem district on Wednesday, as an “aberration”. When contacted, he said that tough action had been initiated against the special sub-inspector involved in the incident. He said the police had registered a murder case against the accused person and arrested him. “We want to send out a message loud and clear that there would be zero tolerance to any kind of police high handedness or custodial torture,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/salem-incident-an-aberration-says-dgp/article34941991.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Masks||Health experts have recommended that students who are not positive and do not have any COVID-19-like symptoms can wear a cloth mask for the SSLC examination. This recommendation has been made as students may find it difficult to wear the N95 mask for the entire duration of the exam. “Only those who are tested positive, who have symptoms, and invigilators have been asked to wear an N95 mask continuously,” sources in the department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recommendation-on-masks/article34941923.ece
24 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Taxi fares revised in Udupi district||The Udupi Regional Transport Authority has revised fares for taxis operating under the aggregator scheme with immediate effect. A release here said that the revision was made on the basis of notification issued by the State Transport Authority and the existing cost of living of taxi drivers/owners. The revised fares are Rs. 75 minimum up to 4 km and Rs. 25 per km thereafter for taxis in D category priced up to Rs. 5 lakh; Rs. 100 and Rs. 28 per km for C category taxis priced up to Rs. 10 lakh; Rs. 120 and Rs. 31 per km for taxis under B category priced up to Rs. 16 lakh and Rs. 150 minimum fare with Rs. 35 per km thereafter for A category taxis priced beyond Rs. 16 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taxi-fares-revised-in-udupi-district/article34942092.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||ECI disqualifies Balram Naik||Former Congress MP and Union Minister of State P. Balram Naik has been disqualified by Election Commission of India from contesting to MP, MLA or MLC polls of any State for next three years for not filing his election expenses in 2019 Parliament elections. He was supposed to file expenses by June 23, 2019, a month after result of election to Mahabubabad LS seat which he unsuccessfully contested on Congress ticket. Not only did he not file the accounts, but also failed to respond to show-cause notice served on him by the ECI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eci-disqualifies-balram-naik/article34942124.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,||BMRCL seeking to raise money through bonds||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL), which like other mass transit systems has taken a financial hit due to the pandemic, is contemplating issuing Namma Metro Bond Series II to raise Rs. 500 crore for Phase II of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmrcl-seeking-to-raise-money-through-bonds/article34941926.ece
24 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Independent MLAs in Rajasthan back Gehlot||Independent MLAs supporting the Congress government in Rajasthan on Wednesday expressed faith in the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot amid the demand for a share in power by former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/independent-mlas-in-rajasthan-back-gehlot/article34942047.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sisodia hits out at Centre for ‘rejecting’ ration plan||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the Central government has sent a letter stating that it has “rejected” the proposal for doorstep delivery of ration in the city. “I want to ask the Prime Minister, why are you always in a mood to quarrel?” Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sisodia-hits-out-at-centre-for-rejecting-ration-plan/article34942050.ece
24 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||NGO files plea against former NRC Coordinator||The NGO whose July 2009 petition in the Supreme Court led to the exercise of updating the NRC in Assam has filed a complaint against former NRC State Coordinator Prateek Hajela. In its FIR, the Assam Public Works said Mr. Hajela manipulated the family tree verification during the NRC update exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngo-files-plea-against-former-nrc-coordinator/article34942049.ece
24 June 2021||Kolkata,||Amit Mitra writes to Nirmala Sitharaman||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Wednesday wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman alleging there has been a steady breakdown of the spirit of cooperative federalism in GST Council meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amit-mitra-writes-to-nirmala-sitharaman/article34942217.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Ramdev moves Supreme Court against FIRs||Yoga guru Ramdev on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court against FIRs registered in Patna and Raipur against his alleged remarks on allopathy’s effectiveness in treating COVID-19 cases. He has urged the court to protect him from any coercive action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ramdev-moves-supreme-court-against-firs/article34942218.ece
24 June 2021||Guwahati,||‘Assam’s two-child policy will stall development’||A coalition of civil society groups engaged in reproductive health has said Assam’s move to adopt a two-child policy for availing benefits under government schemes will hurt the poorest besides hindering the State’s development goals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assams-two-child-policy-will-stall-development/article34942219.ece
24 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||Every taluk to have Child COVID Care Centre||In the wake of reports about a possible third wave, the State government is taking steps to set up Child COVID Care Centres in every taluk of the State so that timely treatment is given to affected children, Minister Shashikala Jolle has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/every-taluk-to-have-child-covid-care-centre/article34942095.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks info on release of movie on Rajput’s life||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought to know if a movie titled ‘Nyay: The Justice’, based on the late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s life, has been released on June 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-seeks-info-on-release-of-movie-on-rajputs-life/article34942289.ece
24 June 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Brute force used against Alapan’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday described the Centre's proposed move to start major penalty proceedings against the former State Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as highly irresponsible behaviour. She said the Centre was victimising Mr. Bandyopadhyay and using brute force against a very competent and dedicated officer. “If by using brute force someone wants to be a selfish giant, then the law will take its own course,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Bandyopadhyay, she said, was free to take his own decisions, and the State government would fully support him. After the former Chief Secretary opted to retire on May 31, the State government appointed him Chief Adviser to the Chief Minister. Ms. Banerjee said that the officer, who had lost three family members, including his brother, to COVID-19 in a span of a few weeks, was undergoing “mental agony”. She said the former Chief Secretary was not alone in his fight and he was getting support from bureaucrats across the country. Bypolls in West Bengal Taking a swipe at the Election Commission of India, the Chief Minister said it must be waiting for an approval from the Prime Minister for holding bypolls in the State. “I request the Prime Minister to allow the byelection,” she said. Election to several constituencies where contestants had died or resigned after the polls were pending. The Chief Minister herself was likely to contest the Bhawanipur Assembly seat, which was vacated by Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay. Ms. Banerjee lost in Nandigram by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes in the recently concluded Assembly polls. Ms. Banerjee said the byelection should ideally be held within six months and she was expecting an announcement in the next seven days. “Elections were held when the case positivity rate had climbed to 33%. Now the case positivity rate is 3% and it will come down further in the next few days,” she said. The BJP was unable to digest its defeat in the State, she said. She urged the Centre to speed up the process of obtaining WHO approval for Covaxin as students who had been administered the vaccine were unable to travel outside the country. She said the State government would increase daily vaccination from three lakh to four lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brute-force-used-against-alapan/article34941791.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||China raising new units near borders||China is raising new militia units comprising local Tibetan youth for high-altitude warfare near Eastern Ladakh, the site of the recent border tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), as well as near its borders with Sikkim and Bhutan, intelligence intercepts have revealed.  The Hindu has learnt that the new units named Mimang Cheton are presently undergoing training, and are to be deployed mostly in upper Himalayan ranges, both in the eastern and western sectors of the India-China border. It is learnt that two batches of the Mimang Cheton have completed training and have been deployed along various locations in the Chumbi valley, including Yadong, which borders Sikkim and Bhutan, Cheema, Rinchengang, PB Thang and Phari. A second batch is undergoing training at Phari, which is near Sikkim. Available information indicates that the units are also being deployed at Rutog in Tibet, near the Pangong Tso (lake) in eastern Ladakh. Recent reports appearing in China’s state media suggest the militia has been used to transport supplies to PLA troops stationed at Rutog. The new units will be used for high-altitude warfare as well for surveillance and for ensuring supplies to PLA troops. The units are being trained by the PLA, but personnel are yet to get uniforms or ranks. The new Mimang Cheton units mirrors India’s .elite and decades-old Special Frontier Force consisting of persons of Tibetan origin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-raising-new-units-near-borders/article34941804.ece
24 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Independent MLAs back Gehlot||Independent MLAs supporting the Congress government in Rajasthan on Wednesday expressed faith in the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot amid the demand for a share in power raised by former Deputy CM Sachin Pilot’s camp in the ruling party. The independent legislators said the Cabinet expansion and reshuffle was solely Mr. Gehlot’s prerogative. Twelve of the 13 Independents, who met at the Circuit House here, adopted a resolution denouncing the “pressure tactics” of the Pilot camp for political appointments and getting berths in the State Cabinet. The MLAs, most of whom are of the Congress background, said they were not hankering after power and had no desire to become Ministers. Sirohi MLA Sanyam Lodha told reporters after the meeting that the Independent legislators, who had extended support to the Gehlot government during the political crisis last year, were willing to make “all sacrifices” for giving a stable regime to the people in the State. “We wish to give a befitting reply to those who want to topple the State government.” Mr. Lodha said. ‘Undisputed leader’ Mr. Lodha, who had contested and won the 2018 Assembly election as a rebel after being denied the Congress ticket, said Mr. Pilot was a “fortunate leader”, as he had not faced any failure in his political career, except when he staged a rebellion last year. “Mr. Gehlot is the undisputed leader of Rajasthan. We have left all decisions to him for managing the present situation,” he said. Former Union Minister Mahadeo Singh Khandela, representing Sikar district’s Khandela constituency, said Mr. Gehlot’s effective COVID-19 management and his policies for the State’s development had made him a political leader liked by all sections of society. He said all Independents had reposed confidence in Mr. Gehlot’s leadership in the interest of the State. In the hour-long meeting, the MLAs also sought appointments to the vacant posts of revenue officials and regularisation of contract workers, while calling upon all non-BJP parties to launch an agitation against the spiralling petrol and diesel prices. The legislators congratulated the State government for successfully handling the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. Unconditional support The independent MLAs’ unconditional support gave a shot in the arm to Mr. Gehlot, who has been unwilling to accommodate Mr. Pilot and his loyalists in the government since last year’s political turmoil. With the Congress party’s central leadership unable to persuade Mr. Gehlot for reaching a comprise, no Cabinet expansion is likely to take place in the near future under pressure from the Pilot camp. Besides Mr. Lodha and Mr. Khandela, other Independents who attended the meeting were Ramkesh Meena, Ramila Khadiya, Suresh Tak, Khushveer Singh, Om Prakash Hudla, Ramkumar Gaur, Kanti Prasad, Laxman Meena, Alok Beniwal and Babulal Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/independent-mlas-back-gehlot/article34942066.ece
24 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||NGO files plea against former NRC Coordinator||The NGO whose July 2009 petition in the Supreme Court led to the exercise of updating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam has filed a police complaint against former NRC State Coordinator Prateek Hajela. In its first information report (FIR) with the Additional Director General of Police of the Criminal Investigation Department on June 21, the Assam Public Works (APW) said Mr. Hajela manipulated the family tree verification during the NRC update exercise. Mr. Hajela did this in collaboration with some officers of migrant background, data entry operators, a few minority leaders, and some ‘anti-national elements’, APW’s Aabhijeet Sharma said in the FIR.  Referring to an affidavit filed by Mr. Hajela’s successor Hitesh Dev Sarma in the Supreme Court and the Gauhati High Court, the APW said the NRC list had many anomalies and the names of many illegal and doubtful persons were included. The draft NRC published in August 2019 had left out the names of 19.06 lakh of some 3.3 crore applicants. The inclusion of a very high percentage of illegal and doubtful persons’ names in the NRC pointed to manipulations in the family tree verification, the APW said. “We suspect that Prateek Hajela and his close associates, in collaboration with some officers of migrant background, data entry operators, some minority leaders and some anti-national elements, used the government mechanism to insert the names of illegal migrants in the updated NRC,” it said in the FIR. The family tree verification did not work properly as most NRC officials working in immigrant-dominated areas belonged to the immigrant community whose citizenship was never verified, the APW stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngo-files-plea-against-former-nrc-coordinator/article34941788.ece
24 June 2021||Chennai,||63.2 lakh people get vaccine shots||India administered over 63.2 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines until 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday. After registering a drop on Tuesday, the number of doses administered improved again on the third day since the government’s revised vaccine policy came into action. Madhya Pradesh recorded the highest number of vaccinations (11 lakh) followed by Uttar Pradesh (7.2 lakh) and Maharashtra (6 lakh). While the pace of the vaccination drive has picked up significantly this week, India needs to administer 82 lakh doses daily on an average to fully inoculate its adult population by December 31, 2021. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 46.6 lakh on June 22, which is more than the 32.5 lakh recorded a week before (June 16). It was also significantly higher than the average daily doses recorded a month before (May 22) which was 18.2 lakh. About 26.2% of adults in India, 45.5% of those aged above 45, and 48.5% of people aged above 60, were administered with at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Wednesday. While 18% of the country’s population has received at least one dose, only 3.8% are fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. In comparison, 11.64% and 10.72% of people in Brazil and Russia are fully vaccinated, respectively. The figure for the U.K. and the U.S. stood at 46.39% and 44.98%, respectively. 53,186 new infections India recorded 53,186 new COVID-19 cases until 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday, taking its cumulative caseload to 3,00,81,069. As many as 1,309 new deaths were also registered taking the tally to 3,92,000. Around 19 lakh samples were tested in the country on Tuesday (the results for which were made available on Wednesday). Kerala reported 12,787 new infections, followed by Maharashtra (10,066) and Tamil Nadu (6,596). Maharashtra recorded 508 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (166) and Kerala (150). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. India now records the second-highest number of seven-day average daily deaths in the world, next to Brazil (2,003) An average of 1,584 daily deaths was recorded on June 22. The two other countries with the highest fatality count after India were Colombia (620) and Argentina (524).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/632-lakh-people-get-vaccine-shots/article34941828.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Grey matter loss seen after COVID||The loss of smell and taste, which is among the most common symptoms associated with coronavirus infection, is writ large in the brain, says a study that scanned brain images from a group of volunteers to compare changes before and after COVID-19. The study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, was able to paint a picture of a distinct loss of grey matter, in regions of the brain associated with smell and taste in those who had tested positive for the coronavirus compared to those who hadn’t. “This [the grey matter loss] might represent a more deleterious impact of COVID-19, or be due to risk factors (as hospitalised patients were older, had higher Body Mass Index) and blood pressure, and higher risk of diabetes), or an interaction of both. The loss of grey matter in memory-related regions of the brain may in turn increase the risk of these patients of developing dementia in the longer term,” say the authors, who include scientists at the University of Oxford, the Imperial College London, and the National Institutes of Health, U.S. The study compared brain imaging scans sourced as part of the U.K. Biobank initiative, that prior to the pandemic had collected a large set of brain-scan images from over 40,000 volunteers over 45. From these, 394, who had tested positive for the virus and 388 who had not (and used as comparator controls), and who had appeared for follow-up brain imaging, were studied to tease out how parts of their brains had changed. Apoorva Bhandari, cognitive neuroscientist, Brown University, United States, said that the findings showed a “significant though subtle grey matter loss” linked to a positive COVID-19 test or diagnosis. “It’s harder to say that it was due to COVID and in particular due to the novel coronavirus attacking the neurons. It may be due to secondary effects of the loss of olfactory functioning, which itself is likely due to the virus impacting other non-neural support cells in olfactory epithelium. When you have a profound effect on a sensory system’s processing, you can see its effects in subsequent processing regions (including in the grey matter volume) even in normal subjects, which is temporary and reversible,” Mr. Bhandari, who wasn’t connected to the study, told The Hindu . Going ahead, data from this set that could establish if over time the grey matter loss reversed, stayed stable or further deteriorated could provide “very strong clues” to not only the mechanism (causing the loss) but the potential significance of these findings, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/grey-matter-loss-seen-after-covid/article34941832.ece
24 June 2021||Srinagar,||EC speeding up delimitation process||In a bid to speed up the process of delimitation of the Assembly and Parliamentary constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir, Deputy Election Commissioner Chandra Bushan Kumar held virtual meetings with 20 Deputy Commissioners (DCs) of the Union Territory on Wednesday. Mr. Kumar held two separate virtual meetings, first with the DCs, who are also District Electoral Officers (DEOs), from the Jammu region, followed by meetings with the officers from the Kashmir region. It was the first such meeting with the DEOs since the J&K Delimitation Commission headed by Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd.), with five associate members comprising local Members of Parliaments, was set up in March 2020. Officials said the exercise was aimed at collecting data on population, and details of the topography of each Assembly and Parliamentary constituency in J&K. The move comes days after National Conference (NC) president Dr. Farooq Abdullah, whose party has three MPs from J&K, dropped broad hints at joining the Commission. Earlier, NC MPs boycotted the meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-speeding-up-delimitation-process/article34941810.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Jairam Ramesh refuses to put off House panel meet||Amid high drama, at a meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on science and technology on Wednesday to discuss “vaccine development for COVID-19” and “genetic sequencing of coronavirus and its variants,” BJP members insisted that the question if it was appropriate for the panel to discuss the matter be referred to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu. Sources said the BJP members staged a walkout when committee Chairman and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh refused to postpone the meeting. AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi, IUML’s E.T. Mohammad Basheer, CPI’s Binoy Viswam and other Opposition members vehemently called for the meeting to continue. BJP MP from Unnao, Sakshi Maharaj, demanded a vote to settle the dispute. Mr. Maharaj had written to Mr. Ramesh ahead of the meeting, protesting against the choice of the subject. A few other BJP members too, sources said, wrote to Mr. Ramesh on similar lines. There were 11 BJP MPs and seven opposition members. Mr. Ramesh, the sources said, refused to hold a vote. “He argued that the meetings of a parliamentary standing committee are always conducted through consensus. There would be no vote,” he said, “even if this is the last meeting I chair,” a member who attended the meeting said. With the impasse continuing, Mr. Ramesh, the sources said, remained adamant that the meeting would not be postponed and he called for the witnesses who were waiting for nearly an hour. At this stage, the BJP MPs staged a walkout. A few of them returned to the meeting to hear the official. Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India K. VijayRaghavan; Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology; and Director General of CSIR (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research) Shekhar C. Mande; and other officials participated in the meeting. NITI Aayog member and Chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 V.K. Paul, who was also called as a witness, skipped the meeting. Questions asked During the last 90 minutes of the meeting, the members managed to ask a few questions, including why India’s genome sequencing is at a miserable 0.13% as against the 5% target. So far, only genome sequencing of only 40,000 samples have been done. Now that technology transfer of Covaxin has been done to few other domestic manufacturers, questions were also asked on what will be the pricing for these new vaccines. Ms. Swarup did not answer the questions raised by the members on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jairam-ramesh-refuses-to-put-off-house-panel-meet/article34941814.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IAF, Navy match skills with U.S. team||The Indian Navy and the Air Force began a two-day passage exercise on Wednesday with U.S. Navy Carrier Strike Group (CSG) Ronald Reagan during its transit through the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). “The Indian Naval warships along with aircraft from Navy and Indian Air Force (IAF) are engaged in joint multi-domain operations with the U.S. Carrier Strike Group...,” the Navy said. The exercise aims to strengthen the bilateral relationship and cooperation by demonstrating the ability to integrate and coordinate comprehensively in maritime operations. “This is what maritime theatre operations would look like. A CSG with integral air power and warships supported by land-based maritime aircraft,” a naval officer said. The Navy’s INS Kochi and Teg, along with P-8I long-range maritime patrol aircraft and MiG 29K fighters, are participating in the exercise. For the exercise, which is under the area of responsibility of the Southern Air Command, the IAF forces are operating from bases under four operational commands and include Jaguar and Su-30 MKI fighters, Phalcon and Netra early warning aircraft and IL-78 air to air refueller aircraft, an IAF statement said. The U.S.’ CSG comprises Nimitz class aircraft carrier Ronald Reagan, Arleigh Burke class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey and Ticonderoga class guided missile cruiser USS Shiloh. It has fielded F-18 fighters and E-2C Hawkeye early warning aircraft in the exercise being carried out south of Thiruvananthapuram on the western seaboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-navy-match-skills-with-us-team/article34941786.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Jaishankar flags ‘close up deployments’||Continuing “close up deployments” and questions about whether China would “live up to its written commitments” on not deploying a large number of forces were two issues at the heart of the recent tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has said. The Minister was speaking at the Qatar Economic Forum on Tuesday, where he was asked about the boundary situation. The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Wednesday reacted sharply to a question on his comments, telling reporters that China’s deployments were “aimed at preventing and responding to encroachment and threat on China’s territory by relevant country”. The comments from both sides underlined the continuing tensions, and stalemate, along the LAC, with military-level talks failing to make headway following an agreement to disengage at Pangong Lake in February. Talks on continuing stand-offs have been slow-moving, with unresolved issues in Depsang, Demchok, Gogra and Hot Springs areas in Ladakh. Asked about what role the Quad — the informal India, U.S., Australia, Japan grouping — grouping could play in India’s response to the border situation, Mr. Jaishankar said, “I think when it comes to Quad and the India-China border issue, we’re talking apples and oranges. I’m not quite sure I’d really see a tight connection.” While the Quad had “come together on a common agenda” that included maritime security, connectivity and even working on vaccines, the border issue, he said, “has pre-existed upon, in many ways, it’s a challenge, a problem, which is quite independent of the Quad”. He said there were “two big issues”. “One of course is that the close up deployments still continue, especially in Ladakh. The issue there is whether China will live up to the written commitments which are made about both countries not deploying a large armed force at the border. And the larger issue really, whether we can build this relationship on the basis of mutual sensitivity, mutual respect and mutual interest. So I do see why you’re interested in both the issues, but I would urge you to look at them, somewhat independent of each other,” he said. In Beijing, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told reporters, “China’s military deployment along the western section of the China-India border is a normal defence arrangement.” He said it was “aimed at preventing and responding to encroachment and threat on China’s territory by relevant country”. “For a long time, the Indian side has been increasing its military deployment along the China-India border and encroaching on China’s territory,” he said, adding this was “the root cause of tension along the China-India border.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-flags-close-up-deployments/article34941801.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. taking steps for jabs for those with no ID proof||The Union Health Ministry has said that ownership of a mobile phone is not a prerequisite for COVID-19 vaccination and production of address proof for availing vaccination is not mandatory. In a release issued on Wednesday, the Ministry said it was also not mandatory to pre-register online on CoWIN for availing vaccination. “For easy understanding of users, CoWIN is now available in 12 languages. These include Hindi, Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Marathi, Gujarati, Odia, Bengali, Assamese, Gurumukhi (Punjabi) and English,” said the Ministry. The Ministry said the CoWIN platform was an inclusive IT system that provided a flexible framework with all the necessary features to facilitate coverage in the remotest parts of the country as well as for those who were most vulnerable. “While one of the nine identity cards, including Aadhaar, Electors Photo Identity Card (EPIC), ration card with photo and disability ID card, is required for availing of vaccination, special provisions have been made by Central Government for organising vaccination sessions for those who may not have any of the nine specified identity cards or own a mobile phone,” noted the release. Taking full benefit of such provisions, more than 2 lakh such beneficiaries have been vaccinated, so far. Near-to-home vaccination centre services for the elderly and persons with disability were also being provided. For those who may not have access to Internet or a smartphone or even to a mobile phone, free of cost on-site registration (popularly called walk-in) and vaccination was available at all government vaccination centres. Eighty per cent of all doses have so far been administered in the on-site vaccination mode. “COVID-19 vaccination coverage is found to be better in tribal districts than the national averages. Data also shows that more than 70% of vaccination centres are located in rural areas, including more than 26,000 at the Primary Health Centres and 26,000 at the sub-health centres,” the Ministry stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-taking-steps-for-jabs-for-those-with-no-id-proof/article34941821.ece
24 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra monitoring delta plus variant cases||Even as Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said he has directed officials to monitor the delta plus variant, a member of the COVID-19 task force, Shashank Joshi, said there was no need to panic if COVID-appropriate behaviour was followed. “Variant of concern, Vaccine and Panic. ‘Delta plus’ VOC [variant of concern] does not have sufficient data to be alarmed except that we must continue our strict COVID-appropriate behaviour with double mask, avoiding crowds and continuing vaccination. Delta plus virulence unknown, transmission may be more,” tweeted Dr. Joshi. The State has reported 21 of the 40 cases of the variant, considered highly infectious. Mr. Tope said they included nine cases in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai and one case each in Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts. Transmission data “Just how infectious this new variant is can only be ascertained after we have enough data. Currently, the State has reported 21 cases in 7,500-odd samples tested after May 15. We need far more samples to gauge the severity. So, I have instructed authorities in each district to collect at least 100 samples [who may have come in contact with the index patients] in recent days to know its spread,” he said. The Centre has advised Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh to strengthen surveillance and appropriate health measures. “Currently, the number of such Delta Plus variants is only few but the distribution or detection in various States during the past two + months indicates that [it] is already present in some States and [they] may need to enhance their public health response by focusing on surveillance, enhanced testing, quick contact-tracing and priority vaccination,” the official statement said. The State, which has been witnessing a steady decline in the cases since the past month, now has a little over 1.20 lakh active cases, according to government data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-monitoring-delta-plus-variant-cases/article34941816.ece
24 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal students’ body files complaint against BRO||The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union has lodged a first information report against the officers of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for passing off the State’s Kimin as a town of Assam during Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s programme on June 17. The FIR naming BRO Chief Engineer Pramod Kumar and other officers of the organisation based at Kimin was lodged at the Itanagar police station on June 22. Kimin, about 75 km from Itanagar, is in Papum Pare district of Arunachal Pradesh. But the BRO had during the inauguration of 12 road projects by Mr. Singh, allegedly passed off the place as Bilgarh in Assam. Probe demanded “We have demanded an inquiry into what compelled BRO to hide the name of Kimin and Arunachal Pradesh during the event of national importance that the Defence Minister attended,” the union’s president Hawa Bagang said. The union has also set a 10-day deadline for the BRO to apologise to the people of the State for the “grave error, deliberate or otherwise”. The union said its members would gherao the camps of the General Reserve Engineer Force across the State if the BRO fails to apologise. They may also be asked to leave the State, it added. Union general secretary Tobom Dai said the BRO “sabotaged” the territorial integrity of Arunachal Pradesh that has had boundary disputes with Assam. These disputes are in court. “The BRO’s act was intended to create dispute and also to disrupt the federal set up of the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-arunachal-students-body-files-complaint-against-bro/article34942089.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||ECI shows partiality to ruling party: plea||A plea in the Supreme Court has said the Election Commission of India was showing “partiality” to the ruling party. A Kerala-based man recounted recent events to contend that the poll body was “not immune from meddling by the ruling party”. “On several occasions, the ECI has been accused of not responding adequately against the Model Code of Conduct violations by the ruling party,” K. Sathyan, a native of Kannur, represented by advocates Kaleeswaram Raj, Thulasi K. Raj and Nishe Rajen Shonker, submitted. Mr. Sathyan asked the court to allow him to intervene in a petition filed by the Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR), represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, to constitute an independent collegium to appoint Election Commissioners. “In recent times, this nexus between the ruling party and the Election Commission has become more and more clear. For example, a ruling party member, while campaigning for the Assam State elections in 2021, threatened an opposition party chief with jail. The ECI issued a 48-hour campaign bar, but in a rare instance, reduced it to 24 hours after he issued an apology,” the intervention application said. However, in another “comparable instance” the same year, a similar ban on an Opposition party leader in Tamil Nadu was not relaxed by the ECI despite an apology, the plea said. The ADR petition said government appointments to the poll body was a violation of the Basic Structure of the Constitution and created a dent on free and fair elections in a democracy. “The appointment of Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners is done solely by the Executive. Election Commission should be insulated from political and/or Executive interference,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eci-shows-partiality-to-ruling-party-plea/article34941778.ece
24 June 2021||Patna,||Tejashwi blames Nitish for LJP split||After Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan, now Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday blamed Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for engineering a split in the LJP. Mr. Yadav told Mr. Paswan that “time has come to take a political decision for future.” “Everyone knows who engineered a split in the LJP. Nitish Kumar is directly responsible for it. He was also involved in breaking the LJP in 2005, 2010 an 2020,” the RJD leader told mediapersons in Patna. Mr. Yadav was in Delhi to see his ailing father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad who is undergoing medical assistance at his elder daughter Misa Bharti’s residence after getting bail from the Jharkhand High Court in multi-crore fodder scam cases. Mr. Yadav said, “It is time for Chirag Bhai to take a political decision for future. It’s up to him what would he do but the time has come for him to leave those persons having bunch of thoughts,” he said. ‘High unemployment’ Mr. Yadav also took on the Bihar Chief Minister and said, “he [Mr. Kumar] is engaged in sabotaging a political party, instead of working for the development of Bihar. The people of Bihar will be benefited, if he does just the opposite,” he said. “Unemployment in the State is at all-time high and fuel prices are skyrocketing but the Chief Minister behaves like an innocent person as he has no idea of inflation and price rise of commodities,” he alleged, adding, “Mr. Kumar is trying to destroy Bihar in his remaining life”. When asked why he has been out of Bihar for so long, Mr. Yadav retorted, “besides being a politician, I am a son also and my father is not keeping well these days. So, I was with him in Delhi to look after him”. Mr. Yadav said his father would come to Patna soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tejashwi-blames-nitish-for-ljp-split/article34941799.ece
24 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Nishad Party seeks larger power share||The Nishad Party, an Other Backward Class (OBC) based ally of the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh, has demanded a larger share in power ahead of 2022 Assembly poll, even showing interest in the Deputy Chief Minister post. Party president Sanjay Nishad, a self-proclaimed ‘political godfather of fishermen,’ has said the BJP failed to fulfil the promises made by it in 2019, when his party dumped the SP-BSP alliance and switched over. Interacting with reporters in Lucknow on Wednesday, Mr. Nishad issued a warning to the BJP saying that its ally would not be able to win again in U.P. if it hurt the Nishads. “If BJP gives us dukh , they will also get dukh [If the BJP causes us misery, it will also face misery],” he said. “If they want to come to power, they will have to please the Nishads,” he stated. He claimed that the BJP had promised him that he would either get a Rajya Sabha berth or a high-profile ministerial berth in U.P. “Our community aspires to have a CM. All other communities have had a CM. My people in their hearts want to see Dr. Sanjay [himself] as a CM. I have given a message to the BJP government that if it makes Dr. Sanjay the new CM or present [me] as a deputy CM face, look how they form the government in 2022,” Mr. Nishad told a television channel. He later met Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Mr. Maurya described it as a courtesy call. The Nishads, a riverine community, along with their connected sub-castes Mallah, Kewat, Dheevar, Bind, Kashyap and others, are an important segment of the non-Yadav backward vote in the State. Among their political icons are bandit-turned-politician Phoolan Devi. The Nishad Party emerged into the political scene ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls, projecting itself as the voice of the backward riverine castes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nishad-party-seeks-larger-power-share/article34941806.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Key decisions on Punjab govt. in July||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will make key decisions on the Punjab government by the first week of July, said general secretary in charge of the State Harish Rawat on Wednesday after his meeting with former chief Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. Navjot Singh Sidhu, who joined the Congress in 2017, has questioned the leadership of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and made statements against the working of the government. Mr. Rawat evaded questions on whether Mr. Sidhu’s comments will be treated as violation of party discipline. Mr. Rawat said he is studying all the comments made by Mr. Sidhu and will advise him accordingly. “The general secretary’s job is to give advice and so far the Punjab leaders have listened to me. At an appropriate time, I will give advice or if need be directions.” He said the AICC panel formed by Ms. Gandhi on Punjab held detailed discussions with Capt. Singh on Tuesday on the progress of 18 major manifesto promises and set deadlines for him to deliver on pending pledges, including Bargari and drug rackets within the perimeters of the law. Questions were also asked on why Mr. Gandhi did not meet the Chief Minister. Mr. Rawat said the leadership will meet when required. Mr. Rawat said the panel had asked Capt. Singh to take action against the sand and transport mafia, besides ensuring free 200 units of power per urban household. “A lot of promises were made in our manifesto. Many have been fulfilled. We discussed all that with the Chief Minister,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/key-decisions-on-punjab-govt-in-july/article34941812.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Additional foodgrain scheme to continue till November||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the allocation of additional foodgrains to beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) for another five months — from July to November. The Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the proposal to continue allocating additional 5 kg of foodgrain a person every month under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to the 81.35 crore beneficiaries, a government statement said. The additional foodgrain would entail a subsidy of Rs. 64,031 crore, it noted. “As Government of India is bearing the entire expenditure towards this scheme without any contribution by States/UTs, an additional expenditure of about Rs. 3,234.85 crore would be required to be met towards transportation and handling and FPS dealers’ margins etc. by Government of India. Thus, the total estimated expenditure to be borne by Government of India will be Rs. 67,266.44 crore,” it stated. The total amount of foodgrain to be distributed was estimated to be 204 lakh metric tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/additional-foodgrain-scheme-to-continue-till-november/article34941826.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Ramdev moves SC against FIRs||Yoga guru Ramdev on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court against FIRs registered in various States against his alleged remarks on allopathy’s effectiveness in treating COVID-19 cases. He has urged the top court to protect him from any coercive action on the basis of the FIRs lodged by the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Patna and Raipur branches. Mr. Ramdev has also sought a transfer of the FIRs to Delhi and their consolidation. Several charges He has been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005. The cases are based on his alleged remarks on video about allopathy and medicines such as Remdesivir, Fabiflu, and other drugs approved by the Drugs Controller General of India to treat COVID-19 patients. The IMA had asked the Central government to take action against him and sent him a legal notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ramdev-moves-sc-against-firs/article34941829.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP got 76% of donations by electoral trusts: ADR||Over 76% of the donations made by the electoral trusts, which submitted their annual reports for 2019-20 to the Election Commission of India and declared to have received funding, went to the BJP, a report of the Association for Democratic Reforms said on Wednesday. Out of the 21 registered trusts, 14 submitted their annual reports to the ECI and seven of those declared that they had received funds that were then given to parties, the report said. The seven trusts that were analysed received a total of Rs. 363.51 crore from various corporates and individuals. They gave a total of Rs. 362.91 crore to political parties. Cong. gets Rs. 31 crore While the BJP got the largest share, the Congress received Rs. 31 crore, followed by the Aam Aadmi Party with Rs. 11.26 crore. Prudent Electoral Trust contributed Rs. 271.5 crore, Jankalyan Electoral Trust gave Rs. 70.95 crore and AB General Electoral Trust Rs. 10 crore. “JSW Steel Ltd. contributed the highest amount worth Rs. 39.10 crore amongst all donors of the electoral trusts, followed by Apollo Tyres Ltd. with Rs. 30 crore and Indiabulls Infraestate Ltd. which contributed Rs. 25 crore, to various trusts,” the report said. Paribartan Electoral Trust declared Rs. 3 crore donation to a party through electoral bonds, but the name of the party was not mentioned. The ADR observed that with half the trusts that submitted their annual reports declaring nil contributions, it raised a question over the continued registration of such electoral trusts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-got-76-of-donations-by-electoral-trusts-adr/article34941784.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC declines Facebook, WhatsApp’s fresh plea||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday declined a fresh plea by Facebook and WhatsApp seeking to put on hold a notice issued by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) asking them to submit certain documents in relation to the probe being conducted on WhatsApp’s new privacy policy. A Vacation Bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said that a similar application seeking a stay of further steps in the investigation had been filed by WhatsApp and Facebook before the regular Bench, which is hearing the primary case. It noted that no interim relief to WhatsApp and its owner Facebook was granted by the regular Bench on May 6, the previous date of hearing. “For the foregoing reason, we do not consider it appropriate to stay the operation of impugned notice dated June 4, 2021, at this stage,” it said. The High Court, however, said “there is no doubt” that the issuance of June 4 notice by the CCI Director General was a step in furtherance of the investigation commenced pursuant to the order of the competition watchdog. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, for the CCI, had stated that it would take substantial time for the preparation of a report pursuant to the receipt of the information called for by way of the notice. The report would not be completed at least before the next date of hearing before the regular Bench on July 9. Facebook and WhatsApp’s fresh application was made in a pending case filed by them challenging the CCI’s March 24 direction ordering a probe into WhatsApp’s controversial new privacy policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-declines-facebook-whatsapps-fresh-plea/article34941789.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi to meet J&K leaders today||The passage of the Reorganisation Act was opposed tooth and nail by the mainstream Kashmir parties, with many leaders being immediately taken into custody and released months later in a staggered manner. Many of these parties, such as the PDP and the NC, as well as the CPI(M), formed the PAGD, which stood for talks with all stakeholders and refused to fight Assembly polls till their demands were met. The government on its part remained adamant on the course it set for itself and managed to hold the District Development Council (DDC) polls in the interim, where the Gupkar alliance parties did quite well. The Gupkar alliance contesting the polls and their good performance were a signal to both the government and the parties that talks had to take place if the political limbo had to be resolved in any manner. Talks have been called to streamline the process of delimitation in J&K and seek political validation to this exercise, sources in the government say. An earlier meeting held by the delimitation commission in February saw three out of its five associate members refusing to attend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-to-meet-jk-leaders-today/article34941792.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala capital bucks excess deaths trend||Unlike 2020, however, the increased number of fatalities due to COVID-19 in the second wave, led to 1,196 and 707 excess deaths between January and May and April-May, respectively, in 2021. The COVID-19 death count for the city limits for January to May 2021 and April-May 2021 were 507 and 453, respectively, for undercount factors of 2.35 and 1.6, respectively. However, the Corporation also reported a COVID-19 death toll of 1,007 in June 2021 alone (till date), which includes reconciled figures from deaths in the second wave besides those of patients from nearby panchayats as well as Kollam district and Kanniyakumari who died at the Government Medical College in Thiruvananthapuram. In the entire period of the pandemic from April 2020 to May 2021, despite a cumulative COVID-19 death toll of 765, the estimated decrease in overall deaths was 646. This is unlike more populous cities such as Hyderabad and Kolkata with an estimated undercount factor of 17.5-30.5 and 4.5, respectively, in 2021, and Bengaluru and Chennai with 2.3 and 5.6, respectively, for the entire pandemic period (April 2020 to May 2021). Undercount is measured as the excess deaths divided by the official COVID-19 toll. Not all excess deaths are COVID-related but a bulk of them could be, during a pandemic. A public health expert, who spoke to The Hindu , explained that there could be deaths due to other causes which might have occurred outside hospitals and would be reported later in the system. Such ‘home deaths’ “get reported much later when questions of property transfer or requirements of death certificates arise,” he said, which could lower the gap between the expected death toll and the actual registered numbers. Mohammed Asheel, Executive Director, Kerala Social Security Mission, who has been at the forefront of the State’s COVID containment activities, said that while delay in reporting could be one factor, the one thing that could be inferred for sure from the said data was that the number of COVID-19 deaths missed, at least in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits, was not high. “The difference in the estimated excess death toll and the actual COVID deaths is not very significant and unless we can get a split-up of the cause of deaths, we cannot draw any other conclusion. It just emphasises the strength of our surveillance and reporting system,” Dr. Asheel said. While the reduction in death figures for Thiruvananthapuram coincide with those for the State in 2020, the low undercount in the city limits in 2021 cannot be assumed for other districts in Kerala. A perusal of month-wise CRS data for other districts would have to be done to see if the trend holds true for the entire State and to correctly estimate the undercount factor for Kerala.  (With inputs from C. Maya in Thiruvananthapuram and Vignesh Radhakrishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-capital-bucks-excess-deaths-trend/article34941794.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||ED transfers Rs. 8,441 crore worth assets to banks||Based on the cases registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation, the ED had taken up a money laundering probe that helped unearth a complex web of domestic and international transactions and stashing of assets abroad by the accused persons and their associates. They had used dummy entities controlled by them for rotation and siphoning of the funds provided by the banks. As part of the investigation, the ED took steps to attach or seize assets worth Rs. 18,170.02 crore. This included properties worth Rs. 969 crore located in foreign countries. “The quantum of the attached and seized assets represents 80.45% of total bank loss of Rs. 22,585.83 crore,” said the agency. A substantial part of the assets in question was held in the name of dummy entities, trusts, third persons or relatives of these accused and these entities were their proxies for holding the properties. Prosecution complaints were filed against all the three accused after completion of the investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Extradition requests were sent for them to the United Kingdom (Mr. Mallya and Mr. Modi) and Antigua and Barbuda (Mr. Choksi). The extradition of Mr. Mallya has been ordered by the Westminster Magistrates Court and confirmed by the U.K. High Court. As he has been denied permission to file an appeal in the U.K. Supreme Court, his extradition to India has become final. However, the matter is pending with the U.K.'s Home Department for quite some time now. The Westminster Magistrates Court had also ordered the extradition of Mr. Modi to India. After his arrest in 2019, on a request from the Indian authorities, he has been in judicial custody in a London jail for the last over two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-transfers-rs-8441-crore-worth-assets-to-banks/article34941795.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sanctity of Devi’s feet||Generally, living beings suffer many diseases that affect their health in some way or other. Most of these common diseases can be cured with medicine and it is believed that the suffering caused by ill health gets cancelled at the end of one’s life. But there is the greater disease of samsara, commonly known as Bhava Roga, that chases all living beings through the seemingly never-ending journey of the cycle of birth. Meditating on Devi’s divine feet is a sure cure to this chronic ailment, as it helps to wash away the impurities and vasanas that the jivatma keeps adding in every birth, says Adi Sankara in the Saundarya Lahari, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. If the body or one’s clothes get soiled by grime or mud, it is possible to remove these with water and with some effort. But this is not possible if the mind gets sullied. The impurities in the mind are subtle and deep seated; they pertain to the thought and get reflected in one’s speech and action as kama, krodha, lobha, moha, mada, matsarya, etc. In a verse, the acharya celebrates the impact of the power of Her sacred feet. To Brahma the smallest particle of dust from Her feet is most precious and he gathers this carefully as it enables him to accomplish the enormous task of creation that She has assigned to him. So too, Vishnu carries this dust with reverence on his thousand heads, and as for Siva, he takes care to smear this all over his body as the sacred Vibhuti. The bhakti bhava evinced by the Trimurtis inspires devotees to seek shelter at Her feet. By Her compassion and grace the devotee’s mind can attain purity. She alone can protect all beings from dangers of all kinds, dread, fear, panic, anxiety, unease, concern etc, that are part of worldly existence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sanctity-of-devis-feet/article34941815.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks details of Sushant biopic||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought to know if a movie titled Nyay: The Justic , based on the late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s life, was released on June 11. A Vacation Bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh made the query after Sushant’s father Krishna Kishore Singh and the makers of the movie gave contradictory statements in court. While Mr. Singh claimed that the movie has not yet been released, the makers of the film claimed that it was released on an OTT platform on June 11. “A lot depends on whether the movie has been released or not. If it has been released, the matter can wait for the Roster Bench. If it has not been released, the court may be inclined to hear it now,” the Vacation Bench said. The High Court’s direction came on a fresh appeal filed by Sushant’s father challenging an HC’s order refusing to stay the release of the movie or to restrain anyone from using his son’s name in movies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-seeks-details-of-sushant-biopic/article34941780.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||President to visit native village in U.P.||President Ram Nath Kovind will leave for his native village, Paraunkh, in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur Dehat, on June 25 by a special train from the Safdarjung railway station in Delhi. “The train will make two stop-overs, at Jhinjhak and Rura of Kanpur Dehat, where the President will interact with his old acquaintances from his school days and from early days of his social service,” said a Rashtrapati Bhavan release. The stop-overs are close to the President’s birthplace, Paraunkh, where two functions to felicitate him are scheduled on June 27. On June 28, the President will board the train at Kanpur Central railway station to reach Lucknow for his two-day visit there. This is the first time the President is visiting his birthplace after taking over the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-to-visit-native-village-in-up/article34941802.ece
24 June 2021||Srinagar,||Alert after militant attack||An alert was sounded in J&K on Wednesday, as a militant and a civilian were killed in two separate incidents. Officials said the security forces had been directed to stay alert “after intelligence inputs that militants may step up attacks”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/alert-after-militant-attack/article34941807.ece
24 June 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal FinMin writes to Sitharaman||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Wednesday wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman alleging that there has been a steady breakdown of the spirit of cooperative federalism in GST Council meetings. “What pains me the most is the fact that the GST Council Meetings have become acrimonious, vexing and almost toxic with erosion of mutual trust that held past between States and the Centre since inception,” he said. He urged her to consider a “course correction” in the manner of functioning of the council. “We will respond in equal measure if you bring back consensual atmosphere that has defined GST Council since its inception.” Dr. Mitra stated that after hours of submission by Ministers, no conclusion and consensus was declared at the end of a meeting, as in the case of 42nd meeting of the council. The Minister has sent a note of dissent after the meeting. He alleged that his microphone was switched off at a crucial time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-finmin-writes-to-sitharaman/article34941811.ece
24 June 2021||Guwahati,||Assam CM for transfer of ONGC assets||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider transferring all assets of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation in the northeast to the Oil India Limited because of the latter’s roots in the region. The Chief Minister wrote to the PM on June 5. A copy of the letter was made available on June 23. Assam and Assam-Arakan Basin in the northeast are the most prolific sedimentary basins in India. Both the public sector OIL and ONGC are the major operators in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-cm-for-transfer-of-ongc-assets/article34942065.ece
24 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Governor interfering in my area of work, says West Bengal Speaker||West Bengal Speaker Biman Banerjee has alleged that the State’s Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was interfering in his area of work. Differences between the State government and Governor had surfaced on numerous occasions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governor-interfering-in-my-area-of-work-says-west-bengal-speaker/article34941797.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||IVA observes black day after Maneka Gandhi’s outburst||The Indian Veterinary Association (IVA) observed Black Day on Wednesday following the alleged use of slurs by BJP leader Maneka Gandhi against a registered veterinary practitioner. The association has released an audio tape where the leader can be heard speaking with a vet who had treated a dog that allegedly did not recover well after surgery. The leader can be heard threatening to cancel the vet’s license. The association said that it had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding action against Ms. Gandhi in this matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iva-observes-black-day-after-maneka-gandhis-outburst/article34941822.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Opening of tender for Central Secretariat buildings postponed again||The Central Public Works Department extended the last date of submission of bids and opening of technical bids for the construction of the first three buildings of the proposed new Common Central Secretariat from Wednesday to July 14. The CPWD issued a corrigendum on Tuesday extending the deadlines citing “administrative reasons”. This is the second time the deadlines have been pushed in a week, with the earlier extension being from June 16 to Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opening-of-tender-for-central-secretariat-buildings-postponed-again/article34941824.ece
24 June 2021||Ahmedabad,||Employee unwilling to take vaccine challenges IAF notice||The Gujarat High Court has issued notice to the Indian Air Force on a petition filed by one of its personnel posted in Jamnagar challenging the show-cause notice issued to him for termination of service after he expressed his unwillingness to get vaccinated against COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justices A.J. Desai and A.P. Thaker on Tuesday issued the notice to the IAF and the Central government and also directed the IAF not to take any coercive action against petitioner Yogender Kumar, an IAF corporal, till July 1. Mr. Kumar said he was using Ayurvedic medicine to boost immunity.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/employee-unwilling-to-take-vaccine-challenges-iaf-notice/article34941830.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspect in SBI ATM theft held in New Delhi||The Greater Chennai Police have apprehended a suspect in New Delhi who was part of a gang that stole money from various SBI ATMs that had cash deposit facilities. A senior police officer said, “We traced one of the suspects in New Delhi with the the help of the Haryana police. Efforts are on to trace a few other suspects from Haryana. The gang was involved in thefts at more than 18 SBI ATM cash deposit machines on June 17 and 18.” The gang stole cash from ATMs in Velachery, Taramani and Vadapalani — more than 18 places within the city limits and the districts. The police said they only targeted cash deposit machines. “In a single night, two of the suspects came on a bike and entered an ATM kiosk, which had cash deposit facility. Between 11.30 p.m. and 12.30 a.m., they did over 150 transactions and stole money using the technical flaw in the machines,” said the senior police officer, while adding that the bank had disabled the cash deposit facility from June 18. The accused, identified as Amir Arsh, 37, was apprehended in Delhi and is being brought to the city. During interrogation, he confessed that more than five groups had operated in the city. A sum of Rs. 4.5 lakh was recovered from him.  Between 11.30 p.m. and 12.30 a.m., they did over 150 transactions and stole money using the technical flaw in the machines Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspect-in-sbi-atm-theft-held-in-new-delhi/article34941982.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||We will continue to use the term ‘Union govt.’, says Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday made it clear that the DMK government would continue to use the term “Union government” to refer to the Centre, recalling that the DMK, in its election manifesto in 1957 itself, had used the term “Indian Union”. The Constitution, too, described India as a “union of States”, he said. “We have used it and will continue to use it,” he said in the Assembly, responding to BJP floor leader Nainar Nagendran, who wondered whether there was any motive behind using the word “union”. Mr. Stalin and the DMK had started using the term “Union government” instead of “Central government” since it took over the reins of the new government. When Mr. Nagendran wanted a response from the Chief Minister, Mr. Stalin said there was no need to fear the word, since Rajaji [C. Rajagopalachari] himself had spoken against the excessive concentration of power at the Centre, and in favour of true federalism. “Late Ma.Po.Si. [Sivagnanam] used the word samasti ,” he said. Mr. Stalin said there was no need to treat the usage of the word “union” as a “social crime” because some people were taking it in that sense. “We are using only what is in the Constitution,” he said, recalling the phrase, “India, that is Bharat, shall be a union of States.” He said India was constituted by its States. “Some accuse us of using a word not used by our leaders Anna (C.N. Annadurai) and Kalaignar (M. Karunanidhi). But the DMK used the term Indian Union in its election manifesto in 1957,” he said. He also recalled Anna ’s speech in the Rajya Sabha on January 25, 1963, in which he said: “As per the preface to the Constitution, the sovereignty resides in the people, and legal sovereignty is divided between a federal union and its constituents, that is the States.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-will-continue-to-use-the-term-union-govt-says-stalin/article34942011.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccines prevent deaths, finds study||A single dose of COVID-19 vaccine was 82% effective in preventing deaths while two doses were 95% effective, an analysis of data on Tamil Nadu police personnel has indicated. Data on vaccination of police personnel and COVID-19 deaths during the second wave was used to estimate the incidence of deaths among vaccinated and unvaccinated police personnel in the study ‘COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness in preventing deaths among high-risk groups in T.N’. It was taken up by the police department, the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology (ICMR-NIE) and Christian Medical College, Vellore. The police department has been documenting vaccination of its workforce and COVID-19 deaths during the second wave along with details of the date of hospitalisation and vaccination. There were 1,17,524 personnel working with the police department in the State. Between February 1 and May 14, 32,792 people received one dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 67,673 received both doses, while 17,059 were unvaccinated, according to the study that was published in theIndian Journal of Medical Research. A total of 31 deaths due to COVID-19 were reported among these police personnel between April 13 and May 14. Of them, four were fully vaccinated, seven had received one dose of vaccine, and the rest 20 were unvaccinated. The incidence of deaths among the vaccinated with zero, one and two doses were 1.17, 0.21 and 0.06 per 1,000 police personnel respectively. Compared to unvaccinated individuals, the relative risk of COVID-19 deaths among those receiving one and two doses was 0.18 and 0.05 respectively. The vaccine effectiveness in preventing deaths with one and two doses was 82% and 95% respectively, it pointed out. Even a single dose helps The analysis indicated that COVID-19 vaccination, even with a single dose, was effective in preventing deaths. It is necessary to increase coverage of COVID-19 vaccines — regardless of the type — to reduce mortality in current as well as future waves of the pandemic. Manoj V. Murhekar, director of ICMR-NIE and one of the authors, said in a written response that the study indicated a vaccine effectiveness of 82% in preventing deaths with a single dose. “Similar estimates of vaccine effectiveness against severe disease with single dose have been documented in other countries. There is growing evidence now available that a single dose of vaccination can prevent severe outcomes compared with unvaccinated individuals,” he said. More studies were being taken up to study vaccine effectiveness. “ICMR is conducting a multi-centric case control study in 11 sites to estimate COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness against severe disease and variants of concern. ICMR-NIE, along with the Greater Chennai Corporation, is conducting a study in Chennai to estimate vaccine effectiveness,” he stated.  Anoop Jaiswal, V. Subburaj of the police department, Jeromie Wesley Vivian Thangaraj of ICMR-NIE and Jayaprakash Muliyil of CMC were the other authors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccines-prevent-deaths-finds-study/article34941986.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Engaging women as temple priests is part of larger social engineering move’||The proposal to appoint women and members of other communities as priests in temples in Tamil Nadu is not just a religious activity, but is part of a larger social engineering initiative to ensure equal opportunity to all, a principle the DMK government is committed to, Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekar Babu  has  said in an interview. Edited excerpts:  You announced that priests would be appointed to temples administered by the HR&CE Department. How would you facilitate this? Do you expect a good response from aspirants? Aspiring candidates will be trained and appointed as priests in temples in accordance with the rules. The government will definitely assist women who are interested in taking up the job of a temple priest. I am surprised at the questions being raised on the move to appoint women as priests. When women could be engaged in many other works in temples, why can’t they be engaged as priests? When we are open to appointing people from any community as priests in temples, why prohibit women? We have also received representations from women seeking an opportunity to serve as priests. Engaging women as priests is not merely a religious activity, but is part of a larger social transformation initiative to ensure equal participation — a principle the DMK government is committed to. As regards taking up the job of a temple priest as a career, I am sure it is not just the money that matters to people. Doing the divine duty of serving God gives huge satisfaction. Having said that, I would also add that the remuneration of priests in smaller temples that don’t generate much income is under consideration for revision. What plans do you have to promote temples? Many temple lands have been encroached upon and properties have been let out for lower rentals... Transparency will be the foremost pillar of temple administration. We have already published the title documents for more than 3.50 lakh acres of temple lands on our website. The process of retrieving the balance temple lands is under way. A massive drive has been launched to identify properties in urban areas, evict the encroachers and fence the premises. A detailed review has been undertaken to arrive at the demand collection and balance of each property, and the same will soon be published on the official website. Necessary provisions have been created to upload the approved budget statements of each temple so that anyone could examine them. Special teams have been formed to revise the rent of shops on temple lands, collect dues and expedite the disposal of related cases pending in the courts. Do you have any plans to deploy IT applications to bring about efficiency in temple administration and asset management? We are going to conduct a drone and Differential Global Positioning System (DGPS) survey to digitise every inch of temple property and publish the same on the official website with 3D images. We have commenced the digitisation of permanent registers, files and connected records and, wherever possible, those records would be published online. More online services will be launched to assist devotees with making bookings for the delivery of prasadam and undertaking uzhavaara panigal (voluntary cleaning service in temples), and live-streaming of pujas, archanai and other important events will be undertaken. Many ancient temples seem to lack the resources for renovation to showcase their significance and architectural marvel. Do you have any plans to develop them and put them on the tourism map of Tamil Nadu? The HR&CE Department administers over 38,000 temples, of which more than 34,000 have an annual income of less than Rs. 10,000. It is true that many temples don’t have sufficient financial resources to undertake renovation work. The Chief Minister has promised to spend Rs. 1,000 crore to undertake Thiruppanigal (temple works). I assure you that all temples that need resources to undertake renovation work will be given the required assistance. Besides, temple tanks will be renovated and temple cars repaired and rebuilt. We are closely coordinating with the Tourism Department to promote religious tourism, for which our State is well known. The poor salary structure of priests often makes them dependent on contributions from devotees... We have been receiving grievances regarding the poor salary structure of the priests, and have started enquiring about those grievances. There are various types of employees in temples, like time scale, contract, daily wage, consolidated pay, service employees, etc. There is not much uniformity in the deployment of personnel in temples. The Chief Minister will be apprised of this challenge, and a feasible solution will be arrived at soon. How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected temple revenues in 2020-2021 when compared to the previous fiscal? The pandemic has affected temple revenues. To mitigate the woes of priests and other temple employees who don’t have a fixed monthly income, they are being provided a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 4,000, 10 kg of rice and 15 types of groceries. What is the status of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams’ proposal for a site to construct a replica of the Tirumala temple in Chennai? The proposal is under consideration.  For full version visit: https://bit.ly/Women Archakas  A massive drive has been launched to identify properties, evict the encroachers and fence the premises||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engaging-women-as-temple-priests-is-part-of-larger-social-engineering-initiative/article34941996.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Beautification of Buckingham Canal to be finished by October||The Buckingham Canal Beautification Project, initiated by the Greater Chennai Corporation under the Smart City Mission, is set to become a reality in a few months. Under this, residents of Adyar will soon have a facility similar to the T. Nagar pedestrian plaza. The Buckingham Canal, flowing beneath the elevated corridor of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) from Thiruvanmiyur to Kasturba Nagar railway stations and running parallel to Rajiv Gandhi Salai, was in a poor condition as garbage and construction debris was dumped into it. The canal located along the expressway was planned to be improved, and the civic body came up with the beautification project comprising a Miyawaki forest, a pedestrian pathway and other civic amenities covering the three stations. Saplings planted A senior official of the Corporation said more than 50% of the beautification project had been completed with the planting of hundreds of saplings for the Miyawaki forest and the construction of a major portion of the pedestrian pathway with paver blocks. The work, which began in January, was set to be completed by September but was hit due to the lockdown. It was restarted in June, and the contractor had promised to complete the work before October, he added. As part of the project in the 2.1 km stretch under the MRTS, a children’s play area, an open air stadium for conducting cultural events, an open gym, a sculpture court with seating arrangements for visitors, ergonomically designed street lightings, parking area and well-maintained public conveniences are planned to be constructed for attracting visitors. The official said the appearance of the MRTS stations along Rajiv Gandhi Salai would undergo a change, and attract people once the project is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beautification-of-buckingham-canal-to-be-finished-by-october/article34941976.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Delta Plus variant of virus detected in Tamil Nadu||The sample of a 32-year-old woman, who had tested positive for COVID-19 in May and recovered, has returned positive for the “Delta Plus” variant of the coronavirus, health officials have confirmed. The patient, a resident of Chennai, was working as a staff nurse at a private hospital. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the patient tested positive for COVID-19 on May 4. She had mild illness and was advised home isolation. She was tested again on May 15 and her results returned negative. Her sample, which was sent for whole genome sequencing, returned positive for the “Delta Plus” variant of SARS-CoV-2. Her contacts at the workplace and family did not have any illness and were found to be negative for COVID-19. To identify variants of SARS-CoV-2 in Tamil Nadu, COVID-19 samples from all districts since December 2020 were referred to InSTEM in Bengaluru for Whole Genome Sequencing. So far, 1,159 samples have been sent to InStem. Results of 772 have been received. Of these, the delta variant (B.1.617.2) was reported in 72% — 556 samples. This was found to be the most common, followed by the Alpha (B.1.1.7) variant in 65 samples (8.4%). One Delta Plus variant was reported among the 556 Delta strains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-plus-variant-of-virus-detected-in-tamil-nadu/article34942001.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS questions DMK govt. over power cuts, liquor shops||AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami questioned the ruling DMK in the Assembly over the frequent power cuts and the reopening of State-run liquor shops even when the State was hit by COVID-19. Referring to the power cuts in various parts of the State, Mr. Palaniswami said there was a difference between planned and announced power cuts and otherwise. He also questioned why the State government was purchasing power from private players at a higher rate. Responding to the issues raised, Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji said that the erstwhile AIADMK government had not undertaken the maintenance of electric infrastructure for several months and under the instruction of the Chief Minister, maintenance was being undertaken now. The State had more power and it had provided about 700 MW of power to Punjab, which needed it. As for purchasing power at higher rates, Mr. Balaji pointed out that the AIADMK government had signed agreements to purchase power on long-term contracts, but the DMK was choosing only short-term ones. Mr. Balaji said the previous AIADMK government mismanaged finances so much that the DMK government had decided to undertake a study of the finances of Tangedco and Tantransco. To Mr. Palaniswami’s question to the DMK over the reopening of Tasmac shops, Mr. Balaji said they were reopened only in 27 districts, where the spread of COVID-19 was under control. “In the remaining 11 districts, the shops are not open,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-questions-dmk-govt-over-power-cuts-liquor-shops/article34942003.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s daily count drops below 400||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in a day dropped below 400 in Chennai on Wednesday. The city logged 396 cases, reporting fewer deaths than Coimbatore. At the same time, fresh infections dropped below 800 in Coimbatore and under 700 in Erode — there were 793 cases in the former and 686 in the latter. Across the State, 6,596 people tested positive for the infection, taking Tamil Nadu’s tally to 24,43,415. As many as 166 people — 57 in private hospitals and 109 in government facilities — died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 31,746. The number of active cases stood at 52,884, with Coimbatore accounting for 7,564, followed by Erode (5,318) and Chennai (3,447). A total of 10,432 people, including 1,488 in Coimbatore and 1,307 in Erode, were discharged after treatment. Districts’ tally Salem and Tiruppur reported 472 and 419 fresh cases respectively. There were 338 cases in Thanjavur, while Chengalpattu and Namakkal recorded 277 and 269 cases respectively. Seventeen districts clocked in fewer than 100 cases each. Of the 166 deceased, 25 died in Coimbatore, followed by 20 in Chennai. There were 15 deaths in Vellore. Six districts, including Madurai, saw no deaths. Among the deceased was a 24-year-old man from Ramanathapuram, who had diabetes and systemic hypertension. He was admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on June 12, and died on June 20 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. In the last 24 hours, the State tested 1,70,105 samples, taking the total figure to 3,16,75,744. Vaccine update Tamil Nadu received 6,72,240 doses of COVID-19 vaccines — 4,67,210 doses of Covishield and 2,05,030 doses of Covaxin — on Wednesday. The State’s overall vaccination coverage stood at 1,28,27,184 after 1,77,422 more people were immunised against COVID-19 through 1,998 sessions. Of these, 1,01,559 people were in the 18-44 age group and 53,224 were aged between 45 and 59.  Tamil Nadu received 6,72,240 doses of COVID-19 vaccines — 4,67,210 doses of Covishield and 2,05,030 doses of Covaxin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennais-daily-count-drops-below-400/article34942013.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK government counters AIADMK on COVID-19||The ruling DMK and the principal Opposition party, the AIADMK, were at loggerheads in the Assembly over the steps taken by each other’s governments to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the State. When AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami elaborated on the threat posed by COVID-19, Leader of the House Duraimurugan recalled the Assembly session in March last year, when Mr. Palaniswami, as Chief Minister, contended that there was no need to fret over the pandemic. “It was you who said that we need not worry, and that you would protect everyone. But I had to save myself eventually,” he said. Countering Mr. Palaniswami’s contention that the nature of the pandemic was not known even to scientists back then, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan pointed out that other countries had, by then, realised the nature of the pandemic, and that was when the DMK urged the then AIADMK government to call for an all-party meeting to discuss the issue. Responding to Mr. Palaniswami’s contention that many were not being provided death certificates stating that they died due to COVID-19, Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian said death certificates across the country wouldn’t mention the cause of death. “Also, we are only following the ICMR guidelines for certifying the cause of death as COVID-19,” he said. When Mr. Palaniswami contended that the erstwhile AIADMK government brought RT-PCR testing centres to the State, the Finance Minister said it was during the DMK regime that the necessary equipment for these centres was acquired. HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekar Babu contended that the previous AIADMK government mismanaged the situation, which resulted in the mismatch of data on deaths due to COVID-19. Congress MLA K. Selvaperunthagai raised the issue of allocation of funds by the previous AIADMK government to provide food and accommodation to doctors and health workers. Certain remarks made by him were expunged by the Chair after AIADMK leader O. Panneerselvam raised an objection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-government-counters-aiadmk-on-covid-19/article34942018.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 57% health workers fully vaccinated||About 57% healthcare workers (HCW) and 45% frontline workers (FLW) have been fully vaccinated in Tamil Nadu. Officials said while some remaining HCWs and FLWs might not have reached the due date for their second dose of vaccines, the Health Department was stepping up efforts by reaching out to those due for their second jab. The demand for COVID-19 vaccines picked up slowly after immunisation was rolled out on January 16 for the priority group of HCWs, followed by FLWs, such as the police, revenue and local administration employees. According to data from the Health Department, 9,40,632 HCWs and 12,03,401 FLWs have been registered for vaccination. Archiving the data An archiving exercise to remove ineligible persons (such as those included as HCWs or FLWs by mistake when the list was uploaded in bulk) was taken up, following which the total beneficiaries stood at 6,63,811 HCWs and 10,19,434 FLWs. Of these, 86.98% HCWs — 5,77,370 people — received the first dose. Among the enlisted FLWs, 9,03,911 got their first dose, registering an 88.67% coverage. Of these, 3,30,398 HCWs and 4,12,375 FLWs received their second dose, recording 57.22% and 45.62% coverage respectively till June 22. “We have reached sufficient coverage of HCWs and FLWs. I feel we should have covered this priority group a little earlier,” T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said. While a considerable number of people are yet to take their second dose, the directorate is all set to reach out to those due. “We are in the process of demand generation by sharing the line list of beneficiaries on social media, with a request to them to approach the vaccination centre where they took their first dose. This is in addition to the efforts made by our district teams, where they are proactively calling beneficiaries due for their second dose,” he said. The official said, “People need to be a little more serious in completing their second dose and they should understand that they get sufficient immunity only after taking two doses. Our district teams have already been instructed to give priority to second doses.” Doctors say vaccination has helped in more than one way for many. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, 57%-80% of healthcare workers have been fully vaccinated, its Dean E. Theranirajan said. In an analysis of 51 patients who tested positive for COVID-19 after vaccination, doctors found that 46 of them had received a single dose and the remaining five got both. “All of them made a complete recovery. This shows that vaccination prevents deaths due to COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nearly-57-health-workers-fully-vaccinated/article34942015.ece
24 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM grants Rs. 10-lakh compensation||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has ordered a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to the family of A. Murugesan who died after being beaten with a lathi by a policeman in Salem district. A government press release said Mr. Stalin spoke to the family of Murugesan and expressed his condolences and sympathies. Taking into account the family’s situation, the Chief Minister ordered the compensation from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Earlier in the Legislative Assembly, when Leader of Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami raised the issue, Mr. Stalin assured him that action would be taken against those responsible. Providing details, the CM said three persons, including Murugesan were found to be under the influence of alcohol, when the police stopped them for a vehicle check. Subsequently, a Special Sub Inspector had assaulted Murugesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-10-lakh-for-victim-of-police-brutality-in-salem/article34941990.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Decision on fuel prices at right time’||The government will take a right decision at an appropriate time on fuel prices, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said in the Assembly on Wednesday. He was responding to Opposition leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s question on DMK’s promise in its election manifesto that it would take steps to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel. When Mr. Palaniswami asked why the DMK promised to reduce fuel prices when it was aware of the State’s finances, Mr. Rajan said the AIADMK did not table five reports of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) in the House during its rule. “Since CAG reports were not out, the real picture of finances was not clear when we made the promise,” he said. In September last year and again in February this year, files pertaining to the CAG report were sent to the Chief Minister’s Office but were returned. “When the files came again this month, the Chief Minister’s Office cleared them and sent to the Governor’s Office,” he said. Given the present financial condition, the VAT on fuel cannot be reduced at this point. The present situation is worse than expected, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-fuel-prices-at-right-time/article34941998.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vels Scholarship Admission Test will be conducted from July 2 to 7||Vels Institute of Science, Technology and Advanced Studies (VISTAS) will hold its second edition of V-SAT (Vels Scholarship Admission Test) from July 2 to 7. Candidates who have completed Class 12 may register for the online test before June 30 at http://vsat.velsuniv.ac.in There is no registration fee. VISTAS offers 100% scholarship for meritorious students across the State. All students who have completed CBSE/State board/ISC/Cambridge A level can apply. The 45-minute test will include 45 questions in three sections — quantitative aptitude, verbal ability and analytical reasoning. Students may take the test from their home at any convenient time. Practice test papers may be downloaded from www.velsuniv.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vels-scholarship-admission-test-will-be-conducted-from-july-2-to-7/article34941983.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will take a good decision on Vanniyar quota law’||The Tamil Nadu government will take a “good decision” on the PMK’s request for issuing necessary government orders to implement the legislation that provides 10.5% internal reservation for the Vanniyar community in education and employment, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said. “A good decision will definitely be taken after consulting officials in the relevant departments over the request made by the member [PMK member G.K. Mani from Pennagaram],” Mr. Stalin said. He also recalled receiving a letter from PMK founder S. Ramadoss, highlighting the significance of implementing the legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-take-a-good-decision-on-vanniyar-quota-law/article34942016.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. can prefer traditional fishermen for inland leases’||Several organisations working for the welfare of fishermen have urged the State government to ensure that traditional fishermen are given priority when it comes to giving leases for fishing rights in inland waterbodies. “In many places, officials are conniving with those who are using fishing as a stop gap means to make money. They just ask these men to register as fishermen cooperative societies by roping in one man who knows fishing,” said K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association. He also added that they were not against people of other communities, including Nadars and Vanniyars, who have been fishing traditionally in certain pockets. Ko. Su. Mani, of the Meenavar Makkal Sangam, said now that the department had been renamed to include the welfare of fishermen too, the government should ensure that traditional fishermen get the benefits due to them. “During summer, since waterbodies dry up, they do not have any work and thereby no income. They must be provided a dry-season dole and also a flood-time dole. Their societies should also provide opportunities for life savings like those of sea-faring fishermen,” he demanded.  They must be provided a dry-season dole and also a flood-time dole Ko. Su. Mani Meenavar Makkal Sangam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-can-prefer-traditional-fishermen-for-inland-leases/article34941980.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One held for killing woman in Nolambur||Personnel from the Nolambur police station on Wednesday arrested a worker of a private conservancy firm for allegedly murdering a woman conservancy worker. On Tuesday, the police were informed about a woman’s body in Nolambur. Police identified the victim as Revathi, 37, a conservancy worker. On investigation, the police found that Thimmappa, 27, another conservancy worker, was in a relationship with her. Last week, she had given him her gold chain for pawning. Later, she harassed him to return her jewellery. Thimmappa admitted to killing her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-held-for-killing-woman-in-nolambur/article34941977.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Admissions under RTE Act to begin from July 5||The School Education Department has released a schedule for admissions under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009. The submission of online applications will begin on July 5. Under the Right to Education Act, private schools are required to set aside 25% of seats in entry-level classes for children from the economically weaker sections. Schools in the State have been asked to submit all the details regarding the total intake capacity in their entry-level classes (Class LKG or Class 1) as well as the 25% of intake seats set aside under the RTE act. Uploaded on website On July 2, these details will be made available on notice boards at these school campuses and will also be uploaded onto the School Education Department website. Applying for admissions online through the RTE portal will begin on July 5 and the process will go on till August 3. Eligible applicants are expected to be notified by August 9. The Director of Matriculation Schools had further issued guidelines to all Chief Educational Officers and other district-level officials to make provisions to assist parents with the online application process, if needed. The Education Department officials have also been asked to ensure that schools prominently display details regarding their intake capacity and the number of seats available near the gate of the school campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admissions-under-rte-act-to-begin-from-july-5/article34941989.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bharat Ratna sought for Karunanidhi||DMK member Inigo Irudayaraj on Wednesday requested the Centre to posthumously confer the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award, on former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. Mr. Irudayaraj also suggested that Tiruchi could be made the second capital of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharat-ratna-sought-for-karunanidhi/article34941999.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Mekedatu needlessly politicised’||Expressing surprise over a statement by Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa over the proposal to construct a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu, Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan said the issue was being “needlessly politicised”. During his reply to PMK legislator G.K. Mani (Pennagaram), he reiterated the State government’s position that it would never allow the construction of the dam. He recalled questioning the erstwhile AIADMK government over the issue and said the DMK government’s reply was the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mekedatu-needlessly-politicised/article34942006.ece
24 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM’s stand on NEET||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said the DMK government will take all possible steps to get exemption for Tamil Nadu from NEET. When AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami asked whether students will have to prepare for NEET this year, he detailed the steps taken. He said he raised it “four to five times” with the PM during their meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-stand-on-neet/article34942017.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal chats with fan fighting cancer||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan surprised his die-hard fan Saketh, who is fighting terminal brain cancer, via a Zoom call, a party release said on Wednesday. In a video released by the party, Mr. Haasan is seen talking to his fan and encouraging him to keep fighting his illness. Mr. Saketh, who is married with two kids, is heard saying that he had nicknamed one of his kids Virumandi , after a character from Mr. Haasan’s memorable film (of the same name) against capital punishment. Referring to the recently-concluded State Assembly election, Mr. Saketh said, “Good try on your first attempt in the elections. Better luck next time.” When Mr. Saketh asked the actor-politician about how his family was doing, the latter replied, “I am talking to one.”  Mr. Saketh also talked about how he saw Vishwaroopam . Mr. Haasan told him to keep fighting. “There is nobody who is born with an ‘L’ (Loser) on their forehead. The fact that you were born is a battle that you have won with 40 million of your brothers. It is a tragedy but you won. You are destined to win. Keep trying,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-chats-with-fan-fighting-cancer/article34941978.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Coimbatore not being neglected’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday rejected the criticism that his government was neglecting Coimbatore because it had voted for the AIADMK in the Assembly poll. Responding to BJP floor leader Nainar Nagendran, who wondered why the second-phase of the Metro project had not been announced for the city, Mr. Stalin said he had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set up an AIIMS in Coimbatore. “I have already said that it is our objective to make those who have voted for us proud, and make those who have not voted for us remorseful [for having rejected a party that worked for them],” he said. Metro project All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam whip S.P. Velumani said when his party was in power, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had suo motu announced the Metro project for Coimbatore. He also thanked Mr. Stalin for making efforts to set up AIIMS in Coimbatore.  I have said that it is our objective to make those who have voted for us proud M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-not-being-neglected/article34942043.ece
24 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||One more kumki from ATR arrives in Mettupalayam||The Forest Department on Wednesday brought one more kumki (trained elephant) from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) to Mettupalayam to radio-collar the wild tusker nicknamed Baahubali, for study purposes. On Tuesday, the Department had brought kumki Kaleem from the ATR. Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle) I. Anwardeen said that District Forest Officer (Coimbaore Forest Division) D. Venkatesh would oversee the operation with a dedicated team of officers, veterinarians and field staff. “Two kumkis are enough for the operation as we are only radio-collaring the wild elephant after tranquillising it. The tusker will be sedated partially and the radio-collar will be fixed around its neck with the help of the two kumkis,” he said. A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division; K. Rajesh Kumar, veterinary assistant surgeon of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, E. Vijayaraghavan from the Animal Husbandry Department and N.S. Manoharan, Regional Joint Director of Veterinary Services (retired) will be part of the operation, said Mr. Anwardeen. A team from the WWF-India, which is providing the radio collar, will also be present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-kumki-from-atr-arrives-in-mettupalayam/article34942045.ece
24 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Activists demand probe into smart toilets construction||The recently released Coimbatore Corporation Council resolutions for 2017-18 showed the civic body of having spent Rs. 98 lakh to renovate the public toilet in the North Zone office on Balasundaram Road. The then Council under the Special Officer had approved of the expenditure at a meeting held in January 2018. At that point in time, the term of elected Council had come to an end. And the State government had empowered Corporation Commissioner with powers of the Council by designating him as Special Officer. In the January meeting that was held without elected representatives’ participation, the Council passed the resolution for Rs. 98 lakh. The Corporation had then said using the money, it proposed to modernise the toilet by installing new closets with health faucets, washbasins, soap dispensers, towels and also providing wi-fi connectivity. The plan was to showcase the toilet to the State and Central governments as an accomplishment under the Swachh Bharat Mission project in the city. The Corporation had also constructed another toilet on similar lines in the Gandhipuram Bus Stand at Rs. 50 lakh. With the Corporation sharing details of the January 2018 resolutions, activists have demanded a probe into the expenditure. Civic activist S.P. Thiyagarajan said the Corporation spending Rs. 98 lakh to renovate a toilet appeared to be extravagant. Even assuming that the civic body had installed the best of tiles, closets and faucets available, things did not add up. This called for a detailed probe and accountability from the Corporation. Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said Rs. 98 lakh for the Balasundaram Road toilet and Rs. 48 lakh for the Gandhipuram toilet appeared to be over invoiced. The problem with the toilets did not stop with the construction; public were forced to pay for using those when it was clearly mentioned that the civic body should not collect user fee. Corporation sources said the civic body would look into it if it received complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activists-demand-probe-into-smart-toilets-construction/article34942036.ece
24 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Palladam Municipality organises random screening for motorists||Palladam Municipality in Tiruppur district organised random COVID-19 screening for motorists who ventured outside without valid reasons amid the lockdown on Wednesday. According to Municipal Commissioner M. Ganesan, 63 swab samples were lifted between 9.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. The Municipality along with the Palladam police identified the motorists who did not have valid reasons for travelling during vehicle checks on four main roads and brought them to the camp, where staff from the Health Department lifted their swab samples to test for COVID-19. This initiative was organised following reports of increased vehicular movement in Palladam despite the lockdown, particularly in the morning hours, Mr. Ganesan said. “We are planning to continue this for the next five days,” he added.  Meanwhile, District Collector S. Vineeth inspected the works undertaken by the District Rural Development Agency in Palladam panchayat union on Wednesday. A release said that the works such as laying of roads and construction of buildings were being carried out at a total cost of Rs. 3.24 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palladam-municipality-organises-random-screening-for-motorists/article34942025.ece
24 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Four policemen placed under suspension||Four policemen attached to the Coimbatore District (Rural) Police were placed under suspension on Wednesday after they were found to have accepted bribe in separate incidents. M.S. Muthusamy, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Coimbatore range, placed Inspector Suresh and Head Constable Venkatachalam attached to the Kinathukadavu police station under suspension after they were found to have accepted Rs. 12,000 bribe to release on bail an accused in a case of motor vehicle accident. Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police S. Selvangarathinam placed Head Constable Kishore and grade-I constable Jothimani attached to the Thudiyalur police station under suspension for collecting bribe from an Ayurvedic spa on several occasions. The action was taken based on a complaint lodged by the spa owner. The complainant informed the SP that the two policemen were collecting bribe from the spa on a weekly basis. The SP initiated an inquiry against the two policemen and they were found guilty. The two policemen were suspended on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-policemen-placed-under-suspension/article34942038.ece
24 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forge partners with Vedanta for open innovation prog.||Forge, the Coimbatore-based private incubator for startups, has partnered with Vedanta Group for an open innovation programme (Vedanta Spark). Launched last year, the programme now has as many as 23 startups working on 32 innovation challenges. Vish Sahasranamam, co-founder and CEO of Forge, told The Hindu on Tuesday that Forge signed an agreement with Vedanta last year. The programme has connected startups with a large company Vedanta. For Vedanta, the startups bring innovation and sustainable solutions for challenges in different sectors in which it operates. The Vedanta Group will invest Rs. 100 crore in startups through this programme and nearly Rs. 55 crore of it will be towards “paid pilots.” Some of the startups will demonstrate the commercial potential of the innovation in 12 months and they have received financial support from Vedanta to develop the pilots. Forge and Vedanta developed 16 opportunity themes that will benefit the startups and the Vedanta Group, globally. These translated to 75 innovation challenges. A total of 1,350 applications were received from startups in 29 countries, including almost 900 India-based startups. Of these, 23 were identified and these will work on seven opportunities covering 32 innovation challenges. “The next 12 months will be given to startups to do the pilot implementation. It is estimated that investment of Rs. 55 crore for pilot projects will demonstrate a business impact of Rs. 400 crore to Rs. 450 crore,” he said. Forge will play the role of a knowledge partner and programme management partner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forge-partners-with-vedanta-for-open-innovation-prog/article34942039.ece
24 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth, mother held for abetting college girl to end life||Singanallur police have arrested a youth and his mother for abetting a college student, a 19-year-old girl, to end her life. The complaint lodged by the girl’s father said that the youth had threatened her of circulating her morphed photos in social media if she did not give him money or jewellery. The youth’s mother was arrested after the police investigation found that she knew her son’s deeds and supported him. Keshavkumar (22) aka Vijay Sethupathi and his mother Mangayarkarasi (46) from Manamadurai in Sivaganga district were arrested by the police on Sunday. Keshavkumar was studying in a college here. As per the First Information Report, the girl got introduced to Keshavkumar when she was doing her undergraduation in a private college here in 2019. They became friends and Keshavkumar told her that he was in love with her. The accused had taken photos of the girl during functions held at Keshavkumar’s college. The FIR said that the youth snatched the debit card of the girl first and then started demanding money from her. The girl’s father said in his complaint that the girl took the extreme step on June 11 evening after Keshavkumar continued to threaten her. The girl told her father about the ordeals when he found her vomiting at the house after consuming poison. Though the girl was rushed to a nearby hospital, she died in the early hours the next day. The father lodged a complaint with the Singanallur police on June 13 based on which the youth and his mother were arrested on Sunday. During the investigation, the police stumbled upon a large number of videos wherein Keshavkumar was involved in violence. Some videos also showed him carrying a sword. The police said that the videos were shot in 2019.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-mother-held-for-abetting-college-girl-to-end-life/article34942034.ece
24 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Four held with painkillers||The Saibaba Colony police on Wednesday arrested four persons who were found with 650 painkiller tablets. The police said that tapentadol tablet 100 mg, an opioid painkiller, was found with the youth who were involved in its illegal sale. The arrested have been identified as Janaki Raman of Kavundampalayam, Parthipan of TVS Nagar, Kapilesh of Edayarpalayam and Mohammed Afsal of Kuniyamuthur. A team led by inspector P. Renuka Devi found the youth in suspicious circumstances at Kovilmedu. When checked, the police found that they were carrying tablets which had to be sold through the prescription of a registered medical practitioner. The police seized a car and Rs. 11,100 from them. They were arrested under different Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-with-painkillers/article34942042.ece
24 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for wife’s murder||The Saravanampatti police have arrested a 49-year-old man who bludgeoned his wife to death with a cricket bat over a family dispute. K. Lavendran aka Kumar, a Sri Lankan refugee who lived with his wife and two sons at Gandhima Nagar in Coimbatore, was arrested by a special police team late on Tuesday. Saravanampatti Inspector N. Thirupathi said that Lavendran was apprehended from Bhavani in Erode district. He was produced before a court on Wednesday and remanded in judicial custody. One of Kavitha’s relatives, who live in the same locality, had visited the couple’s house on June 19 and Lavendran had told him that she had left for a friend’s house a week ago after he scolded her for talking to friends over phone frequently. The relative visited the house again on Monday night and found Lavendran beating Kavitha with a cricket bat on head repeatedly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-wifes-murder/article34942037.ece
24 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forum to host online meeting tomorrow||Coimbatore Speakers’ Forum of Toastmasters International will organise an online meeting on improving communication skills on Friday at 6.30 p.m. The meeting will be held in Zoom and the meeting number is 870 8197 2333. For details, contact 95004 02317 or 99946 06591 via WhatsApp for the password.     A total of three colleges in Coimbatore district have been chosen by the Central government to host the finale of ‘Toycathon 2021’, which began on Tuesday and will end on Thursday. Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences and Rathinam Group of Institutions were chosen to be the nodal centres for the virtual event. A total of 50 teams from across the country are participating in the event, a release said. The event will provide a platform for students, teachers , start-ups and toy experts to submit their innovative ideas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-to-host-online-meeting-tomorrow/article34942026.ece
24 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||A dream come true for 52 Irular families||It was a dream come true for the 52 Irular families of Kummanur village in Palacodde here, when Collector S. Dhivyadarshini set foot on their village and handed over house pattas to the families, a long-pending demand, on Wednesday. The intervention came in the wake of a local news report highlighting the plight of the Irular tribes in the panchayat, who were living in shacks of hutments and excluded from government welfare schemes for want of family cards. The Collector intervened immediately following the news report and ordered for necessary action. Ms. Dhivyadarshini reached the Irular settlement in Kummanur and personally handed over pattas for government plot in the vicinity. Further, smart family cards were issued to 12 families, along with Rs. 4,000 as COVID cash relief and 14 types of groceries for the family cards. Further, interacting with the Irular families, the Collector also promised family cards to other eligible families and as a prelude directed the tahsildar to take action to issue Aadhar cards to the families. In addition, five families were issued community certificates on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-dream-come-true-for-52-irular-families/article34942041.ece
24 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Vaigai dam||The State government has ordered release of 3,000 cusecs of water from the Vaigai dam for the next five days for drinking purpose in Ramanathapuram district. With the storage level at above 67 feet against maximum level of 71 feet, the government had released 900 cusecs of water for irrigation from Vaigai dam on June 4 for the first crop in the double-crop region. As a result, farmers in Theni, Dindigul and a part of Madurai districts expressed satisfaction as they were able to begin agriculture activities early. Following this, the farmers said that they would be able to complete the harvest in time and ready for the second crop probably around the end of the year. Despite the discharge of 900 cusecs of water for irrigation from the Vaigai dam, the reservoir continued to get a steady flow from the Mullaperiyar reservoir. The copious water in Vaigai dam resulted in the government ordering water release for drinking purpose in Ramanathapuram district. Many low-lying areas were alerted as the water was gushing from the sluices. PWD authorities said the culvert near the dam where the water was released in the morning submerged due to the heavy discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-vaigai-dam/article34942272.ece
24 June 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Care centre inspected||Collector T. Prabhu Shankar on Wednesday inspected the COVID care centre on TNPL premises at Pugalur. Wearing PPE, he met patients and enquired about their health and the treatment being extended to them. He checked the facilities made for treating the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/care-centre-inspected/article34942310.ece
24 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders assistance to children with rare genetic disorder||Bringing relief to a man from Madurai, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the State government to provide assistance under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Medical Insurance Scheme to his two grandchildren. The girls were affected by retinitis pigmentosa with atrophic maculopathy, a rare genetic disorder. The court was hearing the appeal preferred by the State against the order of a single bench that had in 2017 directed it to provide assistance to L. Joseph’s grandchildren under the scheme. In its appeal, the State said the reason for not considering the claim was that the genetic disorder was not a listed disorder/disease for which financial assistance would be granted. The State also said the treatment was taken in an ayurveda hospital in Kerala which was not a listed hospital. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi took note of the fact that the medical condition of the girls was rare which affected one in about one lakh population. The court also considered the fact that the treatment taken at a Government Hospital and private eye hospitals in Madurai did not yield results. It further noted that the ayurvedic treatment had given some relief to the children and they could maintain a 10-degree vision. Ayurveda was also considered a form of medicine and recognised by the Union government. The Ministry of Ayush had rolled out various schemes to benefit the public, the court said. The court dismissed the appeal and directed the State to implement the order issued by the single bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-assistance-to-children-with-rare-genetic-disorder/article34942260.ece
24 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rain in Madurai||After a hot and sultry day on Wednesday, Madurai city experiences downpour late in the evening. The showers, accompanied by thunder and lightning, continued for more than 30 minutes. Power cut was witnessed in many places. Fire and Rescue Services personnel said that two instances of tree falling were reported at Ellis Nagar and Bethaniyapuram. The tree that fell on a power line also disrupted power supply at Anna Nagar in Bethaniyapuram. The rain will help the farmers of double-crop area in Madurai where farming activities have picked up after water was released for irrigation from Vaigai dam on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-in-madurai/article34942262.ece
24 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||An unusual farewell gift from AIR||On June 12, the Central English Features Unit (CEFU) of All India Radio played a national award-winning radio documentary on Air Traffic Controllers (ATC) across its stations in the country. It was done as a rare gesture on the day Savitra B. Rajaram, the producer of the docu-feature that received Akashvani Annual Award in 2015, retired. In commemoration of his 33 years of service, the CEFU, Delhi, decided to give a befitting send-off to him, who is a popular voice across Tamil Nadu and known for his innumerable Tamil radio documentaries.  Naanga Kelambura Neram Vanthachchu (It’s time for us to take off), the 20-minute programme chronicles how the ATCs handle their task with ingenuity, calm and aplomb every day. It was the only national award Tamil Nadu won in broadcasting in 2015. “It is an important and interesting subject to highlight; fabulous idea as an audio story but a difficult programme to make for the radio,” said CEFU In-charge Basudha Banerji, who adapted the programme in English in 2017 and broadcast it on the national network first in 2018. Before this, the original Tamil version was broadcast from Madurai station twice. “The feature was packed with information about the extraordinary skills of the professionals who keep a constant vigil on sky routes...,” said Ms. Banerji. When she heard about Mr. Rajaram’s retirement, she pulled out the recording from the archives and put it on the national hook-up once again. On his last day at work, as Mr. Rajaram went around the duty room – where he started his career as transmission executive in 1989 – his colleagues gave him a standing ovation as his name as the producer of ‘Eye on the Sky’ came on air. When he saw aeroplanes every two minutes in the sky during a visit to Qutub Minar in 2014, the idea to do an exclusive programme on the ATC was born. Twenty hours of recording over two days to understand the logistics and the science behind flying was compressed into a capsule of 20 minutes that virtually transports the listeners to an airport and the control tower. “It was fascinating to watch the preparations that go on for every plane flying in and out and editing was a greater challenge as we compiled effects of a multi-sensory feeling in aural format from seven parallel soundtracks,” said Mr. Rajaram. As the programme head in Tiruchi, Kodaikanal, Nagercoil and Madurai during his career, he was known for making Tamil a brand in radio programming with a live oratorical competition ( Seppuga Senthamizh ), the 16-square radio crossword in Tamil, science serials on disaster management and reviving 131 extinct lullabies sung by village folks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-unusual-farewell-gift-from-air/article34942280.ece
24 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Infant’s thumb cut: High Court orders interim compensation||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered an interim compensation of Rs. 75,000 to the family of a female infant whose left thumb was cut when a staff nurse attempted to remove the paediatric cannula at the Government Hospital in Thanjavur earlier this month. Taking into account the horrific experience of the parents who witnessed the child writhing in pain, Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that in cases of this nature the court had to apply strict liability theory. The court also directed the government to shift the infant to a multi-speciality hospital where an attempt could be made to conduct a specialised surgery so that it could effectively use its fingers and not permanently suffer due to the loss of a thumb. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Ganesan of Thanjavur district, the father of the infant, seeking appropriate compensation from the government for the negligent act of the nurse. The court observed that prima facie the incident showed that there was negligence. An interim compensation must be paid to the parents. It was the minimum that the government must do in a welfare state, the judge said. The court was informed that all efforts were taken to treat the infant. A panel was appointed to monitor it, an inquiry was conducted and a report had been sent to higher authorities, the court was told.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infants-thumb-cut-interim-relief-granted/article34942266.ece
24 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Homes inspected||The Member of State Commission for Protection of Child Rights V. Ramaraj on Wednesday inspected the Annai Sathya Home for Children and other observation homes in Madurai. He also inspected Sri Lankan Refugee Camp in Anaiyur to ascertain the condition of children. Earlier, he inspected children homes in Virudhunagar. He would visit children homes in Tenkasi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homes-inspected/article34942257.ece
24 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Contract between petitioner and BSNL unfair: HC||When the State or its instrumentalities enter into a private contract, it is expected that they maintain a higher degree of fairness and reasonableness, Madurai Bench of Madras High Court observed while coming across a case regarding a property measuring 59 cents was obtained for just one rupee in Virudhunagar district by the BSNL. The court was hearing a petition filed by A.S. Marimuthu. The petitioner had purchased a property in 1999 for constructing a memorial for his father who was popular in the locality. In 2001, BSNL approached the petitioner to buy the land to construct a Telephone Exchange. The petitioner agreed provided the building was named after his father. The BSNL told the petitioner that the property could not be taken as a gift as per the policy of the government. He said that he would receive one rupee as a token consideration for conveying the property and he was more interested in the building being named after his father. However, there was no construction. He filed the petition seeking reconveyance of the property. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed the petition was a textbook case on how the instrumentality of a State had attempted to unjustly enrich itself and virtually grabbed the property. He has lost his property, and the building that was promised has not come up for the past 20 years, although the BSNL says (and is still saying) that it intends to put up a superstructure, the judge said. The contract between the petitioner and BSNL was totally unfair, arbitrary and unreasonable. The court directed the BSNL to pay the market value of the property as it stood on the date of execution of the sale deed. It was also open for BSNL to reconvey the property to the petitioner if there is no proposal to construct any telephone exchange, the judge said directing the order be complied with in eight weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-between-petitioner-and-bsnl-unfair-hc/article34942258.ece
24 June 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 135.55 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 903 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. The level in Vaigai dam was 67.29 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,547 cusecs and a discharge of 3,969 cusecs. Rainfall recorded in Madurai region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Wednesday was (in mm): Thekkadi 11.2, Periyar dam 5.6 and Bodinayakkanur 1.2. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 135.95 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 694.24 cusecs and a discharge of 1,797.94 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 82.35 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 280 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34942268.ece
24 June 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Officials hopeful of spike in kuruvai acreage in Nagapattinam district||The Agriculture Department is hopeful of farmers raising kuruvai paddy in excess of 20,000 acres in the district. Citing conducive conditions as a result of timely release of water from Mettur Dam and large-scale desilting, the district administration has advised the department to hold village-level camps to motivate farmers to take up kuruvai cultivation with confidence. On its part, the district administration has ensured adequacy of short-term paddy seeds for direct sowing and fertilizers and manure to be supplied through agricultural extension centres, primary agricultural cooperative credit societies and private sellers, officials said. Seeds of short-term paddy varieties have been stocked to the tune of 105 metric tonnes in agricultural extension centres, and 255 metric tonnes of seeds will be sold through private sellers. Farmers will be provided seeds at 50% subsidy at agricultural extension centres, Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said. Interacting with farmers in six blocks during a grievance redressal session through video-conference on Tuesday, the Collector said crop insurance dues and crop loss compensation amounts would be settled shortly for farmers who had been left out. He apprised the farmers of Rs. 61.09-crore kuruvai package announced by the Chief Minister. The farmers, while assuring to do their part to enable the agriculture department to achieve its target for kuruvai crop acreage, urged the government to increase discharge from Mettur dam from the existing 10,000 cusecs to 15,000 cusecs per day so as to be in a position to take up cultivation in tail-end areas. Officials of Agricultural Engineering Department were instructed to look into the demand raised by farmers for movable driers. “Last year, kuruvai paddy was raised in 20,500 acres. This time, the acreage will be more, going by the level of preparations by farmers,” Joint Director of Agriculture S. Paneerselvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-hopeful-of-spike-in-kuruvai-acreage-in-nagapattinam-district/article34942306.ece
24 June 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephant dies||A badly injured wild elephant died near Bhoothapandi as it had suffered injuries in the mouth and genitalia. After a female elephant, aged about 55, entered the private lands in Udaiyaarkonam near Bhoothapandi, the forest personnel, led by Forest Ranger Manimaaran chased it back to the forest as the farmers were afraid of entering their ranches. The forest personnel also dug trenches to prevent the elephant from re-entering the fields. However, the elephant moved to the fields in Rathnapuram and Mookkuththimalai areas and the officials started their operations in these areas. “When we closely examined the animal, we found that the stray elephant had a wound in the mouth and the genitalia. We decided to tranquilize the elephant with the help of veterinarians and give proper treatment to cure the wounds,” said Mr. Manimaaran. Besides forest veterinarian Manoharan, veterinarians Prakash from Dharmapuri and Kalaiyarasan from Theni were roped in for giving treatment to the ailing elephant. After the animal was tranquilized successfully on Monday last, the veterinarians commenced the treatment after tying its fore legs. “The wound in the genital region was worse as the pus had to be drained from the wound. The infection the elephant had suffered in the mouth had turned into a major problem for the animal that could not eat properly to regain strength,” Mr. Manimaaran said. Though the veterinarians administered medicines and monitored the elephant even after it regained consciousness, the animal could not eat properly and it could not respond to the treatment as anticipated due to its age. The elephant breathed its last on Tuesday. Subsequently, the autopsy was done on the spot in the presence of Conservator of Forest Dr. Senthil Kumar, District Forest Officer, Kanniyakumari, Ashok Kumar and other senior officials and the corpse was buried there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wild-elephant-dies/article34942269.ece
24 June 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Collector orders seizure of truck used for sand smuggling||District Collector Shreya P.Singh ordered police to seize a truck used for illegal sand smuggling near Senthamangalam here. Ms. Singh conducted inspections near Kolli Hills here on Tuesday and while returning from the Hills, she spotted a sand lorry smuggling sand at R.B. Pudur near Senthamangalam. She ordered police to register a case and seize the vehicle. ccording to police, the lorry belonged to a brick klin and it was carrying sand smuggled from Nachipudur. Police arrested the truck driver Kumaresan and co-driver Poovarasan and they were remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-orders-seizure-of-truck-used-for-sand-smuggling/article34942031.ece
24 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy submits list of Council of Ministers||After dissension among the principal allies over sharing of power played out over seven weeks since Puducherry’s first NDA government was elected to power on May 2, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy submitted the list of the Council of Ministers to Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday. The AINRC and the BJP were unable to come to an agreement on sharing of Cabinet berths all these weeks. Mr. Rangasamy, who had all along been keeping the allies and close aides guessing on the composition of his Cabinet, met the Lt. Governor at Raj Nivas to hand over the list. When approached by mediapersons as he emerged from the meeting, the Chief Minister declined to disclose names merely stating that it will be known in due course. The convention is for the Lt. Governor to forward the list to the Union Home Ministry, which would seek the President’s nod. An approval from the high office would clear the way for the Lt. Governor to schedule a swearing-in ceremony. Meanwhile, the Lt. Governor said the Cabinet headed by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy is scheduled to be sworn in on June 27. Addressing the media after handing over donated COVID-19 relief material to the Health Department, Ms. Soundararajan said the event would be held in the afternoon on that day. On the list of the Council of Ministers submitted by the Chief Minister, the Lt. Governor said it had been sent to the Centre, and it had to go through several stages of approval. Meanwhile, a delegation of BJP MLAs and leaders called on Mr. Rangasamy and sought his blessings. The leaders, including A. Nammasivayam and Sai Saravanan Kumar — who BJP sources said were the Ministerial choices — urged him to hold the swearing-in of the Cabinet on June 27. There was no official word on the ministerial choices from the AINRC camp. “At this point when the list has formally been submitted, why it should be kept a secret is a bit hard to comprehend,” a party functionary said. BJP legislator Embalam R. Selvam, who was elected unopposed as Speaker on June 16, recently stated that once the Cabinet is sworn in, a session of the Assembly would be convened to elect the Deputy Speaker. Since Mr. Rangasamy assumed office on May 7, the constitution of the Cabinet had been delayed due to the bitter wrangling between the BJP and the AINRC over the post of Deputy Chief Minister, Speaker and ministerial berths. Mr. Rangasamy’s hospitalisation for COVID-19 in the second week of May only compounded the delay. Even as he was out of action for a couple of weeks, the BJP snagged all three nominated legislator posts, much to the chagrin of Mr. Rangasamy. Perhaps, as a sign of his displeasure over this, Mr. Rangasamy chose to remain aloof to the BJP’s moves for negotiation after he recovered and resumed office. Eventually, after the intervention of the BJP’s national leadership, the allies returned to the negotiating table and under an agreement, it was decided that the BJP would be allotted the post of Speaker and two ministerial berths while the AINRC would keep the post of Deputy Speaker and three ministerial berths.  At this point when the list has formally been submitted, why it should be kept a secret is a bit hard to comprehend party functionary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-submits-list-of-council-of-ministers/article34941994.ece
24 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 263 new cases||The Union Territory recorded four COVID-19 deaths, 263 new cases from 8,201 tests, and 415 recoveries on Wednesday. The test positivity rate was 3.21%, case fatality rate 1.5% and recovery rate 95.86%. The active cases aggregated 3,058 with 523 patients in hospitals and 2,535 in home isolation. No cases of the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus have yet been reported in the Union Territory, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Wednesday. “The strain has been reported in a few States and we must do all we can to prevent its emergence in the Union Territory. We are focused on fully vaccinating the population as a measure of protection from such new variants and future waves of the pandemic,” the Lt. Governor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-263-new-cases/article34941992.ece
24 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Family loses its breadwinner to lathi blows in Salem||“We have not only lost our breadwinner, but the future of all my three children,” said an inconsolable Annakili, wife of A. Murugesan, who died after being caned by a special sub-inspector, as she waited at the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. Recalling the incident, she said Murugesan had left home at 3 p.m. on Tuesday and within hours she was informed by relatives that police had assaulted him. “When I saw him at the Attur Government Hospital, he was unconscious with injuries on the head, and doctors said that his condition was unstable,” she said. T. Sivan Babu, 33, and R. Shankar, 23, nephews of Murugesan, said they were returning from Karumandurai on a two-wheeler, along with the victim, on Tuesday evening. Mr. Sivan told The Hindu that the SSI intercepted the vehicle and asked why they were moving around during the lockdown. He asked them to park the vehicle and then grabbed the key. “Murugesan got angry and questioned the SSI,” Mr. Sivan said and added that the SSI started attacking Murugesan. When Murugesan said he would call his uncle for help, the SSI attacked again, making him fall on the road,” he alleged. Mr. Sivan said that one policeman sprinkled water on Murugesan’s face, but he did not respond. “Policemen asked us to move Murugesan to the roadside, but we refused,” he said and added that after an hour they moved Murugesan in their two-wheeler to the Primary Health Centre at Thumbal. Later, Murugesan was taken to the Attur Government Hospital in an ambulance by 10 p.m., where doctors said that his condition was critical. “Since doctors said that even treating him at a private hospital may not save his life, we moved him to the Salem Government Hospital by 5 a.m. on Wednesday where the doctors declared him brought dead,” he said. Mr. Sivan also alleged that the SSI had pushed him on the road, which led to the head injury. He said he had captured the incident on his mobile phone to bring out the police brutality and the truth. The couple have three children — Jeyapriya, 18, Jeyabrindha, 12, and Kavipriyan, 13. The family runs a petty shop in Edayappatti village and the income is inadequate to meet their daily food needs. “Action should be taken against the policemen involved in the murder,” said Ms. Annakili. Ms. Jeyapriya, who has just joined her first-year college, said that her father died only because of the inhuman treatment of the policeman and sought stringent action against him. “The family took a lot of pain in educating and bringing up the two girls and the boy. But now the entire burden is on her (Annakili),” said a relative of the family waiting at the local police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-loses-its-breadwinner-to-lathi-blows/article34941988.ece
24 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||No drinking water supply in Salem today||Due to maintenance work by Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited at Mettur Thottilpatti area where the Corporation’s Dedicated Water Supply Scheme is being implemented, drinking water will not be supplied in the corporation limits on June 24 (Thursday), a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-drinking-water-supply-in-salem-today/article34942030.ece
24 June 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Six of family rescued||After the revenue officials received a complaint from the Child Protection Committee members about an illegal act of bonded labour being practised, six from a family including four children were safely rescued and three were arrested here on Wednesday. The CPC members said that they spotted a 10-year-old boy rearing goats at N Nedungulam near Manamadurai. Inquiries suggested the boy had to rear goats for long hours and he was paid nothing. Further probe with the boy led to unravelling a bigger tale of humiliation and harassment to his parents, brother and sisters for over two months. The boy’s parents - Sangiah and Kaliswari of Pillur near Sivaganga - were reeling in utter poverty. When Sangiah approached Gunasekaran of Theethankulam, he gave Rs. 50,000 and engaged Sangiah, his wife and children in his laundry. Without giving any wages, he extracted work from them for long hours. When Gunasekaran did not get any business and had to shut shop due to the lockdown, he received Rs. 50,000 from another Gandhi of Kaatukudiyiruppu and handed over Sangiah and family. The new ‘employer’ who was also running a laundry, engaged Sangiah for long hours. As the couple’s elder son (10-year-old boy) was idle, Gandhi directed another accomplice Subramanian to rear goats. Towards this, Gandhi had received Rs. 8,000 from Subramanian. The Revenue Divisional Officer Muthukaluvan and team swung into action and rescued Sangiah and five others safely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-of-family-rescued/article34942270.ece
24 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Mounds of paddy stocked near direct purchase centre get drenched||Moisture content in paddy heaped near Ammapettai Kovilur direct purchase centre is all set to increase as the mounds were surrounded by rainwater on Wednesday. Stating that the delay in movement of procured paddy from the DPC had impeded the procurement process, Thanjavur district secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to CPI(M), N.V. Kannan said the sudden heavy downpour on June 23 resulted in water-logging in the area where the paddy was stocked in open near the Kovilur DPC. Pointing out that a similar situation prevailed in almost all DPCs functioning in the district, he urged officials to ensure quick movement of procured paddy from the DPCs in order to ensure the harvested paddy was measured at the right time with the prescribed moisture content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mounds-of-paddy-stocked-near-direct-purchase-centre-get-drenched/article34942309.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Come August, airport to have upgraded ILS||Work on installing a new and upgraded Instrument Landing System (ILS) at Tiruchi International Airport to replace the existing one is expected to begin in the first week of July. A technical team from the Radio Construction and Development Unit of Airports Authority of India (AAI) from New Delhi will carry out the installation of the Rs. 3.5 crore-upgraded ILS system, which will aid in smoother landing of flights at the non-metro airport. Ahead of putting in place a new system, AAI-Tiruchi carried out civil and electrical works connected with the project. A concrete platform has been constructed at the end of Runway 27 adjoining Tiruchi-Pudukottai National Highway for installation of a set of new antennae. Civil and electrical works have been completed for the new system, Airport Director S. Dharmaraj told The Hindu on Wednesday. The ILS has two components — local antennae that will provide centre line information of the runway and a glide path giving data pertaining to angle of descent. The new ILS system will have 16 localiser antennae instead of the 12 antennae in the existing system. The antennae will be installed at the end of Runway 27 and the glide path at the end of Runway 09 on Nathamadipatti side, he said. The installation work is expected to begin in the first week of July. A team from the Radio Construction and Development Unit of Airports Authority of India from New Delhi will execute the work at the airport. It will thereafter carry out flight calibration tests ahead of commissioning the new system. Approval from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation will be sought prior to commissioning. The entire work is expected to be completed by early August. Post-commissioning, the new ILS system will aid in smoother landing of flights. Although the new ILS was planned to be completed by March, the project got delayed due to COVID-19 pandemic, he further said. Due to the pandemic, the airport has been witnessing operation of international flights operated under Vande Bharat Mission and Air Bubble agreement only. In the near future, the airport will also have a new technical block-cum-air traffic control tower at the approved site, the airport director added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/come-august-airport-to-have-upgraded-ils/article34942317.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Industry associations endorse AICA call to Centre||Industry associations representing MSME sector in the region look for a positive response from the Central government following deliberations conducted by All India Council of Association of MSMEs on Wednesday on problems faced by industries, with particular reference to rapid escalation in the cost of steel and other construction inputs. The AICA, representing around 170 MSME associations covering approximately more than two lakh industrial units across the country, made a representation to the Central government seeking immediate intervention for sustenance of the sector, and has forwarded copies of the same to Union Ministers of Finance and Corporate Affairs, MSME, Steel, Commerce and Industry, and Coal and Mines. Representatives of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association, Nagapattinam District Small and Tiny Industries' Association, Tiruvarur District Small and Tiny Industries' Association, BHEL Small Industries' Association, and Valavandankottai Industrial Manufacturers' Association took part in the discussion and sought speedy solutions for survival of the MSME sector, in the backdrop of many industries turning sick. The escalation in the cost of steel during the lockdown period to the extent of 60% to 70% was unprecedented, threatening the very sustainability of manufacturing units, R. Ilango, president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association, said. BHELSIA has, through a forum for raw materials, conveyed the difficulties being faced by the fabrication sector, BHELSIA president Rajappa Rajkumar said. According to V. Ramachandiran, president of Nagapattinam District, Small and Tiny Industries' Association, the reluctance of banks to implement interest subvention scheme of Reserve Bank of India was deplorable. In its representation to the Prime Minister, AICA has pointed out that the steep hike in the price of raw materials across all sectors, despite low consumption and subsequent drop in production by MSMEs has led to loss of employment and depreciation in the value of rupee. “It is obvious that there is a cartel created by steel manufacturers, which include private and public sector undertakings. Steel is an an essential commodity for overall development of the country and exports should be as per availability of surplus. Steel and other base material manufacturers are declaring 10 to 20 times higher profit whereas all the MSMEs are on the verge of extinction. This clearly shows that the corporate and PSU commodity companies are profiting at the expense of MSMEs,” the AICA said. It has questioned the fixation of benchmark for steel industry pricing based on international market prices rather than the demand and supply situation in the country. Due to the prevailing situation, the MSMEs are unable to execute orders taken at a much-lower price, and face the uncertainty of getting black-listed by PSUs and large corporates if they do not honour contracts. The possible solutions suggested by AICA include protection against escalation for some period, prevailing upon PSUs to accept cancellation of orders, derivation of formula for price escalation, revisit of all orders of PSUs to MSMEs, directing PSUs to accept fresh quote, GST-based funding and allowing import based on cost and quality. Seeking an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to highlight the precarious situation of MSMEs, AICA cautioned that the spiralling rise in prices of raw materials will only discourage entrepreneurship and failure of the government’s objective of Atmanirbhar Bharat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-associations-endorse-aica-call-to-centre/article34942322.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Corporation begins scrutiny of bids for drinking water rejuvenation projects||Tiruchi Corporation is examining bids received for two separate tenders for revamping head works and water supply augmentation of collector wells in the riverbed of the Cauvery at Kambarasampettai. While a sum of Rs. 19.46 crore has been earmarked for revamping of the head works, the rejuvenation of collector wells at Kambarasampettai will cost Rs. 9.96 crore. The schemes have been proposed under the Smart City project. The Corporation had floated a tender in March for revamping of head works. But no bidders participated on March 16, forcing the Corporation to call for a re-tender. As far as water supply augmentation scheme of collector wells, the civic body received just one bid, quoting about 76% more than the actual estimate. Hence, it went for a re-tender. “Though the city is well-placed in terms of abundant sources of water supply, there is a strong need for rejuvenating the head works and collector wells to ensure uninterrupted supply of water to the people,” said S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi City Corporation. The civic body received bids from various companies for re-tenders. The scrutiny of tender documents will be completed within 15 days. Following completion of standard protocol, successful bidders will be given work orders. It has been planned to complete the works within two years, the Commissioner said. Sources say that out of 125 MLD of water supplied to residents of the city, about 55 MLD of water is drawn from head works at Kambarasampettai. It was in 1910 that Tiruchi got its first water supply scheme. It covered areas such as Rockfort, East Boulevard Road, West Boulevard Road, Gandhi Market, Varaganeri and Palakarai. The capacity of the drinking water scheme was augmented in 1980. It was further enhanced in 1990 in order to serve the growing size of the population in the city. Construction of water balancing reservoir including water testing lab, revamping of footbridge, ground level sump and centralised monitoring water supply system are among the components of revamping of head works at Kambarasampettai. Providing radial arms, motor pump set and diesel generators at collector well and main pumping station areamong the major works of rejuvenation of collector well scheme. The proposed works will enable the Corporation to draw to the installed capacity for the next 10 to 15 years, said Mr. Sivasubramanian,  Smart scheme Rs. 19.46 crore earmarked for revamping head works Rejuvenation of collector wells to cost Rs. 9.96 crore Scrutiny of tenders to be completed within 15 days Project planned for completion in two years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-corporation-begins-scrutiny-of-bids-for-drinking-water-rejuvenation-projects/article34942311.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pursue your passion relentlessly, Viswanathan Anand tells students||Pursue your passion relentlessly; doing what you like will sustain interest in the long run, chess great Viswanathan Anand told students during a recent virtual meet. Flexibility in approach is important, he said and explained the importance of changing the mindset to meet emerging challenges with enthusiasm. Citing his own example, Mr. Anand said flexibility was what enabled him to adapt to changes over the years. Interacting with students during a ‘virtual meet and talk’ session organised by Santhanam Vidhyalaya in Tiruchi on Monday, he said shedding rigid attitude would stand one in good stead to sustain in different jobs in the fast-changing world. Responding to a query, he said, “though every point makes me happy, whatever comes unexpected is always very special.” The five-time world champion made a particular mention of his victory in World Rapid Chess Championship in 2017, in which he had participated with the initial thought of finishing in the top-10. The same was the case with 2014 Candidates Tournament in Russia where he emerged triumphant. Family, he said, played a very supportive role by providing a strong backing when career hits a rough patch. The environment at home rejuvenated mental and physical strength, preparing one for challenges ahead, Mr. Anand added. The hour-long session was moderated by K. Chandrasekharan, Chief Executive Officer, Santhanam Vidhyalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pursue-your-passion-relentlessly-viswanathan-anand-tells-students/article34942305.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||This gravedigger picked up from where her husband left off||M. Mariyai, a 60-year-old woman from Crawford, single-handedly takes care of burials and cremations at the Ramachandra Nagar burial ground. She took over after her husband, a burial ground worker, died 17 years ago. Every day on the job is different, Mariyai said. “Whether it is morning or night, I come to the burial ground when called.” Her husband, Muthaiyan, was returning home after grazing the cows when a vehicle hit him and he succumbed to injuries. He used to take care of the burial ground until then. After his death, it was expected that their son would take up the job. “He was not up to it, so I decided to take it up,” she said. Mariyai used to help out her husband with digging the graves and lowering the bodies into them. “He used to say that women were not allowed to do this work, but in hindsight that served as a training,” she said. She lives close to the burial ground located in Edamalaipattipudur and rushes to the place any time of the day, a former ward councillor told The Hindu . Apart from digging graves, she also accompanies families to crematoriums in the city to assist in performance of the last rites. “Families call me and ask if I can go with them to help with the process, as they do not know the staff at the crematoriums. I oblige.” Now, as she grows older, Mariyai is unable to dig the graves on her own. “I take help from another worker to dig the graves. As I grow older, I wonder who will do my job after me,” she says. There was severe opposition from neighbours and other men who wanted to take up the job, Mariyai recollected. “They would try to find ways to convince me not to go to work. They would come to my house and tell my family members that women were not permitted to do it, but I persevered,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-gravedigger-picked-up-from-where-her-husband-left-off/article34942313.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 1,060 new cases||The central districts on Wednesday reported 1,060 fresh cases and 29 deaths. All districts reported less than 10 deaths. Eight patients died in Nagapattinam district. Pudukottai recorded six deaths, while Tiruchi reported five. Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts each reported three deaths, while Ariyalur reported two. One patient each die in Karur and Perambalur districts. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region with 338 patients testting positive. The district has reported a significant decline over the last few weeks. However, it continues to be on the list of districts where the caseload is high and lockdown norms are yet to be relaxed. In Tiruchi district, 247 patients tested positive, while Nagapattinam reported 119 fresh cases. Karur reported 87 fresh cases, while Pudukottai, 81. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had only 17 ICU beds vacant, while Karur had increased its ICU beds to 73. Pudukottai had 14, Tiruchi 263 and and Thanjavur 168. Tiruvarur reported 77 fresh cases, while Ariyalur recorded 67. Perambalur district reported 44 fresh cases, a sharp dip over the last few days. Tiruvarur had 100 vacant ICU beds, while Perambalur had 36. Ariyalur district had 18 vacant beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-1060-new-cases/article34942315.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||11 kg gold seized from passengers at Tiruchi airport||In separate operations, officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized over 11 kg of gold from 10 passengers at the international airport here on Tuesday and Wednesday. Sources said DRI officials intercepted five passengers who arrived here from Sharjah by an Air India Express flight on Tuesday. This led to seizure of five kg of gold in paste form from them. Another 2.3 kg gold in paste form, which was found abandoned in a flush tank inside the airport, was also seized. The passengers had concealed the gold paste form in knee cap and inner wear. The seized consignment was sent for chemical process which yielded gold weighing about 6.2 kg. Five passengers were detained. On Wednesday, the DRI officials intercepted five passengers who landed here from Singapore by an Air India Express flight. This led to seizure of 5.2 kg of gold in different sizes concealed in emergency lamp, flash lights, door stopper and lock. The passengers were detained. Further investigations were on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-kg-gold-seized-from-passengers-at-tiruchi-airport/article34942318.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BIM course architecture reworked by council||Bharathidasan Institute of Management (BIM) has re-worked its course architecture to put students through pi-shaped learning, The new batch inaugurated on Wednesday will be oriented on New Age Applications and Core and Elective courses, enabled through practising scholars, centres of excellence, use of simulations and proprietary /open-source tools, contemporary curriculum, research incubation, and industry and academic collaboration. The students will be able to imbibe universal universal values impacting self, family, society and environment, while deriving utility of practice courses enhancing personality, instilling team spirit, values, ethics and fostering sustainable values. Inaugurating the first batch, Chairman - Board of Governors, BIM, and Managing Director, Thiagarajar Mills, Madurai, spoke about disruptions in the job market and the imperative need for management graduates to be future-ready. The course architecture was reworked by an outstanding Academic Council after identifying the gaps based on World Economic Forum's The Future of Jobs Report and reports on the topic by McKinsey and Deloitte, BIM Director Asit K. Barma said. The reports imply that the future generation will, in a dynamic job market, have to change jobs six to seven times in their career cycle. They will have to develop resilience to face uncertain world due to the drastic changes in business models and technology. The Finance Laboratory was established on Wednesday and City Union Bank has offered to sponsor it. BIM will also have a Bloomberg Terminal, and an National Stock Exchange Smart Terminal. Centres for Sustainable Development Goals, Operational Excellence have been formed. BIM has augmented faculty strenths accordingly. There are now 15 full-time faculty, and 35 visiting faculty consisting of senior professors of IIMs and best in class industry professionals. Also, BIM has already initiated the process of recruiting 12 Assistant Professors-cum-researchers with exceptional track records like Fulbright Scholarship from IIMs and IITs. The new batch of students will be put through virtual certification courses of Harvard Business School, Quantitative Techniques and Financial Modelling Spreadsheet. BIM has licences from Harvard Business School, he said. BIM will look for NBA accreditation and improved NIRF ranking; World QS Ranking in Finance and Operations area next year, and Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business within the next four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bim-course-architecture-reworked-by-council/article34942323.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to increase admission in govt. schools||With the objective of increasing admission of students in government and government-aided schools across the district, a campaign vehicle was launched here on Wednesday. After Chief Educational Officer M. Sivakumar flagged off the vehicle, the van started visiting the pre-determined places including Tirunelveli, Palayamkottai and nearby villages. Since the pandemic has resulted in job loss or pay-cuts for several parents, they cannot pay the tuition fee being collected in matriculation higher secondary schools. These parents have started admitting their children in government and government-aided schools, which draw unusual crowd this year. “Since the government and the government-aided schools have been equipped with modern facilities including smart classrooms and qualified teachers in sufficient numbers, teaching – learning process in our schools has become very effective in the recent years. The parents have understood this advantage and admit their children in these schools. To highlight the advantages of getting the children admitted in these schools, we’ve launched the campaign vehicle,” he said. The documentaries being screened on this campaign vehicle with large LED screen explain the facilities in the government, freebies being given to these children and the achievements of the students of these schools in the past. Moreover, the documentaries tell the public the reservation made for the government and government-aided school children in higher education admission and in employment that attract the people a lot. He has deployed Block Educators and heads of high and higher secondary school teachers for coordinating the campaign vehicle’s tour. “While retaining the present students, all-out efforts should be made to attract more number of students towards the government and the government-aided schools,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-increase-admission-in-govt-schools/article34942276.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Old structure to get a new lease of life||Collector V. Vishnu has initiated steps to renovate ‘Medai police station,’ an 8th century structure built during Pandya kingdom. According to writers and Tamil scholars, this structure was the western entrance of a fort built by the Pandya kings in the 8th century for housing a minimum of 1,000 soldiers. After falling into the hands of ‘Palayakkarar,’ the badly-maintained fort came under the control of the British. Writer Naarumpoonathan and Tamil teacher G. Ganapathi Subramanian said, “the fort’s eastern entrance is the structure that now houses the government museum near District Police Office. It was in this structure that Kattabomman’s younger brother Oomaithurai was imprisoned. The western entrance was used later by the British as an armoury. After independence, it became a police station. Since the police station was sitting atop the western entrance compound wall which was 30 feet wide, it was called ‘medai police station.’ It is near Mela Vaasal Subramaniya Swamy Temple.” After being used by several wings of the Tamil Nadu Police, including the office of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, the edifice has started crumbling due to poor maintenance. The two rooms used by the police, the granite steps leading to the erstwhile police station and the terrace are in a bad shape. When it was brought to the Collector’s notice, he discussed the issue with Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran. They inspected the structure on Saturday and the work on cleaning the building and its surroundings started the next day. “We’ll revive its lost glory. We’ve planned to tell the younger generation about the ancientness of this town by keeping intact the renovated remnants of the fort in digital format,” says Mr. Vishnu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-structure-to-get-a-new-lease-of-life/article34942263.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to document Kani tribes’ history||Collector V. Vishnu has initiated steps for documenting the history, living conditions, livelihood, traditional knowledge of medicinal plants, festivals, culture, food habits, rituals etc. of Kani tribes living near Papanasam and Servalar Dams in the Western Ghats with the objective of protecting their identity and taking their knowledge to the world. The tribes, known as Kanikkaran or Kani, are traditionally nomadic community living in the Western Ghats in Kanniyakumari and Tirunelveli districts and speaking Tamil and Malayalam. They, living in Chinna Mayilaar, Periya Mayilaar and Injikuzhi areas of this scenic hilly region, cultivate lemon, cashew, jack fruit, tapioca, pepper and harvest minor forest produces like amla, honey etc. for their self-sustaining existence inside the jungles and sell these produce to the traders and the visitors coming to their place as tourists. “We’ve medicines in the forest for diabetes, blood pressure, skin diseases, diarrhoea, stomach pain, tooth ache, rheumatism, greying of hair etc.,” says Ganesa Murthy, a Kani Tribal youth. Their weddings, religious rituals, dances etc. have unique flavour, they say. Mr. Vishnu visited the Kani tribal hamlets near Papanasam dam on Monday for handing over a cargo vehicle for transporting the tribes’ farm produce to the plains for selling it to the consumers. “After two women from this tribal community cleared the exam conducted by the Department of Forest, awareness of clearing competitive examinations has increased. So, we’ve planned to organise coaching classes for the aspirants through the District Employment Office in Papanasam itself,” Mr. Vishnu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-document-kani-tribes-history/article34942265.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two ‘pipe bombs’ recovered in Tirunelveli district||Tension prevailed in Shankar Nagar after two suspected ‘pipe bombs’ were recovered from the premises of a private cement factory on Tuesday night. The police suspect that it was the handiwork of a few terminated contract workers. A few hundred permanent employees and over a thousand contract labourers were working in a private factory which is supplying construction material to various parts of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The management had to recently stop a few hundred contract labourers from attending work following instructions from the State Government that all manufacturing units would be allowed to function with a minimum workforce in the wake of COVID-19. Against this backdrop, the factory authorities allegedly received threatening phone calls from a few unidentified persons on Tuesday night that improvised explosives would go off at five places in the factory premises if they were not given compensation of Rs. 50 lakh. Following complaints, Thazhaiyoothu police checked the factory premises with the help of Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad that led to the recovery of two ‘pipe bombs’ from the plant. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan checked the plant and deployed police personnel there. The recovered ‘pipe bombs’ have been sent for analysis. Six suspects were picked up for interrogation in the early hours of Wednesday. “The investigation is on to identify the culprits,” an officer said. Following investigations, Thazhaiyoothu police arrested M. Arumugam, 29, of Mela Thazhaiyoothu and J. Saleem, 25, an electrician from Pettai even as a special team is on the lookout for 3 more persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-pipe-bombs-recovered/article34942274.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Anti-social person murdered||The police are on the lookout for a few persons in connection with the murder of an anti-social element on Tuesday. A. Mariappan, 32, a painting worker of Kondaanagaram under Suththamalli police station limits, who had gone for a work at Mahizhchi Nagar in Palayamkottai on Tuesday, did not return home in the night. When his father Arjunan tried to reach him over the mobile phone, none attended the call. He filed a complaint with the police, who located his body near the VAO’s Office around midnight with multiple cut injuries. The police found that Mariappan, who was facing 26 cases, had returned home along with his friend Arumugam of the same area after the work on a bike. Since Arumugam went underground after the murder, the police suspect that he, with the help of a few others, might have murdered Mariappan. Efforts are on to nab Arumugam and his associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-social-person-murdered/article34942273.ece
24 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 500 liquor bottles seized in Dharapuram||Tiruppur District Police seized 575 liquor bottles in Dharapuram that was allegedly smuggled from Dindigul district on Tuesday in violation of the COVID-19 lockdown. The police said that A. Veeraprabhu (31), a native of Sivaganga district who was working in a bar within Tiruppur City Police limits, was allegedly driving a car containing 12 boxes of liquor bottles from Oddanchatram in Dindigul district. He allegedly used an alternative route to enter Tiruppur district to avoid the check-post at the district border and even pasted a ‘Press’ sticker on his car. Based on a tip-off, the Dharapuram police intercepted the car at Upputhuraipalayam and found the liquor bottles stacked inside the car. The car along with the liquor bottles were seized and a case was registered against the driver, the police said. Superintendent of Police, Tiruppur district G. Shashank Sai said on Wednesday that eight check-posts were set up in the Tiruppur-Dindigul district border to monitor and prevent smuggling of liquor from the neighbouring Dindigul district, where Tasmac outlets were allowed to function from Monday as part of the fresh lockdown relaxations. “We have five personnel per shift manning these eight check-posts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-500-liquor-bottles-seized-in-dharapuram/article34942023.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up traditional seed bank’||The Aadhirengam Nel Jayaraman Traditional Paddy Protection Centre has called upon the government to set up a traditional paddy seed bank to enhance availability of seeds for cultivation. At present, the centre is engaged in generation of traditional paddy seeds with the help of like-minded farmers and has succeeded in its endeavour to keep the varieties alive. However, involvement of the State government will help improve their availability on a large-scale if it comes forward to set up a seed bank, centre coordinator Rajesh said Of late, most of the younger generation farmers have opted for cultivation of traditional varieties under organic method, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-traditional-seed-bank/article34942307.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Credit plan for Tiruvarur released||The annual credit plan (ACP) for Tiruvarur, released on Wednesday, envisages a credit flow of Rs. 4,960 crore in the district durng 2021-22. According to an official release, the ACP released by Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan envisages distribution of Rs. 4,166.15 crore as loans for agriculture and agriculture-related activities during the year. A sum of Rs. 793.85 crore has been allotted for non-agriculture activities —Rs. 277.84 crore for non-agriculture industries/business and Rs. 516.01 crore for other priority sector loans. Out of the total amount of Rs. 793.85 crore, a major portion of Rs. 500 crore is earmarked for distribution of loans to women SHGs followed by housing loans to the tune of Rs. 180 crore and Rs. 103 crore as education loans, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/credit-plan-for-tiruvarur-released/article34942308.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 793 cases, 25 deaths||A total of 793 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said that 1,488 persons recovered from the disease. The number of active cases in the district stood at 7,654 on Wednesday. The Department said that 25 more persons died of the disease in the district in the last several days, taking the death toll to 1,956. Tiruppur district on Wednesday reported 419 new cases, taking the overall tally past the 80,000-mark to 80,039 cases. The Health Department reported eight new deaths, which took the district’s toll to 720. The district reported 2,401 active cases and 857 fresh recoveries on Tuesday as the total number of recoveries in Tiruppur district stood at 76,918. In the Nilgiris, 125 people tested positive on Wednesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 27,588. The number of deaths in the district increased from 152 to 155 in the Nilgiris on Wednesday while 1,175 people are undergoing treatment. Erode district reported 686 new cases, taking the tally to 85,872. While 1,307 persons were discharged, 5,318 persons continue to be under treatment. Five persons died, rising the toll to 564. Salem district reported 472 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 85,299. While 743 persons were discharged, 3,418 continue to be under treatment. Eight persons died, taking the toll to 1,416. Namakkal district reported 269 cases taking the tally to 43,265. While 278 persons were discharged, 2,242 continue to be under treatment. Four persons died, rising the toll to 393. Krishnagiri recorded 152 fresh cases and two deaths on a single day, while 230 persons were discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 1,278 cases as of Wednesday. A total of 39,036 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 102 fresh cases and one death, while 193 persons were discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 951. As of date, a total 23,743 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-793-cases-25-deaths/article34942028.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SSI arrested for beating man to death||Police sources said Murugesan, along with his relatives T. Sivan Babu, 33, and R. Shankar, 23, was crossing the checkpost on a two-wheeler when they were intercepted by the SSI. Since they were in an inebriated state, their vehicle was impounded. This triggered an exchange of words between Murugesan and the SSI, leading to the assault. After Murugesan fell unconscious, his relatives took him to the Primary Health Centre at Thumbal and later admitted him to the Government Hospital at Attur. But the doctors there referred him to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital, where he died on Wednesday morning. The victim is survived by his wife Annakili, 37, daughters Jeyapriya, 18, and Jeyabrindha, 12, and son Kavipriyan, 13. As news of the incident spread, the victim’s relatives gathered outside the Yethapur police station, demanding action against the SSI. Police personnel were deployed to prevent any untoward incident. Based on a complaint from the victim’s brother, A. Duraisamy, a case under Section 176 of the Cr.PC (inquiry by a magistrate into cause of death) was registered by the Yethapur police. Later, the Section was altered to 302 (murder) and the SSI was arrested. C. Maheswari, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Salem range, and M. Sree Abhinav, Superintendent of Police, held inquiries at the station. Murugesan’s relatives and PMK functionaries submitted a petition to the SP, demanding a government job for a member of the deceased’s family, besides adequate compensation. They said they would agree to a post-mortem only if their demands were met. Later, PMK president G.K. Mani assured the victim’s relatives that he would take up the issue with the Chief Minister. Following his assurance, they agreed to a post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-arrested-for-beating-man-to-death/article34941997.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Webinar held||The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) discussed sourcing of viscose fabric in a webinar held recently in association with Birla Cellulose. AEPC chairman A. Sakthivel said, “We need to increase domestic supply of quality viscose fabric at the right price for increasing our presence in man made fibre (MMF) based garments. The government is also bringing out the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for the MMF segment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-held/article34942032.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Duraimurugan||When AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was speaking at length on implementing the Godavari-Cauvery link scheme, Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan intervened to say: “Some schemes can be spoken about and implemented, and then there are others that can only be spoken about for long. I am sure you will know which category this scheme falls into!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/duraimurugan/article34942002.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||EPS time||During AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s speech in the House, Speaker M. Appavu requested him to wind up on several occasions, considering the paucity of time. At one time, the Chair asked Mr. Palaniswami to consider the legislators with diabetes, who had to eat on time. The former Chief Minister was in no mood to give up though.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-time/article34942004.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Former Ministers||Besides his long speech, AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was provided extra points by his former Cabinet colleagues in the House to question the DMK government. At least four former Ministers — O. Panneerselvam, P. Thangamani, C. Vijayabaskar and R.B. Udhayakumar — walked up to Mr. Palaniswami’s seat to provide extra points or old policy notes to the former Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-ministers/article34942005.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Response||About a third of the Cabinet responded to AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s questions in the House. Besides Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Ministers Duraimurugan, I. Periasamy, K. Ponmudi, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Thangam Thennarasu, S. Muthusamy, V. Senthil Balaji, Ma. Subramanian, P.K. Sekar Babu and Palanivel Thiaga Rajan countered Mr. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/response/article34942007.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin-EPS||AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was pleading with the Chair to allow him more time to raise people’s issues in the House, when Chief Minister M.K. Stalin recalled: “Well, during the Business Advisory Committee meeting on Monday, it was you [Mr. Palaniswami] who wanted to wind up the session at the earliest in view of the pandemic!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-eps/article34942009.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Nandha Engineering College: Toy Hackathon finale, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article34942029.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Coimbatore   Kuppepalayam, Sahara, Seeranaikenpalayam and Villankurichi sub-stations : June 25 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.: Sengalipalayam, Kuppepalayam, Puthur, Kurumbapalayam, Vadavalli, Vadugapalayam, Mondikalipudur, Rangappagoundanpudur, Moonukattiyur, Onnipalayam, Karichipalayam, part of Saravanampatti, Viswasapuram, Revenue Nagar, Karattumedu, part of Villankurichi, Navavur, Navavnur pirivu, Thiruvalluvar Nagar, Sultani Nagar, Marudhapuram, Marudham nagar, Privo Garden, Chinmaya Nagar, Razhan Nagar.  11 a.m. to 2 p.m. : Anna industrial estate, Sengalippan Nagar, Masanick cut, Karuappan gounder layout, Mullai nagar, Murugan nagar, Sri Ramnagar.  Pattanam and Kallimadai sub-stations: 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. : Pattanam, NN Palayam, Pattanam Pudur, Naduppalayam, Kavery Nagar, part of bypass, Sathyanarayanapuram, Kamatchipuram, AkG Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Partial Kamaraj Road, Jothi nagar, Siva Nagar, Ramunuja Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, RHR Hotel.  2 p.m. to 5 p.m.: Nesavalar Colony, Kamban Nagar, part of Vellalore.  3 p.m. to 5 p.m.: Ondipudur, Vasantham Nagar, VK Nagar and N.K.Palayam, Bharathi Nagar, Thayammal Nagar, Palaniappa layout, Vasantha Nagar, Trichy road, Ondipudur, Vivekandha Nagar.   Erode  Due to maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 9 a.m. to p.m. on June 24.:  Nadupalayam : Nadupalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Malayampalayam, Pasur, Kombanai Pudur, P.K. Mangalam, Injampalli, Kolanalli, Karumandampalayam, P.K. Palayam, Solangapalayam, Arampalayam, M.K. Pudur, Kalipalayam, Kolathupalayam, Semmandampalayam and Kuttapalayam.  Periyandipalayam: Uthukuli Road, Melapalayam, P.K. Pudur, Paniyampalli, Thottampatti, Vaipadipudur, Coundampalayam, Madukattipalayam, Elayampalayam, Thulukampalayam, and Palaniyandavar Steels area.  Chennimalai: Chennimalai Town, Uthukuli Road, Ingur Road, Kumarapuri, Sakthi Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Namakkal Palayam, Arachalur Road, Kuppichi Palayam, Thippam Palayam, Ammapalayam, Ashokapuram, Pudupalayam, Kodumanal, Ramalingapuram, Orathupalayam, Ayyampalayam, Chennimalai Palayam, Veppili, K.G. Valasu, Pasuvapatti, Murungatholuvu and M.P.N. Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34942021.ece
24 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Pandemic orphaned 530 children in Belagavi dist.||The epidemic has orphaned 530 children in Belagavi district. A preliminary survey of families affected by COVID-19 has revealed that 530 children have lost at least one parent in the first or the second wave of the epidemic. As many as 17 of them are children of single parents, with one parent having dead before the epidemic. A total of 511 have lost their single parent to the virus. The final report of the survey is expected on Saturday. It may be submitted to the State government by Monday next, an officer said. Officers maintain that none of the children has been shifted to government child care homes or hostels. COVID-19 standard operating procedure does not allow officers to reveal the identity of these children. Two siblings from a village in Khanapur taluk who have lost their father are living with their uncle. Their mother died in 2018, after a brief illness. Their father did not re-marry. The eldest daughter is in the seventh standard and her younger brother is in the fourth standard. “We are taking care of them,” said their uncle. “I have two children of my own. Now, I will think that God has given me four children,” he said. He entertains no thought of sending his nephew and niece to a government hostel or child care home. He is open to accepting the benefits extended by the Department of Women and Child Welfare for the children. Another family in Bailhongal is taking care of one child that lost his mother to COVID-19. The child’s father died in a road accident two years ago. The boy who lives with his aunt is aged around eight. “He misses his mother, though he does not remember much about his father,’’ said his aunt. She said that since the death of the child’s father, his sister is living in Bailhongal. “We will help the child continue his studies,” she said. District Child Protection Officer Ravindra Rathnakar said that the government will provide all benefits to the family. “Our offer of taking care of the children in a government care home, hostel or residential school will always be open,’’ he said. Minister for Women and Child Empowerment Shashikala Jolle has declared that the State will take care of the children orphaned or otherwise affected by COVID-19. Officers said that there are two schemes for such children. The State government will provide cash incentive of Rs. 1,000 per month for three years per child. Under a Union government scheme, such children will get Rs. 1 lakh when they attain 18 years of age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-orphaned-530-children-in-belagavi-dist/article34942097.ece
24 June 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vaccinations fall in Belagavi as stocks end||After 1.8 lakh doses of the COVID-19 vaccination were administered in two days, the vaccinations in Belagavi fell to 27,000 on Wednesday. People came face-to-face with ‘No stock’ boards in most of the 500 vaccination points in the district. Those who had registered on the Co-Win portal were also disappointed as clinics and hospitals reported scarcity of the vaccine. Several complained on social media, tagging Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Health Minister K. Sudhakar. One person, Manoj Kumar, complained that his brother got a false message of vaccination despite not getting one. He could not get the shot despite booking it at the Vantmuri primary health centre. “He had booked online, but when he went to the centre, he was told there was no vaccination today. But there was a notice that those who booked an online slot would get vaccination that day only. Later he got a message that he had been successfully vaccinated. This (is) totally (a) vaccination scam they are doing,” he alleged. Another person, P.R. Mirajkar, accused politicians of diverting vaccines away from PHCs to their vaccine mela centres. “I don’t know how politicians are getting vaccines when government hospitals are not getting them,” he said. It was the same story everywhere. Supreet Bhandari said that he had gone to a PHC twice and was told that there were no vaccines. Vijay Patil said that a nurse and ASHAs at a PHC asked him to come back on Saturday as they did not have vaccine. Another person, Vinayak Desai, suspected there was something amiss in the vaccination drive and urged Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath and Govind Karjol, district in-charge Minister, to take action against politicians, who may have caused the confusion. Another person, Shirin, said she had gone to a PHC in Srinagar four times in a day, but had to return empty-handed. Mr. Hiremath said the district had exhausted its stock of vaccines and said fresh stocks were expected on Thursday. “We will make sure that we will reach the target of vaccinations in the given time schedule,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccinations-fall-in-belagavi-as-stocks-end/article34942113.ece
24 June 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Pact on water||Maharashtra and Karnataka have agreed in principle to a water-for-water formula between them to combat drought, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol said in Chikkodi on Wednesday. He told journalists that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held talks about this with Maharashtra Irrigation Minister Jayant Patil recently in Bengaluru. The formula involves Maharashtra releasing 4 tmcft of water during summer months and Karnataka releasing the same quantum of water from the Almatti backwaters to Maharashtra. This water will be utilised by Maharashtra for supply of drinking water to around 40 villages in Jat taluk, according to Mr. Karjol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pact-on-water/article34941959.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 hits routine immunisation||While all focus is on COVID-19, paediatric experts point out that many children have lost out on routine immunisation during the pandemic, especially in urban areas. The 13-member expert committee, headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty, set up for prevention and management of the third wave of COVID-19, has recommended strengthening routine immunisation on priority. Members of the committee pointed out many parents had opted to delay childhood immunisation owing to the fear of COVID-19. This has been mainly observed among the urban poor, especially construction workers. The former High Court judge A.V. Chandrashekar, chairman of the committee set up for implementation of NALSA scheme for providing legal services to workers in unorganised sector in Karnataka, told The Hindu that many children of construction workers in the State have missed out on routine immunisation. “We are concerned there could be another pandemic due to this. We had a meeting with paediatric experts and officials from the Health Department on Tuesday and have conveyed our concern to them,” he said. He said although health officials claimed that routine immunisation coverage was 100%, it was only in rural areas as health personnel went door-to-door to get the children vaccinated even during the pandemic. “However, children of construction workers who have migrated from rural areas to cities are the ones who have lost out on routine immunisation. We cannot blame anyone as the entire official machinery is busy battling the pandemic,” he said.  The former judge said he had suggested to the State Deputy Director (Immunisation) Rajani Nagesh Rao that a quick survey on routine immunisation should be done at COVID-19 vaccination centres when parents come for inoculation. The National Health Mission’s health management and information system reported a substantial decrease in routine immunisation services relative to the previous year, indicating that in March 2020 at least 1,00,000 and 2,00,000 children missed their BCG and pentavalent (diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Hepatitis B and Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccines), respectively in the country. Prashanth Urs, HOD and senior consultant Neonatologist at Apollo Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, who is part of the State’s Paediatric Technical Committee for preparedness of third wave of COVID-19 and the NALSA committee, said the pandemic has put the gains of childhood immunisation at risk. “The avoidable suffering and death caused by children missing out on routine immunizations could be far greater than COVID-19 itself,” he said. “A significant reduction is found in the total number of children receiving immunisation during the unlock period, compared to the pre-COVID-19 level. This difference was more significant in booster doses compared to birth doses. There has been no significant catch-up in vaccine beneficiaries by December 2020 despite seven months of unlock raising significant concerns for public health,” Dr. Urs pointed out. Experts said prioritising measles vaccine would be most prudent given the outbreak potential with even marginal reduction in herd immunity. UNICEF has also recommended that the government should begin “rigorous planning now”, to intensify immunisation programmes once the pandemic is under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-hits-routine-immunisation/article34941949.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Clinics report huge rush as people line up for delayed treatments||Janaki G.S., a homemaker and senior citizen, had been waiting anxiously for the easing of the lockdown restrictions. Her dentures had broken over two weeks ago and there was no way of fixing them since dentists had shut shop. “I spent two harrowing weeks eating soft food, like idli and ragi mudde apart from liquids. The first thing I did on Monday was to go to my dentist,” she said. With COVID-19 cases on the decline and restrictions relaxed, hospitals resumed elective procedures and physical consultations after over two months on Monday. Dentists, ophthalmologists, orthopaedicians and other specialists are reporting a glut of patients and a long wait for appointments. Rajashekhar, president, Karnataka Ophthalmic Society, said there was a long queue of patients who have been waiting for treatment of cataract, diabetic retinopathy and other issues. With predictions of a third wave of COVID-19 in two months, patients want to get their eyes checked, and take up elective procedures within the next eight weeks. “As eye infections are one of the symptoms of black fungus and, apart from that, some patients are developing eye issues post COVID-19, many patients who have recovered from COVID-19 are turning up for a check-up. Students, who have been attending online classes for months on end, are coming to get their eyes checked,” he said. Appointments with dentists are hard to come by. Many dentists were consulting online and managing patients, but all physical procedures had to wait during the lockdown. “There is a huge backlog of patients who needed procedures like root canal, tooth extraction and other procedures, but were made to wait till Monday. Now we are scheduling appointments based on severity of each case,” said Sudarshan Sajjan, Secretary, Indian Dental Association, Bengaluru. He also reported several black fungus cases being diagnosed at dental clinics. “I diagnosed two cases from among my patients on Monday. Black fungus can affect the jaw and gums, which many assume to be a dental problem,” he said. However, Outpatient Departments (OPD) in government and private hospitals have only seen a marginal increase of walk-in patients, but that is expected to change by the end of the week. B.R. Mohan, Resident Medical Officer, K.C. General Hospital, Bengaluru, said the hospital had seen an over 10% rise in patients at its OPD over the last two days alone. Bed availability H.S. Prasanna, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), said regular patients have started seeking follow-up appointments with their doctors. It will take nearly a week for restoration of normalcy. “The government is yet to release all the beds it had taken over during the peak of the second wave of COVID-19. As far as I know, it has been two weeks since they referred a patient to a general bed, and at least two days since they referred anyone to an ICU bed, except in Mysuru where cases are still high. We will write to the Health Minister to release our beds so that we can serve other patients. The government can take back the beds if cases rise again,” he said.  I diagnosed two cases of black fungus from among my patients on Monday. black fungus can affect the jaw and gums, which many assume to be a dental problem. Sudarshan Sajjan Secretary, Indian Dental Association, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clinics-report-huge-rush-as-people-line-up-for-delayed-treatments/article34941937.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tablet PCs, smart classes to bridge digital divide in degree colleges||To bridge the digital divide in degree colleges during the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday rolled out the distribution of tablet PCs and started the formation of 2,500 smart classes across Karnataka. The tablet PCs will be distributed to around 1.55 lakh students at a cost of Rs. 163 crore. The creation of 2,500 smart classrooms will cost Rs. 27.77 crore and the development of a Learning Management System (LMS) will cost Rs. 4.04 crore. The Chief Minister said these initiatives were aimed at benefiting students belonging to economically weaker sections of society who pursue their studies in government institutions. In a press release, the Higher Education Department said the tablet PCs would be distributed to first-year students of 430 government first-grade colleges, first and second year students of 87 government polytechnics, and first, second, and third year students of 14 engineering colleges. According to the Chief Minister, 2,500 classes have been convertedto smart classrooms by equipping them with projector, whiteboard, Android box, UPS, and the Internet to facilitate the usage of modern teaching and learning models. LMS enables access to learning both in online and offline modes. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also the Minister of Higher Education, said the programmes would enable ‘Any time, anywhere’ learning and benefit 25,000 teaching faculty and 5 lakh students.  To resolve imbalance “These initiatives will be helpful to resolve the imbalance between offline and online, digital and physical, rural and urban, government and private, rich and poor, and also English and native language barriers with respect to access to quality teaching and learning, besides providing a strong platform to implement the National Education Policy effectively,” the Minister said. Under the LMS, students will have to answer multiple choice questions for assessment. They will get an analysis of their performance and it will be linked with the attendance of students. Students will be given the option to give ratings for the content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tablet-pcs-smart-classes-to-bridge-digital-divide-in-degree-colleges/article34941966.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IBM, IISc. launch Hybrid Cloud Lab||IBM and the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) on Wednesday launched the IBM-IISc Hybrid Cloud Lab to advance research in hybrid cloud technologies and drive breakthrough innovations. Located at the IISc. campus in Bengaluru, students and faculty across departments of the institute would work alongside IBM Research scientists on cutting-edge technologies that can help organisations leverage the power of hybrid cloud by enabling faster, seamless, and more secure adoption of hybrid cloud and Artificial Intelligence (AI), said IBM. The IBM-IISc Hybrid Cloud Lab is expected to bring together a talented community of scientists, faculty and students, who are passionate about solving some of the toughest research challenges that enterprises face today. The lab would start with an initial set of projects, involving faculty and students from the IISc.’s Departments of Computational and Data Sciences, Computer Science and Automation, and Supercomputing Education and Research Center, alongside scientists from IBM Research’s India lab. The lab would focus on building autonomous, self-healing computing systems that use AI to predict emerging issues, diagnose and heal faults while maximising availability and minimising the cost of operations. The focus would also be on creating AI-based Information Management that enables enterprises to govern, consume, draw insights and create value from data across a hybrid footprint of edge, cloud, and diverse data sources. Gargi Dasgupta, Director, IBM Research India, said, “IISc. has a strong record in research areas like hybrid cloud, AI, security, which compliments the expertise of IBM Research. Our Hybrid Cloud platform is open, and we will jointly develop open-source software that provides interoperability, portability, and security that can be easily accessible to the vast community of developers to accelerate innovation.” Navakanta Bhat, Dean, Division of Interdisciplinary Sciences, IISc., said, “We are excited about making the joint research findings open source and accessible to a wide community, which will significantly accelerate innovation in the emerging areas of AI and hybrid cloud. Such industry-academia partnerships are key to boosting the impact of research.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ibm-iisc-launch-hybrid-cloud-lab/article34941955.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL seeking to raise money through bonds||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL), which like other mass transit systems has taken a financial hit due to the pandemic, is contemplating issuing Namma Metro Bond Series II to raise Rs. 500 crore for Phase II of the project. This includes the ORR Line (Phase 2A) and Phase 2B (Airport line) totalling to a length of 58.19 km at an estimated cost of Rs. 14,788.1 crore. BMRCL had earlier raised Rs. 300 crore through bonds for the first phase of the project. Rating agency Brickwork Rating has already reaffirmed its rating of Namma Metro Bonds - both Series I (Rs. 300 Crore) and the proposed Series II (Rs. 500 crore) in March 2021. However, when contacted, Rakesh Singh, MD, BMRCL, said the corporation is still contemplating and has not yet made a final decision on issuing Series II of Namma Metro Bonds. “A decision on this will be taken soon,” he said. With the Union Cabinet finally approving Phase 2A and 2B of the project in April earlier this year, the tenders that are almost finalised are ready to take off. However, the pandemic is expected to hit funding for the project. Expecting a delay in release of funds from the government for Phase II, BMRCL has also asked State Bank of India for an Over Draft (OD) of Rs. 500 Crore for bridge financing. Mr. Singh confirmed this development. BMRCL has already got approval for a loan of $500 million (approximate Rs. 3,860 crore) from Asian Development Bank (ADB) and a loan of Rs. 3,717 crore from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Earnings have also taken a hit. In February 2020, prior to the first wave of COVID-19, BMRCL had a ridership of 4.24 lakh people and earned an average of Rs. 1.19 crore a day. In March 2021, its revenue dropped to Rs. 35.7 lakh with only 1.44 lakh citizens using Namma Metro services. Services resumed on Monday after restrictions were eased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-seeking-to-raise-money-through-bonds/article34941941.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC frowns upon conduct of MLA, brother||The High Court of Karnataka has deprecated the conduct of Bagalkot MLA Veeranna C. Charantimath ’s brother in not disclosing that the MLA was part of the town planning authority’s board meeting, when it decided to allot him a huge 7 acres and 39 guntas of industrial land for acquiring a mere 1 acre and 33 guntas of industrial land from him for the Upper Krishna Project (UKP). The court also observed that the MLA “ought to have not participated in the board meeting when its agenda was the grant of land to his brother,” while pointing out that the apex court has time and again said that the “participation of relatives in the decision making process taints the decision.” Mallikarjun C. Charantimath (brother of Mr. Veeranna Charantimath) had filed a petition before the High Court in 2019 seeking direction to the Bagalkot Town Development Authority to implement its December 17, 2012 resolution of allotting him a huge parcel of industrial land for acquiring his land. A single bench of the High Court, which allowed his petition in July 2020, had directed the authority to implement the 2012 resolution. However, the authority later filed an appeal against this order. A Division Bench comprising Justice Krishna S. Dixit and Justice Pradeep Singh Yerur, during hearing of the appeal scrutinised the records of the board meeting held in 2012, and found that the MLA was part of the meeting in which it was resolved to allot 7 acres and 39 guntas of land to his brother. Observing that “neither Mr. Mallikarjun nor the authority have whispered about this fact” in their pleadings or submissions, the Bench said that “this is a grave and culpable lapse on the part of the petitioner [Mr. Mallikarjun].” The Bench also said that it was not sure whether this fact was not brought to the notice of the single judge bench by Mr. Mallikarjun. Though very suppression of an essential fact by a litigant itself can be a ground to non-suiting him, the Division Bench refrained from taking this extreme step while stating that Mr. Mallikarjun is eligible for an alternative industrial site of only 1 acre 33 guntas and not as resolved by the authority. Mr. Mallikarjun had totally lost 6 acres and 6 guntas of land, of which only 1 acres 33 guntas was industrial site, but the authority had allotted him a bigger site besides granting monetary compensation for the entire acquired land. It was contended on behalf of Mr. Mallikarjun that the authority cannot refuse to implement its own resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-frowns-upon-conduct-of-mla-brother/article34942115.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada activism should focus on long-term issues, say activists||The Kannada cyberspace has been abuzz for the last two weeks over perceived insults to Kannada language and its icons. However, several Kannada activists are frustrated at the lack of support for long-term issues such as centralised entrance exams, Hindi imposition, and other issues related to federalism. The latest controversy is about matinee idol Dr. Rajkumar’s photo being used instead of his namesake Tamil actor online. This is the third such controversy over the last two weeks. The earlier ones were about Kannada being shown as the result for the online search query “ugliest Indian language” and Kannada flag being allegedly used to stitch women’s innerwear and being sold on Amazon Canada. Sharp reactions In all three cases, several key persons and establishments, including the Minister for Kannada and Culture, the Kannada Sahitya Parishat, and the Kannada Development Authority (KDA), have reacted sharply. Anand G. of Banavasi Balaga, a Kannada activists’ forum that has been articulating language in terms of consumer rights and larger federal politics, said while these triggered highly emotional responses from Kannadigas, people do not respond in the same way to larger structural issues. “For instance, banking recruitment exams are today centralised across the country which hits at not only job opportunities for our people but also our right to avail of banking services in Kannada in our State. But we have not been able to mobilise popular opinion,” he said. Arun Javgal, organising secretary, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, said there was a growing articulation of Kannada identity, consumer rights, and federal structure of the country, but it still lacks traction. “During the pandemic, the State had to go to the High Court to get required oxygen, and for allotment of medicines and vaccines. But these are never articulated in terms of a regional identity. We are being continuously drawn into knee-jerk reactions,” he said. Historically, while there has been a strong Kannada language movement in the State, it never included an articulation of socio-economic and political questions like seen elsewhere in the Dravidian movement in Tamil Nadu, said Kannada writer Baragur Ramachandrappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-activism-should-focus-on-long-term-issues-say-activists/article34941961.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five held; drugs worth Rs. 30L seized||The narcotics wing of the Central Crime Branch police arrested five people, including two software engineers and a law student, from a well-known college in Bengaluru for their alleged involvement in an inter-State drug racket. The police recovered synthetic drugs, hashish and marijuana worth Rs. 30 lakh from the paying guest accommodation in Byadarahalli where they were residing. The police team seized 300 ecstasy pills, 150 LSD strips, 250 grams of hashish and 1 kg of marijunana from the accused, whose names have been withheld in the press note that was issued by the CCB. Three more accused are on the run. Dark net According to the CCB, the gang sourced the drugs from abroad through dealers via the dark net. However, to evade the stringent scrutiny that international packages are subjected to in Bengaluru, the accused travelled to Himachal Pradesh to pick up the consignments. Bitcoin payments “Consignments were shipped to Himachal Pradesh via international courier firms. Payments were made in bitcoin. The accused would travel there and collect the consignments to avoid undue attention. The gang would return to Bengaluru with the drugs, and use delivery partners on Dunzo to send orders to clients. Payments were made via e-wallets,” said a police official. The drugs were packaged to make it look like they came from a well-known online retail platform. Three others Three more members of the gang are on the run. “Two of the arrested accused work in IT companies and initially distributed free drugs to their colleagues to get them hooked. The third accused, a law student, sold drugs to his classmates and friends using the same modus operandi,” said the police. The CCB have booked the accused under NDPS Act, 1985, and IT Act, 2000, and efforts are on to track down remaining three accused who are on the run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-held-drugs-worth-rs-30l-seized/article34941945.ece
24 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Animal welfare war room launched||Karnataka on Wednesday launched a dedicated war room for animal welfare, said to be the first such initiative in the country. The 24x7 war room, which operates from the Pashupalana Bhavan in Hebbal, will give information on the rearing of cows, sheep, goat, pigs, and rabbits besides poultry farming. People can also get information on the availability of various breeds of cattle and the approximate price range. Farmers can get information on immediate measures to be followed to protect their cattle from the war room, according to officials. The public too can call the war room regarding issues such as stray cattle. Launching the war room, set up at a cost of about Rs. 45 lakh, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the initiative will go a long way in protecting the health of cattle as well as increasing their productivity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/animal-welfare-war-room-launched/article34941947.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No syllabus cut for State board students this year||The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has decided that no cuts will be made to the syllabus for State board schools in the new academic year from July 1, 2021 to April 2022. This decision was taken based on the recommendations of an interim report by a government-appointed expert committee for the prevention and management of the third wave of COVID-19. The committee, headed by cardiologist Devi Shetty, had recommended that the curriculum in schools be “full and complete as existing without any truncation”. In the report the committee underscored the importance of “total learning” for students to complete the academic requirements and progress to the next grade, but said that evaluation could be relaxed on the basis of the efficacy of the teaching methods adopted. While the State government is yet to take a call on when children can return to classrooms, the committee recommended it be done in a phased manner. It suggested a hybrid approach to learning if school campuses are facing space constraints as social distancing norms will have to be followed, and proposed an amalgamation of both physical and digital learning. V. Anbukumar, Commissioner, Public Instruction, said that they are hoping for a “normal academic year”, but are bracing themselves for possible disruptions owing to the predicted third wave. “Whether classes are held online or offline, we are better prepared this year compared to the previous year,” he said. The department plans to run televised classes on DD Chandana for students of standard V to X. For children of classes I to IV, lessons will be aired on All-India Radio and DD Chandana on weekends. In the previous academic year, students from classes I to V had sessions only on radio and not on DD Chandana. Another major change is that lessons will be conducted for all mediums, Marathi. Telugu, Tamil and Urdu, this year. Last year, lessons were telecast in English and Kannada mediums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-syllabus-cut-for-state-board-students-this-year/article34941953.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KDA complains on extensive use of English||The Kannada Development Authority (KDA) has written to Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar taking objection to extensive use of English and neglect of Kannada in the upper echelons of the administration. The KDA has demanded action against bureaucrats responsible for this through punitive measures, including censure and withholding promotions. “Of late, there have been several objections raised by the public on neglect of Kannada,” T.S. Nagabharana, KDA chairman, wrote in the letter on Wednesday. The KDA recently held a meeting of all past chairpersons of the authority, which was attended by Baragur Ramachandrappa, S.G. Siddaramaiah, L. Hanumantaiah, and Mukhyamantri Chandru, and they brainstormed on the agenda for Kannada for 2020–21 that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa declared as ‘Kannada Kayaka Varsha’ on November 1, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kda-complains-on-extensive-use-of-english/article34941960.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plea seeks UGD facility for Channapatna||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition which has expressed apprehension that Kanva river in Channapatna may get polluted like the Vrishabhavati in Bengaluru owing to the failure of Channapatna City Municipality in providing underground drainage (UGD) facility. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order in the petition filed by M.K. Chandrashekar and other residents of Channapatna hailing from different walks of life. Channapatna, famous for toys and silk, was upgraded to the status of a city municipality 25 years ago, but no UGD facility has been provided and the sewage is being let out into waterbodies and rivers around the city, including the Kanva, the petitioners pointed out. They have also expressed apprehension that the day is not too far when underground water will get contaminated with sewage in the absence of UGD facility and treatment plants while pointing out that the open sewer is posing serious health risks for residents. It has also been pointed out in the petition that waste generated from a large number of silk twisting and reeling units situated in the city is let out into the open drain, which leads wastewater to lakes, water of which is being used for drinking, irrigation, etc., by the residents of surrounding villages. Channapatna, though being situated very close to Bengaluru, was not provided with UGD facility despite having many schemes, the petitioners have said while seeking direction for providing UGD network, covering open drains, stopping flow of sewage to lakes and river, and establishing sewage treatment plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-seeks-ugd-facility-for-channapatna/article34941963.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ridership doubles||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), which resumed services with around 3,400 buses on Monday has collected a total revenue of Rs. 136 lakh on June 21 and June 22. A bulk of the revenue was collected on the second day after lockdown restrictions were eased as more people have started commuting by BMTC. While ridership was around 4.74 lakhs on day one, the number of passengers doubled to 8 lakh the following day. Revenue collection also jumped from Rs. 45 lakh on Monday to Rs. 91 lakh on Tuesday. A similar trend was seen on services run by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). Over one lakh people used KSRTC services on Monday, which doubled to 2.25 lakh the following day. Meanwhile, BMTC on Wednesday announced that it has introduced additional Vayu Vajra Air-Conditioned services from Kempegowda International Airport to Electronic City and Kempegowda Bus Station. Services are also being operated to Banashankari TTMC and Mysuru Road bus station. In total, Vayu Vajra buses are making 176 trips daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ridership-doubles/article34941939.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 4,436 new cases||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 4,436 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,19,465. Of these, 1,008 cases are from Bengaluru Urban.With 123 deaths, the toll rose to 34,287. This is apart from 21 deaths owing to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 6,455 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 26,68,705. The State now has 1,16,450 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 2.59%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.77%. As many as 1,70,654 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-4436-new-cases/article34941951.ece
24 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nagaraju is in charge of Bengaluru Rural||Sugar and Municipal Administration Minister N. Nagaraju (MTB) has been made in charge of Bengaluru Rural district. A notification in this regard was issued on Wednesday. Mr. Nagaraju was earlier in charge of Kolar district. However, he is learnt to have shown interest in being in charge of Bengaluru Rural district from where he hails from. Following this, R. Ashok, who was in charge of Bengaluru Rural, had written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa saying that he did not have any objection to Mr. Nagaraju being made in charge of Bengaluru Rural. Meanwhile, Mr. Yediyurappa on Wednesday told reporters that he would try to appoint Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar as in charge of Kolar district. However, Mr. Yogeshwar is said to be keen on becoming in charge of Ramanagaram which is presently held by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nagaraju-is-in-charge-of-bengaluru-rural/article34941964.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Security at KIA tightened||Security was stepped up at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) after the police received threatening calls and messages on Sunday. Investigations revealed the call to be a hoax and efforts are on to identify the caller, said the police. On Sunday night, the inspector of the airport police station received a call on his official phone from a man warning him “to be careful about flights landing at KIA that night on Monday evening and night”. The caller spoke in Hindi and sounded inebriated. He claimed he had demands, which if unmet would jeopardise the safety of passengers. A few hours later, the inspector received messages on WhatsApp, in Kannada. Initially, the call was dismissed as a prank, but after the messages, the terminal manager met the bomb threat analytical committee to carry out standard operating procedures and take up precautions. The airport police have launched a probe to track down the accused. “The call was generated from Chennai,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/security-at-kia-tightened/article34941940.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||School hit by pandemic closes, students in the lurch||The parents of students of a private school in the city staged a protest on Wednesday after the management informed them to collect transfer certificates as they were closing the school. On Tuesday, they received a message from Padmavathi Montessori School in Wilson Garden informing them that the pandemic had depleted finances, and that the management was no longer able to bear the cost of rent and pay salaries to their staff. A parent, who was at the protest, said that children under the RTE quota would be the most affected as they have to be enrolled in a government school in the same area. “We do not want our children to be admitted to a government school. We worked very hard to get admission in a private school under the RTE quota. We want the government to take note of this and give us justice,” the parent added. The school management could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-hit-by-pandemic-closes-students-in-the-lurch/article34941943.ece
24 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka govt. mulls amending Inams Act||The State government is considering a proposal to amend the Inams Abolition Act to give one more opportunity to farmers to apply for occupancy rights, according to Revenue Minister R. Ashok. He told reporters in Bengaluru on Wednesday that the State had more than 70,000 acres of Inam Land (land gifted to various persons and institutions by the erstwhile rulers), cultivated by farmers. When the Inams Abolition Act was brought in earlier to provide occupancy rights to those cultivating them, a large number of farmers had not applied owing to a lack of awareness. The government had appointed a committee to recommend measures on what should be done with 70,000 acres of Inam land which have not been claimed by farmers. After studying the issue, the committee had recommended that one more opportunity should be given to the farmers to apply to get occupancy rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-govt-mulls-amending-inams-act/article34941954.ece
24 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Summer camp||Office of the Chief Post Master, Bengaluru GPO, will hold a summer camp — philately workshop and letter writing, drawing and painting competitions — through Google Meet https:/meet.google.com/ afu-ecvd-yjxon June 26. Eligibility: class III to class IX students. For registration, mail tophilatelybggpo.ka @indiapost.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/summer-camp/article34941962.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In no hurry to become CM, says DKS||KPCC president D.K. Shivkumar on Wednesday said he was in no hurry to become the Chief Minister. “My goal is to defeat the BJP and bring the Congress to power,” he said. Reacting to statements made by Congress MLAs on party’s chief ministerial candidate, Mr. Shivakumar, who returned to the city after meeting central leaders of the party in Delhi, said, “The race in our party is to defeat the BJP and bring the party to power. We have to devote more time to that first.” On MLAs’ statements, he told reporters, “Let them give suggestions… Whatever I have to say, I have told the party high command. Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah will look into what the legislators are saying. If he does not, the party is there to look into it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-no-hurry-to-become-cm-says-dks/article34941967.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Documents destroyed in GP office fire||Files and documents, furniture and electronic items were destroyed after unidentified persons broke into the office of the Kannamangala Gram Panchayat on Monday night and set it on fire. The incident occurred two days after the clerk and president of the panchayat filed complaints against each other over irregularities and cheating. As the CCTV cameras installed on the premises have also been damaged, the police are yet to identify the arsonists. Vasanth Kumar H.D., executive officer of the TP, Devanahalli, who filed a complaint with the airport police on Tuesday, sought a detailed probe. The police suspect that the arson is linked to the feud between the president, Nagesh K.R., and the clerk, Anuradha K.S. GP president’s plaint Prior to this, Nagesh had filed a complaint against the clerk for allegedly misusing tax money by forging receipts. He accused Anuradha of issuing fake property tax receipts and collecting lakhs. He said she had collected Rs. 81 lakh in the last one year, but remitted only Rs. 1,300. When this as brought to his notice, Nagesh said that he formed a committee to look into rregularities for the past two years. After he received a report, he filed a plaint with the jurisdictional police alleging cheating and criminal breach of trust. Counter-complaint Hours later, Anuradha filed a counter-complaint with the airport police against Nagesh accusing him of sexual harassment and extortion, alleging that he had borrowed a huge amount of money from her, but when she insisted that he repay it, he started harassing her and even suspended her. She also accused two other members of cheating her, and alleged that all three siphoned off crores. In her complaint, she claimed that Nagesh and the two others are targeting and harassing her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/documents-destroyed-in-gp-office-fire/article34941944.ece
24 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Every taluk to have Child COVID Care Centre||In the wake of reports about a possible third wave affecting children, the State government is taking steps to set up Child COVID Care Centres in every taluk of the State so that timely treatment is made available to affected children, Minister for Women and Child Welfare Shashikala Jolle has said. Speaking to presspersons after chairing a review meeting on preparedness to tackle a possible third wave in Dharwad on Wednesday, Ms. Shashikala Jolle said that all precautionary measures are being taken to prevent a third wave, if any, of the pandemic. The Minister said that considering the need for children’s mothers to stay with them during treatment, arrangements are being made for the stay of such mothers at COVID Care Centres till treatment of their children is completed. Apart from this, it has been decided to open paediatric wards in every hospital, including primary health centre, community health centre, taluk hospital and also district hospital, she said. She said that Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and anganwadi workers will be deployed to assist shifting affected children to COVID Care Centres or the nearest hospitals, if required. Mentioning that she had spent the last 15 days meeting children orphaned by the second wave of the pandemic in 20 districts of the State so far, Ms. Jolle said that the government will provide them free education and an allowance of Rs. 3,500 per month under the Chief Minister’s Bala Seva Yojana. Such children will get laptops and tablets after their SSLC and girls will get Rs. 1 lakh after attaining the age of 21. She also mentioned that that the government is in the process of identifying children with single parents and their names are being registered on the Bal Swaraj portal. According to an initial assessment, 52 children in the State have lost both their parents and 162 children have lost one of their parents. Assurance The Minister, who lauded the work by ASHAs and anganwadi workers, said that the government is considerate about their demands and the Chief Minister will be requested to consider fulfilling their demands. Already, Rs. 30 lakh each has been paid to the families of 20 ASHAs and anganwadi workers, she said. Earlier, the Minister accompanied by officials visited Kumbar Oni of Kamalapur in Dharwad to meet Shivaji Mallappa Garge (12) and Amruta (4), children orphaned by the pandemic. Their parents Kasturi and Mallappa Garge of Devaragudihal village in Hubballi taluk died of COVID-19 during the second wave. Shivaji and Amruta are at present staying with their maternal uncle Vithal Godse in Dharwad. The Minister told the children to study well to get a position in society and that the government will be there to help them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/every-taluk-to-have-child-covid-care-centre/article34942103.ece
24 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 appropriate behaviour essential for children, says Shettar||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that considering the possibility of children being vulnerable to a possible third wave of the pandemic, there is a need for sensitising children on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Speaking at a review meeting on preparedness of the administration to face a possible third wave in Dharwad on Wednesday, Mr. Shettar asked the authorities concerned not to be complacent as the district had been unlocked now owing to drop in COVID-19 positivity rate. Emphasising the need to continue the fight against the pandemic, the Minister said that steps to mitigate malnutrition by providing nutritious food to children should be continued. Dharwad district has 1.44 lakh children who are aged less than six years and 3.36 lakh children in the six-16 age group. Mr. Shettar said that the while children orphaned by the pandemic are being taken care of by the government, it is equally important to fight a possible third wave, which is likely to affect children as per experts. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-appropriate-behaviour-essential-for-children-says-shettar/article34942102.ece
24 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Israel model of farming to be part of Kalaburagi Vision 2050||As part of Kalaburagi Vision 2050, a 30-year programme for changing the backward scenario in different economic sectors in Kalaburagi, the Israel model of farming known for high productivity with limited resources will be implemented in all taluks of the district, according to Mines and Geology Minister and district in-charge Murugesh Nirani. “As we all know, Israel is known for unique methods of farming using advanced technologies to achieve high productivity with limited resources. We are planning to implement such farming in 100 acres of land in every taluk of the district on a pilot basis. We can expand it to other areas after assessing the results,” Mr. Nirani told mediapersons at a press conference at the Aiwan-e-Shahi Guest House here on Tuesday. Pointing to what he called a conventional mode of agriculture that Kalaburagi farmers have been following to grow traditional crops such as red gram, green gram and black gram and jowar which were less profitable as compared to commercial and cash crops, the Minister said that select farmers from each taluk in the district will be taken to Vijayapura district where farmers have successfully shifted to commercial crops. “Farmers in Vijayapura district have employed the old method of agriculture to grow traditional crops such as jowar which are less profitable. However, they have, for the last 20 years now, shifted to commercial crops, especially sugarcane, using the Krishna waters through the Alamatti Reservoir. Now, they are doing well economically. I am planning to take some select farmers from Kalaburagi district to Vijayapura so that they can have first-hand knowledge, take the experience from successful farmers and implement it in their own fields back in Kalaburagi,” Mr. Nirani said. Briefing on the renovation of ESIC Hospital at Shahabad in the district, Mr. Nirani said that the hospital, which was defunct for the last 15 years, has been taken up for renovation to make it a brand new one at a cost of Rs. 12 crore and it will be ready for inauguration in 15 days. “The Union Labour Department, under which the hospital falls, has promised us to reimburse the cost spent for renovation. The hospital will be ready in 15 days. The Deputy Commissioner is authorised to procure equipment and appoint manpower for the facility. We are planning to invite Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for the inauguration of the hospital. We will hand over the hospital to ESIC after the inauguration. If ESIC is not ready to operate it, the State government will run it on its own,” Mr. Nirani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/israel-model-of-farming-to-be-part-of-kalaburagi-vision-2050/article34942099.ece
24 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Auto driver murdered||An autorickshaw driver was murdered near Jaffarabad village on the outskirts of the city late on Tuesday night. The deceased has been identified as Santosh Guttedar (38) of Jaffarabad village. According to the police, Santosh Guttedar consumed alcohol along with his friends who later bludgeoned him to death with a heavy stone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-driver-murdered/article34942100.ece
24 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Three men arrested on murder charge||Kalaburagi Police on Wednesday arrested three persons in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old engineering student Shivaputra H. Pagade on Syed Chincholi-Ashtagi Road in Kalaburagi district recently. The names of the arrested persons were given as Sharnbasva Kande (39), Chennappa Kande (25), both residents of the Aland Colony, and Basalingappa S. Kamalapur (33) of Junction Wadi in Chittapur taluk. According to the police, Shivaputra Pagade was killed for misbehaving with Sharnbasva Kande’s wife. Sharnbasva Kande, his brother Chennappa Kande and his friend Basalingappa Kamalapur picked Shivaputra Pagade up from his house and bludgeoned him to death using a stone. They later set him on fire. A case was filed at the Rural Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-men-arrested-on-murder-charge/article34942096.ece
24 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||St. Joseph Engineering College gets autonomous status||Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belagavi, has notified grant of autonomous status to St. Joseph Engineering College (SJEC), Mangaluru, from the 2021-22 academic year and it will be valid for nine years. The engineering college, which has been functioning for the last 19 years, is the first engineering institution from Dakshina Kannada to get the autonomous status, said Principal Rio D’Souza here on Wednesday. Talking to reporters, Mr. D’Souza said an expert team from the University Grants Commission visited the institution in November, 2020, and the autonomous status was granted to the institution soon after. The VTU notified it from this academic year. The autonomous status, Mr. D’Souza said, will help the institution to design curriculum by recognising the needs of the industry. It will offer elective courses of choice, collaborate with foreign universities, and conduct continuous assessment of its students. The outcome-based education followed by the institution has led to four BE programmes of the college getting accredited by the National Board of Accreditation. The college was awarded the A+ grade by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council in February this year. As many as 2,500 students are currently studying in the institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/st-joseph-engineering-college-gets-autonomous-status/article34942118.ece
24 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||New English-medium school in Mangaluru||The Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Education Society on Wednesday opened an English-medium school in Mangaluru. Speaking after its virtual inauguration, Dharmadhikari and society chairman D. Veerendra Heggade said the society always believed in imparting value-based quality education. By English-medium school, it doesn’t mean English education, but imparting Indian values through English, he said. He said the school at Mangaluru could come up with its own building thanks to Ramakrishna Mallya, who had donated five acres. Earlier, his wife Hemavathi Heggade inaugurated the school. The school is located in Ashoknagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-english-medium-school-in-mangaluru/article34942116.ece
24 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CAMPCO gets new MD||H.M. Krishna Kumar has taken charge as Managing Director of CAMPCO Ltd. A release here said that the Board of Directors of the cooperative on Tuesday approved the appointment of Mr. Kumar to the post. A food technology expert, Mr. Kumar has a B.Sc degree with first rank from Mangalore University. He has also obtained an M.Sc degree from Central Food Technology and Research Institute, Mysuru. He has been with CAMPCO for three decades working in different sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campco-gets-new-md/article34942107.ece
24 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bank refunds relief package amount to auto driver||Canara Bank with its branch at Baikampady in Mangaluru has refunded the COVID-19 relief package amount into the account of an autorickshaw driver that it had debited towards his housing loan EMI. Autorickshaw driver Abdul Basheer (49) told The Hindu that the branch manager called him and informed him that Rs. 3,000 has been refunded into his account. Mr. Basheer had availed himself of Rs. 14 lakh housing loan from Canara Bank about four years ago to buy a house in Surinje village near Mangaluru and was regular in repaying the loan amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-refunds-relief-package-amount-to-auto-driver/article34942108.ece
24 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man strangles son, ends life||A 40-year-old man is said to have smothered his 15-year-old son to death and ended his life in their house in Punjalkatte, near Bantwal, on Wednesday, according to the Punjalkatte Police. The police said that the man’s neighbours heard heated arguments between Baba Naika (40) and his son, Satwik, a Class 9 student. Hearing screams from inside the house, the neighbours called the police. When the police reached the house, the doors were locked from inside. The police broke open the lock on the front door and entered the house to see Naika and Satwik dead in a room. Naika had hanged himself to death, while Satwik had marks of strangulation. Naika strangulated Satwik to death and then ended his life, the police said. The police said that the man was in an inebriated state during the argument with his son. Earlier too there were similar arguments between them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-strangles-son-ends-life/article34942109.ece
24 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man found dead on beach||A 30-year-old man was found dead on the Someshwar beach on Wednesday. The Ullal Police gave the name of the victim as Pavan Bhat, an engineering graduate, who lived near the Someshwar Town Municipal Council Office. The police said that local fishermen saw Bhat jumping into the sea from Rudrapade, a large boulder on the beach, at around 4.30 p.m. The fishermen could not immediately rescue Bhat because of the cross current and rough nature of the sea. Later, local fishermen and Home Guards retrieved the body. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-found-dead-on-beach/article34942119.ece
24 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rains abate in southern parts of Karnataka||Rains that lashed Kodagu and surrounding areas last week abated in the last 48 hours. The average rainfall for Kodagu in the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday was 2.47 m.m. Places such as Bhagamandala, which was flooded due to torrential rain a few days ago, returned to normality and received only 14 mm of rainfall on Tuesday which further dwindled to 4.6 mm on Wednesday. Sampaje received 4.5 mm while Madikeri Kasaba received only 0.4 mm of rainfall Large swathe of Kodagu did not receive any rain during the same period. It was the same in Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Mandya, Mysuru, and Chamarajanagar. However, the cumulative rainfall from June 1 to 23 shows that the monsoon is not weak and is uniform and widespread across the region. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), Kodagu, not withstanding the recent abatement, has received 11% excess rainfall during the period. The cumulative rainfall (from June 1 to 23) is 403.8 mm as against a normal of 362.4 mm. The last seven days rainfall pattern also indicates that the district has received 192.7 mm of rainfall as against a normal of 150.1 mm which is 28% higher for the period. Chikkamagaluru received a cumulative rainfall of 262.7 mm between June 1 and 23 as against a normal of 223.4 mm. Hassan recorded 130.7 mm as against a normal of 119 mm for the first three weeks of the month while Shivamogga received 385.3 mm of rainfall as against a normal of 326.1 mm, according to the KSNDMC. The rainfall in Mysuru, Mandya, and Chamarajanagar districts is also above normal so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rains-abate-in-southern-parts-of-karnataka/article34941956.ece
24 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sindhuri counters ‘clean chit’ given to MLA||Former Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Rohini Sindhuri has countered the “clean chit” given to K.R. Nagar MLA S.R. Mahesh on land transactions, including construction of a choultry in Mysuru. Ms. Sindhuri, who is at present Commissioner, Endowment, said in a letter to the Regional Commissioner G.C. Prakash, that the list of irregularities by influential politicians and persons was long and needed a comprehensive and independent inquiry. “It is these persons who have made a business of looting land in Mysuru and who have huge influence and are preventing any action from being taken on them. Only an independent and unsparing action on their irregularities at a very senior level can bring them to justice and save government land in Mysuru,” she said. She cited the report by the former Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on land irregularities in Mysuru district and said that instead of holding endless enquiries, immediate action should be taken based on his reports. Referring to the clean chit issued by the Regional Commissioner, she said: “the present one-item inquiry only on the rajakaluve boundaries as per pick and choose approach of Mr. S.R. Mahesh amounts to playing into his hands to obfuscate gross irregularities and illegalities.” On the Regional Commissioner’s report on swimming pool, Ms. Sindhuri said her own report was self-explanatory. She said drifting from the original allegations, some technical issues were raised in the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sindhuri-counters-clean-chit-given-to-mla/article34941957.ece
24 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Take steps to prevent illegal sand extraction’||Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir R. Ragapriya chaired a district-level sand committee meeting on Tuesday and suggested that officials take steps to prevent illegal sand extraction and storage in the district. She said that according to the new sand policy, the gram panchayat has been given power to issue sand transport permission to customers for a fee of Rs. 300 per tonne. “Customers after getting permission should follow rules while transporting sand. They should lift sand from identified places and transport it in light vehicles without causing any harm to the environment,” she said. Dr. Ragapriya said that teams of officials, including those from the Public Works, Water Resources, Forest and Mines and Geology departments, headed by tahsildars of the respective taluks should jointly inspect grade 1 to 3 areas such as streams, tanks and rivers in Surpur, Shahapur, Wadagera, Gurmitkal and Yadgir taluks. They should also implement rules for transportation and prevention of sand. It was also decided at the meeting to give responsibility to Hatti Gold Mines for transportation and prevention of sand mining in grade 4 to 6 areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-steps-to-prevent-illegal-sand-extraction/article34942101.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Smart city?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-city/article34942105.ece
24 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||This 10-year-old’s home library has 1,000 books||The ultimate dream of every avid reader is to set up a home library with a large collection of books. Manav S. Delson, an 10-year-old bibliophile from Muttathiparambu in Thanneermukkom, near Cherthala, is living that dream every day. His mini-library ‘Manaveeyam Pusthaka Veedu’ has around 1,000 books, mostly children’s literature. An avid reader himself, Manav encourages other children in his locality to enter the world of reading by lending them books. “Nothing gives me more joy than reading,” says Manav, a class 5 student of Government Upper Primary School, Velliyakulam, Cherthala. He was led to the world of reading by his grandmother Ratnam Scaria, a retired teacher, at a young age. Favourite authors “On an average, I spend one-and-a-half hours reading books every day. I read five to six books every week,” says the young bookworm who likes the works of Nandanar, Priya A.S., Subash Chandran and Anne Frank, and Sherlock Holmes stories. Manav recently completed reading Mahatma Gandhi’s autobiography My Experiments with Truth . He says the Father of the Nation has revealed things “straight” in the book. Riyante Kinar by Abdulla Kutti Edavanna is one of his favourites. The library was started as part of a lower primary school project two years ago. The books are either bought by his parents Delson M. Scaria and Suma Jose or gifted to him by teachers and other people. Manaveeyam has a stock register, issue register, magazine/periodicals register, visitors diary, and a seal. “His grandmother played an important role in cultivating reading habit in him. A fan of footballer Cristiano Ronaldo, he used to read articles about him in newspapers. Later, he started reading stories, children’s adventures and crime thrillers among other books. He improved his reading skills a lot in the past 10 months or so as COVID-19 prevented him from playing outside and going to school. He has read around 100 books during the period. The library was set up after understanding his keen interest in reading,” says Mr. Scaria, Manav’s father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-10-year-olds-home-library-has-1000-books/article34942201.ece
24 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||SNDP official’s death: samithi warns of stir||The SNDP Samrakshana Samithi has threatened to launch an agitation in protest against the laxity on the part of the police in probing the death of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalan (SNDP) Yogam Kanichukulangara Union secretary K.K. Mahesan. Mahesan was found dead inside the union office at Kanichukulangara on June 24, 2020. According to the police, it was a case of suicide. Following his death, the local police had registered a case for unnatural death, soures said. Later, the probe was handed over to a special investigation team led by senior police officer Harshita Attaluri. A meeting chaired by samithi president S. Chandrasenan on Tuesday alleged that the police investigation into the death had come to a halt after the government intervened and issued oral instructions. In a statement issued here, the samithi said, “Mahesan in his suicide note had levelled serious allegations against SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan.” The samithi will observe June 24, the first death anniversary of Mahesan, as ‘protest day’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sndp-officials-death-samithi-warns-of-stir/article34942297.ece
24 June 2021||Chennai,KERALA||6,596 more test positive in Tamil Nadu||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in a day dropped below 400 in Chennai on Wednesday. The city logged 396 cases, reporting fewer deaths than Coimbatore. Across Tamil Nadu, 6,596 people tested positive for the infection, taking the State’s tally to 24,43,415. As many as 166 people — 57 in private hospitals and 109 in government facilities — died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 31,746. The number of active cases stood at 52,884, with Coimbatore accounting for 7,564, followed by Erode (5,318) and Chennai (3,447). Of the 166 deceased, 25 died in Coimbatore, followed by 20 in Chennai. There were 15 deaths in Vellore. Six districts, including Madurai, saw no deaths. Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) was steady at 10.29% and the State reported 12,787 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Active cases stood at 99,390 patients. Andhra Pradesh reported 36 deaths and 4,684 new infections on Wednesday. The daily TPR witnessed a slight rise at 5.80% over the rates of the past four days. Chittoor reported eight new deaths while East Godavari and Krishna reported five deaths each. Telangana added 1,114 new cases and 12 deaths. Active cases on Wednesday stood at 16,462. The government bulletin said that areas under Greater Hyderabad registered the highest positive cases at 129 followed by Rangareddy (75) and Nalgonda (72). Adilabad had two cases. In Karnataka, a day after the first case of Delta plus variant was reported in Mysuru, another case was reported in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Karnataka reported 4,436 new cases of which 1,008 were from Bengaluru Urban. The State added 123 deaths, and had 1,16,450 active patients, with the TPR for the day touching 2.59%. Karnataka’s Health Minister K. Sudhakar said the information on the Delta plus variant had been shared with the Union Health Ministry. The Bengaluru patient was an 86-year-old resident of Ashok Nagar, who had symptoms of Influenza-like Illness (ILI). He had got one dose of COVID-19 vaccine when his sample was collected in May and sent to the genome sequencing lab in NIMHANS. Health officials in Mysuru were awaiting the results of one more batch of samples.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, Hyderabad and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6596-more-test-positive-in-tamil-nadu/article34942195.ece
24 June 2021||Chennai,KERALA||Will continue use of ‘Union govt.’, says Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said the DMK government would continue to use the term “Union government” to refer to the Centre, recalling that the DMK, in its manifesto in 1957 itself, had used “Indian Union”. The Constitution too described India as a “union of States”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-continue-use-of-union-govt-says-stalin/article34942197.ece
24 June 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Minister promises steps to ease traffic congestion||Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said that immediate steps will be taken to reduce traffic congestion in Kannur city and surrounding areas. He was speaking at a meeting of people’s representatives and officials on Wednesday. “Kannur city is one of the busiest areas from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram. Traffic congestion is a major obstacle to the development not only of Kannur but also of Malabar,” the Minister said. The Kannur city road improvement project, including the proposed underpass and the Kannur flyover, will be implemented with utmost priority. The Minister said that Kannur is a district with immense potential in the field of tourism. He said the ongoing projects, including the Malabar River Cruise Tourism project, will be completed soon. MLAs who attended the meeting said that steps should be taken to expedite the completion of ongoing projects such as airport roads, hill highways, KSTP roads, construction of bridges and land acquisition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-promises-steps-to-ease-traffic-congestion/article34942177.ece
24 June 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Case against three on charge of money swindling||The Koothuparamba police have registered a complaint against three persons based on the complaint of few people who alleged that their money had been swindled after their children were offered roles in a film. The complaint has been registered against Jyothi Rajesh, a resident of Ullavachal; Modi Rajesh of Kolayad; and Manoj of Peravoor. Eleven persons, who submitted the petition to the police, alleged that most of them were duped after they were cast in a film called Ormayil, which was shot at various locations in Kannur. E. Vinaya Kumar, one of the complainants, claimed that they were cheated of amounts between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 2.5 lakh. They had taken the money by promising opportunities for their children in the film. M. Rajani, another complainant, said they had borne the entire cost of the food and stay of the crew. However, Modi Rajesh said that it was their maiden venture, being made with the support of several people who were contributing money. He said that they were in the process of editing the film. It would have to be sent to the Censor Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-three-on-charge-of-money-swindling/article34942169.ece
24 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Nod for reconstruction of water conservation structures in Kasaragod||Administrative approval has been granted under the Kasargod Development Package for the modernisation and reconstruction of various water conservation structures in Kasaragod district with an aim to have comprehensive water conservation in the district An amount of Rs. 38.8 lakh for the renovation of Salathadukka-Mayyalam Vented Cross Bars (VCB) cum bridge in Delampadi panchayat; Rs. 29.60 lakh for the reconstruction of VCB cum tractorway at Kalluvarambu in Ajanur panchayat, Rs. 44.2 lakh for the reconstruction of Thachiravalappu VCB in Pullur Periya panchayat; Rs. 11 lakh for the renovation of Kannoth VCB in Kinanoor Karinthalam panchayat; Rs. 49.5 lakh for the reconstruction of VCB cum tractorway at Oravankara across Thannott Chithari stream in Ajanur; Rs. 25 lakh for the repair of VCB near Mallam temple in Muliyar; Rs. 14.30 lakh for the modernisation of another VCB in Belur,Rs. 15.20 lakh for the renovation of VCB cum bridge at Choorithode in Kuttikol and Rs. 20 lakh have been set apart for the renovation of Thodupanam VCB cum bridge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-reconstruction-of-water-conservation-structures-in-kasaragod/article34942172.ece
24 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Restrictions in local bodies revised||Restrictions in local bodies have been revised and eased as per the test positivity rate (TPR) recorded over the past seven days. Government offices and public sector establishments, self-governing bodies, banks, and other financial institutions can function in local bodies falling under categories A and B with 50% staff, and in local bodies falling under category C with 25% staff. In local bodies falling under categories A and B, entry will be allowed into places of worship. Only 15 people will be allowed inside at a time. Category A (TPR below 8%) - Pothanikkad, Thirumarady, Paingottoor, Maneed, Edakattuvayal, Koothattukulam, Kaloorkad, Elanji, Mazhuvannoor, Palakuzha, Perumbavoor, Amballoor, Koovapady, Arakuzha, Marady, Vengoor, Manjappra, Nedumbassery, Kunnukara, Edavanakkad, Manjalloor, Mudakuzha, Pampakuda, Aluva, and Kavalangad Category B (TPR between 8% and 16%) - Udayamperoor, Muvattupuzha, Mookannur, Karumaloor, Angamaly, Puthenvelikkara, Asamanoor, Chittattukara, Kochi Corporation, Alangad, Varapuzha, Parakadavu, Pindimana, Ayyampuzha, Sreemoolanagaram, Mulavukad, Kizhakkambalam, Kothamangalam, Pallarimangalam, Kumbalanghi, Thiruvaniyoor, Vadavucode-Puthencruz, Thuravoor, Kumbalam, Valakom, Payipra, Elamkunnapuzha, Piravom, Thrikkakara, Cheranalloor, Nayarambalam, Vengola, Aikaranad, Avoli, Vazhakulam, Kanjoor, Poothrikka, Thripunithura, Kadamakudy, Chendamangalam, Malayattoor-Neeleswaram, Kunnathunad, and Chottanikkara Category C (TPR between 16% and 24%) - Vadakkekara, North Paravur, Rayamangalam, Kadungalloor, Kottuvally, Ayavana, Keerampara, Eloor, Pallipuram, Ezhikkara, Karukutty, Mulanthuruthy, Kottapady, Kuzhupilly, Maradu, Kuttampuzha, Edathala, Okal, Varapetty, Chengamanad, Njarakkal, Chellanam, Nellikuzhi, Ramamangalam, Kalady, Choornikkara, and Kalamassery Category D (TPR over 24%) - Keezhmad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-in-local-bodies-revised/article34942184.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Opinions vary over degree entrance exam||The demand for holding a common entrance exam for admission to non-professional degree programmes has evoked mixed reactions among the academic community in the State. The call for a common entrance test was made by a section of the students and unaided school managements in the CBSE/ICSE streams stating that many aspirants will not get fair justice in the admission process. They had cited the adoption of alternative evaluation methods by the central boards after the authorities cancelled the written examination for Class 12 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation. The Kerala High Court had sought the government’s response in a petition filed last week by a few students and the Kerala CBSE School Managements’ Association seeking a common entrance exam for admission to the undergraduate programmes in Kerala. As per NEP “The National Education Policy (NEP) had suggested a common aptitude test as well as specialised common subject exams at least twice a year by the National Testing Agency (NTA). The proposed entrance examination for university admissions may increase the pressure on students and shift the focus of rote-learning from board examinations to the NTA entrance test,” said Rajan Varughese, Member Secretary of the Kerala State Higher Education Council. “It can impose additional costs on students, weaken the teaching-learning process and spread the ‘coaching culture’ to non-professional courses too. The well-established system of Centralised Admission Process (CAP) implemented by the affiliating universities in Kerala has ensured equity and transparency in the admission process,” he said. He said that the number of undergraduate programmes at the affiliated colleges consisting of traditional (Model –I), vocational/restructured (Model - II) and interdisciplinary/frontier area (Model -III) programmes are so large and diverse and a common entrance examination for all these programmes can cause several academic issues, which may adversely affect the choice of students. Bright students Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University, pointed out that a national-level test for undergraduate programmes may help the higher educational institutions to have bright students enrolling for various programmes.  “There could be separate tests stream-wise at the national level,” he said. However, Prof. Thomas said that a State-level entrance examination, similar to the one conducted for professional degree courses, was not practical for undergraduate courses. “We have been admitting students for these programmes on the basis of their performance in the Class 12 qualifying exam and it can continue in the present format,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opinions-vary-over-entrance-exam/article34942191.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A campaign against substance abuse||In 2019, a survey held by the Ministry of Social Justice bestowed Ernakulam district with a dubious distinction of being among the 272 districts in the country afflicted by substance abuse. Every 29 out of 100 men in the district were found to be using alcohol, which was higher than the national average of 27 out of 100. Ernakulam shared the malaise with Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Idukki, Malappuram, and Kozhikode. Now, the Social Justice Department is set to embark on a month-long intensive awareness campaign under the Centre’s Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan to salvage the district’s reputation. “We are planning to hold 1,000 awareness sessions in a month from June 26 for which we have trained 100 master volunteers and 41 gender resource persons from the Kudumbashree. National and international-level webinars are also being planned,” said Subair K.K., District Social Justice Officer. Drug abuse on the rise Since the survey had found that drug abuse was also on the rise in the district, though it was lower than the national average, the department is not just limiting its focus to alcohol abuse. Block, municipal and corporation-level committees will be formed as part of the campaign, while there will be a district-level committee chaired by the District Collector and the Social Justice Officer as convener. “Once these committees are in place, we will conduct a survey to identify the alcohol abuse hotspots. We also plan to further intensify activities of the five de-addiction centres,” said Mr. Subair. The department has already set up a de-addiction centre for women at Karukutty, the first of its kind in the State, and an outreach and drop-in centre at Koonammavu. Social media contests have also been planned to extend the reach of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-campaign-against-substance-abuse/article34942181.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MGU all set to offer distance education programmes||Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) is ready to offer its distance education programmes this year after efforts by the State government to bring all such courses under Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU) hit a roadblock. “We have applied for permission from the Distance Education Bureau [DEB] of the University Grants Commission [UGC] for offering open and distance learning [ODL] courses this year. The university will also need the nod of the government for continuing with these courses,” said Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor. An ordinance promulgated by the government as part of launching the open university had barred other universities from offering open and distance learning courses and private registrations. However, the delay on the part of the DEB in opening its web portal following the COVID-19 spread had affected SGNOU’s plans to offer the courses. Facilities ready Prof. Thomas said the varsity was ready to go ahead with the OLD courses, as it had the required infrastructural and academic facilities. The university has been offering open and distance learning courses successfully, he added. The UGC had permitted universities to offer ODL programmes if they had a minimum National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) score of 3.01 or figured among the top 100 ranks in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). MGU is ranked 30 in the NIRF and has a cumulative grade point average of 3.24 under NAAC assessment . The government’s decision to bring ODL programmes under SGNOU had hit the revenue of varsities, as distance learning courses offered a steady revenue stream. Moreover, there were also many takers for the courses.  We have applied for permission from the Distance Education Bureau of the UGC for offering open and distance learning courses this year. The university will also need the nod of the government Sabu Thomas Vice Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-all-set-to-offer-distance-education-programmes/article34942192.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No posts of regional dowry prohibition officers in State||The posts of regional dowry prohibition officers is yet to be effectively created three years after it became defunct following the bifurcation of the Social Justice Department of Kerala. The three regional dowry prohibition officers ceased to exist after the Department of Women and Child Development was carved out of the Social Justice Department. The Law Department is still working on an amendment to the State Dowry Prohibition Rules, 2004, to notify the woman protection officer and the district woman and child development officer as inquiry officer and dowry prohibition officers respectively. Though a chief dowry prohibition officer functions at the State level in the Department of Women and Child Development, it is of little help without district-level officials to coordinate the activities at the grass-roots. ‘Toothless post’ A senior official with the department observes that the post of regional dowry prohibition officer was toothless even when it existed, a fact corroborated by a retired official who served in that capacity. “The Central Dowry Prohibition Rules, 1985 calls for the man and woman to keep a signed list of all gifts exchanged at the time of marriage. However, this does not happen in practice as insisting on such a list itself would have caused a discord at the very outset, making the enforcement redundant. Marriages Also, the prohibition officers are required to keep an eye on lavish marriages, track the source of income and register cases, which again is not practical,” says Rajan. L, a retired official, who had served as a regional prohibition officer for three years. During his service, he had proposed to the Social Justice Department director to fix a ceiling on exchange of gifts during the marriage and taxing anything beyond it. “Making mandatory the submission of the list of gifts at the time of registration of marriage with local bodies will enable the government to check the evil practice to a great extent,” Mr. Rajan says. Though the district women protection officers, who were originally supposed to replace dowry prohibition officers, continue to intervene on behalf of victims of domestic violence and extend legal assistance, there is hardly any scope for them to act in connection with dowry prohibition as of now. A woman protection officer admits that this is despite the fact that the dowry factor is at the centre of several domestic violence cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-posts-of-dowry-prohibition-officers/article34942166.ece
24 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Global recognition for CIAL in service quality||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has won the Airport Council International (ACI) Director General’s Roll of Excellence in airport service quality. The ACI, a global body of airport operators, instituted the Roll of Excellence for airports which, in the opinion of passengers ascertained through a survey, consistently delivered excellent services, said a CIAL press release here. Customer service CIAL has consistently delivered excellence in customer service and has won multiple awards and is one of the six airports in the world that will receive the recognition this year, said ACI Director General Luis Felipe de Oliveira in a communication announcing the recognition. In his letter to CIAL, he said: “I am confident that you will continue to be a role model for airport service quality excellence and work with us to raise the bar in service standards and best practices within the industry.” International standards CIAL managing director S. Suhas said the ACI’s service quality programmes had been helping airport officials ensure international standards in airport management, and the Roll of Excellence was a gesture from the global organisation recognising CIAL’s commitment to passengers. He also thanked the State government for the support the airport had received, especially from Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is also the chairman of CIAL. The award will be presented during the ACI Customer Experience Global Summit to be held on September 9, 2021 in Montreal, Canada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-recognition-for-cial-in-service-quality/article34942185.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man falls to death at stone quarry||A man died in an accident at a stone quarry at Kothamangalam on Wednesday. The deceased man was identified as Biju Kumbakal, 48, of Vadathupara. The accident occurred reportedly when he was climbing a rock and had a fatal fall around 7.30 p.m. Sources said that workers used to climb the rock using a rope after the explosion for mining stones. Though he was rushed to a nearby hospital, he was declared brought dead. A case has been registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-falls-to-death-at-stone-quarry/article34942186.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC order not to arrest former IB officer||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) not to arrest former Central intelligence officer and an accused in a case relating to the alleged conspiracy to frame former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan in the 1994 espionage case. The order was passed by Justice K. Haripal when an anticipatory bail petition by P.S. Jayaprakash, a 71-year-old former Deputy Central Intelligence Officer, Kochi, came up for hearing. The court directed the CBI to respond to the plea of the former intelligence officer. According to the petitioner, he was arraigned as 11th accused in the case. In fact, he was only an Assistant Central Intelligence Officer Grade I who was part of a team to assist the Kerala Police in their investigation. He had never taken part in the interrogation or arrest of Nambi Narayanan. In fact, he was only carrying out his duty, in good faith. His service was extended on contract basis for two years on retirement. It showed the acknowledgement of his unblemished service by the bureau. He was innocent. He was arraigned as accused only due to some extraneous reasons, according to the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-order-not-to-arrest-former-ib-officer/article34942203.ece
24 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,706 new COVID cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam district recorded 1,706 new COVID cases on Wednesday, with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.04% when 16,990 tests were done. A total of 13,931 people are under treatment or in isolation at home after having tested positive. Kumbalanghi registered the highest number of cases on Wednesday, with 75 people testing positive. Thrikkakara saw 46 new cases, Pallipuram 43, Kizhakkambalam 38, Elamkunnapuzha and Payipra 36 each, Kalamassery 35, and Keezhmad and Thripunithura 34 each. While Nayarambalam and Nellikuzhi registered 33 new cases each, Vadavucode and Vengola saw 31 each, Ayyampuzha 30, Edappally 29, and Kuttampuzha 28. Kaloor and Fort Kochi saw 27 new cases each. As many as 1,984 recoveries were recorded on the day, and 242 people were discharged from hospitals and other treatment centres. Of those recovering from the infection, 9,100 are at home, 458 are at government hospitals, 951 are admitted at private hospitals, and 1,688 are recuperating at FLTCs, SLTCs, and domiciliary care centres. An action plan has been prepared to administer the vaccine among ‘priority groups’ — bedridden patients, differently-abled persons, destitute persons, people living in colonies, and those over 60 who are yet to take the first dose. Data on the target population will be collected through the respective local bodies, and local body representatives will be required to enter details of the beneficiaries on the CoWIN portal. Once a single shot has been administered to everybody over the age of 60, focus will be shifted to people over 55 years, followed by those over 50, and then people over 45 years. The plan will be implemented from next week onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1706-new-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article34942182.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Five held for creating ruckus||The Kunnathunadu police arrested five persons on the charge of creating a ruckus at a bar and injuring the employees after they were allegedly denied liquor on April 6. Ananthu Karikuzhiyil, 24, Arun Parppanal, 21, Dani Kootanpaara 21, Ajith Karikkakuzhi, 24, and Sonu Maniyariyil, 23 are also accused of assaulting the manager of the bar. The accused had been on the run since. A special team formed by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick nabbed them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-held-for-creating-ruckus/article34942189.ece
24 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||PIL seeks ban on WhatsApp||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Kerala High Court seeking a directive to the Centre to ban the operation and use of WhatsApp if it does not comply with the orders of the lawful authorities of the country. In his petition, K.G. Omanakuttan, a software engineer from Idukki, said WhatsApp had refused to comply with the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethic Code) Rules, 2021. Besides, WhatsApp was violating the fundamental rights of the citizens guaranteed by the Constitution and posing a potential threat to national interest and security. If the app was not willing to cooperate with the government, it should not be allowed to operate in the country, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pil-seeks-ban-on-whatsapp/article34942199.ece
24 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,230 test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,230 new cases of COVID-19 and 2,168 recoveries on Wednesday. While 1,222 patients contracted the disease through contact, the others include three NRIs and five health workers. Kollam district currently has 33,366 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 15,74,885. While 3,093 people completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 2,72,350 primary and 17,370 secondary contacts of the cases. Kottayam As many as 547 people, including two health workers, tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, all contracted the disease through local transmission. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) of the district further declined to 6.97%. With 58 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Panachikka , which recorded 35 cases Pathanamthitta In Pathanamathitta, 427 people tested positive for the disease during the day. The TPR for the day was 11.8%. With 39 cases, Pathanamathitta municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Aranmula with 29 cases . The disease, meanwhile, claimed nine more lives in the district. ( With contribution from bureaus in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1230-test-positive-in-kollam/article34942300.ece
24 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kerala yet to address systemic issues such as dowry harassment||With its highest sex ratio in the country and progressive socio-cultural profile, Kerala may seem like a haven of emancipated women. But if the number of cases coming under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code is anything to go by, a woman’s post-marital status in the State still depends on dowry and in some cases it sets her on a path of eternal distress or even self-destruction. Despite the ardent outrage over dowry deaths, the practice still continues undeterred, cutting across caste and class divides. As per reports, Kerala records thousands of such cases every year but very few reach courts. “Very often cases of marital discord and domestic violence spring from dowry-related issues. Though families try to avoid straightforward demands, there will be customary implications and negotiations. In some cases, there will not be any physical violence but women will be emotionally abused and treated as second-rate individuals. But even if there is evident physical violence, 90% of such cases will be settled without any official complaint or record,” says a police official. Divya Kodoth, resource person, Gender Park, says Kerala is yet to address systemic issues such as dowry harassment making it a ‘paradox State’. “Kerala with its progressive tag still has the highest number of highly educated but unemployed women. Gender roles are still the same in our domestic ecosystem and a major section of our society is still controlled by patriarchy,” she says. State Women’s Commission (SWC) member Shahida Kamal observes lack of legal awareness as one reason that leads to dowry harassment and consequent issues. While some believe that India’s anti-dowry laws need more stringent provisions considering the high acquittal rate, legal experts have another opinion. “We have provisions of law according to which if a woman commits suicide within seven years of her marriage the burden of proof is reversed. It’s on the husband to prove he is not guilty,” says advocate G. Mohanraj, public prosecutor in the Uthra murder case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-yet-to-address-systemic-issues-such-as-dowry-harassment/article34942193.ece
24 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vismaya suicide case: police collect details||Vismaya’s case has strong evidence to ensure conviction, said Harshita Attaluri, Inspector General of Police, South Zone, who visited her house in Kollam here on Wednesday. The 24-year-old BAMS student had allegedly ended her life due to dowry harassment. “Whatever the Section is, it is a serious case. We have already collected most details, including the statements of Vismaya’s family and friends. Medical and electronic evidence will also be collected,” she said. Ms. Attaluri added that another incident that took place at Vismaya’s home a few months back would also be investigated. According to her family, Vismaya’s husband Kiran Kumar had reached her home in a drunken state after a party and assaulted her last January. When her brother tried to intervene, he was also beaten. Her family informed the local police and Kiran reportedly had an altercation with officials when he was taken to the station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vismaya-suicide-case-police-collect-details/article34942298.ece
24 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||CM to open new MGU centre||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate on Thursday the International Center for Polar Studies (ICPS) under Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), Kottayam. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will preside over the event, to be conducted virtually at 3 p.m. According to the varsity, the new Polar studies centre is being launched in view of the importance of scientific studies on the polar regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-open-new-mgu-centre/article34942301.ece
24 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Relief for residents as meet solves building permit issue||For over two years, people around the military barracks in West Hill, Kozhikode, were living in distress owing to building regulations imposed by the Army. Now, the Kozhikode district administration and the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation have taken a bold step to solve the issue that put local people and the Army at loggerheads. A meeting of people’s representatives and the Army authorities convened by District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao decided to give building permits in the region based on the Kerala Municipality Building Rules (KMBR) and the directions of the Ministry of Defence on NOCs issued in 2016. In case the Army unit had any difference of opinion, it could ask the ministry to amend rules, the District Collector said in the meeting. MPs M.K. Raghavan, Elamaram Kareem, M.V. Sreyamskumar and MLA Thottathil Raveendran had pointed out the difficulties faced by local people as the Army unit did not provide no objection certificates (NOC) for buildings even 100 metres outside its boundary. Meanwhile, the Kozhikode Corporation, in a meeting of the corporation council on the same day, made a decision to provide building permits 10 metres beyond the defence land, without the NOC of the Army unit. If the buildings are more than 16 metres high, the permit will be available only beyond 500 metres, while telecommunication towers beyond 200 metres of the defence land will get permit. The West Hill barracks is not a significant military post, but the Army officials had maintained in several meetings convened by the Mayor that they were against construction within 100 metres from the defence land. This and the alleged high-handedness of the Army had caused quite some tension in the area for the past two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-for-residents-as-meet-solves-building-permit-issue/article34942173.ece
24 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kozhikode Corporation demands repair of Conolly Canal Road||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation has requested the Irrigation Department to carry out the necessary repairs on the Connolly Canal Road from Eranhikkal to Nellikkapulli immediately to make it safer for commuters. Councillor V.P. Manoj had presented a motion to this effect in the Corporation Council meeting on Monday, pointing out that some parts of the road was in a dilapidated state and could be dangerous for motorists. The road is an extension of the Mini Bypass Road from Meenchanda to Kunduparamba and has been included in the next phase of the city road improvement master plan by the State Government. While this may take time, the condition of the road is worsening day by day, Mr. Manoj said. It was an inspection road of the Irrigation Department, which is in charge of Connolly Canal. The corporation, with the permission of the department, had re-surfaced it in 2013, after which no repair works have been carried out. “There are two big pot holes on the road near Eranhikkal, big enough two swallow two wheelers. The local people have temporarily filled it with concrete. But it is not a sustainable solution to the issue”, the councillor said. The side walls of the Connolly canal were rebuilt 14 years ago. But over the time, the soil from the side of the road got eroded, while the concrete that lay on top of it remained intact. With no soil under it, the concrete may crumble any moment and could harm people, he said. The proposed Elathur Industrial Estate and a crematorium, besides a few industries, are located along this road. Besides, this road is used as an easy access from National Highway to Meenchanda without touching the heart of the city. It is also largely used by people from Atholi, Balussery, and nearby areas as a short route to the city. The council passed the motion unanimously and demanded that the Irrigation Department expedite the repair works to prevent any mishaps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corporation-demands-repair-of-conolly-canal-road/article34942168.ece
24 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||893 fresh cases; 941 recoveries||As many as 893 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Wednesday even as the district administration has categorised local bodies on the basis of the test positivity rate (TPR). Those with an average TPR below 8% are in the ‘A’ category, local bodies with an average TPR between 8% and 16% are in the ‘B’ category, those with an average TPR between 16% and 24% are in the ‘C’ category. Those recording a TPR of above 24% are in ‘D’ category. Perumanna grama panchayat and Feroke Municipality are in ‘C’ category, while Kozhikode Corporation and other municipalities and 34 grama panchayats are in ‘B’ category. According to the district medical officer, 879 among them were local transmission of the infection and the source of 14 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 188 locally acquired infections. A total of 10,324 samples were tested and the daily TPR is 8.82%. As many as 941 people recovered from the infection, and the active caseload stands at 9,943.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/893-fresh-cases-941-recoveries/article34942176.ece
24 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||An uphill task awaits Sudhakaran||In his public spat with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over Kannur Brennen College campus fights of the 1960s, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran may have earned some political brownie points with at least a section of the Congress workers in the State. But the formidable challenger in Mr. Sudhakaran faces tougher hurdles ahead in revamping the Congress party. Though he says that both former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala will support him, in reality, the ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups still dominate the Congress party at all levels. A general consensus among the leaders had already been reached to do away with the policy of ‘one man, one post.’ The KPCC president himself is an MP representing Kannur, while the three KPCC working presidents — Kodikunnil Suresh, MP, P.T. Thomas, MLA, and T. Siddique, MLA, — are also elected representatives. However, none of the elected representatives would be made DCC presidents. Besides, existing KPCC office-bearers would be tasked with new roles to galvanise the rank and file of the party at the district levels, the sources said. “The party has decided to put an end to jumbo committees that earlier gave space only to balance the group equation and also to satisfy some leaders disillusioned with the party,” a senior functionary told The Hindu on Tuesday. Apart from breaking the Oommen Chandy-Ramesh Chennithala binary, Mr. Sudhakaran will have to take into confidence the likes of women leaders such as Shanimol Usman and Bindu Krishna.  Mr. Sudhakaran, with a cult following in north Malabar, has secured the Central leadership to exercise a dominating influence to put the party on the tracks. However, it remains to be seen whether his political street-fighting abilities would attract the party cadre in central and southern districts. Some episodes also demonstrate Mr. Sudhakaran's belligerent posture at times. As KPCC working president, Mr. Sudhakaran not only remained defiant but also justified the alleged unsavoury comment on Mr. Vijayan’s family background.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-uphill-task-awaits-sudhakaran/article34942202.ece
24 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Restrictions in critical containment zones||The Kozhikode district administration has imposed restrictions in various local bodies classifying them as critical containment zones and containment zones, based on the number of COVID-19 patients there. According to a release on Wednesday, wards having over 60 infected persons in Kozhikode Corporation and those having over 30 infected persons in grama panchayats and municipalities have been termed as critical containment zones. No gatherings would be allowed in these places. People cannot enter religious places of worship. Only shops and establishments selling essential stuff could remain open till 7 p.m. They are Kommeri, Meenchanda, Thoppayil, Karuvissery, Puthiyangadi, Puthiyappa, Chakkukadavu, and Parayancheri wards in Kozhikode Corporation; Paloli in Kayakkodi grama panchayat, Koratti in Koothali grama panchayat, Paingottupuram West in Kunnamangalam grama panchayat, Kakkavayal and Kaithappoyil in Puthuppady grama panchayat, Murukallingal West in Kadalundi grama panchayat, Mariyappuram in Thiruvambady grama panchayat, and Puthiyappa and Vadakara Theru in Vadakara Municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-in-critical-containment-zones/article34942174.ece
24 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Man attacks wife, children with axe||A man was arrested for hacking his wife and children with an axe used for chopping trees at Vazhikkadavu near Nilambur on Wednesday. The wife, Zeenath, 39, and a daughter who is a higher secondary student were admitted to hospital with serious wounds after Saleem alias Mani, 45, attacked them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-attacks-wife-children-with-axe/article34942178.ece
24 June 2021||Palakkad/Malappuram,KERALA||Post-accident, gold, hawala gang members go underground||Most members of gangs involved in gold and hawala smuggling as well as robbing the carriers have gone underground in the wake of the shocking accident at Ramanattukara that killed five youngsters during a pre-dawn chase on Monday. The police intensified the investigation into the incident, which took them to multiple gangs engaged in gold and hawala smuggling and other related criminal activities. Although Kondotty Deputy Superintendent of Police Ashraf K. is leading the investigation, policemen from different stations in Malappuram, Kozhikode and Palakkad districts were involved in the inquiry. Shibu P., station house officer of Karipur police station, said that hyped up stories spread by different wings of mass media had helped several members of the robbery and gold smuggling gangs escape. Remanded in custody Meanwhile, eight persons arrested in connection with the Monday morning incident were remanded in judicial custody. They were Saleem P, 29, Mubashir M., 27, Mohammed Fayas, 29, Suhail M., 24, Fasal C., 24, Mustafa V., 26, Shanid K.V., 32, and Hassan P.P., 35. They were from different places in the eastern part of Palakkad district. They were booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 399 for making preparation to commit dacoity. The police said they could not be slapped any other sections as they had not been directly involved. However, according to the police, IPC 399 was a serious offence and could invoke a punishment of up to ten years in jail along with a fine. The police suspect that one of the two persons who had escaped from the accident site in a vehicle was a heavyweight gangster. Police sources said that the involvement of some notorious gangsters from central Kerala was also suspected. Anas Perumbavoor is one such gangster, who had stayed at Cherpulassery for several weeks and had close links with the gangs in Cherpulassery. However, the police could not establish his involvement in the attempted robbery at Ramanattukara. One of the three vehicles from Cherpulassery met with the fatal accident on the National Highway 966 at Ramanattukara while chasing a car which was suspected to have been carrying gold smuggled in from Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-hawala-gangs-go-underground/article34942179.ece
24 June 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Delta-plus variant jolts health authorities||Even as the State continued to witness a sustained dip in fresh COVID-19 cases, the detection of Delta-plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Kadapra grama panchayat has brought the health authorities in the district on their toes once again. According to officials, the ward where the new variant was reported continues to remain a large community cluster with test positivity rate (TPR) of 18.42%. The panchayat, meanwhile, has recorded an even higher TPR of 26.5% and has been classified as ‘critical’. Curbs on movement Taking note of the situation, the local police have been directed to strictly control the movement of people to and from the region. “Testing has been raised significantly with about 160 persons undergoing the RT-PCR test on Wednesday alone. Plans are afoot to expand the testing drive to the adjacent wards to ascertain if the new variant is a one-off case or not,” said A.L. Sheeja, District Medical Officer. Besides strengthening the containment strategy, steps are also in place to shift the people residing here to domiciliary care centres. “The immediate priority is to bring down the active cases, which stand at 20. If required, an additional care centre will have to be opened for shifting the remaining people,” she added. Official sources said the four-year-boy on whom the new variant was detected resides in a colony of about 40 families. Of the 10 members in his family, all but one had been diagnosed with COVID-19 during the second wave and have tested negative hence. Of the remaining 57 local bodies in the district, the TPR in 18 remain well under 8% while it varies between 8% and 16% in 31 local bodies. The remaining seven have recorded TPR between 16% and 24%. Isolation wards In anticipation of a third wave of the pandemic, plans are afoot to open isolation wards with necessary infrastructure in all the five Assembly segments in the district using the asset development fund of legislators. This was decided during an online meeting of MLAs in Pathanamthitta, convened by Health Minister Veena George recently. As per the plan, 15 new isolation units will be opened across various government hospitals in the district.  The four-year-boy on whom the new variant was detected resides in a colony of about 40 families||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delta-plus-variant-jolts-health-authorities/article34942299.ece
24 June 2021||Puducherry,KERALA||Rangasamy submits list of Ministers to L-G||After dissension among the principal allies over sharing of power since Puducherry’s first NDA government got elected on May 2, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy submitted the list of Council of Ministers to Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rangasamy-submits-list-of-ministers-to-l-g/article34942198.ece
24 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More youth taking to street vending||Relatively young people are submitting applications in large numbers for starting street vending ventures in the period following the outbreak of COVID-19, according to data from the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation. Officials of the National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM), which handle applications for new street vendors, have been noticing a larger number of applicants in the 25-45 age group, compared to the years before the pandemic. “After the pandemic hit, we have received around 600 new applications for street vending. Some of these are old vendors who do not have a licence, and are applying because it is mandatory now. But, about 20-25% of the new applications are from youngsters. Till a couple of years back, a majority of the street vending applications used to be from people above the age of 50,” an NULM official said. Most youngsters prefer to start fast food joints, selling shawarma and rolls. Many find it easier to start street vending businesses from vehicles or carts, considering the difficulty and expenses of getting a shop space in areas where business is guaranteed. Quite a few of the youngsters are either those who have been unsuccessfully seeking salaried jobs or those who have lost their jobs during the pandemic. Late last year, The Hindu in a quick survey found several new vendors in the capital’s streets, hawking everything from masks to fruits and cooked food as an alternate source of revenue. Some of them had said they were doing this as a stop-gap arrangement. Survey The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation had last conducted a comprehensive survey of street vendors in 2015, when the number of vendors was found to be 3,498. At present, the officials are preparing for a resurvey using a new mobile application prepared by the Centre. According to them, as many as 200 of the vendors who were identified in 2015 have died, while some have left street vending and gone to other businesses. However, many others have newly taken up street vending for survival. An accurate tally of street vendors in the city will be known only after the resurvey. The process of giving identity cards to street vendors is still going on, with cards now given to 1,400 vendors. The reconstituting of the city’s street vending committee is also on the cards. An ad hoc committee formed in 2015 is managing the affairs, including the clearing of applications. The formation of an elected committee has been held up due to the pandemic. All street vendors in the city have voting rights on the committee, which will have nine representatives from among the vendors. Officials of the city Corporation, district administration, and the Police Department will also be part of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-youth-taking-to-street-vending/article34942233.ece
24 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Over 1 crore receive vaccine first dose||The State has administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to over one crore people — 1,00,69,673 —, an official statement issued by Health Minister Veena George here has said. With 26,89,731 persons also receiving the second vaccine dose, a total of 1,27,59,404 doses of COVID-19 vaccine had been administered by the State so far, it said. Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram districts emerged on top, having administered 12,33,315 and 11,95,303 first dose vaccines respectively. The Health Minister congratulated the Health Department teams for achieving these milestones with zero wastage of vaccine. More women received the vaccine in the State than men. While 51,99,069 women received the vaccine, the number of men who were vaccinated was 48,68,860. Of the vaccines administered, 1,16,41,451 doses were of Covishield and 11,17,931 doses of Covaxin. Age-wise Between the ages of 18-44 years, 22,68,228 people have received the vaccine while 37,94,936 people who received the vaccine were between 45 and 60 years. Among senior citizens, 39,93,967 people have been vaccinated. The State had received a total of 1,24,01,800 doses. It is thanks to the expertise, training, and experience of the nursing staff in the health system that the State could fully utilise the vaccines and administer it with zero wastage, managing to deliver excess doses out of the total stock received. The State had set a target of administering two to 2.5 lakh vaccines daily and had formulated an action plan and within a short time, this goal could be achieved. On Monday, 2.62 lakh doses and on Tuesday, 2.30 lakh doses were delivered. The State would augment the pace of vaccine administration as it receives more stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-1-crore-receive-vaccine-first-dose/article34942207.ece
24 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Scheme to aid the differently abled||The State government is launching Sahajeevanam, a comprehensive initiative that envisages starting support centres for differently abled people and their parents/guardians in the wake of COVID-19. Sahajeevanam will be launched in the district next week. The support centres, to come up in all blocks, municipalities, and city Corporations are expected to provide a huge relief to the differently abled who have been home-bound since the start of the pandemic as their educational institutions and skill development centres are all closed down. The support centres will not only provide them medicines, food, and any other requirements, but also counselling, therapies, and so on. The end objective is to build a network for the community-based rehabilitation of the differently abled At least one support centre will come up in each block, says District Social Justice Officer Shinymol M. These will be facilities such as special schools, BUDS schools, vocational training centres, or block resource centres under the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala. Responsibility  Responsibility for running these centres will be with National Trust district-level committees. Each centre will have at least two special educators for which special school, BUDS, or resource teachers of Samagra Shiksha can be posted. In the 73 panchayats in the district, at least two volunteers will function in association with the COVID-19 war rooms to provide help to the support centres. They will collect details of all the differently abled and their parents or guardians, reach out to them, and provide help such as special education or even therapy if possible by getting in touch with block-level support centres, says Ms. Shinymol. The volunteers have to get in touch with at least five families a day over phone. The data collected should be handed over to local-level committees that run these centres. A panel of experts who can provide follow-up services voluntarily should be prepared by the local level committees and handed over to the support centres. Online groups of families should be set up and online classes held once a month on specific topics. They will identify safe spaces for the differently abled to put up in case their carers become infected with COVID-19 and ensure their vaccination. Panchayat-level activities should be sent to the block-level support centres where the local-level committees will consolidate these and hand them over the district-level committee presided over by the District Social Justice Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scheme-to-aid-the-differently-abled/article34942231.ece
24 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||11 wards declared critical containment zones||Eleven wards of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation have been declared critical containment zones as part of the COVID-19 management measures, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. The list includes Poonkulam, Valiyathura, Venganoor, Pound Kadavu, Ponnumangalam, Anamugham, Mudavanmugal, Chandavila, Mulloor, Thrikkanapuram, and Beemapalli East wards. Strict lockdown measures will be in place in these wards. The weekend total lockdown will be applicable in these areas also, Ms. Khosa said. 1,501 new cases The district reported 1,501 new COVID-19 cases and 1,623 recoveries on Wednesday. The test positivity rate stands at 9.5% at present, and 11,649 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. Of the new cases, local transmission accounted for 1,423 cases. The list includes four health workers, the district administration has said. At present, 43,345 persons are in quarantine in the district including 2,909 people quarantined on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-wards-declared-critical-containment-zones/article34942239.ece
24 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NGO asks govt. to initiate steps for coastal conservation||Blaming unscientific coastal structures for the worsening coastal erosion in Thiruvananthapuram district, the NGO Coastal Watch, Thiruvananthapuram, has urged the State government to abandon the Vizhinjam international seaport project and the move to construct more harbours and 'hard structures' such as seawalls and groynes. A Coastal Watch report, ‘Displaced coastal communities: Problems and solutions’, has blamed the breakwater being constructed for the Vizhinjam port for the severe erosion in the coastal villages north of it. Only a small portion of the breakwater has been completed, but even this has triggered unprecedented wave action in the adjacent fisheries harbour and the formation of a sandbar at its mouth, imperilling the lives of fishermen, notes the study and seeks a constructive review of the Rs. 5,300-crore package announced in the State Budget for coastal conservation. Vizhinjam port “The State should take steps to abandon the construction of the Vizhinjam port, which poses a major threat to the life and livelihood of the coastal community and to prevent further destruction,” according to the study. ‘Hard structures’ such as groynes and breakwaters impede natural sediment transport and have proven to be short-term solutions to coastal protection. ‘Soft structures’ such as geotubes should be experimented with for coastal conservation, instead. Seawalls are harmful in the sense that they are weakened by the scouring of sand from its base. They also cause ‘end erosion’ in the coastal stretches on either side of it, the study noted. Calling for sustainable coastal protection measures, the Coastal Watch also advises against the use of concrete tetrapods that are now widely used. Further, the organisation has urged the government to scrap plans for new harbours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngo-asks-govt-to-initiate-steps-for-coastal-conservation/article34942237.ece
24 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,787 cases, 150 deaths||Kerala reported 12,787 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 1,24,326 samples were tested in 24 hours. Test positivity rate (TPR) remains steady at 10.29%. The active case pool in the State again went below the one lakh mark on Wednesday with 13,683 patients recovering on the day. The active case pool now has 99,390 patients. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 12,445, with the State adding 150 recent deaths to the official list. There seems to be no let-up in hospitalisations of new COVID patients with moderate or serious disease, after the slight dip registered some two weeks ago. On Wednesday, 2,492 patients were newly admitted to hospitals. The total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals stands at 26,492. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID-19 patients were 2,415 on Wednesday, with those requiring ventilator support numbering 1,011. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new with 1,706, Thiruvananthapuram 1,501, Malappuram 1,321, Palakkad 1,315, Kollam 1,230, Thrissur 1,210, Kozhikode 893, Alappuzha 815, Kannur 607, Kasaragod 590, Kottayam 547, Pathanamthitta 427, Idukki 314, and Wayanad 311 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12787-cases-150-deaths/article34942204.ece
24 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Audit textbooks for gender equality, says Sivankutty||Textbooks should be audited from the perspective of gender equality, gender justice and gender awareness, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. In a statement here on Wednesday, the Minister said the foundations of a democratic and secular society were built on equality and justice. Society needed new ideas of equality between the sexes at this juncture. The government would consider including lessons that promoted gender equality in the curriculum. Knowledge economy The General Education Department fully accepted the Chief Minister’s remarks that as a modern society, Kerala should transform itself into a knowledge-based economy. That would be possible only if a new generation that was knowledgeable was nurtured. There would be no space for gender discrimination in such a society, he said. School campuses should transform into spaces that could assimilate the ideas of gender equality and gender justice. For that to happen, there should be change in content and teaching-learning process. Checks should be made to examine if there were words and phrases that went against gender equality, and if need be, changes should be made. All such things would be considered seriously when the curriculum was revised, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/audit-textbooks-for-gender-equality-says-sivankutty/article34942208.ece
24 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||International Olympics Day observed||Governor Arif Mohammad Khan inaugurated a webinar organised by the Kerala Olympic Association on Wednesday as part of the observance of the International Olympic Day. The Governor said the day was being celebrated to promote people across all gender and age groups to take part in sports. Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman said the Sports Department was working to prepare the sportspersons for future Olympic games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/international-olympics-day-observed/article34942236.ece
24 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC results by July third week: Minister||Results of the SSLC examinations will be published in the third week of July, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after handing over digital equipment to students contributed by the Kerala NGO Union here on Wednesday. The union will distribute 2,500 tablets. All schools should form support committees to ensure digital equipment for all students. All children would have facilities for online education, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-results-by-july-third-week-minister/article34942209.ece
24 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation asks public pariticipation for ‘Gift a smile’||City Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran has requested the help of individuals and organisations to be part of the civic body’s ‘Gift a Smile’ challenge to provide smartphones or computers to students who do not have access to the same to attend online classes. In a press release, Ms. Rajendran said that the Corporation would take steps to ensure that these contributions reach the needy. Separate bank The Corporation has opened a separate bank account for the challenge. Account number 0721073000000318, Account name - Gift a smile, Bank - South Indian Bank, Corporate branch, Thiruvananthapuram, IFSC Code 0721073000000318.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-asks-public-pariticipation-for-gift-a-smile/article34942235.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A new ray of hope for women||Shortly after the Social Justice Department of Kerala launched its first-ever de-addiction centre for women and girls at Karukutty in Ernakulam district in April, a 16-year-old landed there as an inmate for drug abuse. She had been into substance abuse for five years and it took three weeks for the teenager to even get rid of the withdrawal symptoms. The Class 7 dropout was from a separated family who became an addict and then a drug carrier. She, however, turned out to be quite talented, with innate skills in crafts and made impressive progress at the centre. She is now one of the five inmates at the centre being run by Nirmal Nikethan Mukthi Sadan, an NGO that has been running a de-addiction centre for men for 32 years. “We got from her the names of 12 other potential substance abuse addicts. But before we could track them down, her mother started pushing for her custody though she was a long way from full recovery,” said Fr. Joseph Parecattil, director of the centre. Realising that giving the mother her premature custody would lead to a relapse in her condition, the centre approached the Child Welfare Committee to retain her custody under the Juvenile Justice Act. The youngster’s case is indicative of the need for a rehabilitation programme as an extension of the de-addiction treatment. “We may have to go for such a programme once the funding stabilises under the Central government from next year,” said Fr. Parecattil. Treatment for 20 The centre, with an in-patient and out-patient wing, is funded by the State government in the first year and has the capacity for the treatment of 20 inmates at a time. It has a 13-member team and provides treatment for up to 90 days. “The centre caters to all kinds of addictions, including drugs, alcohol and mobile phone, besides complications arising from failed love affairs,” said Fr. Parecattil. A monthly consultation and even a weekly get-together along the lines of Alcoholics Anonymous are also being planned.  The centre, with an in-patient and out-patient wing, has the capacity for the treatment of 20 inmates at a time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-first-de-addiction-centre-for-women-turns-operational-in-ernakulam/article34942165.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sprucing up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sprucing-up/article34942171.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||United they stand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/united-they-stand/article34942188.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Honouring frontline warriors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honouring-frontline-warriors/article34942303.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking COVID relief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-covid-relief/article34942243.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livelihood matters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livelihood-matters/article34942211.ece
24 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 killed in road accident||Three persons were killed and another was injured when the car in which they were travelling hit a tree at Gummayyagaripalli near Gorantla town of Anantapur district on Wednesday. Injured shifted to hospital The dead have been identified as Geetha, 31, her daughter Pallavi, 8, and car driver Suresh, 40, while Pavithra, Geetha’s another daughter, was grievously injured and has been shifted to a hospital for treatment. According to the Gorantla police, the family, residents of Bengaluru, had come to Peddpalli on Wednesday and were returning to Bengaluru when the accident occurred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-in-road-accident/article34941958.ece
24 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virtual National Lok Adalat on July 10||A National Lok Adalat will be held in virtual mode on July 10 and those interested in getting their cases heard must apply to the Anantapur District Legal Services Authority before July 5. The DLSA Chairperson and District Judge Aruna Sarika in a release has urged litigants, whose cases are pending in various courts in Anantapur, to appeal through a mail attaching their photo ID proof. All civil cases, check-bounce, accidents, insurance, disputes over family matters (except divorce), criminal cases where compromise is permissible and industrial disputes become eligible for hearing in the Lok Adalat. It will be organised through BlueJeans App or WhatsApp and the application for consideration of their cases must be sent to: antpdlsa@yahoo.com or SMS/WhatsApp: 9440901044.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virtual-national-lok-adalat-on-july-10/article34942330.ece
24 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness drive on property tax held||People have been expressing dissent over the proposed change in the property tax computation, which according to the residents, would lead to an enormous increase in the tax burden even without changing the tax percentage. The Anantapur Nagara Pourla Sankshema Sangam, a body of residents’ welfare associations, on Wednesday held several awareness camps against the Draft Notification of May 29, said conveners A.G. Rajmohan, V. Ramuni Reddy, and Md. Jeelani. The sangam explained the likely danger of the burden of property tax and user charges for water, waste disposal, or drainage facilities, getting very high in the days to come. Objections raised by people were collected in the written form, which would be submitted to the Municipal Commissioner on June 29. Providing water and ensuring proper sanitation was the mandate of the municipal corporation and a part of the ‘right to live’, hence people should not be burdened to meet the expenses, they opined. Awareness sessions were held near Tower Clock, Municipal Office, RTC Bus Station, and Old Town market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-drive-on-property-tax-held/article34942331.ece
24 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fissures emerge in Karnataka Congress over CM candidate||Fissures within the Karnataka Congress seem to be widening over the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the 2023 Legislative Assembly elections as one faction favouring the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and the other backing KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar continue to indulge in one-upmanship. Despite the party high command’s diktat to leaders not to make statements on the party’s next chief ministerial face, on Wednesday, Pulakeshinagar MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy and MLA for Harihar S. Ramappa joined the list of those projecting Leader of the Opposition Mr. Siddaramaiah as the party’s chief ministerial candidate. Mr. Murthy, who apparently did not get much support from Mr. Shivakumar in a case related to D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli violence last year, argued that Mr. Siddaramaiah’s work as Chief Minister had “benefited all sections of society” and he would be the party’s face in the next elections. Zameer first The whole controversy began with MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan and later MLAs Raghavendra Hitnal (Koppal), J.N. Ganesh (Kampli), and Bhima Naik (Hagaribommanahalli) projecting Mr. Siddaramaiah as the party’s chief ministerial nominee. Sensing that his authority was being questioned by loyalists of Mr. Siddaramaiah, Mr. Shivakumar rushed to Delhi and met the former party presidentand MP Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala. Mr. Surjewala then issued a statement forewarning leaders to avoid comments projecting the party’s next chief ministerial nominee. “The central Congress leadership and MLAs will decide the issue at an appropriate time. All Congress leaders will fight the battle unitedly in people’s interest,” Mr. Surjewala said. Mr. Shivakumar has been consistently saying that the party would go to the polls under a collective leadership. Sources in the party said theKPCC chief told Mr. Gandhi about “indiscipline in the party” and “mischief of projecting Mr. Siddaramaiah as the next Chief Minister” when the party is focusing on exposing the ruling BJP’s failures in the management of the pandemic. Delhi visit In the midst all these developments, Mr. Siddaramaiah has decided to meet central leaders of the party in July, sources said. Reacting to statements by MLAs, Mr. Siddaramaiah, who apparently was not in favour Mr. Shivakumar becoming the party’s chief last year, said, “What can I do if legislators mention my name for the Chief Minister’s post? They are personal views of the MLAs and there is no need to give much importance to such statements and it is not a matter for discussion.”  Whatever I have to say, I have told the party high command. Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah will look into what the legislators are saying. If he does not, the party is there to look into it. D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fissures-emerge-in-karnataka-congress-over-cm-candidate/article34941850.ece
24 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist leader Haribushan dies of COVID-induced heart attack||The CPI (Maoist) Telangana State committee secretary Haribushan alias Yapa Narayana, 50, died of a heart attack after battling COVID-19 for several days in Chhattisgarh on Monday, police said. Officials said they had received reliable information about the death of Haribushan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-leader-haribushan-dies-of-covid-induced-heart-attack/article34941848.ece
24 June 2021||BUTTAIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police probe role of ITDA staff in sexual harassment of tribal girls||The West Godavari district police, which arrested five persons on charge of exploiting tribal girls by promising jobs in K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), are probing the role of the staff in the case. The police have registered a sexual harassment case and are making efforts to arrest ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana, who has been named main accused in the case. “The ITDA Project Officer allegedly misused his powers and conducted illegal activities in the ITDA Office and the government quarters in Kota Ramachandrapuram (K.R. Puram) village. Besides, the tribal girls were reportedly taken to the guest house of the Project Officer,” said West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. Suryanarayana allegedly sexually harassed a woman employee of the ITDA in his office. He transferred the employee to Eluru from the Agency area after she refused to give in to his demands, the SP said. Video clips go viral The Project Officer reportedly gave money to the other accused who allegedly acted as mediators in trapping the tribal girls and helped abetting the crime. However, differences cropped up when the ITDA Project Officer refused to pay more money to the mediators. Irked over this, two of the accused videographed the statements of a woman who was allegedly harassed by Suryanrayana and circulated the clips among a group on a social media platform, which which went viral, the investigating offers said. The accused were all natives of Buttaigudem, Koyyalagudem and Jangareddygudem mandals of West Godavari district. Meanwhile, the police arrested K. Hemanthu Naga Venkata Pavan alias Ramana, the sixth accused in the case. All the six accused were produced before the Jangareddygudem court on Wednesday, Mr. Narayan Naik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-probe-role-of-itda-staff-in-sexual-harassment-of-tribal-girls/article34941839.ece
24 June 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Floods likely to affect 62k persons in Chintoor Agency||The State government has prepared an action plan to minimise loss of life during the forthcoming monsoon, when the Godavari will be even more prone to flooding than usual due to the closing of the cofferdam at the Polavaram irrigation project. Plans have been made to rehabilitate over 25,000 families comprising over 62,000 people from the four merged mandals in Chintoor Agency in East Godavari district to tackle the floods that are expected to affect the region in mid-August. The four merged mandals that are expected to suffer heavy flooding are Chintoor, Kunavaram, V.R. Puram, and Yetapaka in Chintoor Agency. There is also the threat of the Sabari river — which joins the Godavari from Chhattisgarh — going into spate. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy appealed to the local communities not to panic due to the closure of the Polavaram cofferdam. “A total of 233 habitations are expected to be affected. Steps are being taken to minimise loss of lives keeping in view the last year’s flood level of 62.69 ft at Bhadrachalam,” Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said. ITDA-Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana said that essential commodities, including rice, will be given for three months in advance to tide over the aftermath of the floods. The ITDA authorities have also identified 165 pregnant women to be rehabilitated before the floodwaters enter their habitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/floods-likely-to-affect-62k-persons-in-chintoor-agency/article34941885.ece
24 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||26-member elephant herd creates panic near Palamaner||A forest watcher lost three fingers when a cracker exploded in his hand while he was hurling it at a 26-member herd of wild elephants on Wednesday, when it moved closer to human habitations on the outskirts of Palamaner, towards Gudiyattam in Tamil Nadu, raiding sugarcane and paddy crops. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar said though the Palamaner-Gudiyattam road, which cuts through thick forests, is frequented by wild elephants, their number used to be small and “manageable” by elephant trackers and watchers. “It is for the first time in recent years that a 26-member herd has appeared on the outskirts of Palamaner, making it tough for the field staff to drive them into the thickets,” he said. The elephant trackers in a bid to tackle the wild herd tried firing crackers. In this process, a cracker exploded in the hand of forest watcher Srihari. The injured worker, with three fingers missing, was rushed to the area hospital. Forest officials keeping an eye The DFO said that in spite of the difficulty in tackling larger herds, about 30 field personnel were working round the clock, monitoring the jumbo movements and diverting their attention from foraying into human habitations and farmlands. “Unfortunately, the villagers are adding to the confusion by surging closer to the wild elephants to take selfies, and shouting at them. We have requested the police to control the mob so that it would be easier for us drive them back into the forests. We are on the job of chalking out an effective action plan on Thursday,” Mr Ravi Shankar said. Forest watchers observed that the presence of new born calves in the big herd was slowing their movement, and creating bedlam would only worsen the situation. They said from June to August, the jumbos would be in “musth” and their incursions into fields had to be dealt with strategically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panic-as-jumbo-herd-raids-crops/article34941841.ece
24 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reconstruction works of Kanipakam temple launched||Endowments Minister V. Srinivas Rao on Wednesday performed ‘bhumi puja’ and foundation-laying ceremony for the reconstruction of the Kanipakam temple, near Chittoor. It is the third prominent temple in Chittoor district after Tirumala and Srikalahasti. The Minister said that the reconstruction of the temple would be completed by Vinayaka Chathurthi next year, while works on the golden chariot were in progress and would be completed at the earliest. He reiterated that the State government was committed to protecting the sanctity of Hindu temples and interests of the devotees. Earlier, the Minister along with Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy took part in the special rituals before launching the reconstruction works.The temple authorities said devotees would be allowed to have darshan through the Balalayam (temporary arrangement) on the temple premises, in strict adherence to COVID guidelines. Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu and senior officials of the department and mandal officials of Puthalapattu, Irala and Tavanampalle were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reconstruction-works-of-kanipakam-temple-launched/article34942333.ece
24 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to expedite works on water projects||Minister for Panchayat Raj P. Ramachandra Reddy on Wednesday said the three reservoirs mooted with an outlay of Rs. 2,144.5 crore in the western mandals of Chittoor district had obtained administrative sanction. At a review meeting with the officials of water resources, panchayat raj and revenue departments here, the Minister asked them to expedite the works on the three projects in Kurabalakota, Punganur and Somala mandals, including acquisition of lands, rehabilitation and providing alternative arrangements for the farmers. Apart from this, the canal works on the Kaluvagunta reservoir near Chittoor and Vavilchenu reservoir in Vedurukuppam mandals would also be completed at the earliest. The Minister said the Kurabalakota reservoir would have a capacity of 2 tmcft, Punganur project 1 tmcft and Avulapalle in Somala 3.5 tmcft. Housing scheme Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the mega housing scheme for 31.5 lakh beneficiaires, the brainchild of Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, would be subjected to fortnightly reviews during the Spandana programme. The Minister said while sanction for 15.5 lakh housing units was already made through virtual launch on June 3, the remaining target would be reached in a phased manner. He said Chittoor district topped the State with 1.7 lakh housing units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-expedite-works-on-water-projects/article34942334.ece
24 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Padma urges CM to appeal against MANSAS verdict||Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma has said that it was shameful that the TDP was celebrating the removal of Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju from the MANSAS Trust chairperson post and the Simhachalam Devasthanam. Mr. Padma requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to appeal against this order to a higher court. “Ms.Sanchita was the first woman in India to be appointed as the chairperson of a major temple trust. Her appointment reflects the progressive initiative taken by Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy to achieve women empowerment. Given the landmark judgments by the Supreme Court which gives women equal rights not just in inheritance of properties but also in positions, job opportunities, temple trusts and charitable institutions, the recent developments in MANSAS Trust case is unfortunate,” she said.  “We cannot allow privileged persons using the titles of Rajas and Maharajas, long abolished by the Government of India, to perpetuate a patriarchal social order,’’ Ms. Padma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/padma-urges-cm-to-appeal-against-mansas-verdict/article34942346.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parties in Telangana and A.P. at loggerheads on irrigation projects||The recent decision of Telangana government to construct half-a-dozen irrigation projects on river Krishna has kicked off a fresh war of words between political parties in both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh blaming the rivals. The TRS Ministers S. Niranjan Reddy, V. Srinivas Goud and V. Prashant Reddy have defended the projects as they were tit-for-tat to the Rayalaseema lift-irrigation scheme and a canal on the right bank of Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS) constructed by AP government. The YSR Congress government of AP led by Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav reacted strongly saying the State was only utilising its share of water in the river by grounding the schemes. He was supported by party MLAs G. Srikanth Reddy and Ms. Roja. In the midst of claims and counter claims by the two governments, the BJP and Congress joined the issue blaming it on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for prolonging the issue of reallocation of water between the two States over six years by filing a case in Supreme Court. The presidents of BJP State committees in Telangana and AP Bandi Sanjay Kumar and Somu Veerraju respectively targeted the Telangana government. On Wednesday, Telangana Congress legislature party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka also reacted strongly to the delay in water reallocation. Refuting the claim of AP government that it was using its share of water, Telangana has contended that there was no question of share for any State because the matter was neither settled by court nor the river water disputes tribunal. Only a temporary arrangement was made by AP and Telangana to share water in the ratio of 512 tmc ft : 299 tmc ft till the final allocation was made. The Telangana government also highlighted that AP had allocation of assured water to carry 15 tmc ft to meet drinking water requirements of Chennai and 19 tmc ft in right bank canal of Srisailam project. Beyond that, all projects in the State were dependent on flood in Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar projects. Telangana had moved the Supreme Court after its demand to the Centre in the wake of formation of the State in 2014 to refer reallocation of water between the four States -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and AP -- to a tribunal went unheeded. The demand was later scaled down to only Telangana and AP. Even before the court disposed of the case, the Centre referred the question of reallocation of water to an existing tribunal headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar which made project-wise allocation of water which was not to the satisfaction of Telangana. On Centre’s proposal as a way of conceding the demand, Telangana withdrew the case with the rider that it would go back to court if the demand was not referred to the tribunal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parties-in-ts-ap-at-loggerheads-over-irrigation-projects/article34942148.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vaccinate school staff on priority basis’||While the Telangana government seems to be in a hurry to open up schools and colleges post lockdown, public health experts are suggesting a different timeline, calling for priority vaccination for teachers, administrators, housekeeping staff, bus drivers and others, as quickly as possible. “Immunisation has been started for children above 12 years of age in some countries. If the school staff are quickly immunised by the time the Dasara holidays end, schools can reopen. This could also be done in a graded manner,” suggests Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy, in an exclusive interaction. However, contrary to what the official thinking is, Dr. Murthy wants the younger children to be allowed first into schools with vaccinated personnel. “We can start with younger children below 10 years starting off earlier and then those in the 10-16 year age group followed by the secondary schools over a three-week window,” he moots. For worried parents, this is what the good doctor has to say: “Educational institutions have one of the lowest risks of transmission and the mortality rate in children is extremely low. And, children are more likely to pick up the infection at home rather than at school, except in residential schools.” Educational institutions are not only about teaching-learning but also about social interaction, play and in many places, nutritional supplements but for that, “the earlier the school personnel are vaccinated, the sooner the educational institutional opening up can start. This applies to the Anganwadi workers and nursery school teachers too,” insists the public health expert who has experience of working with World Health Organisation (WHO), Geneva, and was also UNAIDS consultant with National Aids Control Organisation. With regard to fears about a possible third wave of the pandemic, the IIPH director said this could occur whenever there is an increase in the number of people who are at risk of getting infected, either because they did not suffer from COVID in the past or were not vaccinated. With vaccine availability seemingly easing, Dr. Murthy advocates the child immunisation model. “Hospital-based vaccination is on a first-come, first-served basis. However, we will never know who all have been covered and who are left to be vaccinated. In childhood immunisation, health centre staff have a list of eligible babies needing to be vaccinated and they motivate mothers to bring them to the vaccination centre offered at the nearest location to the house. Similar mobilisation is needed for effective COVID vaccination,” he says. Micro-planning and community mobilisation can be done like age cut-off criteria to be decided by the government with the help of the community leaders and local health staff. Close-by public vaccination sites can be identified with local community taking responsibility of bringing people and maintaining discipline at the sites, added Dr. Murthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccinate-school-staff-on-priority-basis/article34942136.ece
24 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boat services to Papikonda hill will be resumed in July first week: Minister||The State government is all set to resume boat operations to the Papikonda hill range in the first week of July, allowing at least 25 boats including two belonging to the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) to operate from East and West Godavari districts. The boating services to Papikonda were stopped after 46 passengers died in a boat tragedy at Kutchuluru in East Godavari Agency in 2019. “We are preparing to resume boat services to Papikonda from July first week. A meeting will also be conducted in Vijayawada on Thursday to address the grievances of the boat operators,” Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu on Wednesday. In April, the APTDC conducted a trial run of boat service between Singanapalli and Papikonda hill range and it was successful, enabling the authorities to prepare the ground to run two boat services—Haritha and Sir Arthur Cotton. “We will operate two boats to the Papikonda hill range. We are expecting the route map and permission from the Irrigation Department by June-end,” said APTDC Divisional Manager (East and West Godavari districts) Thota Veera Kumar. Route map Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board Port Officer (Kakinada) G.V.Raghava Rao said that 22 boats including including two launches and five air-conditioned services had passed the fitness test conducted by the board as per the new safety guidelines. An official of Irrigation Department said that the Papikonda route map meant for tourist boats would change after the Godavari floods, which is expected in August. Until then, the existing route map would be advised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boat-services-to-papikonda-hill-will-be-resumed-in-july-first-week-minister/article34942348.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC suspends G.O. on hospital room rent||Slamming the State government, a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday suspended for a week a new government order (G.O.) allowing private hospitals to fix the room rent for COVID-19 patients. The Bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice Kauser Edappagath observed that what had now been done by the government was to allow the private hospitals to fix any rate for the rooms and suites and that the order took away “the laudatory objectives of its first order” issued on May 10. It was clear from the earlier order that the rates fixed for the beds included all corollary charges like nursing, boarding, doctor’s fee, etc., the court said. By allowing private hospitals to fix any rate for their rooms and suites, “they have become empowered to go back to the earlier situation in charges”, albeit with a condition that such rates be displayed prominently. Hospitals’ plea The court passed the order on a petition filed by the Kerala Private Hospitals Association seeking to review an earlier High Court directive to the State government to fix COVID-19 treatment charges in private hospitals. The earlier directive had come on a petition complaining that private hospitals were overcharging patients for COVID-19 treatment. When the review petition came up for hearing, the court observed that the action of the government in allowing the private hospitals to charge their own rate for rooms and suites was very serious. The new order had done away with the real purpose of the earlier government order on the charges to be levied by the private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. Though a small concession could be allowed in the room rates, the order really left the fixing of room rent entirely to the whims and fancies of the private hospitals. The Bench also noted that there were some issues with respect to the treatment of pre-existing comorbidities. Counsel for the hospitals’ association submitted that the order did not offer a clear meaning on room rents. If a COVID-19 patient had pre-existing co-morbidities during hospitalisation, treatment for the same should be excluded from the charges fixed by the government. Govt. response The government pleader submitted that all the issues involved would be properly considered. The government counsel sought to respond appropriately to the court’s observations in a week. The court, in the meanwhile, ordered that the operation of the new order be suspended till the next date of hearing. The court posted the hearing on the review petition for June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-suspends-go-on-hospital-room-rent/article34941843.ece
24 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why change menu in Lakshadweep, asks HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has observed that prima facie switching over to a different menu, with the exclusion of chicken and meat from the midday meal scheme of schools in Lakshadweep, would run contrary to the National Programme of Midday Meal in schools. This is especially so when it is constituted with the avowed objective of ensuring the physical and mental health of children. The Bench, led by Chief Justice M. Manikumar, made the observations in its Tuesday order staying the decisions of the Lakshadweep administration to close down dairy farms and remove meat from the menu of the midday meal scheme. Court directive The court ordered that the serving of food, including meat, chicken, fish and egg, and other items to the schoolgoing children of Lakshadweep be continued until further orders. The court also pointed out that the minutes of the meetings of the Union Territory-level steering monitoring committee and district task force on midday meal scheme held on January 27 revealed that even a physician who attended the meeting had opined that non-vegetarian foods, especially fish, chicken and egg, were essential for the growth of children and that children need a healthy balanced diet containing foods from each group (veg and non-veg), so that they get a wide range of nutrients to help them stay healthy. The court said that there was no reason why the opinion of the physician was not taken note of. But then, the committee seemed to have suggested the exclusion of meat from the menu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-change-menu-in-lakshadweep-asks-hc/article34941838.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||File affidavit in money heist case: HC tells ED||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday asked the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to file an affidavit in response to a plea for a probe by the agency in the Kodakara black money heist case. Justice Ashok Menon passed the directive on a petition filed by Salim Madavur, president, Lok Tantrik Yuva Janata Dal. According to him, the investigation has revealed an economic offence punishable under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. But the ED officers concerned had refused to take any decision on his representation. Nor had the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thrissur, who was duty-bound to forward his findings to the ED, done anything in this regard, the petitioner alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/file-affidavit-in-money-heist-case-hc-tells-ed/article34941844.ece
24 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Copper plates discovered in Srisailam deciphered||The 18 copper plates recently discovered at Srisailam during the renovation of Ganta Matham, one of the Panchamathas, were deciphered by P. Chenna Reddy, Telugu University Dean of School of History, Culture and Archaeology. The copper plates written in Sanskrit and in Telugu Characters reportedly record the gift of the village Vemavaram, after renaming it as Allada Reddi Vemavaram to “the God Mallikarjunadeva of Sriparvata by the king” issued by Virabhadra Reddi, from the Reddis of Rajamahendravaram. The copper plate was issued by king Virabhadra Reddi, son of Allada Reddi, said Mr. Chenna Reddy. It is reportedly dated Śaka 1358 (vasu-bāna-viśva) Anala, Vaiśākha, śu.15 which is equivalent to 1436 A.D., April 30, Monday. It records the gift of the village for the merit of his father Allada Reddi, on the occasion of the Lunar eclipse. The record was composed by Kommanamatya and engraved by Pinanumka, son of Goragapumdi Numka. The record ends with the signature of Sri Markamdesvara Vemareddi, said Mr. Chenna Reddy, adding that Muniratnam Reddy, Director of Epigraphy, Archaeological Survey of India, Mysore, too worked with him in deciphering the script. They congratulated Srisailam Temple E.O. Karanam S. Rama Rao for taking interest in protecting such valuable findings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/copper-plates-discovered-in-srisailam-deciphered/article34941882.ece
24 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of a family ‘end life’ in Kurnool||Four members of a family allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison in the Khadak Pura locality here in the early hours of Wednesday. According to the One Town police, the deceased were identified as Pratap, 42, a TV mechanic, his wife Hemalatha, 36, son Jayanth, 17, and daughter Rishitha, 13. The police suspect that the victims could have consumed poison sometime past midnight. The incident came to light when Pratap’s brother staying on the second floor of the same building tried to contact them and there was no response. “The family members called us and we entered the house to find all the four dead,” Circle Inspector of Police Kala Venkata Ramana said. The reason for the extreme step was not immediately known and investigation was on. There is always someone to talk to by dialling: 100; or 112, oOver WhatsApp: 7777877722 in Kurnool district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-of-a-family-end-life-in-kurnool/article34942328.ece
24 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIITDM -Kurnool introduces new courses, ups student intake||The Indian Institute of Information Technology Design and Manufacturing(IIITDM) in Kurnool is planning to enhance its student intake from this academic year, Director D.V.L.N. Somayajulu said. Part-time programmes The institute, which at present has 180 B.Tech. seats, will increase the intake to 240. At a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Somayajulu said from the current academic year the institute will offer full-time and part-time Ph-D programmes also. The part-time programme will benefit industry professionals and college faculty members, he added. M.Tech programmes that have been introduced from the current year include Data Analytics and Decision Sciences (DADS), and Smart Manufacturing and Electronic System Design offered by the Computer Science Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Electronics Communication Engineering departments. The institute had introduced eight minor courses in the B. Tech. programme as per the New Education Policy (NEP)-2020 guidelines. The IIITDM had entered into an understanding with Samsung for student training and internship programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iiitdm-kurnool-introduces-new-courses-ups-student-intake/article34942329.ece
24 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||613 new cases in South Coastal A.P.||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh reported 613 new COVID infections, up by 81 from yesterday’s tally, in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. Prakasam registered 307 new cases while Nellore district logged 306 cases. With this, the cumulative tally rose to more than 2.44 lakh in the region. The active cases, which have been declining steadily since mid-May, came down to 8,916 during the period in the districts of SPSR Nellore and Prakasam. Total deaths The toll climbed to 1,799 in the region as three patients in SPSR Nellore district and two in Prakasam district succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Wednesday. So far, Prakasam district has accounted for 903 fatalities while SPSR Nellore district accounted for 896. Recoveries continued to outnumber new cases. As many as 694 patients in the region, including 367 in Prakasam district, recovered. As a result, the recovery rate improved to 95.62%. So far, more than 2.34 lakh patients have recuperated in the two districts. Preparing for a possible third wave of the pandemic, the Prakasam district administration issued an order notifying 41 hospitals across the district to treat COVID patients adhering to the laid out standard operating procedures(SOPs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/613-new-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article34942335.ece
24 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Test positivity in Kerala remains over 10%||Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) was steady at 10.29% and the State reported 12,787 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Active cases stood at 99,390 patients. Cumulative fatalities in Kerala stood at 12,445, with authorities adding 150 deaths from the past two or three days. The total number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals in the State stood at 26,492. Ernakulam district reported the highest number of new cases at 1,706. Andhra Pradesh reported 36 deaths and 4,684 new infections on Wednesday. The daily TPR witnessed a slight rise at 5.80% over the rates of the past four days. Chittoor reported eight new deaths while East Godavari and Krishna reported five deaths each. At 1,171, only East Godavari reported more than 1,000 new infections in the past day. In Karnataka, a day after the first case of Delta plus variant was reported in Mysuru, another case was reported in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Karnataka reported 4,436 new cases of which 1,008 were from Bengaluru Urban. The State added 123 deaths, and had 1,16,450 active patients, with the TPR for the day touching 2.59%. Karnataka’s Health Minister K. Sudhakar said the information on the Delta plus variant had been shared with the Union Health Ministry. Six more genome labs would be set up in the State. The Bengaluru patient was an 86-year-old resident of Ashok Nagar, who had symptoms of Influenza-like Illness (ILI). He had got one dose of COVID-19 vaccine when his sample was collected in May and sent to the genome sequencing lab in NIMHANS. Health officials in Mysuru were awaiting the results of one more batch of samples. Dean and Director, Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, Nanjaraj said 40 samples were sent to NIMHANS last month. The youth with Delta plus variant was asymptomatic and not hospitalised. Both Delta plus cases did not have any history of foreign travel. The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in a day dropped below 400 in Chennai on Wednesday. The city logged 396 cases, reporting fewer deaths than Coimbatore. Across Tamil Nadu, 6,596 people tested positive, taking the State’s tally to 24,43,415. As many as 166 people died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 31,746.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Chennai and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/test-positivity-in-kerala-remains-over-10/article34941835.ece
24 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||The Hindu Kerala Bureau chief Anil Radhakrishnan passes away||S. Anil Radhakrishnan, 54, Chief of Bureau, Kerala, The Hindu , passed away at his house here on Wednesday. Anil’s sudden passing came as a shock to his family, colleagues, neighbours and friends. A doctor later certified heart attack as the cause of Anil’s death. Anil joined The Hindu in 1996 after a five-year stint in the Press Trust of India (PTI) in Mumbai. He acquired his master’s degree in journalism from the Department of Journalism, University of Kerala, in 1990. He had passed the course as a class topper. Anil covered tourism, public transport, airline industry, ports, road, railways and allied infrastructure for The Hindu for more than 24 years. Of late, he branched to financial journalism. Anil was known in The Hindu for his passion for work. Scarcely a newsday passed without one of Anil’s reports on The Hindu’ s Kerala pages. He doggedly tracked his beat and was abreast of the latest developments. His vast and deep sources in the areas he covered, high domain knowledge and an infallible work ethic kept Anil on the top of his expansive beat. He was the mainstay of the editorial bureau. Recently, Anil had authored several breaking and nuanced articles on public finance and Centre-State fiscal relationship. He had also written many human interest and nature stories. During his time as head of the city bureau, Anil had proved his news leadership skills. He had a vast circle of friends. Anil had also served as the district secretary of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists and head of the Kesari Memorial Trust. He had attended a fortnight-long programme for journalists in Washington in mid-2000. Condolences Leaders cutting across political lines expressed their condolences. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan described Anil as a value-based journalist. Anil’s unexpected parting was a loss to society and journalism, the Chief Minister said. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty, former Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, BJP State president K. Surendran, former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, and former KPCC presidents Mullappally Ramachandran and V.M. Sudheeran were among those who expressed dismay and sorrow at Anil’s unexpected passing. They remembered his contributions to journalism. Anil is survived by his mother Sathi Devi, wife S.S. Sindhu (State Programme Officer, Samagra Shiksha Kerala) and son S.A. Narayanan (Reliance Petroleum, Gujarat). The cremation will be held at Santhi Kavadam, Thycaud, at 10 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-hindu-kerala-bureau-chief-anil-radhakrishnan-passes-away/article34941837.ece
24 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress resolves to rebuild party in Kerala||The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee’s (KPCC) Political Affairs Committee (PAC) on Wednesday resolved to rebuild the party’s organisational clout from the grassroots level. KPCC president K. Sudhakaran said the party would whittle down the top-heavy State leadership from 350 to 51 members. Mr. Sudhakaran said the KPCC would revamp 14 district committees. The party would have full-time dedicated workers on a minimum subsistence dole. Merit, tenacity, good political mooring, willingness to work and walk the extra mile were the yardsticks for future DCC presidentships and allied organisational posts. Other factors would take a backseat. The party would also rejig booth and mandalam committees. It would form neighbourhood groups for every 50 households. The party has reserved 10% of its posts for women and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Mr. Sudhakaran announced a political and leadership training school to re-educate Congress workers on party values and ethos. The school would help them develop social service and community skills essential for establishing local connect. Henceforth, only KPCC approved spokespersons could participate in channel discussions. The party needed to project a unified face in the mainstream and social media. The KPCC would revamp the organisation’s news channel and newspaper. Mr. Sudhakaran cracked the whip on combative statements and opinionated social media posts on organisational matters by party members. He announced disciplinary committees at the district and State level to curb anti-party views.  He said the public war of words and acidic comments that targeted individual leaders or cast aspersions on the party’s decision-making process did not augur well for the organisation’s image. Such remarks and verbal squabbles conveyed the wrong impression that the party was in a permanent state of revolt. The party would no more tolerate airing of grievances and off-the-cuff remarks on internal matters. Mr. Sudhakaran also announced a committee of experts to study the lapses that led to party’s defeat in the Assembly polls.  Merit, tenacity, good political mooring among yardsticks for future DCC chiefs. K. Sudhakaran KPCC president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-resolves-to-rebuild-party-in-kerala/article34941847.ece
24 June 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guruvayur temple to reopen today||Sreekrishna Temple, Guruvayur, which has been remaining closed for the past two months following COVID-19 lockdown, will be reopened for devotees on Thursday. Only 15 persons will be allowed inside the temple at a time. A maximum of 600 devotees can have darshan on a day. They include 300 people who register online, 150 workers of the Guruvayur Devaswom and 150 local people. However, entry will not be allowed to the Nalambalam. 80 weddings a day Wedding ceremonies and offerings also will be resumed. Eighty weddings will be allowed a day. Bookings for weddings have started. Only 10 persons will be allowed in a team. All offerings, except ‘choroonu’ ceremony will be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guruvayur-temple-to-reopen-today/article34941846.ece
24 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to start ‘Tulabharam’ at Tiruchanur temple||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to introduce the ‘Tulabharam’ rituals at the Padmavathi temple in Tiruchanur. ‘Tulabharam’ is an age-old ritual wherein a devotee sits on a weighing balance (scale) and donates coins, rice, wheat, sugar and jaggery among other things equivalent to his weight to the temple. The TTD has simplified the procedure for the ritual at the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala by entrusting the responsibility to a nationalised bank, relieving the devotees of the burden of carrying the gift materials to the temple. The bank staff, in the presence of the vigilance sleuths, record the weight of the devotee by making him sit on the scale and the devotees deposit the amount equivalent to the cost of the material they intends to gift to the temple at the bank. Former Prime Minister of Sri Lanka Ranil Wickremesinghe was the latest addition to the list of foreign dignitaries who performed the ritual at the Lord Venkateswara temple in 2019. Ace shuttler P.V. Sindhu had also performed the ritual after winning a silver medal in the Rio Olympics. With requests pouring in from devotees for introduction of ‘Tulabharam’ at the Padmavathi temple akin to the one being performed at Tirumala temple, the TTD consulted the Agama advisers before giving a go-ahead to the proposal. Meanwhile, a devotee from Chennai has come forward to bear the entire cost involved in the installation of the weighing scale on the temple premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-start-tulabharam-at-tiruchanur-temple/article34941888.ece
24 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jawahar Reddy is chairman of TTD Specified Authority||The government has constituted a Specified Authority for the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Wednesday with Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy as its Chairman. The two-member authority replaces the TTD Board headed by Y.V. Subba Reddy whose two-year tenure ended on June 21. The orders also specified that Additional EO A.V. Dharma reddy would act as the convener of the authority which shall exercise all the powers and perform the functions of the trust board. The decision of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy appointing Specified Authority took everyone by surprise as it comes at a time when there was a fierce competition for the TTD Chairmanship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawahar-reddy-is-chairman-of-ttd-specified-authority/article34941886.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doodh Duronto reaches a milestone||Renigunta Junction has achieved the rare distinction of having despatched nine crore litres of milk to New Delhi through the ‘Doodh Duronto’ special train over the last 15 months. The South Central Railway (SCR) had launched the service on March 26, 2020, to Hazrat Nizamuddin station in a bid to balance the essential commodity supply chain, which breached the nine crore-mark as on June 22, 2021. Originally introduced on alternate days, the officials made it a daily special from July 15, considering the rising demand. The zone operated the train on a par with mail and express trains to cover the distance of 2,300 km between Renigunta and H. Nizamuddin within a reasonable time of 30 hours. The specials are run with six milk tankers, each having a storage capacity of 40,000 litres. With 394 trips having been operated, totalling to 2,248 milk tankers, there was elation in the Railways when the nine-crore-litre mark was touched. SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya said the train played a key role in ensuring that the supply of an essential commodity like milk was not affected during the COVID-19 period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doodh-duronto-reaches-a-milestone/article34942338.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop on kitchen gardening||Regional Science Centre, Tirupati, has invited applications from women and girls for attending a workshop to be organised on ‘Kitchen gardening’ on June 27 on the RSC Innovation Hub premises at Alipiri. As there is a rise in awareness on the art of growing vegetables on a small piece of land in a planned way in the vicinity of residential house to meet the needs of the family with fresh produce round the year, the workshop focusses on various techniques and procedures to have an own kitchen garden. Prior registration is must. Those interested can register at https://tinyurl.com/kitchengardenrsct. Details can be obtained at 0877-228 6202.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-on-kitchen-gardening/article34942339.ece
24 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen concentrators distributed||ActionAid Association has donated 50 oxygen concentrators of five-litre capacity each to SVR Ruia Government General Hospital here on Wednesday. As part of COVID second wave response supported by Give India, ActionAid programme officer G. Rajasekhar handed over the concentrators to Ruia Superintendent T. Bharathi. The organisation had earlier made similar donations in East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur, Srikakulam and Nellore. “We have given 1,640 ten-litre oxygen concentrators and 4,750 five-litre variants across 164 districts in 13 States in India,” Mr. Rajasekhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-concentrators-distributed/article34942336.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID daily deaths come down to 36||The State reported 36 deaths due to COVID-19 and 4,684 new infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative tally increased to 18,62,036 and the toll reached 12,452. The death rate at 0.67% remains unchanged while the recovery rate slightly increased to 96.58%. In the past day, 7,324 patients have recovered leaving 51,204 patients under treatment. The total recoveries increased to 17,98,380.   The daily positivity rate also witnessed a slight rise at 5.80% over the daily positivity rates of the past four days. The overall test positivity rate of the 2.13 crore samples tested remains at 8.72%. The tests per million ratio of the sample tested in the State so far crossed four lakh and reached 4,00,019. In other words, the total number of samples tested so far was equal to 40% of the 5.34 crore population. However, the number of individuals tested would be far less than the number of samples tested. The confirmed cases per million stand at 34,870. Chittoor district reported eight more deaths while East Godavari and Krishna reported five deaths each. Anantapur, Nellore and Srikakulam districts reported three fatalaties each. Similarly, Kurnool, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts reported two deaths each while Guntur, Kadapa and West Godavari reported one death each. However, Vizianagaram district reported no deaths. Infection count At 1,171, only East Godavari reported more than a thousand new infections in the past day. It was followed by West Godavari (660), Chittoor (493), Krishna (355), Prakasam (307), Nellore (306), Kadapa (296), Guntur (289), Anantapur (236), Srikakulam (174), Visakhapatnam (173), VIzianagaram (151) and Kurnool (73). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,57,600), Chittoor (2,15,684), Guntur (1,60,382), West Godavari (1,58,206), Anantapur (1,52,661), Visakhapatnam (1,47,439), Nellore (1,25,902),Kurnool (1,21,180), Prakasam (1,18,910), Srikakulam (1,17,305), Kadapa (1,04,900), Krishna (99,420) and Vizianagaram (79,552).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-daily-deaths-come-down-to-36/article34942344.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod for Rs. 1,860 crore loan for school education programme||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Wednesday said the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) had sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs. 1,860 crore for implementation of Supporting Andhra's Learning Transformation (SALT) programme that aimed at improving learning outcomes, quality of teaching practices and school management in basic education by transforming government schools into vibrant and competitive institutions. In a statement, the Minister said Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das had received an official communication in this regard from Junaid Kamal Ahmad, Country Director for the World Bank in India. Under the scheme, the State is implementing initiatives like Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu, as part of which the infrastructure facilities in Government schools across the State are being given a facelift. Curriculum reforms, improved classroom practices, professional development of teachers and preparing students for be globally competitive by introducing English as a medium of instruction in the State-run educational institutions are other thrust areas. He said the government was trying to strike a balance between infrastructure development and raising the standards of education by taking up faculty development programmes. He said the World Bank team had expressed satisfaction over the implementation of programmes like Nadu-Nedu and the government thrust to teacher-training. The Minister said it was a five-year-long project to be implemented from the academic year 2021-22 to 2026-27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nod-for-rs-1860-crore-loan-for-school-education-programme/article34942353.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdrawal of plaints against Jagan: HC directs filing of revision cases||The Andhra Pradesh High Court took suo motu cognisance of the withdrawal of 11 criminal complaints filed against Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for allegedly making hate speeches five years ago against the then Chief Minister, N. Chandrababu Naidu, and casting aspersions on his decision to locate the capital in Amaravati. The court directed its registry to file revision cases in respect of all those complaints. The impugned criminal complaints were registered against Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in different jurisdictions in and around the year 2016, and orders were passed by various magistrates during that period. A single-judge Bench of the High Court, comprising Justice K. Lalitha, heard the matter on Wednesday and posted it to June 25 for further arguments. Taking strong objection to what he called an administrative decision to seek a suo motu revision of the cases, Advocate-General (A-G) S. Sriram said correcting judicial orders passed by the lower courts was essentially a judicial course, and if it was decided that the said orders were fraught with errors of procedure, the power which the court exercised ought to be judicial and not on the administrative side. He observed that the court’s decision to go for a revision of the cases was tantamount to stepping into the shoes of the complainants. Mr. Sriram further contended that it was impermissible for the court to take a suo motu exercise on the administrative side, and if such a decision had already been taken, the papers being placed before it would be only to secure judicial approval for it, whereas neither Section 482 nor Section 483 of the Criminal Procedure Code permitted such a course to be adopted by the Registrar (judicial). Mr. Sriram insisted that he was appearing only for the State, that too because there were allegations against the police machinery in the reference the Registrar (judicial) had drawn from Justice Rakesh Kumar’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdrawal-of-plaints-against-jagan-hc-directs-filing-of-revision-cases/article34942355.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools told not to insist on immediate submission of TC||The Department of School Education has asked the school managements in the State not to insist on immediate submission of the Transfer Certificate (TC) from the students seeking admission in their institution. School Education Director Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu on Wednesday issued instructions in this regard. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, a time limit of 30 days should be given to obtain the TC from the school where the child had studied earlier, he said. Mr. Veerabhadrudu said the school where the student had studied earlier should, however, immediately issue the TC. Any delay on the part of the headmaster would attract disciplinary action under the Right to Education Act, he warned. In case of children belonging to migrant families, the management should not insist on TC for admission into Class 1 to 10, he said and asked the officials to ensure its strict compliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-told-not-to-insist-on-immediate-submission-of-tc/article34942354.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCPP urges LS Speaker to act urgently on disqualification petition||YSR Congress Parliamentary Party (YSRCPP) president and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to urgently act on the fresh petition being filed by them for disqualifying MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju for alleged anti-party activities, stating it was not desirable to let him attend the House when he should be morally, legally and ethically out of it. In a letter to the Speaker, Mr. Jagan, YSRCPP leader V. Vijayasai Reddy, party's floor leader in the Lok Sabha P.V. Midhun Reddy and chief whip Margani Bharat said the delay in dealing with earlier pleas to disqualify Mr. Ramakrishna Raju resulted in the people of Narsapuram being represented by a person who was not eligible to be an MP. Besides, the delay was against the Supreme Court’s judgement in K. Megha Chandra Singh V/s Speaker, Manipur Legislative Assembly wherein a three-month time was set for the disposal of such petitions. The YSRCPP leaders said it was unfortunate that the Speaker had, far from acting on a disqualification petition filed 11 months ago, asked them to amend it now in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. Calling it a “clerical reply”, they said the issue should have been brought to their notice earlier and not after the completion of two Parliament sessions. However, a fresh petition would be submitted with all the requirements in the Speaker’s reply. The first disqualification petition was filed on July 3, 2020. The Speaker assured timely action but had not acted so far, they rued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcpp-urges-ls-speaker-to-act-urgently-on-disqualification-petition/article34942356.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two 100-bed hospitals coming up in Agency areas with AIF aid||With the help of the American India Fund (AIF), U.S., the State government is setting up two 100-bed hospitals in the Agency areas of the State. COVID Special Officer Arja Srikanth, in a release on Wednesday, said that AIF had provided Rs. 4 crore each per hospital at Rampachodavaram of East Godavari and Paderu of Visakhapatnam district. Each hospital would have 92 general beds and eight ICU beds, medical infrastructure, furniture and all other facilities. Dr. Srikanth thanked AIF for extending the help and providing medical care to the tribal population. Meanwhile, the State received 400 oxygen concentrators on Wednesday from the U.S. as part of the U.S., India Strategic Partnership. The consignment was received at New Delhi and arrangements to send them to districts were under way. Dr. Srikanth said that 200 concentrators would be sent to East Godavari and 100 concentrators to West Godavari, while 50 each would be given to Srikakulam and Krishna districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-100-bed-hospitals-coming-up-in-agency-areas-with-aif-aid/article34942357.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three police stations bag ISO certification||Three police stations in Krishna district bagged International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) certification. ISO auditing officer Shivaiah presented the certificates at Mylavaram police station on Wednesday. Tiruvuru MLA Kokkiligadda Rakshananidhi, Additional Superintendent of Police (Administration) Mallika Garg, and Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Srinivasulu took part. The MLA said it was a matter of pride that three police stations in Nuzvid division were awarded ISO 9001-2015 certificates for maintaining high standards at the international level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-police-stations-bag-iso-certification/article34941883.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||P&G, Tata Trusts tie up to beat malnutrition||Procter & Gamble Health Limited on Wednesday announced a three-year collaboration with Tata Trusts for ‘Yes To Poshan’, a new programme that aims to advance the nutritional status of women and children in Krishna district, under its flagship corporate social responsibility initiative Sehat (meaning health). The new initiative will focus on measures to effectively address malnutrition, a complex public health problem which has inter-generational repercussions. According to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5 conducted in 2019, 16 out of the 22 states surveyed reported an increase in children below five years of age being underweight and severely wasted (low weight-for-height). Worrying figures In Andhra Pradesh alone, of all women between 15 and 49 years of age, as high as 58.8% were anaemic and 14.8% had a low Body Mass Index (BMI), highlighting the need for pointed interventions in the region. The Poshan Abhiyan aims to reduce stunting, under-nutrition and low birth weight in children and anaemia amongst women and children. The programme will be executed across five villages in Krishna district. “We are delighted to partner with Tata Trusts for this grassroots-level behaviour change programme, which aims to complement the government’s efforts by promoting diet diversity and addressing the challenges of limited or age-inappropriate diet amongst Pregnant and Lactating Women (PLW) and children below two years,” said Managing Director, Procter & Gamble Health Limited, Milind Thatte. Rajan Sankar, Senior Advisor, Nutrition, Tata Trusts said the problem of malnutrition required collaborative action from different sectors, stakeholders and like-minded organisations and a combination of determinants, such as access to fortified food, better public healthcare, clean water as well as authentic education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pg-tata-trusts-tie-up-to-beat-malnutrition/article34941889.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free IAS coaching||The Sarat Chandra IAS Academy in city will offer free IAS coaching to meritorious Intermediate and undergraduate students, the coaching institute’s Managing Director T. Sarat Chandra said here on Tuesday. Mr. Sarat Chandra said the beneficiaries would be selected based on an entrance exam to be conducted online on June 27. Interested students can apply through the Academy’s website saratchandraias.com by June 26. “The syllabus for the exam is social studies of Classes VII to X and current affairs of the last two months, mostly based on the news items published in The Hindu ,” said Mr. Sarat Chandra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-ias-coaching/article34941890.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patrolling intensified on Krishna riverbank||The Guntur Urban district police and the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate personnel investigating the alleged sexual assault case reported from the Seetanagaram Pushkar Ghat on the Krishna riverbank suspect the involvement of more people in the crime. The police have taken two persons into custody and are questioning them. “The abandoned place at the Pushkar Ghat is regularly frequented by ganja peddlers, blade batch offenders and rowdy-sheeters. We suspect that more than two people might have assaulted the victim,” said a police officer. A gang allegedly accosted the couple on Saturday night and threatened them with blades and pocket knives. They allegedly thrashed the boy and sexually assaulted the girl.Police said that the accused had a history of resorting to crimes such as chain-snatching, attacks and thefts. Caution boards put up Meanwhile, the Tadepalli municipality and the Guntur Urban police have put up signboards cautioning people not to move in abandoned areas on the riverbank. The police have also arranged floodlights on the riverbank and intensified patrolling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patrolling-intensified-on-krishna-riverbank/article34942342.ece
24 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu condemns bindover cases against Atchan’s kin||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has termed the bindover cases filed against the family members of party State president K. Atchannaidu as ‘politically motivated’. “The false cases filed by the Kotabommali police are unacceptable,” he said and warned the YSRCP leaders and the ‘erring’ police officers of consequences if they continued with such ‘oppressive agenda’ against the TDP leaders. Mr. Naidu also demanded that the government close the rowdy sheets opened ‘illegally’ against Harivara Prasad, Suresh and Krishna Murthy. Earlier, the TDP leaders demanded the DGP D. Gautam Sawang to close the rowdy sheets and drop the false cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-condemns-bindover-cases-against-atchans-kin/article34942351.ece
24 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruckus at GVMC meet over property tax hike proposal||The second council meet of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) was a stormy affair with corporators staging protests, raising slogans, and staging walkouts against key issues like property tax hike and levying user charges for garbage collection. Amid stiff resistance from the Opposition parties, proposal to levy user charges for garbage collection was passed by the council through voting. Right from the beginning of the council meet, corporators from the Telugu Desam Party(TDP), Left parties and the Jana Sena Party demanded that the council conduct a discussion on the proposed property tax hike. They reached the Mayor’s podium with placards demanding immediate withdrawal of the proposal. The TDP corporators entered into a heated argument with the YSR Congress Party corporators and demanded a debate. As the situation went out of control, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari left the council hall and walked away to her chamber. Later, the floor leaders of various political parties were called into the Mayor’s chamber to discuss the issue. The Mayor was finally able to convince the floor leaders of various parties and agreed to conduct a discussion on the issue. In the discussion, TDP corporators Peela Srinivasa Rao and CPI (M) corporator B. Ganga Rao questioned the Mayor on how the GVMC release a draft notification without consulting the newly-elected council members. They also said that they were surprised to see that the issue was not on the agenda of the council meeting. TDP corporator K. Govind Reddy said that levying property tax based on market value will increase burden on middlemen. He said that there are chances of increase in tax every time when the market value of the property increases. BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav said that coming up with such a decision during the pandemic is not at all correct. Mr. Ganga Rao said that with the proposed new property tax fixation, the annual property tax of a 300 sq. feet house will be around Rs. 15,000. He alleged that the new system will increase tax by three to five times. User charges Heated arguments also took place when there was discussion on imposing user charges for garbage collection. The Opposition party members demanded withdrawal of the proposal. Some corporators alleged that the door-to-door garbage collection is not proper at some areas. As more than 60 votes were received in favour of the proposal, the Mayor announced that it was approved. Irked by it, the TDP corporators walked out of the meet. Out of 140 points in the agenda, 138 points were passed by the council. Condolences The council meet started with the council members and the GVMC officials paying tributes to former Mayor and senior TDP leader Sabbam Hari,and TDP corporator Vanapalli Ravi Kumar, who lost their lives due to the COVID-19. A number of corporators arrived late to the council meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruckus-at-gvmc-meet-over-property-tax-hike-proposal/article34942365.ece
24 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plans afoot to build multi-speciality children’s hospital in Visakhapatnam||Established in 1965 at Peda Waltair in the city, Rani Chandramani Devi (RCD) Children’s Hospital, is poised to become a 600-bed Super-Speciality Children’s Hospital, if the plans of the State government are materialised. The State government recently announced establishment of three multi-specialty children’s hospitals in Visakhapatnam, Tirupati and Vijayawada/Guntur. “We have already submitted a Detailed Project Report (DPR) to the government for construction of the 600-bed hospital on the premises of the RCD hospital which has been treating children with physical disabilities due to polio and cerebral palsy. District Collector V. Vinay Chand is taking keen interest in the project. The advantage for Visakhapatnam is that 32 acres of land is readily available for construction of the hospital. The buildings will be constructed on 5 acres of land,” Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar told The Hindu . “Post-bifurcation, there is no super-specialty children hospital in Andhra Pradesh. We had been planning since long for the establishment of an exclusive hospital for children with all paediatric sub-specialties like paediatric cardiology, paediatric oncology and paediatric surgery on the lines of the Niloufer Hospital in Hyderabad,” says Dr. Sudhakar. Origin of RCD hospital “The Paediatrics Ward in the King George Hospital (KGH) is always full with more than 100% occupancy all through the year. Many a time, more than one child has to be accommodated on a single bed due to the high demand and shortage of beds and despite the best treatment,” he says. “The present building housing the RCD Hospital originally belonged to Godey Narayana Gajapathi Rao but changed hands after his second daughter Rani Laxmi Narasayamma married Kurupam Raja Veerabhadra Raju. Rani Chandramani Devi was the daughter of a zamindar of Bissamcuttack in Odisha and wife of Vyricherla Narayana Gajapathi Raju,” says historian Vijjeswarapu Edward Paul. “Rani Chandramani Devi used to suffer from backache and was treated by the noted orthopaedician M. Gopala Kini, who was posted at the KGH in Visakhapatnam as Professor of Operative Surgery during the 1930s. Dr. Kini had settled down in Bombay post retirement and during the 1960s, Rani Chandramani Devi visited him there for treatment,” he says. “She was impressed by Dr. Kini’s clinic in Bombay and wanted to establish a Children’s Hospital in Visakhapatnam and donated her summer palace and the 32-acre land surrounding it for establishment of the hospital,” Mr. Paul adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plans-afoot-to-build-multi-speciality-childrens-hospital-in-visakhapatnam/article34942360.ece
24 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers seek better deal||A dharna was organised by ASHA workers, on the banner of AP ASHA Workers Union, affiliated to the CITU, at the Gandhi statue near the GVMC on Wednesday. Union honorary president P. Mani alleged that the State government was neglecting the welfare of ASHA workers, who have rendered invaluable services. The Central and the State governments were paying a meagre Rs. 10,000 a month as honorarium to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asha-workers-seek-better-deal/article34942363.ece
24 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Port Trust organising special vaccination drive for 18-plus age group||A special vaccination drive for those who are 18 years and above is being organised by the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) from June 21. . The vaccination programmeis being conducted Golden Jubilee Hospital, DLB Hospital, Sports Complex, Chinamushidiwada Dispensary Branch and Murali Nagar Elementary School area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/port-trust-organising-special-vaccination-drive-for-18-plus-age-group/article34942361.ece
24 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Balidan Diwas’ observed by BJP||The 67the death anniversary of Dr. Syama Prasad Mukherjee was observed as ‘Balidan Diwas’ at the BJP Office here on Wednesday. BJP State general secretary Lokula Gandhi, who participated as the chief guest, described Syama Prasad Mukherjee as a ‘great nationalist’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balidan-diwas-observed-by-bjp/article34942362.ece
24 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Banned tobacco products seized, two held||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) conducted raids at two places and arrested two persons from whom they have seized banned ghutka and khaini worth Rs. 16 lakh here on Wednesday. In one case, the CTF teams conducted raid in an area at II Town police station limits where they recovered the banned stuff worth about Rs. 14 lakh. But the two accused have reportedly escaped from the spot. In another case, the CTF officials raided a godown in M.R Peta police station limits and arrested two persons who had allegedly stored the banned chewing products worth Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/banned-tobacco-products-seized-two-held/article34942366.ece
24 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic policeman receives a pat||A police official from the city received accolades from Vizagites as well as the police department for performing his duty at a major traffic junction despite heavy rain. Sub-Inspector Arilova (Traffic) police station, Sanyasi Rao, who was performing duties at Hanumanthawaka Junction, saw traffic chocked due to heavy rain and water overflowing on the road. Mr. Sanyasi rao stepped into one-foot deep water on road and cleared the traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traffic-policeman-receives-a-pat/article34942367.ece
24 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State failed to complete irrigation projects: Somu||The YSRCP government has completely ignored development and failed to complete irrigation projects such as Thotapalli, Vamsadhara Phase-II, Gundlakamma in the State, BJP State president Somu Veerraju has alleged. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Mr. Veerraju said the government could not speed up the Polavaram project works too in spite of the allocation of funds by the Union government. The State government also failed to take up the petrochemical complex in Kakinada despite its potential of creating five lakh jobs. “The Union government has came forward to extend its helping hand in taking forward the prestigious Rs. 40,000-crore project. But there is little response from the State government. Instead of creating wealth, it is mortgaging public properties. The BJP will oppose it,” Mr. Veerraju said. Senior party leaders spoke about the agitations staged against move to increase property and other taxes. Former MLA Gadde Baburao and other leaders accompanied Mr. Veerraju to the Prema Samajam, where he planted saplings on the occasion of the death anniversary of Shyam Prasad Mukherjee, founder of Bharatiya Jana Sangh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-failed-to-complete-irrigation-projects-somu/article34942350.ece
24 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteers donate masks, sanitisers||Australia Students Volunteer Service handed over masks and sanitisers to police personnel at Kotabommali in Srikakulam district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteers-donate-masks-sanitisers/article34942358.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Under mom’s care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/under-moms-care/article34942369.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anxious wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anxious-wait/article34941892.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Needing attention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/needing-attention/article34942341.ece
24 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SC colony residents stage protest over ‘muddy water’||Aggrieved residents of the SC Colony in Narayanapuram in Aswaraopeta mandal laid siege to the main road in the village on Wednesday in protest against the supply of "muddy water" in their colony and “outbreak” of water-borne diseases in the locality. A group of angry residents staged a rasta roko for nearly one hour on Wednesday afternoon demanding proper maintenance of the overhead water tank and supply of safe drinking water to rein in the spread of seasonal diseases. They alleged that the apathy of the panchayat staff concerned in maintaining cleanliness and sanitation in their colony led to outbreak of diseases including typhoid and jaundice. The protesters deplored that several colony residents were suffering from high fever with dengue like symptoms and the condition of a few of them was critical. According to sources, they called off the agitation following the intervention of the local staff of the Gram Panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sc-colony-residents-stage-protest-over-muddy-water/article34942160.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Notices to State government on reopening of schools, colleges||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday issued notices to the State government over its decision to commence physical classes for school and college students from July 1, after hearing an interim application filed in one of the PIL pleas relating to COVID-19. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy instructed the government to file its response to the notices within a week. Senior counsel L. Ravi Chander, appearing for one of the PIL petitioners, filed the application seeking to quash GO no. 121 announcing reopening of schools and colleges from July 1 along with commencement of physical classes issued four days ago. The lawyer maintained that the government had not explained how well it was prepared to check possible outbreak of third wave of COVID-19. Citing experts, he said the pandemic’s possible third wave is likely to affect children seriously. Without initiating any steps to contain and face the third wave, it is not fair on the government’s part to decide to reopen educational institutions, he said. The senior counsel also pointed out that while the government informed the court that 2,000 beds were allotted to Niloufer children hospital, its Medical and Health Department website indicated that only 24 beds were allocated to that hospital. In the backdrop of the indications that children are likely to be affected more during the third wave, the government required to review its decision, he added. Summoned by the bench during the deliberations, School Education Secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania, who participated in the virtual court proceedings, informed the court that conducting physical classes was not a final decision. There was no compulsion for the parents to send their wards to schools for physical classes, he said. Deliberations were still on in the matter, Mr. Sultania stated. Observing that it was a premature decision, the bench asked the Secretary if the government can guarantee no child would be affected by Coronavirus after physical classes begin from July 1. “How can the government take such a decision without doing any ground work,” the bench said. The CJ observed that it would be difficult to ensure children maintain social distance and complie with all COVID-19 norms despite repeated instructions. “We could have understood if the government permitted students of 10th, 11th and 12th standards to attend physical classes. But permitting students from first standard to ninth standard is not a wise decision,” the CJ observed. The bench instructed Public Health Director G. Srinivasa Rao to file a detailed affidavit explaining preparedness of the government to tackle Delta+ variant of the virus. This variant was said to be having serious effect and intruding into many States.  There’s no compulsion for parents to send their wards to schools. Conducting physical classes not a final decision as deliberations are still on. Sandeep Kumar Sultania, School Education Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notices-to-state-government-on-reopening-of-schools-colleges/article34942150.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC tunnel project hits an impasse||GHMC’s much-cherished project of linking the Inner Ring Road with the Outer Ring Road, providing seamless connectivity between both, may have hit an impasse owing to paucity of funds. The project proposed under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) envisages unhindered passage of traffic between Punjagutta and the ORR via Jubilee Hills, Madhapur and Khajaguda. The flyover built on Road No. 45 and the cable stayed bridge on the Durgam Cheruvu are parts of the same project which the civic body has managed to complete albeit with enormous delay. After Durgam Cheruvu, however, the project has hit a road block, as sufficient funds could not be marshalled to go further to the subsequent component as planned. “A left turn ahead of the Durgam Cheruvu near the Inorbit Mall would lead to a hillock. It being a Heritage Zone, flattening of the hillock would have given rise to vociferous protests from conservationists. In order to circumvent the issue, we had planned a tunnel right underneath the hillock which would land us in Khajaguda,” an official said on condition of anonymity. Proposed in 2017, the four-lane tunnel was to be built along a length of 550 metres, supported by flyovers on either side to simplify the access. The total cost of construction from Durgam Cheruvu up to ORR was estimated to be Rs. 875 crore, of which the tunnel alone would have cost Rs. 250 crore, officials say. A private consultancy was hired to prepare Detailed Project Report, and the project was aimed to be completed within less than nine months after calling for the tenders. However, over four years after the proposal, there is nothing on the ground to show. The SRDP components were initially funded by issuing bonds, and later by a term loan. In the current scenario precipitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been considerable dent in the revenue for the government and payment of interest on the existing loans itself would be a huge burden, opined officials, casting doubts on the possibility of the project being taken further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-tunnel-project-hits-an-impasse/article34942132.ece
24 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana posts 1,114 new infections, 12 deaths||Telangana recorded 1,114 new coronavirus cases and 12 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 6,16,688 and deaths to 3,598, according to the bulletin issued by the public health department on Wednesday. Areas under Greater Hyderabad registered the highest positive cases at 129 followed by Rangareddy (75) and Nalgonda (72). The lowest number of cases was reported from Adilabad (2). The previous day, a total of 1,175 infections had been detected when over 1.24 lakh samples were examined. Ten persons had succumbed to the infection. The number of active cases in Telangana, as on Wednesday, stood at 16,462 even as the government conducted 1,18,109 tests. The results of 1,113 samples were awaited. The bulletin further said that 1,280 individuals have recovered on Wednesday and the total recovery rate stood at 96.74%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-posts-1114-new-infections-12-deaths/article34942130.ece
24 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Water conflicts in river basins can be resolved, says expert||Sharad Kumar Jain, former director, National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee has observed that water conflicts in river basins can be resolved if there was a proper implementation of Decision Support Systems as part of existing National Hydrology Project of Government of India. He was speaking at the T Hanumantha Rao Fourth Endowment Lecture on “Implementation of Decision Support Systems (DSS) for Effective Management of Irrigation Projects: Successful Case Studies in India and World.” It was organised by the Institute of Engineers (India), Telangana State chapter. Dr. Sharad Jain explained the success stories of real time Decision Support Systems in Bhakra Beas Management Board, Nile River Basin and Danube River Basin. Water Accounting Plus and Riverware are important systems for effective river basin Managements, he said. G Rameshwar Rao, Chairman, IEI Telangana chapter presided. Mohammed Hussain, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering & Technology presented briefly the life and achievements of late T. Hanumantha Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-conflicts-in-river-basins-can-be-resolved-says-expert/article34942151.ece
24 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. leaders meet DGP, seek justice in custodial death case||A delegation of Telangana Congress led by its president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and comprising CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, legislator Seethakka and TPCC SC cell chairman Preetham met the DGP M. Mahender Reddy seeking further action against the policemen involved in the alleged custodial death of a dalit woman Mariamma. The Congress leaders said the police was trying to project the death as a case of heart attack in the Addagudur police station and demanded a fair inquiry into it. Mr. Uttam Reddy said even Mariamma’s son Uday Kiran was brutally tortured and also attached the pictures of caning injuries on Uday Kiran’s body. The TPCC chief said the deceased Mariyamma and her son were whisked away from their home in Komatlagudem in Madhira constituency by policemen in plain clothes in connection with a theft case. They were brutally beaten up and Mariamma died in the hands of her son. However, there is an effort to save the guilty and this would not send a good signal to the society. Mr. Bhatti demanded punishment to the guilty under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and a government job and compensation to the victim’s son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-leaders-meet-dgp-seek-justice-in-custodial-death-case/article34942155.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cap on COVID treatment charges in private hospitals||Facing severe criticism over exorbitant charges collected by private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment, the State government has issued orders fixing charges for treatment, ICU beds, ventilators and also rates for all blood and investigative tests. The GO 401 issued based on the recommendations of a committee constituted by the government fixed charges for routine ward and isolation at Rs. 4,000 per day; for ICU without ventilator at Rs. 7,500 and ICU with ventilator and isolation at Rs. 9,000 per day. This includes monitoring and investigations like CBC, urine routine, HIV spot, anti HCV, Hbs Ag, Sérum Créatinine, USG, 2D Echo, X-Ray, ECG, drugs, consultations, bed charges, meals and procedures like rylestube insertion and urinary tract catheterisation. However, these charges exclude interventional procedures such as, but not limited to, central line insertion, chemoport insertion, bronchoscopy procedures, biopsies, ascitic/pleural tapping, etc, which may be charged at a rack rate as on December 31, 2019. High-end drugs like immunoglobins, Meropenem, Parentéral nutrition, Tocilizumab etc. have to be charged at MRP. Hospitals cannot charge more than Rs. 273 per kit for the PPE kits. The order also prescribes charges for investigations pertaining to COVID-19. Accordingly, charges will be applicable to HRCT (Rs. 1,995), IL-6 (Rs. 1,300), Digital X-Ray (Rs. 300), D-Dimer (Rs. 800), CRP (Rs. 500), Procalcitonin (Rs. 1,400), Ferritin (Rs. 400) and LDH (Rs. 140). In respect of ambulance services by private operators for COVID-19 patients, the government has prescribed Rs. 75 per km for ambulances equipped with a basic life-supporting system and Rs. 125 per km for those with advanced life support systems. Minimum charges would be Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 3,000, respectively. ‘Strictly comply’ The State government has further asked the hospitals to avoid experimental treatment and unnecessary investigations, repeated HRCTs and inflammatory makers. Admissions and discharge protocols have to be followed scrupulously and all hospitals have to strictly comply with the orders. Non-compliance of guidelines will attract action as per provision of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cap-on-covid-treatment-charges-in-private-hospitals/article34942128.ece
24 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rs. 5.15 crore assistance for COVID-affected journalists||Telangana Media Academy has provided financial assistance of Rs. 5.15 crore to COVID-affected journalists since last year. Academy chairman Allam Narayana said Telangana was the only State in the country to have extended financial assistance to journalists who battled the infectious disease. In the first wave, aid amounting to Rs. 3.16 crore was given to 1,553 journalists who contracted the virus while Rs. 8.70 lakh was given to those who were home-quarantined after testing positive. In the second phase, he said, 1,958 journalists were helped with a total amount of Rs. 1.95 crore. The money was granted from the interest accrued from the Academy’s corpus fund of Rs. 34.50 crore. Mr Narayana thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for providing Rs. 42 crore to journalists’ welfare fund. About 70 journalists died COVID in the past year and their families would be given Rs. 2 lakh assistance each. This is apart from Rs. 3,000 pension provided to such families for five years. Families of deceased journalists can apply to Secretary, Telangana State Media Academy, Samachar Bhavan, Masab Tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-515-crore-assistance-for-covid-affected-journalists/article34942137.ece
24 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fake currency of Rs. 17.82 crore recovered, seven arrested||The L B Nagar CCS apprehended seven persons on Wednesday, and in the process unearthed a hawala racket, and seized fake Indian currency of Rs. 17.82 crore. According to police, the accused are Velpuri Pawan Kumar (28), a mobile phone technician, Dondapati Rama Krishna (24), a driver by profession, Nallabothula Suresh Gopi (25), a businessman, Chanduluri Vijay Kumar (27), a priest, Kambhampati Suryam (25), an auto driver, Chanduluri Nagendra Prasad Sharma (32), a private employee, and Bellamkonda Murali Krishna Sharma (35), a businessman who deals in precious and semi-precious stones. All the accused are from Andhra Pradesh. Police said that Nagendra Prasad and Murali Krishna were relatives. The former asked Pawan to come to Hyderabad so that he could work with Murali Krishna. Pavan observed Murali Krishna’s operation and saw currency, between Rs. 10 crore and Rs. 12 crore, stuffed in bags and thought it was genuine. He informed Nagender Prasad of his intention to steal the cash, who agreed to the plan. Police said that according to the plan, on June 14, Pawan, Rama Krishna, Gopi, Vijay Kumar Suryam, Nagendra and Sharma reached the home-town of Piduguralla. Here they took on hire a four-wheeler and after reaching Wadapally check post, Pawan put in place a number plate with a fake registration number and went to Murali Krishna’s house. With others waiting outside, Rama Krishna and Gopi entered the house. They then stole the two bags. According to police, once they crossed Choutuppal, the opened the bags and found that there was fake currency of Rs. 2,000 denomination, and only 16 genuine Rs. 2,000 currency notes. The did not find any gemstones. They burnt the fake currency with petrol and fled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fake-currency-of-rs-1782-crore-recovered-seven-arrested/article34942140.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Early inflows into reservoirs give good start to flood season||Jurala reservoir, the gateway of Krishna-Bhima waters for the two Telugu States, is set to receive another bout of flood during the first month of the south-west monsoon season, June, as Narayanpur dam has started releasing flood of 46,500 cusecs from Wednesday afternoon. “Release of flood from the two major upstream reservoirs of the Krishna Basin – Almatti and Narayanpur – has been taken up as a precautionary measure since the flood cushion of the two dams is about 39 tmcft and 13 tmcft, respectively, with Almatti still getting a flood of over 1.17 lakh cuses,” a flood monitoring official said on Wednesday. The irrigation authorities of Karnataka (engineers of Narayanpur dam) have alerted the engineers of Jurala reservoir on Wednesday morning about the commencement of flood release. They also urged the authorities concerned to alert people along the Krishna river course about the increase of water level in the river. By 2 p.m. onwards the flood discharge from Narayanpur was increased to 46,500 cusecs including 43,000 cusecs by lifting 8 crest gates of the reservoir and another 3,500 cusecs through power generation. Inflows into Almatti have come down to about 1.1 lakh cusecs by noon on Wednesday but the discharge through the spillway was being continued as the water level in the reservoir reached 517.27 metres against full reservoir level (FRL) of 519.6 metres. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC) officials, about 5.5 cm rain was recorded in Mahabaleshwar (in Maharashtra), the origin of Krishna river and it is expected to continue the inflows into Almatti further. “The first three weeks of this flood season have proved to be very optimistic as the flood during the first three weeks of June have allowed power generation in Jurala after many years along with commencement of water release to all canal and lift systems based on the reservoir,” an engineer at Jurala said. Similarly, about 25,000 cusecs flood was reaching Tungabhadra dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/early-inflows-into-reservoirs-give-good-start-to-flood-season/article34942144.ece
24 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Friends of TRS building up case for OGH demolition: Cong.||Congress leader and AICC member Aamer Javeed has alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was trying erase the cultural heritage of Telangana and the plans to demolish Osmania General Hospital was a part of that. In a statement here, he recalled that in the last seven years the TRS government has mooted proposals to demolish or replace Erram/Irrum Manzil, Assembly Building, King Koti (Nazri Bagh) Palace and Osmania Hospital Building. It was largely unsuccessful in their attempts, owing to immense public pressure and strict opposition from activists. The Erram Manzil demolition was stopped in its tracks by vigilant heritage lovers who approached the High Court. With the construction of a new Secretariat complex now underway, the government has now set its destructive eyes on the beautiful Osmania Hospital building. Now, the TRS has roped in friendly faces to build a narrative against saving the heritage building, talking of the dilapidated status. But the Congress leader reminded that in 2015, INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) conducted a study and found the heritage-listed hospital building stable and safe for use. A similar assessment was conducted in 2019 and INTACH found that its suggestions for the heritage building’s longevity were completely ignored. Mr. Aamer Javeed said the friends of TRS supporting the Osmania Hospital demolition completely gloss over the fact that Osmania Hospital complex is spread over 26.5 acres and the heritage building stands on merely one acre of land. He said if the government can afford a new Secretariat and luxury vans for officials, it can certainly afford to preserve a heritage monument.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/friends-of-trs-building-up-case-for-ogh-demolition-cong/article34942153.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MMTS services re-start in city||After a gap of 15 months, the MMTS suburban trains got rolling colourfully decorated from different stations on Wednesday morning. About 10 train sets were run but the patronage was about 25% only on the first day between both Lingampalli-Falaknuma, Secunderabad and Lingampalli-Hyderabad, informed senior SCR officials. Meanwhile, Suburban Train Travellers Association and the MMTS Travellers Association urged the SCR to step up the MMTS services at least during morning and evening peak hours. In a press release, president Noor said electrification and doubling work had been completed between Secunderabad-Bolarum-Medchal and Falaknuma-Umdanagar, hence the government should release payments for launch of the MMTS phase two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mmts-services-re-start-in-city/article34942135.ece
24 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nepali arrested||The Hyderabad Cyber Crime Police on Wednesday apprehended a 23-year-old man for allegedly cheating a person of Rs. 1.29 lakh on the pretext of injections which are used to treat black fungus. According to the police, the accused is Arjun Bohra, a Nepali. He is a resident of Bengaluru in Karnataka. Police said that they received a complaint on May 28 from a person who said that his father had been diagnosed with black fungus. He stated that the hospital ton which he was admitted did not have the required injection, and told him to buy it from another place. The complainant approached Rajendra who sent images of Posaconzable 300 mg. The complainant sent Rs. 20,000 and later transferred other sums of money, amounting to Rs. 1.29 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nepali-arrested/article34942141.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Held for chain-snatching||A 29-year-old man was apprehended on Wednesday for allegedly snatching a chain from a woman. KPHB police, who are investigating the case, identified the accused as J Dayakar. He is a barber by profession, and a resident of Jagadgirigutta. He allegedly snatched the chain from a woman on June 19. Police suspected that financial difficulties were the reason for the chain snatching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/held-for-chain-snatching/article34942139.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP questions govt. on pace of vaccination||Bharatiya Janata Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of putting the lives of youth at risk by not taking up the free COVID vaccination programme on a mass scale on Wednesday. "The Centre has begun massive campaign to vaccinate 18-45 years age group by supplying free vaccine in the current phase but there is no proper launch here. Why doesn't the Chief Minister ask people to get vaccinated?," he questioned. Addressing a meeting at the party office as part of the training programme to party workers, the Karimnagar MP charged Mr. Rao of not being concerned about the health of people, besides accusing him of not acknowledging the Centre's help lest he may have to give credit. "Every development and welfare scheme in the State is because of Centre's funding but this is not told to anyone. At least, the Chief Minister should thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi and put his photograph when schemes are being masqueraded as State government's," he said. Mr. Sanjay Kumar exhorted the partymen to take the welfare and development agenda of the Centre to the villages. He expressed confidence of establishing a true democratic Telangana by defeating the TRS. National OBC Morcha president K. Laxman said the Modi Government has been implementing 380 welfare schemes with direct benefit transfer to beneficiaries. "It has been seven years of rule with development and welfare as priority without compromising on ideology and not a single corruption charge," he said. At a separate meeting, former Health Minister E. Rajendra urged his constituency people to choose “democracy and people's power over money power” in the forthcoming byelection to Huzurabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-questions-govt-on-pace-of-vaccination/article34942145.ece
24 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man who attempted suicide saved||The Keesara police on Wednesday saved the life of a 24-year-old man who had attempted suicide. According to police, the man sought Rs. 1 lakh from his mother to construct a shed for cows. When his mother refused, he entered into an argument with her and left the house. Around 9 am, he called his brother and informed him of his intention to take his life. His brother cotacted the police, who formed teams and found him near Pedda Parvathapuram hillocks after tracking his mobile phone. The victim was found in a semi-conscious state. A bottle of pesticide and a soft drink were found. Police moved him to a private hospital. He is out of danger. (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: 4060202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-who-attempted-suicide-saved/article34942142.ece
24 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Book murder charges, arrest policemen, says CPI(M)||CPI (M) district secretary Nunna Nageswara Rao demanded that the policemen allegedly responsible for the “lock-up” death of Dalit woman, Mariyamma, of Chintakani mandal at Addagudur police station in Yadadri-Bhongir district be booked under murder charges and arrested. In a statement, Mr Rao alleged that Mariyamma was beaten to death and her son Uday and his friend were subjected to third-degree torture by some policemen at Addagudur in connection with a case last week. "Mere suspension of the three policemen in connection with the “lock-up” death of the Dalit woman is not enough," he said, adding “the primitive method of custodial torture is highly deplorable and deserves stringent action.” He demanded that the State government sanction Rs. 10 lakh compensation to kin of the victim and ensure stern action against the guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/book-murder-charges-arrest-policemen-says-cpim/article34942159.ece
24 June 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||L&T DTL donates ICU material||As part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), the L&T Deccan Tollways Limited (L&T DTL) has doubled the ICU capacity at the area hospital in Zaheerabad by donating the required material. Similarly, a waiting lounge was constructed at Digwal Primary Health Centre (PHC). DR. Gayatri Devi, District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO), and Mr. Rajesh Vichare, project head, quality and management, L&T DTL inaugurated both the facilities on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lt-dtl-donates-icu-material/article34942157.ece
24 June 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Habitual offender held, gold and cash recovered||Bhongir police on Tuesday arrested a habitual offender and recovered 11.5 sovereigns gold, Rs. 2.90 lakh cash and three mobile phones from his recent robbery. DCP K. Narayana Reddy, producing the accused before media persons on Wednesday, said Vemula Kotesh, who was booked under the Preventive Detention Act and kept in Warangal central jail, took to his earlier practice after release in May. Prior to his detention in 2020 by Kondamallepally police, he was accused in 41 cases involving house breaking. According to the police, the accused broke into a house at L.B. Nagar in Bhongir on June 10 and stole 10 sovereigns gold and Rs. 4 lakh cash. It was later found that the accused also stole 1.5 sovereigns gold in Miryalaguda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/habitual-offender-held-gold-and-cash-recovered/article34942143.ece
24 June 2021||GHAZIABAD,||In single-day drive, 2,400 Dasna inmates get vaccine||Surinder Kohli, convicted in the infamous 2006 Nithari serial murders, was among the 2,400 inmates who were vaccinated in the biggest single-day vaccination drive at Dasna jail in Ghaziabad on Wednesday. Jail Superintendent of Dasna jail, Alok Singh, said: “We have vaccinated more than 2,400 inmates in the 18-45 age group during the mega vaccination camp. It has not been done by any other jails in the country. We are regularly organising awareness drive in prison to educate inmates to get vaccinated,” said Mr. Singh. Currently, around 4,800 inmates are lodged in Dasna jail and out of which 1,822 were vaccinated earlier that include 650 inmates of 45 years and above those who have got their second dose, said Mr. Singh. Terror suspect Abdul Karim Tunda was also vaccinated around a month ago during the first phase. He added that there were very few COVID-19 cases in the prison and not a single death was reported due to the virus. The situation is under control. The inmates who have recently admitted in jail will not be vaccinated because they don’t know if the person was infected or not. So to be on the safer side, they will have to wait for three months for the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-single-day-drive-2400-dasna-inmates-get-vaccine/article34942085.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Over 87K prosecuted for COVID violations in 3 weeks: govt. data||The gradual unlock process in the Capital has led to the prosecution of over 87,000 people for COVID-related violations from May 31 to June 20, according to Delhi government records. As many as 4,153 people were prosecuted daily for not adhering to COVID-appropriate behaviour by Delhi government teams amounting to a total of 87,218 fines being issued for violations ranging from not wearing masks, wearing them improperly, to not following social distancing and spitting in public over 21 days. According to government records, violations have gone up every week with more activities being opened up even as new cases of infection went down with as many as 6,507 new infections being recorded during the three-week period. The highest number of people to be prosecuted — 5,583 — was on June 20. A majority – 5,255 people or around 81% of those who got infected during the three weeks of the unlock process during this interval – were aged between 14 and 60. As more and more citizens step out, given the added number of activities allowed every week, more prosecutions are being made; but the higher prosecution is also due to more people being found not adhering to COVID norms. During the first phase of unlock between May 31 and June 6, when construction and industrial activities were allowed, 20,966 fines were issued and 3,321 infections were recorded during the week. Between June 7 and June 13, Unlock 2 saw Delhi Metro being permitted to ply and shops at city markets allowed to open on an odd-even basis. A total of 29,343 people were prosecuted while the number of infections went down to 2,080. Cases dip, violations soar During Unlock 3, between June 14 and June 20, when the Delhi Metro continued to function and all shops and city markets were allowed to open, the number of violations soared to 36,909 even as infections reduced to 1,106. The number of citizens falling in the 14- 60 age group — mostly engaged in the activities gradually allowed in the city — who got infected during Unlock 1 was 2,627 out of 3,321; during Unlock 2 this stood at 1,697 of 2,080 and Unlock 3 saw 931 infections among the age group out of 1,106. The Capital went through a series of six-week-long lockdowns between mid-April and May during which prosecution figures remained relatively low compared to three recent weeks during which the city has been “unlocking” in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-87k-prosecuted-for-covid-violations-in-3-weeks-govt-data/article34942076.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sisodia, Kejriwal hit out at Centre for rejecting doorstep ration plan||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the Central government in a letter said it has “rejected” a “proposal” for doorstep delivery of ration in the city and attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for it. “Yesterday [Tuesday], there was a letter from the Union government to the Delhi government that proposal for doorstep delivery of ration has been rejected. We had not sent any proposal. It is the State government’s right to decide how to distribute ration,” Mr. Sisodia said. The letter sent on June 22 by the Department of Food and Public Distribution of the Central government rejected the Delhi government’s “proposal” for a doorstep delivery of ration and suggested that the scheme be started first as a pilot in selected areas of the city. It “clarified that the proposal of GNCTD (Delhi government) doesn’t meet the statutory and functional requirements of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and therefore, the proposal made by GNCTD can’t be accepted.” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that there should not be a political fight over doorstep delivery of ration. “Fighting with everyone all the time is not right - Twitter, Lakshadweep, Mamta didi, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Delhi government, farmers, traders, even the Chief Secretary of West Bengal. How will our nation develop if all our Central government does is to fight constantly? Doorstep delivery of ration is in the national interest. Don’t fight over it,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi “We received a disparaging letter from the Central government citing senseless reasons to stop the doorstep delivery of ration to our people,” Mr. Sisodia said. Meanwhile, Delhi Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain said that the Delhi government is firmly committed to provide free ration to both NFS beneficiaries and non-cardholders as long as the situation warrants. . What Centre said The letter said it was not clear on how Delhi government would maintain uninterrupted delivery in case beneficiaries change their address, or whether beneficiaries would be allowed to opt-out from doorstep delivery at any point during the year, and revert to picking up their ration at the fair price shops. It also asked how the Delhi government would ensure that their delivery vehicles would be able to access narrow streets or high rise apartments, how it would coordinate delivery timings if beneficiaries are not at home during the day, and how biometric authentication would be ensured at homes in areas without strong internet connectivity. “The scheme may also face administrative and operational hurdles in terms of leakages, diversions, accountability issues, and assurance of timely availability of right quantity and quality of foodgrains,” said the letter, adding that without monitoring and an institutionalised oversight mechanism, there is likely to be a surge of grievances and complaints in the courts. Questions were also raised about the accountability of delivery contractors, and the measures to prevent adulteration and diversion by delivery vehicle operators. The viability of fair price shops could also be impacted, it said. The Centre also raised concerns about how doorstep delivery scheme could be integrated with the One Nation One Ration Card scheme to ensure that street dwellers, ragpickers, migrant workers, construction workers, rickshaw pullers and others who may not have a permanent address in Delhi will be able to receive their ration allocation. The Food Ministry’s letter follows an earlier letter on June 17, issuing an ultimatum to the Delhi government to operationalise ePoS machines and implement ONORC by June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sisodia-kejriwal-hit-out-at-centre-for-rejecting-doorstep-ration-plan/article34942081.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP spokespersons quit WhatsApp group||The disenchantment of senior Delhi BJP spokespersons is playing out on the party’s internal Whatsapp groups. Party insiders claim that old hands are mostly frustrated with the media department’s handling of the party’s affairs on a daily basis. Media appearance What is understood to have added to this is that spokespersons of the party’s State unit are neither “allowed” to appear on national channels nor “allowed to speak” on Delhi-based issues due to the participation of national spokespersons on many occasions. According to party sources, Delhi BJP spokespersons Harish Khurana and Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga quit a significant internal WhatsApp group within minutes of being added on Tuesday evening. Both Mr. Khurana and Mr. Bagga had quit the group over a month ago before it was decided to include them on it once again. However, according to a senior party leader, both chose to leave it again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-spokespersons-quit-whatsapp-group/article34942074.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Daily COVID-19 cases continue to dip in city; test positivity at 0.15%||The Capital reported 111 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. However, 477 positive cases, pertaining to earlier weeks have been added on the ICMR portal on Tuesday by Central government-run Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and associated Safdarjung Hospital, as per the bulletin. This has not been counted by the Delhi government as cases reported in the last 24 hours but have been added to the total tally, taking the total cases to 14,33,366 from 14,32,778 on Tuesday. At the same time, seven deaths were reported, pushing the death toll to 24,940, as per the bulletin. A total of 76,185 tests were done and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.15%. Of the total cases, 14,06,629 people have recovered and there are 1,797 active cases. 9.76 lakh doses available Presenting a daily vaccination bulletin, AAP MLA Atishi said that the Central government has combined vaccination stocks of both categories to one and Delhi now has 9.76 lakh doses of vaccines. “Delhi has 9.10 lakh Covishield doses and 66,000 Covaxin doses — two days of Covaxin and 13 days of Covishield stock available. It is our request to the Central government that as quickly and in as much quantity, they should make the vaccines available,” Ms. Atishi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/daily-covid-19-cases-continue-to-dip-in-city-test-positivity-at-015/article34942083.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Extreme heat, weak structure hinder probe||Extreme heat and vulnerable structure of the two-storey building caused hindrance in carrying out investigation for the third consecutive day at a shoe godown in west Delhi, where a massive fire broke out on Monday, police said. Firefighters have identified two spots inside the building where suspected charred human remains have been spotted. But only DNA sampling will help investigators in ascertaining the identity of those six workers who are still reported missing, they said. 6 fire tenders stationed Six fire tenders are still at the spot conducting search operations, said an official, adding that samples are yet to be collected from the building by the forensic experts for further examination. “The temperature inside the building is still extreme. Only the firemen have been able to get inside yet. They have informed us that charred remains suspected to be of humans have been spotted by them at two spots inside the building. Our main concern is to get the samples lifted from the spot for further examination so that we can get DNA profiling done to ascertain and establish the identity of the missing men,” a senior police officer said. The officer said another hindrance is the structure of the building, which is “weak”. The structure is highly unstable and the terrace of the top floor of the two storey-building has already caved in. “Our staffers and forensic experts have not been able to enter the building yet. Our police teams had access to limited areas but again due to extreme temperature, the samples are yet to be lifted from the spot,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said: “Our teams are conducting raids and efforts are on to nab Pankaj Garg(32), owner of the company. He has been absconding since the day of incident along with his father, who is the director of the company.” FSL team to visit today Garg, a resident of Pitampura has been into shoe business for a long time as his extended family members also deal in the same trade, the officer said. Forensic experts from Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini are likely to visit the spot on Thursday as they still have not been able to enter the building because of the high temperature, police said. The three-member team of from FSL, Rohini, which visited the spot on Tuesday, could only carry out photography and videography of the building from outside. The fire broke out on Monday at the shoe godown in Udyog Nagar, and 35 fire tenders and around 140 fire personnel were pressed into service to douse the blaze. The six men reported to be missing have been identified as brother duo Sonu and Vikram, Shamshad, Abhishek, Ajay and Neeraj, said the police. Prima facie, electric short-circuit is suspected to be the reason but only a detailed examination will reveal exact cause of the fire, the senior police officer said. The building also did not have any fire safety equipment in place and was heavily jammed with highly combustible materials due to which the fire spread fast, according to fire officials. The building has been declared dangerous by the area’s civic body on Monday following the blaze, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/extreme-heat-weak-structure-hinder-probe/article34942087.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Apply ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme: BJP||The BJP on Wednesday demanded the Delhi government to fully implement the Centre’s ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme in the Capital. It accused the government of lying about its provisions to the people to score political brownie points. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri questioned why none of the Central government’s welfare schemes had been implemented in Delhi, depriving citizens of their benefits. ‘Betrayal of Delhiites’ “The Kejriwal government has betrayed Delhiites not only on the issue of ration but on vaccines, medicines and oxygen as well. It does not seem to be bothered even about court directives and continues to tell one lie after another,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari said there were 60 lakh people in Delhi without ration cards despite having applied for these a long time ago. “If the Kejriwal government wants to give free ration to poor, they can always buy it from the Food Corporation of India. The Central government distributes ration across the country through an electronic system but Delhi is the only State where it is not in force because of pressure from the ration mafia,” Mr. Tiwari alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/apply-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-bjp/article34942077.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||1,825 workers get Rs. 10K each as COVID relief||The Delhi government has granted Rs. 10,000 each to 1,825 construction workers, authorities said. The government has already distributed Rs. 5,000 each to over two lakh workers. “I urge all construction workers to get registered with the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board to avail benefits of welfare schemes. Delhi government has already disbursed Rs. 5,000 each to 2,17,039 construction workers as COVID relief disbursement this year,” said Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/1825-workers-get-rs-10k-each-as-covid-relief/article34942084.ece
24 June 2021||Noida,||Ten new police stations to come up in Gautam Buddh Nagar||Work is under way for setting up 10 new police stations and two police posts across Noida and Greater Noida in Gautam Buddha Nagar, according to officials. Also in the offing are barracks and hostels for police personnel, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ten-new-police-stations-to-come-up-in-gautam-buddh-nagar/article34942078.ece
24 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||Twitter storm to save Unani medicine||Demanding just treatment for Unani system of medicine in the newly formed National Commission for Indian System of Medicine, a Twitter storm is being organised on Thursday by All India Unani Conference and Aligarh Muslim University’s A.K. Tibbia College. “Ayurveda and Unani systems of medicine are like brothers. But in the NCSIM Act, 2020, the Unani system is being meted out with step-motherly treatment, said Dr. Khalid Siddiqui, former director-general, Central Council for Research of Unani Medicine (CCRUM). Urging for amendment in the Act, Dr. Siddiqui said, “Unani System that has considerable presence in the country and abroad has been clubbed with regional systems of Siddha and Sowa Rigpa in the Commission.” Making an appeal for an independent board, fair distribution of resources and appropriate representation in the Commission, Dr. Siddiqui said they would approach the members of the Parliamentary Committee. He underlined the Unani system, which has around 60 colleges, 100 hospitals, and around 1,500 dispensaries across all States, has been subsumed with Siddha and Sowa Rigpa systems that have only a regional presence with a few colleges/ dispensaries. Raising concerns of the practitioners and students of the Unani system, earlier this month, a seminar was organised in AMU’s Tibbia College which has been the nucleus of research and education of Unani medicine in the country. “We hope that the PM’s credo of ‘ Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas ’ will be translated into action by giving Unani system its due,” said Prof. F.S. Sheerani, dean of the faculty of Unani medicine. “The Ministry of AYUSH has permitted Ayurvedic post graduates of surgery to perform surgical procedures totally ignoring the right of Unani post graduates in surgery with similar course contents and training,” said Dr. Mohammed Mohsin, associate professor and convenor of the seminar. He said Unani doctors have contributed a lot in prevailing pandemic and a number of doctors lost their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/twitter-storm-to-save-unani-medicine/article34942090.ece
24 June 2021||Mumbai,||Put off by-elections to ZPs, samitis to avoid any loss to OBCs: Bhujbal||A day after the State Election Commission announced bypolls to five zilla parishads and 33 panchayat samitis seats rendered vacant after the Supreme Court scrapped political reservation for OBCs in local bodies, a Minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has demanded their postponement. Senior OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal on Wednesday said mistakes made by the previous Devendra Fadnavis government had resulted in the reservation being scrapped and the Central government refused to share empirical data on OBCs, which would have helped the case in the court. “The previous government issued an ordinance on July 31, 2019, where it mentioned that the OBCs would be given reservation as per its proportion within the limit of 50%. But on realising the need of census data, he wrote to Rajeev Kumar of NITI Ayog on August 1, seeking empirical data. Various letters from different departments were written but the Centre did not give information,” he said, presenting documents. Mr. Fadnavis could not get hold of the data though the Central government is being run by the BJP. “This ordinance by the Fadnavis government has led to the present mess.” He said the by-elections should be postponed to avoid any loss to the OBCs. Voting will be held for 70 ZP seats in Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim and Nahpur and for 130 seats in 33 panchayat samitis. Interestingly, another OBC Minister Vijay Vadettiwar had on Monday claimed that the government would not go ahead with the elections. The apex court had quashed the State government’s review petition after it quashed the political reservation for the OBCs for violating 50% ceiling. Mr. Fadnavis said the State government’s negligence had led to the issue. The BJP delegation which met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said the State government was holding the monsoon session for only two days citing COVID-19. “How can they hold the elections?” asked Mr. Fadnavis. He said if the government was determined to conduct the polls, the BJP would field only OBC candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/put-off-by-elections-to-zps-samitis-to-avoid-any-loss-to-obcs-bhujbal/article34942227.ece
24 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt. to compensate tribal artists for missing paintings||After waiting for compensation from the State government for over three years after its Tribal Development Department (TDD) allegedly lost tribal artists’ paintings worth Rs. 20.79 lakh displayed at an international exhibition in Malaysia in June 2018, the department has finally issued directions to compensate the affected artists. The TDD on June 18 wrote to the Commissioner of the Tribal Research and Training Institute (TRTI), Pune, to contact the artists and seek information from them on the valuation of the lost paintings. “After inspecting the total number of lost artifacts and its exact amount, the artists be paid the required amount,” said the letter sent to TRTI.  The Hindu had on June 15 reported how tribal artists were being made to wait for three years for the sums involved. The Export Promotion Council for Handicrafts had organised the 16th World Indian Festival-2018 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, between June 9 and 17, 2018. The State’s TDD had displayed handmade products and paintings from tribal artisans, for which a number of officials from the department travelled to Malaysia along with the artists. On their return, the artists found that several of their paintings were missing. Rajendra Maraskolhe, president, Organization for Rights of Tribal, Nagpur, who has been fighting for the artists to receive compensation, said that the new orders were clear directions to the TRTI. “However, we will be following up on the entire process as artists have already been waiting for more than three years,” he said. A meeting was called in November 2018 as the artists had neither received payment nor their paintings. According to the minutes of the meeting, attended by senior officials from the TDD, it was decided to take action against two organisations — Agenda Suriya and Purvi Fashion — and to write to the Indian Consulate in Malaysia to take action against SAG Logistics, which was responsible for the transport of the boxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-govt-to-compensate-tribal-artists-for-missing-paintings/article34942228.ece
24 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Chowkee extension pagodas to enhance people-police interface||The 100 new police check posts, set up across Mumbai to impose the second wave-related travel restrictions, will facilitate smoother interface between the police and the citizens round the clock, said Joint Commissioner of Police (Law & Order), Mumbai Police, Vishwas Nangare Patil. “They have been set up to ensure that our police force operates in a secure environment with the basic amenities provided for their wellbeing,” he said. “This is vital given the multiple challenges faced by them over the past year including containing the pandemic and dealing with irate motorists and citizens who are dealing with the fall out of the pandemic and lockdown rules imposed,” he said. He further said, “The clear branding, tall signage posts and well-lit barricades will not only help citizens recognise an authorised check post from a distance, but also ensure a smoother interface between the police and citizens.” The moveable, semi-modular “Chowkee Extension Pagodas” have been set up from Colaba to Dahisar across 13 police zones. The Marine Drive section has three posts given the length of the road and the many accidents due to speeding cars and jaywalking pedestrians. The Malabar Hill has four. To ensure visibility, the pristine white colour of the chowkee has been enhanced with bright colours and smart lighting including red rope-lit barricades, neon yellow signages and 15-foot high pylons which are fully lit up. The white pagoda shelters also have facilities like lockers, changing rooms, electric connections, water dispensers and refrigerators for the police force. Though originally set up between May 7 and June 10 to handle the lockdown situation in the overwhelming second wave, these temporary structures are expected to help mitigate risk in the likely third wave expected to hit the city in six to eight weeks. These pagoda like plastic structures also make a style statement, indicating the ethos of Mumbai. This initiative is funded by the Reliance Industries and Reliance Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/chowkee-extension-pagodas-to-enhance-people-police-interface/article34942230.ece
24 June 2021||Mumbai,||Tope announces wage hike, allowance for Asha workers||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday announced that Asha workers would get an increment of Rs. 1,000 in their wages and Rs. 500 as COVID-19 allowance per month from July, besides a smartphone. After the announcement, which will benefit more than 68,000 such community health activists, Asha workers withdrew their week-long protest which they had begun in support of various demands, including a wage hike. The kin of Asha workers who have died due to COVID-19 would get a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh, the Minister said. Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) are contractual workers hired to implement a slew of government schemes, chiefly of the Health Department. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Tope said, “Maharashtra’s Asha workers will get an expensive smartphone for their work along with an increment of Rs. 1,000 per month. They will also get Rs. 500 per month as COVID-19 allowance on top of the increment.” Asha group monitors would get an increment of Rs. 1,200 and Rs. 500 as COVID-19 allowance, he said. There were 71,137 sanctioned posts of Asha workers in the State, of which 68,297 seats were filled, Mr. Tope said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tope-announces-wage-hike-allowance-for-asha-workers/article34942223.ece
24 June 2021||Mumbai,||Dawood’s brother held in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested Iqbal Kaskar, the brother of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, in a drugs case, an NCB official said. Kaskar’s involvement was found in connection with the seizure of 15 kg of hashish, a contraband, following which he was taken into custody. In 2017, Kaskar was arrested by the police in Thane in an extortion case. On Wednesday, after his arrest in the drugs case, he was brought to the NCB’s office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dawoods-brother-held-in-drugs-case/article34942224.ece
24 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||18-year-old drowns in waterfall||An 18-year-old boy from Mankhurd drowned in Pandavkada Falls in Kharghar on Tuesday evening. Five school friends — Gaurav Lokhande, Akheep Khan, Suraj Yadav, Mousam Gharti and Raheel Khan — went to the waterfall and Gaurav, Mousam and Raheel entered the water for a swim. “While Gaurav and Raheel came out, there was no sign of Mousam. The boys informed the Navi Mumbai Police control room and Kharghar fire brigade officials and a police team reached the spot. On Wednesday morning, we found the body stuck between rocks,” senior police inspector Shatrughn Mali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/18-year-old-drowns-in-waterfall/article34942225.ece
24 June 2021||Washington,||Republicans block voting rights legislation||A procedural vote to begin debate on a voting rights Bill backed by Democrats failed to pass the U.S. Senate on Monday after Senators voted 50-50 along party lines. The ‘For the People Act’, which sought to make access to voting easier across the country, introduced in response to Republican-backed measures to tighten voting laws in several States, faced a filibuster from Senate Republicans, necessitating at least 60 of 100 votes to progress. The Bill included provisions to increase early voting, absentee voting, limit gerrymandering (manipulating electoral constituency boundaries to favour a particular party), establish federal financing of campaigns and automatic voter registration. It also proposed additional campaign finance disclosures. The Democrat-controlled House had passed its version of the legislation in March. While the outcome of the vote was not unexpected, Democrats are using it to argue that Republicans are engaged in systemic voter suppression and a case in point for why the filibuster must be ended. Senate Majority Leader (Democrat) Chuck Schumer said the GOP vote against the Bill was “further evidence that voter suppression has become part of the official platform of the republican party”. The vote was the “starting gun” and not the “finish line”, he said. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell accused the Democrats of a “power grab” and said the legislation would permit them to “take a red pen to election laws in each of the 50 States neutering voting ID laws and ballot harvesting”. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer told reporters that the vote would be “dramatic evidence of why thefilibusterneeds to be modified”, according to a Reuters report. Ballot access Two Democrats, Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, have repeatedly stated their opposition to getting rid of the filibuster. Mr. Manchin was also not on board with the legislation, citing a lack of bipartisanship, but joined his fellow Democrats at the eleventh hour, after some of his suggested modifications (on voter ID and gerrymandering) were accepted. Democrats, including U.S. President Joe Biden, said they would persist in their efforts to expand ballot access. “This fight is far from over — far from over. I’ve been engaged in this work my whole career, and we are going to be ramping up our efforts to overcome again, for the people, for our very democracy,” Mr. Biden said in a statement. “We have several serious options for how to reconsider this issue and advance legislation to combat voter suppression. We are going to explore every last one of our options,” Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor, right after the vote. However, what legislative path they will take remains unclear, as Democrats are likely to encounter the filibuster again and will need the support of at least 60 Senators to pass future versions of the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/republicans-block-voting-rights-legislation/article34941775.ece
24 June 2021||COLOMBO,||Ranil Wickremesinghe returns to Parliament||Former Prime Minister of Sri Lanka Ranil Wickremesinghe on Wednesday returned to Parliament, 10 months after his United National Party (UNP) suffered its biggest electoral defeat in history. In the first intervention by his party in the current legislature, Mr. Wickremesinghe slammed the Rajapaksa government on its economic policy that, he said, lacked a plan amid a crisis, and growing militarisation of civil services. Though the UNP didn’t win a single seat in the 2020 general election, it had enough cumulative votes to nominate one member under its ‘national list’, a system in which a party can win seats proportionate to its share of total votes polled.  “I am happy to be able to come to Parliament and resume my parliamentary political life,” said Mr. Wickremesinghe, who was first elected as an MP in 1977. He was in all Parliaments since, except after he lost the election last year, when the Rajapaksas rose to power with a thumping majority. The Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB, or United People’s Front), formed by those who broke away from the UNP, is Sri Lanka’s main Opposition party, led by Sajith Premadasa. Pointing to Sri Lanka’s foreign reserves, Mr. Wickremesinghe said the balance had fallen from $7 billion, when his government was in power (2015-2019), to $4 billion at present. “By the end of this month, Sri Lanka has a debt of $1 billion to repay. We have to repay another loan of around $2 billion this year. We have no plan on how to pay for these,” he said, urging the government to sign up for an International Monetary Fund (IMF) deal. Tax relief Mr. Wickremesinghe accused the government of giving tax relief to “big people” while “starving small people”. Highlighting the political authority vested in the Cabinet and Parliament, civil power or the bureaucracy, and military power, as the “three aspects” of a democratic government, the former PM said: “What is happening now is that civilian power is being handed to the military and the country is governed that way. That is wrong.” The military was roped in not only for pandemic response but also for economic activity, he added, as he sought a parliamentary debate to discuss the transfer of powers vested in Parliament to the Army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ranil-wickremesinghe-returns-to-parliament/article34941773.ece
24 June 2021||Beijing,||China prepares for CPC centenary events||Chinese authorities have closed Beijing’s central Tiananmen Square to the public, eight days ahead of a major celebration being planned to mark the 100th anniversary of the founding of the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC). The square, which normally attracts tourists from around the country, was barricaded on Wednesday and will remain closed until July 2. Rows of yellow seats and heavy machinery could be seen on the open plaza, which also houses the mausoleum of Mao Zedong, the founding leader of Communist China. The party will showcase the country’s rise from civil war and disastrous political campaigns in the early years of Communist rule to market reforms that have created the world’s second-largest economy, with a superpower status rivalled only by the United States. However, arrangements for the July 1 anniversary remain shrouded in secrecy. Around Tiananmen Square, the Forbidden City former palace complex and other scenic sites are also closed. Flyovers by air force squadrons suggest an aerial review is in the planning, but authorities are yet to release details. Around Beijing and throughout the country, signboards have been erected and commemorative activities held, accompanied by the deployment of additional police and paramilitary forces. The ruling party was established in secrecy in 1921, following the collapse of the Qing dynasty in 1912.  Underscoring China’s rise in technology, President Xi Jinping spoke on Wednesday with three astronauts aboard the country’s newly launched space station, praising their mission as a “pioneering contribution to the peaceful use of space by mankind”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-prepares-for-cpc-centenary-events/article34941760.ece
24 June 2021||Tehran,||Iran says it foiled attack on atomic energy agency building||Iran said it foiled a sabotage attack on Wednesday on an atomic energy agency building in a mysterious incident that comes as the U.S. blocked Iran-linked websites and as talks to revive a nuclear deal progressed. State television said a “sabotage operation against one of the buildings (of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran) was foiled” without causing any casualties or damage. “The saboteurs failed to carry out their plan,” the broadcaster added, without identifying the building or the nature of the attack that had been averted. The news of the attack came a day after the U.S. Justice Department said it seized 33 Iranian government-controlled media websites, which it alleged were hosted on U.S.-owned domains in violation of sanctions. Tehran warned on Wednesday that Washington’s decision to block the sites was “not constructive” for ongoing talks aimed at bringing the United States back to the landmark 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers.   Wednesday’s sabotage attack also comes two days after Iran said it temporarily shut down its only nuclear power plant at Bushehr on the country’s Gulf coast for maintenance work.  The developments come days after ultraconservative cleric Ebrahim Raisi was elected Iran’s next President in an election the U.S. denounced as neither free nor fair. Mr. Raisi, seen as close to the country’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said on Monday he would not allow the nuclear negotiations to drag on. He is set to replace President Hassan Rouhani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-says-it-foiled-attack-on-atomic-energy-agency-building/article34941766.ece
24 June 2021||Lahore,||Three killed in blast near jailed Pak. militant’s home||A car bomb killed three people in Pakistan’s eastern megacity Lahore on Wednesday in an attack officials believe targeted the police and security forces near the home of a banned firebrand Muslim cleric. “Our assessment is that the most obvious target was the police and security forces,” said provincial police chief Inam Ghani. He said the blast site, in the affluent neighbourhood of Johar Town, was near the home of Hafiz Saeed, the alleged mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai attacks. “The vehicle might have succeeded in reaching there had this police checkpoint not been present,” said Mr. Ghani. A police official who did not want to be named said the checkpoint was in place to guard Saeed’s house.  It was unclear whether the car was packed with explosives that were remotely detonated or if a suicide bomber was behind the blast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/three-killed-in-blast-near-jailed-pak-militants-home/article34941771.ece
24 June 2021||Paris,||‘Climate crisis to hit sooner than feared’||Climate change will fundamentally reshape life on Earth in the coming decades, even if humans can tame planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions, according to a landmark draft report from the UN’s climate science advisers obtained by AFP . Earlier models predicted that we were not likely to see Earth-altering climate change before 2100. But the UN draft report says that prolonged warming even beyond the threshold of 1.5 degrees Celsius could produce “progressively serious, centuries’ long and, in some cases, irreversible consequences”. Dangerous thresholds are closer than once thought, and dire consequences stemming from decades of carbon pollution are unavoidable in the short term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/climate-crisis-to-hit-sooner-than-feared/article34941761.ece
24 June 2021||Washington,||Khashoggi killers were trained in the U.S.: report||Four members of the Saudi hit squad that killed U.S.-based journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018 had received paramilitary training in the United States that had been approved by the State Department,The New York Times reported on Tuesday. Khashoggi, a Saudi-born U.S. resident, who wrote forThe Washington Post , was an outspoken critic of the Saudi leadership, with which he had once been close. He was murdered on October 2, 2018, in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul by a team of agents sent from Saudi Arabia. Four of those operatives, The New York Times said, had received training from a private American security group, Tier 1 Group, a move first authorised by the administration of former President Barack Obama in 2014. That training continued at least until the start of Donald Trump’s presidency, the newspaper said. It cited a document provided to the Trump administration by a top official from the parent company of Tier 1 Group, the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, who had applied for a senior post at the Pentagon. In his written testimony, Louis Bremer confirmed that Tier 1 Group did provide training to the Saudi agents, but insisted that the training was “protective in nature” and “unrelated to their subsequent heinous acts”.  The U.S. State Department, contacted byAFP,said it could not comment on this information but called for the “responsible use ... of American military equipment and training”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/khashoggi-killers-were-trained-in-the-us-report/article34941767.ece
24 June 2021||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong newspaper to shut down||Hong Kong pro-democracy newspaper Apple Daily announced on Wednesday it will print its final edition after authorities froze its assets using a sweeping new national security law, silencing the city’s most China-critical media outlet.  Journalists outside the paper’s headquarters said they planned to print one million copies overnight — a staggering number given Hong Kong’s 7.5 million population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-newspaper-to-shut-down/article34941764.ece
24 June 2021||Moscow,||Fired warning shots at U.K. ship: Russia||Russia on Wednesday said it fired warning shots at a British navy destroyer in the Black Sea after it violated the country’s territorial waters, but the U.K. denied the incident had occurred.  As per Interfax , the Russian Defence Ministry said, “The HMS Defender was given a preliminary warning that weapons would be used if the state borders of the Russian Federation were violated. It did not react to the warning.” It said “a border patrol ship fired warning shots” and an aircraft dropped four bombs along the ship’s path, following which it left Russian waters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fired-warning-shots-at-uk-ship-russia/article34941769.ece
24 June 2021||Cairo,||ML--Suez Canal-Vessel||The owners and insurers of the container ship that blocked the Suez Canal for nearly a week earlier this year have reached an early agreement over their dispute with canal authorities, representatives from both sides said. The Suez Canal Authority said more details would be released later.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ml-suez-canal-vessel/article34941763.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Kashmir outreach and the Afghan storm||Two years after its dramatic decision to reorganise Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), the Government appears to be rethinking some of the objectives it announced then as Prime Minister Narendra Modi engages the erstwhile State’s former leadership to discuss the future of the political process there. Mr. Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah had spoken of three specific objectives in the move to amend Article 370 on August 5, 2019, apart from ending terrorism and violence in J&K: flooding the region with development initiatives and investment from other parts of the country; reclaiming those parts of the territory now occupied by Pakistan and China (Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, or PoK, and Aksai Chin), and ending the rule of political “dynasties” in J&K — that they claimed had held the progress of the State hostage — in favour of a “Naya Kashmir” polity. Above all, the Government underlined, as External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar undertook a series of visits abroad to explain its nuances, the decision was purely an “internal” one, and did not affect India’s ties with any other country. Objectives and reality While two years may not be long enough to truly judge the success of its intentions, particularly given the impact of the novel coronavirus pandemic, it is certainly fair to say the Government has failed to make headway with most of those objectives. Incidents of terrorism and violence have no doubt decreased since 2019, but that has come at the cost of massive privations to the people in the name of security. More than 5,000 people were arrested, the longest Internet shutdown in any democracy was instituted for 213 days, and the deployment of troops still remains at peacetime highs. The plight of the ordinary Kashmiri, battling daily intimidations from security forces, the closure of schools and online education for their children, and diminishing sources of income, can only be imagined. Attempts to convince investors that this is a lasting peace have floundered thus far, and while the Government claims it has more than 400 memoranda  of understanding from businesses nationwide promising to invest in the Union Territory, this can only be tested once the money actually comes in, given the state of the national economy, even prior to the pandemic. Border situation Mr. Shah’s claim in Parliament that his government was willing to “sacrifice lives” to ensure the return of Pakistan Occupied Kashmir and Aksai Chin, appears a much more difficult proposition in the face of the Chinese aggression at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since April 2020. Chinese actions, and the failure of military and diplomatic talks to ensure the restoration of status quo ante have been coupled with the growing threat perception, articulated by the Indian Army Chief, that any future conflict at the LAC would need to account for a two-front “situation” with Pakistan at the Line of Control as well, and vice versa. Even the United States is unlikely to countenance any military manoeuvre involving PoK now, given its proximity to the Afghanistan theatre, and the U.S.’s pullout and the increasing strength of the Taliban will add to the risk calculus in Delhi against such actions. Finally, the outreach to 14 leaders from J&K, many of whom were arrested for months, indicates that the Government’s plan for a “Naya Kashmir” polity is not drastically different from the previous polity — that the Home Minister referred to derisively as the “Gupkar Gang” — despite intervening attempts at building a new party (Apni Party), sidelining the main parties during consultations and even promoting “District Development Councillors” as the new Kashmiri leadership during meetings with foreign diplomats. Hardly an ‘internal’ issue The Government’s repeated assertion that its August 5 decision on J&K was an “internal one” has also been put to a rigorous test. Despite considerable exertions by the Ministry of External Affairs and its missions worldwide, J&K has now been discussed in more capitals, including the U.S. Congress, Parliaments in the United Kingdom, the European Union (EU) and the Nordic countries, than ever before, while several delegations of EU parliamentarians, Ambassadors and United Nations diplomats have been escorted to the valley to elicit their approval for the situation there. It is ironic that countries which were openly supportive of the Modi government’s military action in PoK in 2016 after the Uri attack, and of the Balakot strikes by the Indian Air Force in Pakistan after the Pulwama attack in 2019, have even so, chosen to be so critical of a political and internal move. In addition, the J&K dispute has been discussed at least three times at the UN Security Council, which had not touched the issue since 1971. Dialogue with Pakistan What is more galling is the notion that the decision to engage the previous leadership, to discuss the restart of a political process and the reversal of the August 5 decision to downgrade the State to a Union Territory, comes not from domestic considerations alone. In the past few months, it has been made clear that a backchannel dialogue between India and Pakistan is discussing assurances on J&K that would enable a broader bilateral dialogue. Pakistan too has climbed down considerably from its previous demands of plebiscite and UN resolutions, to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s more recent statements that he would be willing to talk if there was a reversal in some of the August 5 steps, or if the Modi government proffers a “roadmap” on J&K. Even Pakistan’s insistence on the restoration of Article 370 was a turnaround from the days when it rejected the Article’s validity. Both the downturn in Pakistan-backed violence in Jammu-Kashmir as well the softening of rhetoric suggest a flexibility borne out of international pressure as well as the sustained threat of a (Pakistan) blacklisting by the Financial Action Task Force. Such compromises by hawkish establishments in Delhi and Islamabad (and Rawalpindi) do not come from an internal rethink by themselves, and it would seem obvious that external prompting from the U.S., keen to complete its Afghanistan pullout and its negotiations with the Taliban, as well as nudges from Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, of the kind publicly referred to by the UAE envoy as “mediation”,have been at work as well. The recent disclosure by the Qatari special envoy that Indian officials have engaged the Taliban leadership in Doha is also part of that matrix. The Government’s decision to shut down operations at two of its Afghanistan consulates, in Jalalabad and Herat, which was earlier described as a temporary move due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, is clearly linked to safety concerns in the phase after the U.S. pullout. The U.S. factor In the broader geopolitical context, as the drumbeats to a U.S.-China confrontation grow louder, India’s global strategies will be further put to test. The U.S.’s expectations of cooperation from India to its East, on China and the Indo-Pacific, have clearly not been commensurate with New Delhi’s expectations that America would reduce India’s threats to its west, from Afghanistan and Pakistan. Instead, it would seem, the Government’s attempts to sever the Gordian knot in Jammu and Kashmir with its moves two years ago, are being drawn into a more complex game of regional dominoes, where India’s security interests are increasingly in play. suhasini.h@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-kashmir-outreach-and-the-afghan-storm/article34941537.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The gender technology gap has to end||As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has swept South Asia in recent months, existing inequalities have come to light. One aspect stands out: access to technology has never been so crucial to ensuring public health and safety. Around the world, information and access to health care have largely moved online, and those left behind face grave disadvantages. Limited or no access According to Global System for Mobile Communications (GSMA) estimates, over 390 million women in low- and middle-income countries do not have Internet access. South Asia has more than half of these women with only 65% owning a mobile phone. In India, only 14.9% of women were reported to be using the Internet. This divide is deepened by earlier mandates to register online to get a vaccination appointment. Recent local data revealed that nearly 17% more men than women have been vaccinated. While improving awareness of how to access vaccination and help are crucial to protecting women, the mindset around digital technology and device ownership must also change. For example, when families share a digital device, it is more likely that the father or sons will be allowed to use it exclusively. In part, this is due to deeply held cultural beliefs: it is often believed that women’s access to technology will motivate them to challenge patriarchal societies. There is also a belief that women need to be protected, and that online content can be dangerous for women/expose them to risks. As a consequence, girls and women who ask for phones face suspicion and opposition. These gaps prevent women and LGBTQIA+ people from accessing critical services. In India, Bangladesh and Pakistan, for example, fewer women than men received the necessary information to survive COVID-19. Vaccine registration usually requires a smartphone or laptop. Men and boys are thus more likely to get timely information and register than women and girls. The concept of feminism goes beyond the rights of women. It is about a way of life. In simple terms, it means being inclusive, democratic, transparent, egalitarian, and offering opportunities for all. We can call it equality through innovation. Feminist technology (sometimes called “femtech”) is an approach to technology and innovation that is inclusive, informed and responsive to the entire community with all its diversity. Steps to an equitable future At UN Women, we are encouraging companies to sign up and agree to principles that will lead to a more equitable future for all. As part of the Generation Equality Forum (https://bit.ly/35MSxNa), the goal is to double the number of women and girls working in technology and innovation. By 2026, the aim is to reduce the gender digital divide and ensure universal digital literacy, while investing in feminist technology and innovation to support women’s leadership as innovators. Through digital empowerment programmes and partnerships such as EQUALS (https://bit.ly/2SQ78oj) and International Girls in ICT Day celebration (https://bit.ly/2SQ6WW7) across the region led by UN Women and the International Telecommunication Union, we hope that more girls will choose STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) as their academic focus, enter digital technology careers, and aspire to be the next leaders in digital technology. What would the world look like if technology were truly inclusive and reflected our society’s needs? How would the world be different if feminist technology were embraced? Hardly a neutral world What we see today is that most technologies that are available to the layperson are created by men, for men, and do not necessarily meet everyone’s requirements. The supposedly neutral world of technology is full of examples of this: from video games to virtual assistants to the increasingly large dimensions of “handheld” smartphones, technology is not always made with everyone in mind. Policy cannot solve this on its own, but the private sector can. Companies should not look at gender-equal technology solely from an altruistic perspective, but from a pragmatic one. According to GSMA, closing the gender gap in mobile Internet usage in low- and middle-income countries would increase GDP by U.S.$700 billion over the next five years. Women and girls are the largest consumer groups left out of technology and could be major profit drivers. In the App Store, there are about two million apps, most of which cater to young men. Why not design apps geared specifically towards mothers or apps for women to access telemedicine consultation? Or digital networks to connect women to informal job opportunities so they can still earn while balancing caring for their families? Other than apps, built-in features on mobile phones such as an emergency button connecting women to law enforcement if they face unwanted street harassment should also be considered. Women and girls do not have the same access to these technologies as men and boys, nor are they available at the same price. That is not acceptable. There is no need to reinvent the wheel. In the 1950s, dishwashers and washing machines were promoted as a method of emancipating women. Household goods producers, for example, target most of their advertising at women because they often control the household budget. Digital technology could be approached similarly. We now have the opportunity to shape our future in a way that is more equal, diverse, and sustainable in the world of technology in the aftermath of the medical and socioeconomic devastation in the past year. Now is the time to act. The right thing to do is also the smart thing to do. Bringing an end to the gender technology gap will save lives and make livelihoods more secure. As a result, the next pandemic, once it arrives, may not be nearly as destructive. It can only lead to a better community and a better world for us all. Mohammad Naciri is Regional Head of UN Women Asia and the Pacific. Atsuko Okuda is Regional Director of the International Telecommunication Union Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-gender-technology-gap-has-to-end/article34941540.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘Union government’ has a unifying effect||The Tamil Nadu government’s decision to shun the usage of the term ‘Central government’ in its official communications and replace it with ‘Union government’ is a major step towards regaining the consciousness of our Constitution. Seventy-one years since we adopted the Constitution, it is time we regained the original intent of our founding fathers beautifully etched in the parchment as Article 1: “India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States”. If a student of Indian polity attempts to trace the origin of the term ‘Central government’, the Constitution will disappoint him, for the Constituent Assembly did not use the term ‘Centre’ or ‘Central government’ in all of its 395 Articles in 22 Parts and eight Schedules in the original Constitution. What we have are the ‘Union’ and the ‘States’ with the executive powers of the Union wielded by the President acting on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers headed by the Prime Minister. Then, why did the courts, the media and even the States refer to the Union government as the ‘Centre’? Even though we have no reference to the ‘Central government’ in the Constitution, the General Clauses Act, 1897 gives a definition for it. The ‘Central government’ for all practical purposes is the President after the commencement of the Constitution. Therefore, the real question is whether such definition for ‘Central government’ is constitutional as the Constitution itself does not approve of centralising power. Intent of Constituent Assembly On December 13, 1946, Jawaharlal Nehru introduced the aims and objects of the Assembly by resolving that India shall be a Union of territories willing to join the “Independent Sovereign Republic”. The emphasis was on the consolidation and confluence of various provinces and territories to form a strong united country. Many members of the Constituent Assembly were of the opinion that the principles of the British Cabinet Mission Plan (1946) be adopted, which contemplated a Central government with very limited powers whereas the provinces had substantial autonomy. The Partition and the violence of 1947 in Kashmir forced the Constituent Assembly to revise its approach and it resolved in favour of a strong Centre. The possibility of the secession of States from the Union weighed on the minds of the drafters of the Constitution and ensured that the Indian Union is “indestructible”. In the Constituent Assembly, B.R Ambedkar, the Chairman of the Drafting Committee, observed that the word ‘Union’ was advisedly used in order to negative the right of secession of States by emphasising, after all, that “India shall be a Union of States”. Ambedkar justified the usage of ‘Union of States’ saying that the Drafting Committee wanted to make it clear that though India was to be a federation, it was not the result of an agreement and that therefore, no State has the right to secede from it. “The federation is a Union because it is indestructible,” Ambedkar said. The usage of ‘Union of States’ by Ambedkar was not approved by all and faced criticisms from Maulana Hasrat Mohani who argued that Ambedkar was changing the very nature of the Constitution. Mohani made a fiery speech in the Assembly on September 18, 1949 where he vehemently contended that the usage of the words ‘Union of States’ would obscure the word ‘Republic’. Mohani went to the extent of saying that Ambedkar wanted the ‘Union’ to be “something like the Union proposed by Prince Bismarck in Germany, and after him adopted by Kaiser William and after him by Adolf Hitler”. Mohani continued, “He (Ambedkar) wants all the States to come under one rule and that is what we call Notification of the Constitution. I think Dr. Ambedkar is also of that view, and he wants to have that kind of Union. He wants to bring all the units, the provinces and the groups of States, everything under the thumb of the Centre.” However, Ambedkar clarified that “the Union is not a league of States, united in a loose relationship; nor are the States the agencies of the Union, deriving powers from it. Both the Union and the States are created by the Constitution, both derive their respective authority from the Constitution. The one is not subordinate to the other in its own field... the authority of one is coordinate with that of the other”. The sharing of powers between the Union and the States is not restricted to the executive organ of the government. The judiciary is designed in the Constitution to ensure that the Supreme Court, the tallest court in the country, has no superintendence over the High Courts. Though the Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction — not only over High Courts but also over other courts and tribunals — they are not declared to be subordinate to it. In fact, the High Courts have wider powers to issue prerogative writs despite having the power of superintendence over the district and subordinate courts. Parliament and Assemblies identify their boundaries and are circumspect to not cross their boundaries when it comes to the subject matter on which laws are made. However, the Union Parliament will prevail if there is a conflict. Word play The members of the Constituent Assembly were very cautious of not using the word ‘Centre’ or ‘Central government’ in the Constitution as they intended to keep away the tendency of centralising of powers in one unit. The ‘Union government’ or the ‘Government of India’ has a unifying effect as the message sought to be given is that the government is of all. Even though the federal nature of the Constitution is its basic feature and cannot be altered, what remains to be seen is whether the actors wielding power intend to protect the federal feature of our Constitution. As Nani Palkhivala famously said, “The only satisfactory and lasting solution of the vexed problem is to be found not in the statute-book but in the conscience of men in power”. Mukund P. Unny is an advocate practising in the Supreme Court of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-union-government-has-a-unifying-effect/article34941753.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A recovery path for airlines||After months of closing their borders, regions that have contained the spread of COVID-19 are trying to find ways of reopening their borders. However, there are many apprehensions in doing this. It is not easy for governments to reopen their borders, allow traffic and still keep the virus away. Airlines have been battling uncertainty since March 2020. In April 2020, two thirds of the global fleet of aircraft was grounded, but essential operations were not halted. By raising private capital, receiving government support, cutting costs to the bone, and flying more to transport goods, etc., many airlines have managed to prevent bankruptcy. Restarting operations It is challenging for airlines to figure out how they are going to restart operations when customer demand returns to pre-COVID-19 levels. As the vaccination programme unfolds in different parts of the world, it is critical to restart air travel with an internationally reliable, acceptable and harmonious approach. The government and industry should collaborate to develop a sustainable ‘restart strategy’. Such a strategy should use a science-based approach and specify how nations must deal with vaccinated and non-vaccinated passengers, how quarantine and testing measures will be adjusted, and how appropriate electronic capture of health data to facilitate international travel can be ensured. It is possible to have a flexible policy. Tools can be developed to continually monitor the risk profiles of different regions. For India, the large domestic aviation market is a saviour. Collaboration among the States will be critical to ensure the effective restart of the aviation industry. Different testing and quarantine requirements have already created a lot of confusion. As done in natural calamity protocols, a framework establishing clear rules, processes and standards needs to be in place according to the situation. Local actions need to be taken whenever risks are identified, and a consistent policy should be followed. In recent times, micro-containment zones have been helpful over blanket lockdowns in containing infections. It is time to focus on substituting blanket restrictions with testing, vaccination and limited quarantine measures. Tests and vaccines will jointly play a key role in the industry’s recovery. Vaccination can be a requirement to travel but should co-exist with testing regimes. It should be considered as a progressive step towards safe travel. Imposing compulsory vaccination as a pre-requisite for air travel will only further impact the sector. It is going to take some time to fully vaccinate everyone who wants to be vaccinated. In the meantime, until the population worldwide is significantly vaccinated, it is important to have robust and stable testing protocols, along with interoperable digital solutions. Implementing widespread COVID-19 antigen testing before departure is key to restarting air travel. The Indian Council of Medical Research approved self-testing COVID-19 kits called CoviSelf, which could come in handy. Vaccine passports Digital travel passes and vaccine passports may be another solution. But in order to work, these will require standardisation across borders. Internationally, there is concern that governments may not cooperate or establish shared principles for opening their borders. The concept of vaccine passports is illogical if the same vaccines are not recognised in all the countries. For example, the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines, which are generally recognised as examples of vaccines that will be used as a pre-requirement for vaccine passports, are only accessible in 72 and 74 countries, respectively. Uneven travel restrictions and passenger demand are driving the need for flexibility and speed in decision-making processes. This is seen across multiple serviceable areas, including long-term fleet planning, network planning, and revenue management. In the present scenario, a network plan needs to be rethought and reworked, as there may be the possibility of different segments in different parts of the network opening and closing depending on the uncertainty of the pandemic and the demand. The next few years will be challenging for the aviation industry. The actions taken by governments and industry will determine how long it takes for the industry to recover. If the aviation industry has to recover, governments need to come up with consistent policies based on evidence, and industry should do whatever it can to reinstate passenger confidence, embrace new ways of making revenue, and new operational demands. This is the call of the hour even if this means moving outside the comfort zone. Usha Padhee is Joint Secretary and Aditya Tiwari is a former Young Professional in the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-recovery-path-for-airlines/article34941757.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Blended learning won’t work||A recent circular by the University Grants Commission (UGC) proposes that all higher educational institutions (HEI) teach 40% of any course online and the rest 60% offline. The concept note circulated by the UGC argues that this “blended mode of teaching” and learning paves the way for increased student engagement in learning, enhanced student-teacher interactions, improved student learning outcomes and more flexible teaching and learning environments, among other things. The note also enlists a few other key benefits such as increased opportunity for institutional collaborations at a distance and enhanced self-learning accruing from blended learning (BL). Another claim is that BL benefits the teachers as well. It shifts the role of the teacher from being a “knowledge provider to a coach and mentor”. The note says this will enable teachers to have a greater influence and effect on students’ learning. Further, as against traditional classroom instruction which is “teacher-directed, top-down, and one-size-fits-all”, BL is “student-driven, bottom-up, and customized”. The note adds that BL introduces flexibility in assessment and evaluation patterns as well. Educators wish to embrace the forward-looking proposal but the ground reality is different. Challenges The latest All India Survey on Higher Education (2019-20) report shows that 60.56% of the 42,343 colleges in India are located in rural areas and 78.6% are privately managed. Can these colleges successfully implement BL? And what would be the cost of such education? Only big corporates are better placed to invest in technology and provide such learning. Second, according to datareportal statistics, Internet penetration in India is only 45% as of January 2021. This policy will only exacerbate the existing geographical and digital divide resulting in the exclusion of a large number of rural students. Third, BL leaves little room for all-round formation of the student that includes the development of their intelligent quotient, emotional quotient, social quotient, physical quotient and spiritual quotient. What is the guarantee that BL will enhance interactions between students and teachers that lead to personality development, character building and career formation? The listening part and subsequent interactions with the teacher may get minimised. Also, the concept note assumes that all students who enter the arena of higher education have similar learning styles and have a certain amount of digital literacy to cope with the suggested learning strategies of BL. This is far from true. Education in India is driven by a teacher-centred approach. Expecting these students to switch over quickly to collaborative and technology-enabled learning will be stressful for them and may accentuate the existing dropout rate in higher education. Recommendations Given these challenges, it is worth considering a few recommendations. The government should ensure equity in access to technology and bandwidth for all HEIs across the country free of cost. Massive digital training programmes must be arranged for teachers. Even the teacher-student ratio needs to be readjusted to implement BL effectively. This may require the appointment of a greater number of teachers. The design of the curriculum should be decentralised and based on a bottom-up approach. More power in such education-related policymaking should be vested with the State governments. Switching over from a teacher-centric mode of learning at schools to the BL mode at the tertiary level will be difficult for learners. Hence, the government must think of overhauling the curriculum at the school level as well. Finally, periodical discussions, feedback mechanisms and support services at all levels would revitalise the implementation of the learning programme of the National Education Policy 2020, BL, and lead to the actualisation of the three cardinal principles of education policy: access, equity and quality. A. Thomas is Principal, Loyola College, and K.S. Antonysamy is Associate Professor, Loyola College||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/blended-learning-wont-work/article34941754.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Friends in need||Talk of any political realignment is unseasonal, considering the fact that the next general election is due only in 2024 and the BJP is entrenched in the government. A gathering of political leaders, activists and scholars convened by Trinamool Congress leader Yashwant Sinha on Tuesday, however, was preceded by a lot of speculation about the emergence of a ‘third’ front, opposed to the BJP and sidelining the Congress. The Rashtra Manch is not intended to be a third front according to its organisers, but that does not mean the end of an exploratory politics ahead of 2024. In fact, most parties have reasons to think and act towards a new alternative to the BJP. For one, serial governance failures and missteps have made the current moment the most vulnerable for the BJP since 2014. The Congress does challenge the BJP at an ideational level, but the electoral victories over it in recent months were by regional parties such as the TMC, the DMK and the Left. While Rahul Gandhi has a principled position against the BJP, his vacillating role within the party and reluctance to play the power politics make the Congress an uninspiring leader for other anti-BJP parties. The role being played by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar makes the current attempt for a new platform vigorous. He has the dexterity, heft and the network to lead it. That said, there is not an easy path for this nascent platform, assuming that it has ambitions beyond being a debating society. At 80, age is not on Mr. Pawar’s side. Without an active role for the Congress, no political formation can be viable against the BJP. That role, and the terms of engagement between the Congress and other smaller parties remain open questions. Even among the parties that participated in the meeting — SP, NCP, AAP, CPI(M), CPI, National Conference, Trinamool Congress — enthusiasm is muted, though they sent representatives. Mr. Pawar himself is conscious of the pitfalls. Several of these parties are adversaries of one another in States. All non-BJP parties are not opening up to the idea, at least for now. The TRS, YSRCP and BJD, in power in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, respectively, have a guarded approach towards national politics. All these factors make the emergence of a robust opposition to the BJP onerous. Politics is often shaped by circumstances. The BJP’s unchallenged power in the last seven years has built tensions that need to be resolved through democratic processes. The recent Assembly election outcomes were a reminder that parties staunchly opposed to the BJP remain popular in States. Harnessing a national politics from such disparate trends is a challenge before the opponents of the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/friends-in-need/article34941531.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Engage Iran||The U.S.’s decision to block dozens of Iran-linked websites at a time when both countries are trying to revive the nuclear deal is unnecessary provocation. The U.S. has accused the sites, including Iran’s state-owned Press TV, of spreading disinformation. In the past, the U.S. had cracked down on Chinese and Iranian media over similar allegations. The move comes days after Iran elected Ebrahim Raisi, a hardline cleric, as President. The election of Mr. Raisi, who has been sanctioned by the U.S. for his alleged role in the execution of political prisoners and other rights violations, has already escalated tensions between the two countries. Iran’s sharp response to the move on the websites, has been that the U.S. was trying to “muzzle free speech”. Even if one ignores Iran’s rhetoric, the U.S.’s move hardly serves its declared purpose of fighting disinformation. When America seized the website of the semi-official Iranian news agency, Fars, in 2018, it switched to an Iranian domain and was back online. The U.S. should not act like despotic regimes that take knee-jerk actions towards media platforms with critical coverage. The way to fight disinformation campaigns is to promote information and strengthen independent journalism. Besides aiding the Iranian narrative that America remains hostile, the U.S. decision could also create hitches in the diplomatic process under way. The Biden administration had hoped for reaching an agreement with Tehran on reviving the nuclear deal before the June 18 Iran presidential election. After multiple rounds of indirect talks in Vienna, along with other world powers, a final agreement has not been reached, but all parties have expressed faith in talks. The Biden administration had shown a willingness to reverse Donald Trump’s maximum pressure policy and revive the deal that would cut off Iran’s path towards the bomb in return for lifting sanctions. Iran, embattled by sanctions, economic woes and protests, has responded positively to the U.S.’s overtures. But there have been bottlenecks. One, when the Trump administration pulled the U.S. out of the nuclear deal and reimposed sanctions, Iran started rebuilding its nuclear programme with higher-level fuel enrichment and production of centrifuges. Now, the U.S. wants Iran to return to the terms of the original agreement, while the Iranians want the sanctions lifted first. Two, the Biden administration also wants to discuss Iran’s ballistic missile programme and its regional activities. Mr. Raisi has rejected such demands outright. Known for his hardline domestic and foreign policy views, he would take over the presidency in early August. Mr. Biden’s best chance to revive the nuclear deal is to do it before then. Both sides should focus on the diplomatic path, aimed at achieving a pragmatic agreement first that addresses the most critical issues — Iran’s expanding nuclear programme and America’s sprawling sanctions regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/engage-iran/article34941532.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Taiwan leaflets in balloons||Patna, June 23: Pamphlets and leaflets in Chinese script airdropped in balloons in many North Bihar villages between June 14 and 18, deciphered subsequently, urge people living in Communist China to “respond to President Chiang Kai-Shek’s call to attack Mao and carry out your determination to come back to Taiwan.” Booklets, reported to be Chinese calendars used in Taiwan, say “how happy are people in Taiwan. They are united in their resolve to recapture the Chinese mainland held by Mao. Carry out your determination to come away to Taiwan.” It is reported that on June 19, 1969 also balloons containing stimilar K.M.T. propaganda literature were dropped in Giridih, Palamau, Santhal Parganas, Monghyr, Shahabad, Saharsa, Purnea and Gaya districts of Bihar. This time balloons containing leaflets and other articles of daily use were dropped in villages of Ranchi, Palamau, Santhal Parganas, Bhagalpur, Monghyr, Hazaribagh and Purnea districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/taiwan-leaflets-in-balloons/article34941541.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘States not prudent in reopening as vaccination rates are still low’||States’ reopening strategy in the wake of a decline in COVID-19 cases is not “prudent” and might even result in a rise in infections as vaccine coverage remains low in many States, global forecasting firm Oxford Economics said on Wednesday. In a report, it also said, “we remain cautious and maintain our 2021 growth forecast at 9.1%”, pointing out that economic data did not support an upward revision at this point. The rapid decline in COVID-19 cases and test positivity rates has prompted many States to relax restrictions that are in place to curb the spread of coronavirus infections. Against this backdrop, Oxford Economics said vaccination rates were far below the levels deemed to be safe for easing social distancing measures substantially in the more populous and economically important States. While partial restrictions were likely to be extended into the third quarter of the calendar year 2021, the reopening had started at a faster pace than it had expected, it noted. “We think this reopening strategy is not prudent and may result in a renewed rise in infections and retightening of restrictions in the future,” Oxford Economics said. The reopening had begun at a faster pace than it had anticipated as States had focussed on declining test positivity rates as the guiding factor for easing measures rather than the share of population vaccinated. “This strategy could create a challenge... if infections increase again, especially as we head towards the festive months, and vaccine coverage remains low in many States,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/states-not-prudent-in-reopening-as-vaccination-rates-are-still-low/article34941516.ece
24 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Centre further eases norms for voice-based BPOs||India on Wednesday said more norms governing Other Service Providers, or voice-based BPOs, were being relaxed, and that the distinction between domestic and international entities in particular had been removed. This was aimed at helping consolidate the country’s position in the sector globally, paring operating costs for the entities and aiding them to strike synergies among different firms. Removal of the distinction would mean a BPO can leverage the same telecom resources to serve customers located globally as well as in the country. A release said the interconnectivity between all types of OSP centres was now permitted. Other relaxations include allowing Electronic Private Automatic Branch Exchange (EPABX) of the OSP to be located anywhere in the world. Apart from using EPABX services of telcos, the entities can locate the facility at third-party data centres in India. There will be no restriction for data interconnectivity between OSP centres of the same company or group firm or any unrelated firm. Minister for Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad said the move was expected to provide a fillip to the BPO sector as well as create jobs. This was in continuation of the Department of Telecommunications’ liberalisation of norms in November. Nasscom said the Centre had issued clarifications on all points the association had raised, which would place the IT-BPM sector in a competitive space. “The new guidelines will add to India’s attractiveness in ease of doing business,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-further-eases-norms-for-voice-based-bpos/article34941512.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,||TII to spend Rs. 250 cr. in capex||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TIIL) proposes to spend Rs. 200-Rs. 250 crore for FY22 in capital expenditure on its electric three-wheeler project and expansion plans, said a top official. “For the current fiscal, the capex could be in the range of Rs. 200-Rs. 250 crore (Rs. 129 crore in FY21),” K. Mahendra Kumar, CFO, said. “A major part of that would be towards the three-wheeler EV project and a few expansion plans which the firm has in chain and engineering businesses.” Stating that there has been continuous progress in the EV project, Vellayan Subbiah, MD said that things were slightly delayed due to COVID-19. “Our initial plan was to try and introduce it (EV) in the fourth quarter of FY22. We are still working towards those targets, but it might get pushed out because we have had several delays due to COVID-19 in this last quarter,” he added. TIIL has three main segments — engineering, cycles and accessories and metal formed products — that contributed Rs. 4,256 crore in revenue in FY21 against Rs. 4,276 crore in the FY20. On cycles, he said TIIL was looking at four growth vectors — raising local-market share, product mix, export markets and new products. “We are working on a set of strategies that will help us gain some sustainable competitive advantage. Some of the efforts we have executed, and some are under execution,” said K.K. Paul, president, cycles division adding that they were looking at exports in a far more concerted and aggressive fashion than in the past. To a question on passing on steel-price rise, Mr. Subbiah said they should be able to pass on majority of the price increase to customers though TIIL shall remain concerned about it as it will have other consequences. Asked about the commonalities that exist between subsidiaries, he said that this year would be more of consolidation of the existing businesses. “So, in the first stage, our focus is just consolidating the existing business and then, in the second stage, we will move to integration between the two businesses,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tii-to-spend-rs-250-cr-in-capex/article34941503.ece
24 June 2021||COIMBATORE,||High raw material prices threaten survival of MSMEs||A steep increase in raw material prices in the last few months threatens the survival of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the manufacturing sector, the All India Council of Associations of MSMEs said. The council, which has about 170 MSME associations from different States as its members, pointed out that copper prices had increased by 110% this month compared with April last year. Prices of aluminium alloy had risen 94%, mild steel plates by 82% and CRCA sheets by 96%. The MSMEs faced working capital erosion because of the high cost of inputs. While the units supplying to public sector undertakings (PSUs) were unable to get a revision in prices of their products, the open market was unable to take the full impact of high raw material prices, the council said. “In spite of a drop in demand due to lockdown, prices are on the upswing, particularly steel, pig iron and other raw materials,” the group said in a release on Wednesday. It urged the government to set up a mechanism to ensure raw-material-price-stability for MSMEs. The PSUs should allow MSMEs to cancel orders without imposing a penalty and permit them to quote revised prices. The government should also allow import of all steel materials based on cost and quality requirements at nil duty and ban export of iron ore and steel products, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/high-raw-material-prices-threaten-survival-of-msmes/article34941510.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||FMCG logs rise in sales after Unlock 2.0||FMCG companies are witnessing an increase in sales after Unlock 2.0 with easing of curbs on trading and movement by State governments and local authorities on account of falling number of COVID-19 cases. States started lifting curbs in the first week of June. Companies are witnessing tailwinds in sales, particularly in their health and hygiene portfolio — both in urban and rural markets. Unlock 2.0 has also increased the convenience of business for companies as earlier distribution was limited to certain hours in a day in several States on account of restrictions and filling up empty shelves was a challenging task. Dabur India CEO Mohit Malhotra said as several States were unlocking and local markets were opening up, consumer demand was showing an uptick. “The drop in COVID-19 cases has not only boosted consumer sentiments but also helped the supply chain recover from the COVID-19-induced disruptions. We are seeing tailwinds in our healthcare portfolio, particularly in rural India, with demand growing for Chyawanprash, honey and immunity-building Ayurvedic products,” he said. Better traction Jyothy Labs JMDUllas Kamathsaid, “We are seeing better traction [after unlocking],” he said, adding “now, a feel-good factor has come though there is the fear of a third wave.” Health and hygiene products such as body wash, soap and dish wash are doing well, he noted. Echoing similar views, Edelweiss Financial Services executive VP Abneesh Roy said “ it had to happen.” “It was not a demand issue in May but sales got impacted due to high number of COVID-19 cases leading to the closure of many shops and reduced hours for shops,” Mr. Roy said. Both have now reversed. Sentiments are sharply improving as cases have fallen, apart from good rainfall, hike in MSP, etc,” he added. He further said discretionary food and personal care will see the sharpest recovery, though other product segments will also grow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fmcg-logs-rise-in-sales-after-unlock-20/article34941523.ece
24 June 2021||MUMBAI,||HDFC Bank’s key strategy is digital marketing: MD||HDFC Bank is expanding its distribution footprint leveraging ‘branch and virtual relationship channels’ with digital marketing as the key channel, MD & CEO Sashidhar Jagdishan said in the bank’s latest annual report. “This will enable us to capture the growth potential in both India and Bharat and different consumer segments like the tech-savvy and millennials going forward,” he said.  The bank, however, had been in the spotlight in the last 28 months “for the wrong reasons when it came to technology.” Mr. Jagdishan said the last technology downtime had led to the Reserve Bank of India banning the bank from issuing new credit cards as well as putting on hold new plans under its Digital 2.0 initiative. “We have taken this as an opportunity to improve and redouble our efforts to fix the problem for good.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-banks-key-strategy-is-digital-marketing-md/article34941505.ece
24 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Household savings fell to 8.2% of GDP in Q3, FY21’||The first wave of COVID-19 last year impacted households as their financial savings moderated to 8.2% of GDP in the December quarter from 10.4% in the previous three-month period, RBI data released on Wednesday showed.  “The moderation was driven by a significant weakening in the flow of household financial assets, which more than offset the moderation in the flow of household financial liabilities,” the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said. The ratio of household (bank) deposits to GDP declined to 3% in the third quarter from 7.7% in July-September. RBI further said household debt-to-GDP ratio, which is based on select financial instruments, has been increasing steadily since end-March 2019. “It (household debt to GDP ratio) rose sharply to 37.9% at end-December 2020 from 37.1% at end-September 2020,” the RBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/household-savings-fell-to-82-of-gdp-in-q3-fy21/article34941518.ece
24 June 2021||CHENNAI,||German car-parts firm ZF exits Brakes India||German car- parts makerZF Friedrichshafen AG(ZF) has divested its entire 49% stake in Brakes India to its Indian joint venture partners for an undisclosed sum. The move follows intense competition in the segments in which Brakes India operates, ZF said. Brakes India was founded in 1962 as a joint venture between T.V. Sundram Iyengar and Sons (TVS) and ZF. The shares were divested in favour of T.V. Sundram Iyengar & Sons Pvt. Ltd., Sundaram Finance Holdings Ltd., India Motor Parts & Accessories Ltd. and Flometallic India Private Ltd. ZF would, however, continue its technology licence and supply agreements with Brakes India, a leading supplier of braking systems in the India and a global supplier of ferrous castings. ZF, meanwhile, has decided to divest 2.64% stake, comprising five -lakh equity shares, in Wabco India Ltd. to non-retail and retail investors at Rs. 6,550 per share to meet regulatory compliance. Post-dilution, ZF would hold about 2.8% stake in the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/german-car-parts-firm-zf-exits-brakes-india/article34941521.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||CCI probes Google for ‘unfair’ business practices||The Competition Commission has ordered a detailed probe against Google for alleged anti-competitive practices in the smart television operating systems market in the country. After assessing a complaint, the watchdog had reached the prima facie view that Google was dominant in the relevant market for licensable smart TV device operating systems in India. In a 24-page order, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) said that prima facie mandatory pre-installation of all the Google applications under Television App Distribution Agreement (TADA) amounts to imposition of unfair conditions on the smart TV device manufacturers. This is in contravention of Section 4(2)(a) of the Competition Act, the regulator said, adding that it also “amounts to prima facie leveraging of Google’s dominance in Play Store to protect the relevant markets such as online video hosting services offered by YouTube, etc.”. Section 4 of the Act pertains to abuse of dominant position. A Google spokesperson said, “We are confident that our smart TV licensing practices are in compliance with all applicable competition laws.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cci-probes-google-for-unfair-business-practices/article34941514.ece
24 June 2021||MUMBAI,||LIC’s group business gets tech platform||LIC of India has introduced a centralised web-enabled workflow-based technology platform for its group business operations. Chairman M.R. Kumar inaugurated the project titled e-PGS on Wednesday. “The platform is designed to provide centralised collection and payment accounting with high level of bank integration to host connectivity and provide innovative features of seamless and integrated banking with automatic reconciliations,” LIC said in a statement. “The new system is capable of providing comprehensive, self-servicing capabilities [via] the customer portal where corporate customers will be able to view their data, initiate actionable processes, lodge and track claims,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lics-group-business-gets-tech-platform/article34941507.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||HDFC Life to pay Rs. 2,180-cr. in plan bonus||HDFC Life on Wednesday announced a bonus of Rs. 2,180 crore to its policyholders subscribing to participating insurance plans. Under a participating plan, a policyholder is eligible to get a share in the profit of the company in the form of bonus. The eligible participating policyholders will get a share of the surplus generated in the participating fund and their benefit amount will increase with declaration of bonuses every year, HDFC Life said in a statement. It exceeds the previous year’s bonus by 44%. A total of 15.49 lakh policyholders are eligible for this bonus, HDFC Life said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-life-to-pay-rs-2180-cr-in-plan-bonus/article34941524.ece
24 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Tata Motors names Wagh as ED, MD to leave||Tata Motors has announced that Guenter Butschek, MD & CEO, would relocate to Germany at the end of the contract for personal reasons, and would therefore be stepping down from his role from June 30. “He will continue as a consultant till the end of this fiscal year,” the company said in a statement. Girish Wagh, president commercial vehicles, was being appointed as Executive Director to the Board from July 1, it added. Tata Motors’ domestic business had successfully transitioned to a Business Unit structure with the Commercial Vehicles Division headed by Mr. Wagh and the Passenger Vehicles Division headed by Shailesh Chandra, the leading automaker observed in the statement on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-names-wagh-as-ed-md-to-leave/article34941506.ece
24 June 2021||Chennai,||Apollo Hospitals Q4 net shrinks 44%||Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. reported standalone net profit for Q4 FY21 shrank 44% to Rs. 116 crore. Revenue contracted 6% to Rs. 2,410 crore. The board declared a final dividend of Rs. 3 per share. The government should consider giving additional incentives to the healthcare sector to allow it to recover from the COVID-19 impact, said Prathap C. Reddy, chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apollo-hospitals-q4-net-shrinks-44/article34941519.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Cipla gets USFDA nod for inhalation product||Drug major Cipla said it had received final approval from the USFDA for Arformoterol Tartrate Inhalation Solution, used to treat conditions such as chronic bronchitis, in the U.S. market. The product is a generic version of Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Brovana. Quoting IQVIA (IMS Health) data, Cipla said Brovana had U.S. sales of about $438 million for the 12-month period ended April 2021.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cipla-gets-usfda-nod-for-inhalation-product/article34941522.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||No I-T scrutiny on cash deposits up to Rs 2.5 lakh by housewives post Demo: ITAT||Cash deposits of up to Rs. 2.5 lakh by housewives post demonetisation will not come under I-T scrutiny as the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has held that such deposits cannot be treated as income of the assessee. Ruling on an appeal filed by an individual, the Agra bench of the tribunal said the order would act as a precedent for all similar cases.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-i-t-scrutiny-on-cash-deposits-up-to-rs-25-lakh-by-housewives-post-demo-itat/article34941525.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||Infosys’ Rs 9,200 cr share buyback to open on Jun 25||Infosys will commence its up to Rs. 9,200-crore buyback from June 25, wherein the IT major intends to buy back shares at a maximum price of Rs. 1,750 apiece. The board approval was granted on April 14 and shareholders’ nod was received on June 19, at the company’s 40th AGM. Kotak Mahindra Capital was appointed as the manager of the buyback, according to a regulatory filing.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-rs-9200-cr-share-buyback-to-open-on-jun-25/article34941527.ece
24 June 2021||Cromwell,||‘Don’t feel I’ve really earned qualification’||Indian golfer Anirban Lahiri says he wasn’t expecting to qualify for the Olympics given his below par performance this year but now wants to make it count by returning with a medal from the Tokyo Games. Lahiri on Tuesday made the cut for the Olympics at the 60th spot, the last quota available as per the International Golf Federation rankings. “It was a big surprise, I wasn’t expecting it,” said Lahiri, who is preparing for this week’s PGA TOUR stop at the Travelers Championship at TPC River Highlands, Connecticut. “Even though I’ve earned it, I don’t feel like I’ve really earned it as I know how far below my potential I’ve played this year. It’s a gift and an opportunity, so why would I throw it away.” India was eligible for one spot and Lahiri qualified being the highest-placed golfer from the country at the 340th position. “I know what it is to be an Olympian as I’ve done it before (in Rio) and I don’t want to be just an Olympian. I want to win a medal, I want to do something that makes a difference,” said the 33-year-old. “I know winning a PGA TOUR event will do that but winning a medal would even do more. I do have a certain responsibility towards the game and my country.” The former Asian No. 1 finished a lowly 57th in Rio while playing with an injury. But recently, there have been signs of some good form returning following a recent T25 finish at the Palmetto Championship at Congaree. That has made him optimistic of his chances at the Olympics to be held at the Kasumigaseki Country Club from July 29 to August 1. “When I first found out, I called my wife and she asked what do I want to do now. I told her ‘how can I not go? How can I not represent my country in the biggest sporting event in the world?’ “This is why I play the game... and to have the opportunity to represent your country, and not just the representation as I feel like I’m playing really well. “I feel I’m close to playing my best golf right now and for a lot of reasons, it makes sense for me. It means everything for me to go,” said Lahiri, whose last win came at home at the Hero Indian Open in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dont-feel-ive-really-earned-qualification/article34941903.ece
24 June 2021||SOUTHAMPTON,||Kiwis bury the ghosts of 2019, crowned first World Test champion||New Zealand registered the biggest triumph in its cricket history as it beat India by eight wickets in the final of the inaugural World Test Championship (WTC) on Wednesday. Two years after their agonising Super Over loss to England in the 50-over World Cup final at Lord's in 2019, Kane Williamson’s men clinched a global title. Set a target of just 139 in 53 overs, New Zealand finished on 140 for two with more than seven overs left after the contest stretched into the reserve day after two days’ play were washed out in the first five days. India off-spinner R. Ashwin reduced the Kiwis to 44 for two, removing both openers. However, skipper Williamson (52 not out) and Ross Taylor (47 not out), the team's two most-experienced batsmen, shared an unbroken stand of 96 to seal victory. The real damage was done by New Zealand's all-pace attack as it dismissed India for 170 in its second innings on a rare sunny day which provided the best batting conditions in the entire contest. Tim Southee took four for 48 in 19 overs, but it was towering paceman Kyle Jamieson, who followed up his first-innings five for 31 by taking the prize wicket of India captain Virat Kohli for the second time in the match. Kohli had added just five to his overnight score of eight when he edged a delivery that bounced and moved late to wicketkeeper B-J. Watling, playing in the final match of his international career. And 71 for three soon became 72 for four when Cheteshwar Pujara, who took 80 balls to score 15, edged a delivery from Jamieson that held its line to a diving Taylor at first slip. Pujara's exit brought in the free-scoring Pant, a batsman capable of wresting the initiative from New Zealand. But the wicketkeeper should have been out for five when he edged Jamieson, only for second-slip Southee, going across first slip, to drop a routine chance. Pant, to the delight of India fans in the crowd, then whipped Southee past mid-on for four. Ajinkya Rahane cut Trent Boult to the boundary only for the cheers from supporters to turn to shocked silence next ball when he was caught behind down the leg-side.  A very special feeling. The team showed great heart to get across the line Williamson   Credit to them for sticking to the process long enough to put us under pressure throughout the game. They thoroughly deserve it Kohli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiwis-bury-the-ghosts-of-2019-crowned-first-world-test-champion/article34941859.ece
24 June 2021||PHOENIX,||Ayton’s last-second dunk does it for Phoenix Suns||Deandre Ayton made the go-ahead catch and dunk with one second left and a bloodied Devin Booker scored 20 points as Phoenix Suns shocked Los Angeles Clippers 104-103 in game two of their NBA Western Conference finals. Booker shook off a cruel clash of heads that left him bloodied and bruised, returning to the game as the Suns took down the Clippers in a see-saw fourth quarter to win their ninth straight and seize a 2-0 lead in the finals. Ayton, who had 24 points, scored the eventual game-winner in a thrilling finish as the Suns perfectly executed on their final possession of the game. The play started with an in-bound pass by Suns forward Jae Crowder who lobbed it directly to the front of the basket where a leaping Ayton was waiting. He caught and then dunked the ball in one motion to give to give the Suns a 104-103 lead with 0.7 seconds left. Clippers Paul George then put up a desperation shot at the buzzer but it hit the front of the rim and bounced harmlessly away to end the game in front of the crowd of 16,600 at Phoenix Suns Arena. “Jae made a great pass,” said Ayton, who finished with 24 points and 14 rebounds. “I am glad it counted. We just wanted to finish the game strong.” “It was like a Muhammad Ali fight with haymaker after haymaker going back and forth,” said Suns guard Cameron Payne, who finished with a career-high 29 points. George scored 26 points and Reggie Jackson added 19 for the Clippers, who also fell behind 2-0 in their previous series against the top seeded Utah Jazz before rallying to win. Game three is on Thursday in Los Angeles.  The result: Western Conference finals: Phoenix Suns 104 bt Los Angeles Clippers 103. Suns lead series 2-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aytons-last-second-dunk-does-it-for-phoenix-suns/article34941898.ece
24 June 2021||Seville,||Spain steamrollers Slovakia to make the last-16 from Group E||Spain claimed the biggest win of the tournament with a 5-0 thrashing of Slovakia in their final European Championship Group E match on Wednesday to finish second in the group and set up a last-16 clash with Croatia in Copenhagen. Goals from Aymeric Laporte, Pablo Sarabia, Ferran Torres and two own goals from Martin Dubravka and Juraj Kucka sealed Spain’s progress to the knockout stages. Dubravka saved an early penalty from Alvaro Morata but gifted Spain the opener when he attempted to punch a rebound off Sarabia’s shot over the bar, only to palm it into his own net. Aymeric Laporte doubled the lead before halftime. Sarabia was then rewarded with a goal when left back Jordi Alba swung a cross into the box and the Paris Saint-Germain winger found space to take a first-time shot that went in off the post. Sarabia turned provider when he set up substitute Ferran Torres who scored within a minute of coming on, flicking a low cross past Dubravka for the fifth. Spain forced another own goal minutes later when Kucka failed to clear off the line. Stoppage-time winner Sweden topped Group E and sent Poland home from the championship with Viktor Claesson’s stoppage time winner gave it a 3-2 verdict at St. Petersburg, in one of the tournament’s most exciting games. Sweden appeared to be cruising after Emil Forsberg scored the second fastest goal in Euro history a mere 82 seconds in, followed by a second-half breakaway strike. Poland’s Robert Lewandowski, who hit the bar twice in the first half, narrowed Sweden’s lead two minutes later with a curling shot from outside the edge of the penalty area, then got a second in the 84th minute to set up a thrilling finale. England clinched first place in Euro 2020 Group D with a 1-0 win against the Czech Republic, while Luka Modric’s rocket propelled Croatia into the last 16 as its 3-1 victory over Scotland eliminated its COVID-hit opponents on Tuesday. Already assured of playing in the last 16, England made certain that the knockout tie will be played in front of its own fans at Wembley thanks to Raheem Sterling’s first-half winner against the Czechs.  The results:   Group D: Croatia 3 (Vlasic 17, Modric 62, Perisic 77) bt Scotland 1 (McGregor 42); Czech Republic 0 lost to England 1 (Sterling 12).   Group E: Spain 5 (Dubravka 30 (OG), Laporte 45+3, Sarabia 56, Torres 67, Kucka 71 (OG)) bt Slovakia 0; Sweden 3 (Forsberg 2, 59; Claesson 90+4) bt Poland 2 (Lewandowski 61, 84) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spain-steamrollers-slovakia-to-make-the-last-16-from-group-e/article34941856.ece
24 June 2021||LONDON,||Ramkumar closer to main draw||Ramkumar Ramanathan stood just one win away from his maiden Grand Slam appearance after he progressed to the final round of the Wimbledon qualifiers with a straight-sets win over Tomas Martin Etcheverry. The Indian, ranked 211 in singles, got the better of the Argentine, who is seven places above him, 6-3, 6-4 in 59 minutes. Ramkumar had seven aces and a lone double fault in the match. The 26-year old needs to beat Australia's 32nd seed Marc Polmans, ranked 152, to make the main draw. However, Ankita Raina’s attempt to qualify for the women’s singles main draw failed after she went down in the first round of qualifiers. The 28-year-old Indian was beaten by higher-ranked American Varvara Lepchenko 6-3, 7-6(1) in 82 minutes on Tuesday night. Ankita, ranked 182, had only one break point in the match, which she failed to convert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-closer-to-main-draw/article34941863.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Statistical Bulletin released||The 41st edition of the V.K. Pahuja Statistical Bulletin edited by Dr. Meenakshi Pahuja was released by Dr. Sanjeeb Patjoshi IPS, the Joint Secretary of Panchayati Raj on Wednesday. In keeping with the high standard of accuracy and timing set by her father V.K. Pahuja, a pioneer statistician who brought out the annual bulletin for decades, Meenakshi, an assistant professor at Lady Shriram College, and the recipient of Nari Shakti Puraskar from the President, has been able to maintain the quality and variety in the 450-page bulletin. It has been released on June 23 in all the 41 years. “It is a magnum opus for data, information on swimming,” said Patjoshi. Appreciating Meenakshi’s effort in sustaining her dad’s memory and legacy, Patoshi said, “you have kept the flag flying high.”  Pride of place has been given to the six Indian swimmers, Kushagra Rawat, Virdhawal Khade, Srihari Nataraj, Sajan Prakash, Advait Page and Arya Makhija who have attained the Olympic ‘B’ qualification timings, apart from Suyash Yadav, the lone Indian swimming entrant for Paralympics in Tokyo. “Despite difficulties, our swimmers participated in Olympic qualifiers and achieved best Indian performances. They kept me busy,” said Meenakshi. The bulletin has been made more lively to read with the interviews of Dronacharya awardee Nihar Ameen, woman coach Smita Desai Divgikar and the fastest couple of Indian swimming, Virdhawal Khade and Rujuta Khade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/statistical-bulletin-released/article34941920.ece
24 June 2021||PARIS,||Deepika Kumari in recurve semifinals||Deepika Kumari, who got two byes, defeated Elena Tonetta of Italy 6-0, Charline Scwarz of Germany 7-3 and Aida Roman of Mexico 6-0 to reach the recurve women’s individual event semifinals in the archery World Cup Stage-3 here on Wednesday. Ankita Bhakat lost in the fourth round, while Komalika Bari, who got past her compatriot Madhu Vedwan in the second round, exited in the third. All Indian male archers — Atanu Das, Tarundeep Rai, Pravin Jadhav and B. Dhiraj — in the recurve men’s individual competition also lost. Das and Jadhav reached the fourth round. In the compound bow division, Abhishek Verma and V. Jyothi Surekha emerged as the best-ranked Indian archers in the men’s and women’s sections respectively after the qualification round. Verma aggregated 706 points to take the 11th place. He was followed by Aman Saini, who totalled 704 for 21st place, and Rajat Chauhan, who collected 607 for the 42nd spot. The men’s team was ranked sixth after gathering 2107 points. Jyothi shot 695 points for her 15th place. She was followed by Saanchi Dhalla (690 points, 22nd place), Akshita (681, 32nd) and Pragati (668, 43rd). The women’s team was slotted sixth after getting 2066 points. The mixed compound team of India was ninth with 1401 points. The elimination phase of the compound division will be held from Thursday onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepika-kumari-in-recurve-semifinals/article34941895.ece
24 June 2021||KOCHI,||Arduous journey for Lankan athletes||Sri Lankan athletes will be travelling for nearly 24 hours to take part in the coming National inter-State athletics championships in Patiala and help the Indian women’s 4x100m relay team qualify for next month’s Olympics. A few days ago, Sri Lanka Athletics had said that it would not be sending its sprint relay team to India but there was a last-minute change of mind, probably under pressure from the Athletics Federation of India. ‘Went through hell’ “We are sending the women’s relay team too and our athletes will be reaching Delhi early on Thursday. “We went through hell to send this team because we want to help India,” Prema Pinnewela, the general secretary of Sri Lanka Athletics, told The Hindu from Colombo on Wednesday. “Because of the flight restrictions, our athletes will be travelling for nearly 24 hours. They have taken a Doha to Delhi flight and from there they will be flying to Chandigarh. They have already reached Doha.” The Indian women’s 4x100m relay team is currently in the 20th spot in the Road to Tokyo rankings and since there are only two slots available in the 16-team event, India has to post a good time to make the cut. Postpone women’s 800m The SLA secretary also revealed that he had requested the AFI to postpone the women’s 800m, by a day, to June 28 to help its Nimali Waliwarsha, who is 57th (only 48 berths available for Tokyo), to climb up the rankings ladder. The inter-State Nationals, the last qualification meet for the Olympics, will be held from June 25 to 29. The qualification doors for Tokyo close on June 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arduous-journey-for-lankan-athletes/article34941896.ece
24 June 2021||PARIS,||Olympic doubt over Lemaitre||French sprinters Christophe Lemaitre and Jimmy Vicaut, and middle-distance runner Pierre-Ambroise Bosse, have all withdrawn from their country’s national championships this weekend, casting a shadow over the former’s presence at the Tokyo Olympics. The trio’s withdrawal from the championships comes a day after that of world hammer silver medallist Quentin Bigot and European 100m hurdles champion and world bronze medallist Pascal Martinot-Lagarde. Vicaut, part of France’s bronze medal-winning 4x100m relay team at the 2012 London Olympics and joint European 100m record holder with a best of 9.86 seconds set most recently in 2016, is still suffering a muscular problem. Back from injury Lemaitre, bronze medallist over 200m at the 2016 Rio Games, is making his comeback from injury and has also reacted badly to his COVID-19 vaccines, according to his training group. Critical moment Lemaitre, 31, faces a critical moment as he has not run the qualifying times for either the 100m or 200m. He has only until June 29 to ensure qualification. Vicaut and Bosse, the 2017 world champion over 800m, are both eligible for selection for the July 23-August 8 Tokyo Games, although Bosse has not yet run outdoors.  Lemaitre is a bronze medallist over 200m at the 2016 Rio Games||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-doubt-over-lemaitre/article34941915.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘There should be no discrimination in any form’||Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju on Wednesday said any decision that affects Indian athletes will not be acceptable ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. His remarks came as new regulations were put in place by the Japanese government pertaining to entry conditions to Japan affecting 11 countries including India ahead of the Games. “Any decision that adversely affects Indian athletes is not acceptable to us. There should be no discrimination in any form,” Rijiju said. Rijiju will also release India’s anthem for Tokyo 2020 Games on Wednesday and the theme has been named ‘Cheer for India.’ On the occasion of International Olympic Day, Rijiju also extended his best wishes to all the Olympians of India. “Today there is a program to see off our Olympic team with all COVID-19 protocols intact. I will launch the Olympic anthem as well. On Olympic day, I want to extend my best wishes to all Olympians, the Indian Olympic team,” he added. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter and wrote: “In a few weeks, @Tokyo2020 begins. Wishing the very best to our contingent, which consists of our finest athletes. In the run up to the games, here is an interesting quiz on MyGov. I urge you all, specially my young friends to take part.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/there-should-be-no-discrimination-in-any-form/article34941918.ece
24 June 2021||DUBAI,||Jadeja becomes No. 1 Test all-rounder||India’s Ravindra Jadeja on Wednesday dislodged West Indian Jason Holder as the world’s top all-rounder in the latest ICC Test rankings. Jadeja is two points ahead of Holder (384) while England all-rounder Ben Stokes is third on 377. R. Ashwin is at fourth with 353, followed by Shakib Al Hasan of Bangladesh (338). Ashwin remains in the second spot in the bowlers’ rankings on 850 points, below Pat Cummins (908) of Australia. Tim Southee (830) of New Zealand is third. Among the batsmen, there was no change in top-five with Indian captain Virat Kohli static at fourth on 814. Steve Smith of Australia continues to be the top batsman on 891 points, followed by Kane Williamson (886) of New Zealand and Marnus Labuschagne (878) of Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jadeja-becomes-no-1-test-all-rounder/article34941857.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Djokovic, Barty top seeds at SW19||Wimbledon, on Wednesday, announced defending champion Novak Djokovic and Ashleigh Barty as the men’s and women’s top seeds respectively, for the 2021 edition of The Championships, which gets underway next Monday. The upcoming tournament will be the first after the Wimbledon organisers decided to do away with their unique seeding formula for men, used to re-order the top 32 seeds in the main draw by giving extra weight to grass-court performances during a two-year period leading up to the competition. The seedings are in line with the current ATP rankings, aligning the tournament with the three other Majors. As a result, Roger Federer, the eight-time champion and 2019 runner-up, will be seeded seventh, behind the likes of Daniil Medvedev (second seed), Alexander Zverev (fifth) and Andrey Rublev (sixth), who have zero grass-court titles and not a single appearance beyond the fourth round at SW19. In 2019, Federer, then ranked No. 3 in the world, was elevated as the second seed in place of Rafael Nadal, the World No. 2. The women’s section broadly follows the WTA rankings, but has been tweaked on occasion to produce a “balanced draw”. In 2018, Serena Williams, despite being ranked 183, was given a seeding of 25. But there was no need to do so this time, with the seven-time singles champion qualifying as the seventh seed. Simona Halep, the 2019 winner, is the second seed while two-time champion Petra Kvitova is 11th.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-barty-top-seeds-at-sw19/article34941867.ece
24 June 2021||Eastbourne,||Bopanna and Divij in quarterfinals||Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan beat British wild cards Alastair Gray and Luke Johnson 7-5, 6-3 in the doubles first round of the €609,065 ATP tennis tournament here on Wednesday.  The results:   First round: €609,065 ATP, Eastbourne, Britain: Rohan Bopanna & Divij Sharan bt Alastair Gray & Luke Johnson 7-5, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Julian Cash & Mark Whitehouse (GBr) bt Rinky Hijikata (Aus) & Siddhant Banthia 7-6(2), 1-6, [10-3].   Women: Tara Malik (USA) bt Humera Baharmus 6-4, 6-3.   Doubles: Sarah Lisa Aubertin (Tun) & Midori Castillo Meza (Mex) bt Arina Solomatina (Rus) & Humera Baharmus 6-2, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-and-divij-in-quarterfinals/article34941861.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Madhvendra leads; U-14 girls’ standings revised||Madhya Pradesh’s Madhvendra Pratap Sharma aggregated seven points from seven rounds to lead the open section of the National under-12 online rapid chess tournament on Wednesday. Mayank Chakraborthy, Yash Bharadia, Daaevik Wadhawan, Akshay Borgaonkar and Mrinmoy Rajkhowa share the second spot at 6.5 points. Four more rounds remain in the 11-round competition. Meanwhile, the All India Chess Federation (AICF) has revised the standings of the National (u-14) girls rapid championship that concluded on Monday. Based on the Fairplay report from the official broadcaster Tornelo and the subsequent decision of the five-member Fairplay panel, 10 players, including runner-up Stuty Aishwary, were found guilty of using unfair means. As per the revised standings, Saparya Ghosh (Bengal) and Shubhi Gupta (UP) have been elevated to the second and third places, behind champion G. Tejaswini (Tamil Nadu).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madhvendra-leads-u-14-girls-standings-revised/article34941901.ece
24 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Cash incentives for Tokyo-bound AP athletes||The State Government will give a cash incentive of Rs. 5 lakh each to the three Tokyo-bound athletes from Andhra Pradesh — P.V. Sindhu, R. Satwiksairaj and hockey player Rajani — state sports minister Avanti Srinivas said on Wednesday. “We take pride in these athletes representing India in next month’s Tokyo Olympics. We will extend all possible support in their endeavour to come back with medals,” the Minister told the media. Srinivas also reiterated that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was particular in promoting sports, cutting across all sections of the society. “The Chief Minister felt the need to have international standard sports infrastructure in Rayalaseema and Coastal and North Andhra regions. “We are in the process of identifying disciplines in each of the 13 districts for special focus and tapping raw talent in rural areas,” the Minister said. “We had allotted two acres of site in Visakhapatnam for Sindhu to set up a world-class badminton academy and Sports School with the specific objective of producing champion shuttlers from the State.” Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh MD B. Rama Rao was also present. The State Government also presented Rs. 5 lakh, Rs. 3 lakh and Rs. 2 lakh to athletes from the State who won medals at national-level, Srinivas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cash-incentives-for-tokyo-bound-ap-athletes/article34942326.ece
24 June 2021||BENGALURU,||Wangjam extends BFC stay||Midfielder Suresh Wangjam has signed a three-year extension to his Bengaluru FC contract, the club announced on Wednesday. The new deal will see the 20-year-old remain at the club until the end of the 2023-24 season and comes close on the heels of skipper Sunil Chhetri’s contract extension on Sunday. Since making his ISL debut in 2019, Wangjam has become one of BFC’s most important players, making as many as 30 appearances in the ISL apart from starts in the AFC Cup. He received his maiden call up to the Indian National team in March and made his debut against Oman later that month. Having represented the country at the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2017 at home, Wangjam has been a regular in National coach Igor Stimac’s 2023 AFC Asian Cup qualifying campaign, featuring in all three matches in Doha earlier this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wangjam-extends-bfc-stay/article34941900.ece
24 June 2021||Beroun (Czech Republic),||Tvesa to have long shot at Olympic berth||Indian golfer Tvesa Malik, who has been having a good run on the Ladies European Tour, will get one final chance to qualify for Tokyo Olympics when she tees up at the Tipsport Czech Ladies Open this week. Nothing less than a win will give her a chance to join Aditi Ashok in the Tokyo Olympics. Aditi is assured of a berth as she is 44th in the current list of qualifiers. Tvesa, who has had two Top-10s in her last three starts, will also need some luck in the form of withdrawals from among the qualified players to get into the Top-60. Tvesa, who opened the season with T-23 in South Africa, was T-10 in Italy and then T-6 at Jabra Ladies Open in France. She then missed the cut at Scandinavian Mixed. Apart from Tvesa, the other Indians in the fray in the tournament are Diksha Dagar and Astha Madan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tvesa-to-have-long-shot-at-olympic-berth/article34941905.ece
24 June 2021||New Delhi,||India’s official Olympic theme song launched||India’s “Official Olympic Theme Song” was launched on Wednesday ahead of the Summer Games in July-August. Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju was the chief guest at the event which was organised by Indian Olympic Association (IOA). Mohit Chauhan has composed and sung the song titled “Lakshya Tera Samne Hai”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-official-olympic-theme-song-launched/article34941912.ece
24 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Batra expects a good show in Tokyo||IOA president Narinder Batra has once again reiterated that India’s medals tally will touch double figures in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. Speaking during the Olympic Day celebrations organised by Kerala Olympic Association (KOA), Batra said with the Tokyo Olympics just a month away, the countdown has started and he expects an unprecedented show from the Indian contingent. “We have won about 70 quota places which is good. Our athletes are training hard despite the restrictions imposed due to the pandemic. They are well prepared and I expect our medals tally to cross two digits,” he said. Batra added that India will be sending a 190-member contingent for the Olympics, which will include 120 sportspersons and around 70 officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/batra-expects-a-good-show-in-tokyo/article34941913.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian teams for World Championship||The All India Tennis Association (AITA) has announced the list of players to compete in the over-50, 55 and 60 age groups in the Seniors tennis World Championship to be staged in Umang, Croatia, from August 29 to September 3.  The teams:   Over-50: Gurdarshan Singh Ramana (Capt.), Venkata Narayana Murthy Kthyala, Tikam Singh Panwar and Tuleswor Singh Thongbam; Over-55: Chandra Bhushan Prasad (Capt.), Nagaraj Revanasiddaiah, Arun Aggarwal and Sanjai Kumar Aravindakshan; Over-60: Mayur Vasant Manek (Capt.), Pawan Jain, Ajeet Bhardwaj and Rakesh Kohli .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-teams-for-world-championship/article34941921.ece
24 June 2021||London,||Tweets ‘taken out of context’: Morgan||Dismissing accusations of racism against him, England’s World Cup-winning captain Eoin Morgan said the historical tweets, allegedly mocking Indians, were “taken out of context”. “If I call somebody ‘sir’ on social media, or anywhere around the world, it’s a sign of admiration and respect. If that’s taken out of context there’s nothing I can control or do about it. So I haven’t actually looked into it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tweets-taken-out-of-context-morgan/article34941853.ece
24 June 2021||Bristol,||Dunkley in line for ODI debut against India||Batting all-rounder Sophia Dunkley has been named in the England women's ODI squad for the series against India following an impressive performance on her Test debut.    The squad: Heather Knight (capt.), Emily Arlott, Tammy Beaumont, Katherine Brunt, Kate Cross, Freya Davies, Sophia Dunkley, Sophie Ecclestone, Tash Farrant, Sarah Glenn, Amy Jones, Nat Sciver, Anya Shrubsole, Mady Villiers, Fran Wilson, Lauren Winfield-Hill .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dunkley-in-line-for-odi-debut-against-india/article34941854.ece
24 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Suryanarayana congratulates Malleswari||K. Suryanarayana, president, AP Weightlifting Association, congratulated Sydney Olympics bronze medallist Karnam Malleswari on being appointed as vice chancellor of the Delhi Sports University. “This is an honour for the entire sports fraternity and weightlifting in particular as the University offers graduation, post-graduate and doctorate courses in cricket, football, hockey among other sports,” he said in a statement on Wednesday. Former Commonwealth Games gold medallist and weightlifter M.V. Manikyalu and APWA secretary B. Venkatramaiah also congratulated Malleswari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suryanarayana-congratulates-malleswari/article34942327.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hockey Professional League soon: Mukesh||Telangana Hockey secretary N. Mukesh Kumar said they were planning to host an eight-team Professional League soon. Speaking at the Olympic Day Run organised by Hyderabad Hockey at the Gymkhana here on Wednesday, Mukesh told The Hindu that the teams would be a mix of seniors and juniors in the league to be played over weekends spread over two months. “The teams will be named after some of the greats of the game like Dhanraj Pillay XI, Zafar Iqbal XI, Mohammad Shahid XI. The idea is to popularise the sport,” Mukesh said. “On the final day, two women’s teams, since there are only about 30 regular players in the City, will feature in a friendly.” Mukesh, who took charge as secretary again last month, added that they were planning to host an invitation tournament as part of the National Sports Day celebrations on August 29. “This tournament is being planned on the astro-turf at the Railway ground.We are hoping to get the required permission and sponsorship.” The star right-winger of yesteryears said that Hockey Hyderabad planned the Olympic Day Run on Wednesday in the presence of Telangana Hockey president Saral Talwar in a different manner by inviting the captains of the men’s and women’s teams of Hyderabad along with some of the players. “In all the 29 districts affiliated to Telangana Hockey, these celebrations were held as per the directive of Hockey India,” Mukesh said. Telangana Olympic Association conducted the celebrations online from Olympic Bhavan. Players of Telangana Taekwondo Association , Judo Association and Wushu Association gave the demonstration of their respective sport. Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud joined the meeting and conveyed his greetings. Among those who participated included chief national rowing coach Ismail Baig, SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy, Handball Federation of India President A. Jagan Mohan Rao, TOA secretary K. Jagdishwar Yadav and TOA vice-presidents S.Venugopala Chary and S.R. Premraj.   Gemini Friends won the inaugural Co-Win Trophy T20 invitation cricket tournament, defeating Budding Stars by 10 wickets in the final. A. Jagan Mohan Rao, president, Handball Federation of India, gave away the prizes.  The scores:   Budding Stars 105 in 17.3 overs (Rishiketh Sisodia 53, Sujeet Parbatani 3/27) lost to Gemini Friends 108 for no loss in 13.1overs (Abhirath Reddy 62 n.o., Tilak Varma 42 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hockey-professional-league-soon-mukesh/article34942123.ece
24 June 2021||Chennai,||Cricket tournament||Young Talents GRCA will conduct an open cricket tournament from June 28 at KCM Sports Foundation, Ponmar. Entries close on June 25. For details, contact Pradeep (9940446550) or V.P. Giri Narain (9094066288).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricket-tournament/article34941973.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 10:35 IST,||Sudoku — June 24, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-23-2021/article34942496.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From Chennai port to Enoshima||The sea at Chennai Port must be proud. Three of the kids who learnt sailing in her waters, will now debut at the Olympics in Japan. Of the four Indians who have qualified for sailing at the upcoming event in July, three — Nethra Kumanan, Varun Thakkar and KC Ganapathy — are from Chennai. The fourth is Vishnu Saravanan from Mumbai. “In Chennai, the sea offers variety and good sailing conditions almost through the year, which makes it one of the best sailing venues in the world,” says Nethra Kumanan, 23, the first Indian woman sailor to qualify for the Olympics. “Being the first woman wasn’t the goal or focus but it happened and I’m extremely honoured to have been able to achieve that for my family who’ve given up so much for me to be able to do what I do everyday,” she adds, speaking from Hungary where she is training at Lake Balaton. Young sailors from Chennai have the advantage of being trained at clubs like Royal Madras Yacht Club (RMYC) and Tamil Nadu Sailing Association (TNSA), which organise summer camps for children and adults every year. Not too long ago, Nethra too was a 13-year-old, wide-eyed summer camp attendee at the TNSA. After the summer camp of 2011, smitten by the sea, she found herself returning to the harbour to sail every weekend. Ever since, it has been a tumultuous but rewarding journey, lined with unbelievable upsets, as well as exhilarating victories. Spending many months away from family, she underwent rigorous training, taking on everything from boisterous seas to serene lakes. At Lake Balaton, Nethra says she is taking the time to relax and recharge, preparing herself mentally and physically for the games. Prior to this she was practising at an academy in the sunny island of Gran Canaria in Spain. “With sailing, which is an experience sport, there is no way to replicate the real scenario fully in training. So we travel a lot and race in different places to get that experience,” she explains, adding that conditions in Japan can be erratic. One can expect medium winds and waves like in Gran Canaria or it can sometimes be light, and shift, like on a lake. So participants need to be ready for everything. Meanwhile at the far end of Europe, in Portugal, Varun, 26, and Ganapathy, 25, persevere. They are a team and have been one since 2014. With the world’s ultimate sports event looming large, they are training long hours (four hours of sailing followed by a workout), cutting through the blue waters of the Atlantic, wiping away sweat, salt water and occasionally sleep from their eyes. “We are training here in Cascais (a resort town West of Lisbon) as the wind and waves are almost similar to Enoshima, the sailing venue for the Olympics,” says Varun. Despite the pressure, they are ecstatic about “living the dream”. “We told so many people we will make it to the Olympics. So happy we can walk the talk,” says Ganapathy. Varun adds, “Qualifying for the country felt unreal. We dreamt of going to the Olympics as kids and to make it happen and represent our country on the biggest stage is going to be an experience we won’t forget.” This year, with the pandemic, there were added challenges. “Things are way harder when it comes to getting permission to travel and train,” says Ganapathy. “We stay in our bubble and do all our training together. We don’t meet a lot of people but that’s helped us remain focussed,” states Nethra. The boys are taking part in “the high performance skiff which is called the 49er class”. They qualified for the Olympics in Oman in April this year at the Asian Olympic qualification championships. At the same event, Nethra qualified in the laser radial class. She sails the single-handed woman’s dinghy. What lies ahead At the Olympics Varun and Ganapathy’s category will have 12 races spread over six days. Nethra explains that there are 10 classes of boat in Olympic sailing currently. “In my class, we have 44 teams this year, by far the largest number of countries participating this time because of the new gender equality mandate by the International Olympic Committee,” she adds. For Nethra, Varun and Ganapathy, the second time was the charm. Their first attempt to seal a berth at the 2016 Rio Olympics was futile. “Varun and I were very young and new to the boat. We finished fourth at that event, recalls Ganapathy. The duo believes that they qualified this year because they have been relentlessly pursuing this goal from the time they were 14. In a sea of unknown faces, the Chennai trio will have the comfort of familiarity with each other. Given the additional challenges of COVID-19, their plans for Japan are built around their respective events, with little time to explore the country. “It is a huge disappointment,” says Ganapathy, adding that this will be his and Varun’s first trip to Japan. “But we are grateful that the Olympics is going ahead despite the pandemic,” he adds. Nethra, who visited Japan for a competition in 2019, says she has had to shelve plans of going up Mount Fuji. “Due to COVID-19, we are not allowed to use public transport or go cycling. We can only go between the sailing village and the harbour, so we can’t plan for much else,” she says. But the three agree that the whole atmosphere is going to make for an exciting debut at the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/from-chennai-port-to-enoshima/article34941730.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Shooting under fire||As the Victory Banner raised by three Soviet soldiers fluttered over the burning Reichstag building in Berlin, the Soviet Union marked its victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War. May 2, 1945, was etched in time and memory. This historic moment was frozen by Russian war photographer Yevgeny Ananyevich Khaldei and to date remains one of the most celebrated and widely-known frames from the time. The photograph has an interesting backstory, as does the man responsible for the frame. Now, images from the war and their stories will reach Chennai via a photo exhibition titled People Of That War showcased by Russian House, Chennai, in collaboration with Multimedia Art Museum (MAMM), Moscow. The exhibit will showcase 18 photographs of Khaldei’s which will be available to view for atleast two weeks since opening. It was 80 years ago on June 22 (remembered as the Day of Memory and Sorrow) that Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, marking the beginning of the downfall of the Nazis. So, the story goes thus. Taken in the wee hours of May 2, the banner brought from Moscow was sewn overnight from red tablecloths. The street fighting in Berlin had already begun to subside. Khaldei requested three military men — Alexey Kovalev, Abdul Khakim Ismailov and Leonid Yegorychev — to hold up the flag over the burning Reichstag. Then, he noticed that one of the soldiers had a watch on each hand. This was a problem, since war booty was not allowed to be portrayed or published. He removed the watch from the negative with a needle. The edited, published version went on to become one of the defining images of the war. He was later honoured with the Order of the Red Star, Order of the Patriotic War and 12 battle medals. Jack of all trades Khaldei was a self-taught photographer. “As a young boy, he started by washing prints in a photo studio, a skill he learned out of curiosity. At the same time, he made his first camera with two cardboard boxes and lenses from his grandmother’s glasses,” says Olga Sviblova, founder and director of MAMM. The museum holds a collection of over 400 photographs by Khaldei received from his heirs and relatives. Not only did these photographs capture gruesome scenes from the war, they also portrayed its human side. Khaldei captured faces and emotions that populated a war-torn Soviet state, in his camera. Sviblova continues, “Khaldei’s work landed him a job withTASSPhoto Chronicle when he was just 20 years old. Early in the morning of June 22, 1941, he returned from a work trip and was immediately summoned to the editorial office; there he learned that the war had begun. An hour later, Khaldei took his first war photo: worried Muscovites crowded around a loudspeaker from which emanated the message about the attack of Nazi Germany.” He is known to have orchestrated his frames including the Banner of Victory over the Reichstag. Genadii Rogalev, director of Russian House, Chennai explains, “A photographer’s skill is sometimes not just about capturing a scene, but in setting up the shot itself. Khaldei did whatever it took to capture history in a frame — it wasn’t just an image, it was about emotions as well.” One heart-warming image showcases Soviet and British pilots engaged in a friendly football match on a snowy day. Another one clicked in 1943, captured the 46th Women’s Aviation Regiment of the Taman division in moments of rest, mid-dance. During the four years of the war, Khaldei became a master, present on all 1,418 days with his trusted camera. “He was able to tell the whole story in a picture,” Sviblova says, adding, “He was often asked how he took these photos, Khaldei would say, ‘How did you do it? Heart and soul!’ and added, ‘I always tried to shoot in a way that people would be interested in watching today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow’.”   The photographs will be on display at Russian House, Alwarpet, Chennai, after lockdown restrictions are lifted. Till then, People of That War will be available for viewing @russianhouse.chennai on Facebook||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/shooting-under-fire/article34941736.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping up with the good spirit||Malayalam actor Kunchacko Boban recently put out the seven-day #ChackochanChallenge [the actor is known as Chackochan in the Malayalam industry] on his Instagram handle. Day 1 of the challenge pegged on generosity — making a donation to a cause/organisation or a person in need. Day 2 revolved around being environmentally conscious by not only planting trees but also taking care of them, spending time with Nature or gifting plants. At the time, Kerala was under a lockdown. Over the next five days, the ‘tasks’ ranged from catching up with old friends and playing a game [he played chess] to reading, working out and helping at home. “The second wave of COVID-19 has affected people more, be it mentally, emotionally... in every sense. It affected me also. A conversation with an old school friend gave me the idea. Anyway, we were all locked up in our homes. Why not come up with something that would be fun, and helpful to people?” he says over the phone. Rather than a challenge, he prefers to describe it as “some fun that would be helpful to those who do it and others too”. “Anybody can do the activities I chose, they are not out of the way or hard to do. For instance, when you help others, you are helping yourself; you find some peace or calm. Even the physical activity, the exercises are not bone-crunching but simple that will leave you pumped up.” For those used to celebrity workout videos and vacation throwback photographs, #ChackochanChallenge was a meaningful change during the lockdown. The feedback has been great for the actor. “Many people were doing some of these for the first time, but they are now trying to make it a part of their daily schedule,” Kunchacko says. A task he emphasises on is helping at home; on the last day of the challenge, he asked men to “take charge of the kitchen” for a day. He cooked prawn biryani that day, “Doing new things keeps you invigorated ... cooking was exciting for me,” says the actor, whose three films have released this year ( Mohan Kumar Fans , Nayattu and Nizhal ) and TP Fellini’s bi-lingual ( Ottu in Malayalam and Rendagam in Tamil) is in the works.  liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/keeping-up-with-the-good-spirit/article34941704.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The cabinet of wonder||In Tamil Nadu’s most famous delta town stands the Thanjavur Maharaja Serfoji’s Saraswathi Mahal Library (TMSSML), a building that holds in its enfilade of historical layers cabinets filled with literary treasures. Considered among Asia’s oldest libraries, it was founded by the Nayaks in the 16th Century and fortified as a cultural citadel by the Marathas who captured the town in 1675, giving rise to the Tanjore Bhosle dynasty and the unique Tanjore Marathi community. Under the rule of Serfoji II a century later, the library became a treasure house of palm manuscripts and, today, holds nearly 40,000 volumes primarily in Tamil, Sanskrit, Marathi and Telugu. Art and rare photographs also reside in the bowels of the library, with only a miniscule collection, mostly digitised, on display. With the COVID-19 pandemic barring entry to most physical museums, it has been left to curators and connoisseurs of art to keep alive interest in these places. Pratap Sinh Serfoji Raje Bhosle, 27, tries to draw the visitor into the annals of Tanjore history with his fourth book Rare Prints that brings alive 129 uncommon pictures from the library. “I was fascinated with the pictures of Indian kings, princes and British officials in bound albums from the 20th Century. These were stuck on rich handmade paper for reference, and the albums were made in Kot Radha Kishen (presently in Pakistan). I wanted to throw light on these pictures,” says Pratap Sinh, the sixth descendant of Serfoji II and grandson of Tulajendra Bhosle, who founded the Maharaja Serfoji II Memorial Hall, a museum in Sadar Mahal Palace, Thanjavur. Pratap Sinh is an Electronics and Communication Engineering graduate, but it is as the social media manager of the family museum and an author of three books, including Contributions of Thanjavur Maratha Kings, that he has come into his own. From the family album “I am interested in old photographs — both as markers of history and for restoration. I have posted many related to Thanjavur on my blog and Facebook and Instagram pages,” he says. “While going through the digital photo albums of the library’s programmes which my grandfather, Tulajendra Bhosle attended as a guest of honour, I recollected seeing pictures of dignitaries such as Indira Gandhi, Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar, Sarojini Naidu, Sharad Pawar, PV Narasimha Rao, Rajendra Prasad and Kamaraj. I requested the librarian for these photos and a search through many almirahs resulted in finding these albums that had been locked away for years,” says Pratap Sinh adding how he stumbled upon some of these pictures not published to date or not found on the Internet. Edited by educator and researcher Jeetendra Hirschfeld, Rare Prints is a tribute to the library. With forewords from political stalwarts and cultural aficionados, the first few pictures in the book are from an album of the 1900s. The first is a tribute to the great Maratha warrior, Chattrapati Shivaji, who sits astride a horse in black and white splendour. Colour pictures with added pigments give a real feel to the book. Each is accompanied by a brief text describing the mood and the moment. Pictures of two unique manuscripts also feature. Some of the pictures such as that of Venkoji, founder of the Bhosle dynasty of Tanjore, seated on a throne, jewelled scabbard by his side, and Sujan Bai Sahib, a queen, with bow grasped in hand and a quiver full of arrows on her back, offer an exhaustive tour of the centuries. Pictures published by the Chitrashala Press, Pune, have reproduced well, retaining the jewel-like tones. This is followed by digital prints of pictures from the early 20th Century, logo of the press established by Serfoji II, among the earliest to print the Devanagari script in South India, a case sheet of eye treatment given by Serfoji who is also credited with having performed cataract surgeries, paintings from the Aswa Sastra manuscript, sketches of the famed temples of Thanjavur by English landscape artists the Daniells, and visitors and celebrations at the museum. The e-book is a light ride through the socio-cultural history of the kingdom and the city it now is, but mostly it is a journey through Saraswathi Mahal Library, one that former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi describes in the visitor’s book as “a brief moment in this house of treasures”.  The e-book is available on bookganga.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-cabinet-of-wonder/article34941745.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling a pandemic with bridge||Shridhar Nagalkar plays a game of pool on most evenings. On other days, the 76-year-old retired consultant general surgeon plays bridge with his new friends, all determined to beat the isolation and stress of the pandemic. “We have to learn to live with the Coronavirus,” he says, speaking from Athashri Senior Living homes in Baner, Pune. Positive thinking is the way forward in any adverse situation, he adds. As soon as the lockdown was lifted in June 2020, he moved into the retirement commune along with his wife Swarupa, 72, “to a place where all amenities are provided for, including mobile ATM services,” he says. According to a 2018 study by CII-ASLI (Confederation of Indian Industry and Association of Senior Living India) Out of India’s roughly 13-14 crore senior citizens, 30% live in urban cities and 70% in rural areas. Only 2% of its seniors live in retirement communities. Though the global health crisis has affected people universally, it has pushed seniors into a more vulnerable position. Being more susceptible to the virus and prone to conditions like depression, this demographic faces specific challenges that the managements of retirement homes and communities were quick to respond to. They implemented total segregation from the outside world, and put in place the required health protocol. Most have begun tutoring seniors in the use of social media, as virtual interaction becomes the need of the hour. The pandemic has resulted in two significant outcomes: a change in the perception of communes for the elderly and the spirited response by seniors towards the crisis. Colonel A Sridharan (retired), founder and MD, CovaiCare Active Living Homes, which has centres across Tamil Nadu, says, “The demand for senior homes has increased significantly, by almost 25% - 30% in the last one year. At roughly Rs. 30,000 per month, a couple has a safe and comfortable life in such centres.” Except for the distressing fact that the children of the seniors have not been able to visit as regularly, residents of such communities have rallied strong during the pandemic, to keep not only stress at bay, but also the virus itself. Kuruvilla M George, secretary of Chacko Homes, Alwaye, Kochi, is pleased that so far, no one has taken ill. “Many of our residents are retired doctors and advised us on the safety protocols. Every month we hold talks, prayer meetings and general meetings so that everyone is in touch,” he says. Colonel Sridharan, who helped put in place a system of safety protocols and virtual entertainment programmes at CovaiCare, says, “We play badminton, table tennis, and pool with masks, and maintain social distancing.” At Athashri, every day, Savita Achyut Gokhale weaves garlands from the blossoms of the bakul trees. She keeps a few for herself and places the rest at the reception. “The other residents take the garlands for their hair or puja . This makes me happy and keeps me busy,” says the 70-year-old, adding that this has been her way to keep everybody’s spirits high. Savita, who lost her husband to COVID-19 two months ago, says about her outreach, “There are many here who are older than I am, and find it difficult to bend and collect the fallen flowers. I spread old dupattas under the trees, gather the flowers and weave them into garlands. Everyone likes to have one. It motivates them.” Meghali Khatdare, CEO of Athashri Homes that caters to nearly 1,900 seniors, backs Savita up by saying, “It was the psychological impact of the pandemic that posed a new challenge.” She adds, “We made sure that the residents’ every need — grocery, fruits, vegetables, ATM machines, medicines — was made available at their doorstep. To counter the isolation, we planned monthly virtual programmes designed for seniors.” Initially it was difficult to bring the older people together virtually, “as many seniors do not use the smart phones much,” but resident managers taught them to use it and familiarised them with video calls, text messaging and using social media. “This was another engaging and learning activity for the seniors,” Meghali adds. At 92, Captain Kunjipalu TA is the oldest resident of Chacko Homes in Kochi. Driving around the campus in his Honda City, the retired pilot chats with other residents and regales them with stories from his distinguished 37-year-long career in the Indian Airlines. “There should be no complaining. The sun is up. Everything is looking good. The day should start like this,” says the man who invested in a retirement home 23 years ago, and moved in seven years ago after his wife passed away. Despite being bedridden after a stroke last year, Swarn Mongia, 92, remains the centre of affection at the Senior Living Home, Godhuli, New Delhi. One of the first residents of the commune nearly 20 years ago, others visit to “seek her blessings”. Her daughter, Amita who lives in Maryland, USA, discloses that when her parents took the decision to move into a senior living commune, it was “social suicide. The act was frowned upon. My mother has been a very spirited woman, always an example to others at Godhuli. That’s why they continue to come to her for inspiration, more so in these tough times.” Colonel Sridharan points to the fact that the seniors at the centres are highly qualified retired professionals and very resourceful. “They have devised interesting ways to negotiate the prevailing times.” Game on He shares the example of 71-year-old Revathi Bhaskar, a former bank officer who quickly came up with a game of tambola for the residents. “In every elderly person, there is a child. This is our second childhood,” says Revathi, adding that she put the game together to prevent residents from falling into depression. Around 40 residents signed up immediately for the LockDown Tambola, as Revathi called it. She designed the tickets and preceded the game with a quiz, “as a warm up”. Though Revathi lost her husband during the pandemic, she says the tambola games are in his memory. She recalls him encouraging her by saying, “You spend one hour and bring joy to 50 people; so it is 50 hours of happiness. This is worth all the trouble.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tackling-a-pandemic-with-bridge/article34941750.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A love letter to Peanuts||As Jean Schulz navigates the hallways of the Charles M Schulz Museum in Santa Rosa, California, she frequently runs into enthusiastic Peanuts fans who are eager to share how the comic series or books affected their lives, or how a Snoopy plushie they held onto saw them from their childhood into their adult years. “People have always found comfort in it,” she says. Even over a video call, Jean, 82 has a sparkle in her eye, as she lovingly speaks of her late husband Charles Monroe ‘Sparky’ Schulz, the creator of Peanuts . On June 25, AppleTV+ is releasing a documentary Who Are You, Charlie Brown? detailing Charles’ journey to creating Peanuts , of which the first strip débuted on October 2, 1950. The film, narrated by Lupita Nyong’o, follows two stories: one of Charles’ life, and the other of everyone’s favourite ‘lovable loser’ Charlie Brown tackling a school essay themed ‘who are you?’. Against a backdrop of the original music by Vince Guaraldi, audiences can look forward to archival clips of Charles’ voice recordings and interviews with Jean herself, journalist-presenter Al Roker, actor-producer Drew Barrymore and filmmaker Paul Feig. Apple TV had already released several Peanuts originals such as Snoopy in Space and The Snoopy Show — but executive producers Craig Schulz (Charles’ son), Ron Howard, Brian Grazer and director Michael Bonfiglio felt it was the right time to bring Charles’ story forward. Jean is not just the steward of Charles’ vast estate, she feels responsible for it all, right down to the wiggle of Snoopy’s tail. She praises Nyong’o, “I wondered when I heard the voice ‘who is this, she’s perfect!’ as I had no idea!” The Peanuts characters, having not grown up for the past 50-plus years, are forever relatable — be it Charlie Brown’s enduring determination (particularly when kicking a football), Linus’ eccentricity, Peppermint Patty’s go-get-’em attitude, Lucy’s stubbornness or Snoopy’s imagination. Jean is proud of each of these characters for their part in Charles’ life and legacy. “Charles often said, ‘all those characters have a little bit of me in it and I have a little of them in me’, so through the documentary, you see his life and the characters blended in his world,” she says fondly. Sparky’s mindful decisions One of the most loved characters is an African-American boy named Franklin who was introduced to the Peanuts world in 1968 on the heels of the Civil Rights Movement in USA. This was considered daring at the time. Jean reflects on this decision, “He thought long and hard about doing that because he wanted to be sure anything he wrote was authentic. If you look at the relationship between Franklin and Charlie, they meet not at school nor on the baseball diamond, but on the beach. Charlie Brown doesn’t go to the beach very often ( laughs ) but he did go there to meet Franklin, and I wish I had thought to ask Sparky why and how he came to that realisation.” It may seem a far cry from the USA and the rest of the world we see today, though Jean points out, “ Peanuts discusses the human condition so that is not going to change, people may express it differently. Now I find I have to switch my brain and catch up with how people are expressing their angst and needs (especially with social media), but I think it’s all the same. But it is not different — we have the same sorts of frustrations as there were 50 or 60 years ago. It is interesting that my husband captured something that still resonates today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-love-letter-to-peanuts/article34941702.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cane and able||Runima Biswas is surrounded by raw mangoes, sugarcane, food thermometers, refractometers, and a gamut of contraptions that she has never really seen before. “It is like an episode of Breaking Bad unfolding in my kitchen,” she laughs, holding up the PH meter she is using to find an optimum level of acidity. A former professional from the retail, and food and beverage industry, Runima and her business partner Irfan Husain, a former personnel of the Indian Armed Forces, have just launched Fresh Crush. The brand offers sugarcane juice infused with ingredients such as betel leaves, Mexican mint ( karpuravalli ), nannari (sarsaparilla), ginger and tulsi among others. “We are growing karpuravalli and tulsi in my garden,” she adds. This is such a basic idea and almost everybody loves sugarcane juice, says Runima adding that, however, people have often been concerned about hygiene, the quality and storage of ice, pollution by the roadside... “At Fresh Crush we do not add any artificial additives, sugar, water or ice. The juice is made using a cold-press machine,” she says. Operating out of a 100-square feet space in Palavakkam, Runima and Irfan want it to be a neighbourhood “juice kadai ” where anybody can just walk in, grab a drink and leave. There are passers-by, walkers, cyclists, sometimes cars stop by and grab a few bottles. And then “there is always the Swiggy-Zomato crowd too,” she adds. At any point, the little outlet stores 75 kilograms of sugarcane. Each lot yields a different quantity. On numerous occasions, the duo has had to sprint up to Runima’s house nearby to bring in reinforcements. “There’s always a few extra kilograms of sugarcane in my kitchen,” says Runima, adding that her life has been overrun by sugarcane. “Ever since March, Irfan and I have been drinking different combinations of this juice. Our neighbours aren’t spared either,” she adds. Fresh Crush relies on local vendors for their stock of sugarcane. They are looking to branch out and set up shop in crowded localities such as Purasaiwalkam, Sowcarpet, and Pondy Bazaar. There is more on the anvil. Runima and Irfan are also working on another brand Tareca, that makes packaged sugarcane juice especially for institutions, super markets and other collective units. So far they have six variants including sugarcane with orange, strawberries, and dragon fruit.  Prices start at Rs. 20 and go upto Rs. 60 for 400ml bottles. For details, check out @freshcrushbeverage on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cane-and-able/article34941715.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Simbu has transformed himself for ‘Maanaadu’, says Venkat Prabhu||Tamil film Maanaadu ’s journey has been eventful. Facing its share of delays, the project has been in the works for a few years now. But it looks like the Simbu-starrer will reach theatres soon. The team , including Simbu, director Venkat Prabhu and Kalyani Priyadarshan, went live in a Twitter Spaces interaction recently, to celebrate the launch of the single, ‘Meherezyla’, composed by Yuvan Shankar Raja and written by lyricist Madhan Karky. Simbu said, “ Maanaadu kept getting pushed for various reasons. But then, I feel that it has helped us. I have been acting since childhood, so for me, a project has to have an interest factor that pulls me towards it. This film had that; I was very involved in the process and in my character.” Director Venkat Prabhu, who earlier helmed Ajith’s Mankatha , said that Maanaadu was his biggest project so far. Touted to be an action thriller, it will feature the loop genre, a cinematic plot device where characters re-experience a span of time that is repeated, sometimes more than once. “It will be different from the usual sensibilities Tamil cinema audiences are used to and be fresh from a storytelling point of view,” he stated, “A mass hero usually has doubts about such experiments but Simbu was encouraging of the concept from the beginning. He has transformed himself for the film. The face-off between Simbu and SJ Suryah will be the highlight. As the film’s making mostly involved a crowd, it was difficult shooting it, especially after the onset of the pandemic.” Produced by Suresh Kamatchi, the film has cinematography by Richard Nathan and has been edited by Praveen KL. It is expected to hit screens later this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/simbu-has-transformed-himself-for-maanaadu-says-venkat-prabhu/article34941692.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A leopard on my page||When David Raju shadowed dragonflies as a child in his hometown in Kottayam, Kerala, little did anyone realise his fascination for insects would become his profession. “A wildlife enthusiast spoke at my college and I realised I knew so many species by sight even though I didn’t know their names. It piqued my interest and I began hanging around at Nature clubs to learn more,” says David Raju, 35, discussing his foray into the world of wild animals. David met Surya Ramachandran, 31, while working at Satpura Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. An engineer, Surya visited the reserve and fell in love with the guiding experience. “I wanted to be one of them — taking people into the jungle, helping them connect with the wilderness and making a lasting impact.” He applied at Satpura for an internship in 2011, where he spent five years, followed by two at Kanha Tiger Reserve, Madhya Pradesh. As colleagues, David and Surya would act as guides for those venturing into the wild. “We would carry about eight to 10 field guides apart from provisions for guests, through difficult terrain,” says Surya, adding, “A friend of ours brought back a comprehensive guide from a safari in South Africa; it was packed with engaging information and photographs.” “It was an amazing book and we wondered why there wasn’t something similar in India. That was what got us started on our first book,” says David. The result — The Photographic Field Guide: Wildlife of Central India — was published in 2016.  “We put in useful information in simple words to serve as a basic guide. Even if someone was participating in a big cat safari, this book would have the required information on other life forms found in that area,” says Surya. The success of their first field guide spurred the duo to work on the wildlife of South India next. “Surya is from Chennai and I am from Kerala; between the two of us, we had covered quite a bit of the South and are well aware of its fauna. It pointed to our next practical step,” says David. For Surya, it was more than just collating their combined knowledge. He says, “At the time, we were also involved in a lot of field work for scientists. Though we already knew quite a lot, there were still areas where the experts would have to explain things to us. It dawned on us that the biodiversity in South India is so vast, a guide was essential.” He adds that the realisation was further pronounced when they began collating matter — the book on Central India had around 860 species, while the one on South Indian wildlife covers 2,000-odd species. As with their first book, the duo asked other naturalists to share photographs they had clicked during their own excursions into the jungle. Apart from their own contributions, The Photographic Field Guide: Wildlife of South India comprises  over 2,000 photos submitted by around 200 wildlife enthusiasts, naturalists and photographers. “We talk about the Western Ghats all the time, but the Eastern Ghats is no less; it’s just less explored. This is the kind of ideology that brought us into writing — we eventually want to have five to six books that cover the whole country,” says Surya. They are currently working on a book about Western Indian and Himalayan wildlife. Though The Photographic Field Guide: Wildlife of South India is praised for being comprehensive, handy and informative, David says the best feedback he has ever received is that children find it hard to put down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-leopard-on-my-page/article34941723.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Raina reminisces…||Suresh Raina is an emotional cricketer. During a practice session seven years ago, Sachin Tendulkar told him, “You have to believe in yourself, you have to believe you can do miracles.” The words from the great man meant so much to Raina that he tattooed the word ‘Believe’ on his right bicep the same day.  Believe (published by Penguin) also happens to be the title of his recently released autobiography. Through the book, Raina, with the help of sports writer Bharat Sundaresan, looks back at his life — 13 years of which he spent playing international cricket. He speaks toMetroPluson the people and moments he cherishes the most in this journey. MS Dhoni Mahi bhai has played a very important role in my life. I will forever be grateful that I got a chance to play with him, under his guidance. I still remember back in 2005, when I first met him for the Duleep Trophy. Though I didn’t get much of a chance to interact with him, I resonated in a lot of ways with him. He was from one of the small towns hoping to make it big in cricket, and so was I. When we started playing, we had the same bond on and off the field: We are both desi in style. He was always down to earth. He didn’t change even when he got into the limelight. For me, he will always be a legendary captain and a fantastic leader. World Cup 2011 Memories of World Cup 2011 still feel so fresh. I missed the World Cup 2007 because of my injury so I had to make sure that I gave my best for 2011, also it was being played in our own country. I was in my best shape during that time and kept working on my fitness. Though I was not the first choice, I didn’t let it get to me. Finally I got a chance to play and contribute to the tournament. It is not a one-day effort that goes behind a tournament but a culmination of a lot of months and the team effort behind it. We were just like a family who wanted to win this trophy. Chennai Super Kings I was making a comeback after my injury when the IPL auctions happened in 2008. I was happy to know that I was with the Chennai Super Kings. All the more reason for my happiness was to know Mahi bhai was in the same team with other great players. I knew this would definitely strengthen our team. Mahi bhai and I bonded more in CSK since we used to explore Chennai in our own way. The people in Chennai started referring to me as ‘ Chinna Thala ’. I also got an opportunity to captain for CSK when Mahi bhai got injured. Yellow is something I wear with a lot of pride and is very close to my heart. Priyanka C Raina Priyanka and I go a long way back. Our families had known each other before either of us were born. We hadn’t been in touch since school, then in 2008, we met at Mumbai airport. From there our friendship rekindled. She was working overseas but still decided to come back to India for me. She has been an absolute pillar in my life. She has stood by me through all the highs and lows. I draw inspiration from her since she has established herself really well both in her personal and professional life. Marrying her was the best decision I made.  (As told toPraveen Sudevan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/raina-reminisces/article34941725.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||How responsible can a burger be?||Is it possible to build a kinder burger? Of course. The real challenge is creating one that is delicious as well, since virtue alone cannot fuel sales. Recently launched Flipside has a secret weapon up its sleeve: the Beyond Meat burger, which is now making its India debut. In the bustling kitchen, chef Deepesh Chandran experiments with the first batch, searing a Beyond Meat patty, then layering it with cheese, lettuce and tomatoes. Placing it on the table with a flourish and French fries, he slices the burger into two to study its pleasing caramelised surface and intricate marbling of fat for optimum juiciness and a springy texture. Then does the same with the brand’s Beyond Sausage. A clever alchemy of plant proteins, cacao butter and beetroot juice all intricately knitted together to provide a tasty alternative to meat, the product has a loyal following among vegetarians and vegans in the United States, where it was launched in 2012. Founded in 2009, in Los Angeles, Beyond Meat attempts to offer consumers plant-based substitutes that have more protein than their animal counterparts, no cholesterol, less saturated fat and no antibiotics or hormones. More sophisticated than the fake meat and soy substitutes of yore, these products are engineered to taste familiar, primarily appealing to a niche but growing group of vegans and vegetarians who have given up eating meat for ethical reasons. For protein, there is pea, mung bean, faba bean and brown rice, with beetroot juice and apple extract for colour, potato starch for texture and so on. The company saw a surge in demand with the pandemic, with more people cooking at home, and also looking for healthier alternatives for themselves as well as the planet. Now, expect to see it roll out in supermarkets and restaurants in India. In Chennai, you can sample it first at Flipside, where Beyond Meat burgers will be added to the menu this weekend. Taruna Hinduja, who runs Flipside, says that they are excited about being able to showcase what she believes could be the “future of protein”. Of course, the cheery restaurant, which as a mid-pandemic launch has been focussed on takeaway, will continue to put together traditional meat burgers as well. The American style “smash burgers” they specialise in, involve pressing down the meat on an iron skillet with a spatula and searing it for crisp edges with steamy interiors. Flipside offers customers the option to tailor burgers with the plant-based alternative, thus gently updating a deliberately old school menu focussed on comfort food and nostalgia. Leaning into a world of bright American sitcoms from the 90s, choose from classic burgers, as well as a “kitchen sink” version, with smoky barbeque sauce, jalapenos and fries. If you are feeling adventurous, try the startling Louisiana Fry Master, where the entire burger is deep fried with cheddar, mozzarella, garlic aioli, pickles and caramelised onion. Will it work with Beyond Meat? Deepesh heads back into the kitchen, wielding his spatula with a sense of purpose. After all, in your quest for a kinder burger, you never made any promises to your weighing scale.  Flipside Burgers is at New No: 50/A, Bava Street, Alwarpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-responsible-can-a-burger-be/article34941718.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||All eyes on the creator||A few months ago, artist-storyteller Raghava KK sent a painting to his friend Madhan Karky. The Chennai-based lyricist was so inspired by it that he penned a few lines and sent it to a music composer, who weaved in a tune. This was then given to a visualiser, who, without knowing anything about the origin of this creative pursuit, created imagery. “Isn’t it beautiful; the way energy flows from one form to another?” says Karky. He is trying to recreate this through Canvas, a virtual tool that streamlines a content creator’s online presence across platforms and helps create new avenues of income. Conceptualised by entrepreneurs Vignesh Ramaswamy, Raghava KK and Madhan Karky, Canvas hopes to make life easier for creative people. “Post the pandemic, people are looking at creators in a different light,” explains Vignesh, who has established four start-ups. “The route was always creation, discovery and then monetisation, which is why creators are forced to think about numbers even before embarking on anything. We’ve shifted this model to creation, monetisation, distribution and then discovery,” he says. Apart from striving to be a safe space for creative pursuits such as art, photography, podcasting, writing, music and filmmaking, it will also offer freedom to its users. For instance, an author can choose to keep his work free, or choose to monetise it partly. “Imagine if a writer keeps most of his chapters for free and opts for a paid format for the last few portions or its climax; it opens exciting possibilities,” says Karky, who adds that the tool brings together technological offerings that most creative people use (like WordPress, YouTube and Facebook) under one roof. Canvas, set to roll out in July as an exclusive by-invitation tool, will be launched in India and the US, with Singapore being added later this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-eyes-on-the-creator/article34941712.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Conversations on a coffee break, with RJ Balaji||Craving some cheery banter to go along with your morning coffee? Nallanna Murukku - The RJ Balaji Podcast is a recently launched Spotify Original hosted by the well known actor, director, comedian, and commentator, Balaji Patturaj. This Tamil podcast is a balanced, thought-provoking take on contemporary issues, presented in Balaji’s trademark infotainment format. He will also bring guests in, to share their views and experiences. It is the latest in the non-English podcast segment that is seeing a rapid growth under Spotify. “I will focus on conversations that urge listeners to become more aware of the many misguided opinions that have been on the rise on social media. As the digital world gets more cluttered with unfiltered perspectives, I hope to take the listeners on a humorous yet thoughtful audio journey into pressing matters,” says Balaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/conversations-on-a-coffee-break-with-rj-balaji/article34941708.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From Chennai port to Enoshima||The sea at Chennai Port must be proud. Three of the kids who learnt sailing in her waters, will now debut at the Olympics in Japan. Of the four Indians who have qualified for sailing at the upcoming event in July, three — Nethra Kumanan, Varun Thakkar and KC Ganapathy — are from Chennai. The fourth is Vishnu Saravanan from Mumbai. “In Chennai, the sea offers variety and good sailing conditions almost through the year, which makes it one of the best sailing venues in the world,” says Nethra, 23, the first Indian woman sailor to qualify for the Olympics. “Being the first woman wasn’t the goal or focus but it happened and I’m extremely honoured to have been able to achieve that for my family who’ve given up so much for me to be able to do what I do everyday,” she adds, speaking from Hungary where she is training at Lake Balaton. Young sailors from Chennai have the advantage of being trained at clubs like Royal Madras Yacht Club (RMYC) and Tamil Nadu Sailing Association (TNSA), which organise summer camps for children and adults every year. Not too long ago, Nethra too was a 13-year-old, wide-eyed summer camp attendee at TNSA. After the summer camp of 2011, smitten by the sea, she found herself returning to the harbour to sail every weekend. Ever since, it has been a tumultuous but rewarding journey, lined with unbelievable upsets, as well as exhilarating victories. Spending many months away from family, she underwent rigorous training, taking on everything from boisterous seas to serene lakes. At Lake Balaton, Nethra says she is taking the time to relax and recharge, preparing herself mentally and physically for the games. Prior to this she was practising at an academy in the sunny island of Gran Canaria in Spain. “With sailing, which is an experience sport, there is no way to replicate the real scenario fully in training. So we travel a lot and race in different places to get that experience,” she explains, adding that conditions in Japan can be erratic. One can expect medium winds and waves like in Gran Canaria or it can sometimes be light, and shift, like on a lake. So participants need to be ready for everything. Meanwhile at the far end of Europe, in Portugal, Varun, 26, and Ganapathy, 25, persevere. They are a team and have been one since 2014. With the world’s ultimate sports event looming large, they are training long hours (four hours of sailing followed by a workout), cutting through the blue waters of the Atlantic, wiping away sweat, salt water and occasionally sleep from their eyes. “We are training here in Cascais (a resort town West of Lisbon) as the wind and waves are almost similar to Enoshima, the sailing venue for the Olympics,” says Varun. Despite the pressure, they are ecstatic about “living the dream”. “We told so many people we will make it to the Olympics. So happy we can walk the talk,” says Ganapathy. Varun adds, “Qualifying for the country felt unreal. We dreamt of going to the Olympics as kids and to make it happen and represent our country on the biggest stage is going to be an experience we won’t forget.” This year, with the pandemic, there were added challenges. “Things are way harder when it comes to getting permission to travel and train,” says Ganapathy. “We stay in our bubble and do all our training together. We don’t meet a lot of people but that’s helped us remain focussed,” states Nethra. The boys are taking part in “the high performance skiff which is called the 49er class”. They qualified for the Olympics in Oman in April at the Asian Olympic qualification championships. At the same event, Nethra qualified in the laser radial class. She sails the single-handed woman’s dinghy. What lies ahead At the Olympics Varun and Ganapathy’s category will have 12 races spread over six days. Nethra explains that there are 10 classes of boat in Olympic sailing currently. “In my class, we have 44 teams this year, by far the largest number of countries participating this time because of the new gender equality mandate by the International Olympic Committee,” she adds. For Nethra, Varun and Ganapathy, the second time was the charm. Their first attempt to seal a berth at the 2016 Rio Olympics was futile. “Varun and I were very young and new to the boat. We finished fourth at that event, recalls Ganapathy. The duo believes that they qualified this year because they have been relentlessly pursuing this goal from the time they were 14. In a sea of unknown faces, the Chennai trio will have the comfort of familiarity with each other. Given the additional challenges of COVID-19, their plans for Japan are built around their respective events, with little time to explore the country. “It is a huge disappointment,” says Ganapathy, adding that this will be his and Varun’s first trip to Japan. “But we are grateful that the Olympics is going ahead despite the pandemic,” he adds. Nethra, who visited Japan for a competition in 2019, says she has had to shelve plans of going up Mount Fuji. “Due to COVID-19, we are not allowed to use public transport or go cycling. We can only go between the sailing village and the harbour, so we can’t plan for much else,” she says. But the three agree that the whole atmosphere is going to make for an exciting debut at the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/from-chennai-port-to-enoshima/article34942213.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Shooting under fire||As the Victory Banner raised by three Soviet soldiers fluttered over the burning Reichstag building in Berlin, the Soviet Union marked its victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War. May 2, 1945, was etched in time and memory. This historic moment was frozen by Russian war photographer Yevgeny Ananyevich Khaldei and to date remains one of the most celebrated and widely-known frames from the time. The photograph has an interesting backstory, as does the man responsible for the frame. Now, images from the war and their stories will reach Chennai via a photo exhibition titled People Of That War showcased by Russian House, Chennai, in collaboration with Multimedia Art Museum (MAMM), Moscow. The exhibit will showcase 18 photographs of Khaldei’s which will be available to view for atleast two weeks since opening. It was 80 years ago on June 22 (remembered as the Day of Memory and Sorrow) that Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, marking the beginning of the downfall of the Nazis. So, the story goes thus. Taken in the wee hours of May 2, the banner brought from Moscow was sewn overnight from red tablecloths. The street fighting in Berlin had already begun to subside. Khaldei requested three military men — Alexey Kovalev, Abdul Khakim Ismailov and Leonid Yegorychev — to hold up the flag over the burning Reichstag. Then, he noticed that one of the soldiers had a watch on each hand. This was a problem, since war booty was not allowed to be portrayed or published. He removed the watch from the negative with a needle. The edited, published version went on to become one of the defining images of the war. He was later honoured with the Order of the Red Star, Order of the Patriotic War and 12 battle medals. Jack of all trades Khaldei was a self-taught photographer. “As a young boy, he started by washing prints in a photo studio, a skill he learned out of curiosity. At the same time, he made his first camera with two cardboard boxes and lenses from his grandmother’s glasses,” says Olga Sviblova, founder and director of MAMM. The museum holds a collection of over 400 photographs by Khaldei received from his heirs and relatives. Not only did these photographs capture gruesome scenes from the war, they also portrayed its human side. Khaldei captured faces and emotions that populated a war-torn Soviet state, in his camera. Sviblova continues, “Khaldei’s work landed him a job withTASSPhoto Chronicle when he was just 20 years old. Early in the morning of June 22, 1941, he returned from a work trip and was immediately summoned to the editorial office; there he learned that the war had begun. An hour later, Khaldei took his first war photo: worried Muscovites crowded around a loudspeaker from which emanated the message about the attack of Nazi Germany.” He is known to have orchestrated his frames including the Banner of Victory over the Reichstag. Genadii Rogalev, director of Russian House, Chennai, explains, “A photographer’s skill is sometimes not just about capturing a scene, but in setting up the shot itself. Khaldei did whatever it took to capture history in a frame — it wasn’t just an image, it was about emotions as well.” One heart-warming image showcases Soviet and British pilots engaged in a friendly football match on a snowy day. Another one clicked in 1943, captured the 46th Women’s Aviation Regiment of the Taman division in moments of rest, mid-dance. During the four years of the war, Khaldei became a master, present on all 1,418 days with his trusted camera. “He was able to tell the whole story in a picture,” Sviblova says, adding, “He was often asked how he took these photos, Khaldei would say, ‘How did you do it? Heart and soul!’ and added, ‘I always tried to shoot in a way that people would be interested in watching today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow’.”   The photographs will be on display at Russian House, Alwarpet, Chennai, after lockdown restrictions are lifted. Till then, People of That War will be available for viewing @russianhouse.chennai on Facebook||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/shooting-under-fire/article34942214.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The cabinet of wonder||In Tamil Nadu’s most famous delta town stands the Thanjavur Maharaja Serfoji’s Saraswathi Mahal Library (TMSSML), a building that holds in its enfilade of historical layers cabinets filled with literary treasures. Considered among Asia’s oldest libraries, it was founded by the Nayaks in the 16th Century and fortified as a cultural citadel by the Marathas who captured the town in 1675, giving rise to the Tanjore Bhosle dynasty and the unique Tanjore Marathi community. Under the rule of Serfoji II a century later, the library became a treasure house of palm manuscripts and, today, holds nearly 40,000 volumes primarily in Tamil, Sanskrit, Marathi and Telugu. Art and rare photographs also reside in the bowels of the library, with only a miniscule collection, mostly digitised, on display. With the COVID-19 pandemic barring entry to most physical museums, it has been left to curators and connoisseurs of art to keep alive interest in these places. Pratap Sinh Serfoji Raje Bhosle, 27, tries to draw the visitor into the annals of Tanjore history with his fourth book Rare Prints that brings alive 129 uncommon pictures from the library. “I was fascinated with the pictures of Indian kings, princes and British officials in bound albums from the 20th Century. These were stuck on rich handmade paper for reference, and the albums were made in Kot Radha Kishen (presently in Pakistan). I wanted to throw light on these pictures,” says Pratap Sinh, the sixth descendant of Serfoji II and grandson of Tulajendra Bhosle, who founded the Maharaja Serfoji II Memorial Hall, a museum in Sadar Mahal Palace, Thanjavur. Pratap Sinh is an Electronics and Communication Engineering graduate, but it is as the social media manager of the family museum and an author of three books, including Contributions of Thanjavur Maratha Kings, that he has come into his own. From the family album “I am interested in old photographs — both as markers of history and for restoration. I have posted many related to Thanjavur on my blog and Facebook and Instagram pages,” he says. “While going through the digital photo albums of the library’s programmes which my grandfather, Tulajendra Bhosle attended as a guest of honour, I recollected seeing pictures of dignitaries such as Indira Gandhi, Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar, Sarojini Naidu, Sharad Pawar, PV Narasimha Rao, Rajendra Prasad and Kamaraj. I requested the librarian for these photos and a search through many almirahs resulted in finding these albums that had been locked away for years,” says Pratap Sinh adding how he stumbled upon some of these pictures not published to date or not found on the Internet. Edited by educator and researcher Jeetendra Hirschfeld, Rare Prints is a tribute to the library. With forewords from political stalwarts and cultural aficionados, the first few pictures in the book are from an album of the 1900s. The first is a tribute to the great Maratha warrior, Chattrapati Shivaji, who sits astride a horse in black and white splendour. Colour pictures with added pigments give a real feel to the book. Each is accompanied by a brief text describing the mood and the moment. Pictures of two unique manuscripts also feature. Some of the pictures such as that of Venkoji, founder of the Bhosle dynasty of Tanjore, seated on a throne, jewelled scabbard by his side, and Sujan Bai Sahib, a queen, with bow grasped in hand and a quiver full of arrows on her back, offer an exhaustive tour of the centuries. Pictures published by the Chitrashala Press, Pune, have reproduced well, retaining the jewel-like tones. This is followed by digital prints of pictures from the early 20th Century, logo of the press established by Serfoji II, among the earliest to print the Devanagari script in South India, a case sheet of eye treatment given by Serfoji who is also credited with having performed cataract surgeries, paintings from the Aswa Sastra manuscript, sketches of the famed temples of Thanjavur by English landscape artists the Daniells, and visitors and celebrations at the museum. The e-book is a light ride through the socio-cultural history of the kingdom and the city it now is, but mostly it is a journey through Saraswathi Mahal Library, one that former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi describes in the visitor’s book as “a brief moment in this house of treasures”.  The e-book is available on bookganga.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-cabinet-of-wonder/article34942247.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling a pandemic with bridge||Shridhar Nagalkar plays a game of pool on most evenings. On other days, the 76-year-old retired consultant general surgeon plays bridge with his new friends, all determined to beat the isolation and stress of the pandemic. “We have to learn to live with the Coronavirus,” he says, speaking from Athashri Senior Living homes in Baner, Pune. Positive thinking is the way forward in any adverse situation, he adds. As soon as the lockdown was lifted in June 2020, he moved into the retirement commune along with his wife Swarupa, 72, “to a place where all amenities are provided for, including mobile ATM services,” he says. According to a 2018 study by CII-ASLI (Confederation of Indian Industry and Association of Senior Living India) Out of India’s roughly 13-14 crore senior citizens, 30% live in urban cities and 70% in rural areas. Only 2% of its seniors live in retirement communities. Though the global health crisis has affected people universally, it has pushed seniors into a more vulnerable position. Being more susceptible to the virus and prone to conditions like depression, this demographic faces specific challenges that the managements of retirement homes and communities were quick to respond to. They implemented total segregation from the outside world, and put in place the required health protocol. Most have begun tutoring seniors in the use of social media, as virtual interaction becomes the need of the hour. The pandemic has resulted in two significant outcomes: a change in the perception of communes for the elderly and the spirited response by seniors towards the crisis. Colonel A Sridharan (retired), founder and MD, CovaiCare Active Living Homes, which has centres across Tamil Nadu, says, “The demand for senior homes has increased significantly, by almost 25% - 30% in the last one year. At roughly Rs. 30,000 per month, a couple has a safe and comfortable life in such centres.” Except for the distressing fact that the children of the seniors have not been able to visit as regularly, residents of such communities have rallied strong during the pandemic, to keep not only stress at bay, but also the virus itself. Kuruvilla M George, secretary of Chacko Homes, Alwaye, Kochi, is pleased that so far, no one has taken ill. “Many of our residents are retired doctors and advised us on the safety protocols. Every month we hold talks, prayer meetings and general meetings so that everyone is in touch,” he says. Colonel Sridharan, who helped put in place a system of safety protocols and virtual entertainment programmes at CovaiCare, says, “We play badminton, table tennis, and pool with masks, and maintain social distancing.” At Athashri, every day, Savita Achyut Gokhale weaves garlands from the blossoms of the bakul trees. She keeps a few for herself and places the rest at the reception. “The other residents take the garlands for their hair or puja . This makes me happy and keeps me busy,” says the 70-year-old, adding that this has been her way to keep everybody’s spirits high. Savita, who lost her husband to COVID-19 two months ago, says about her outreach, “There are many here who are older than I am, and find it difficult to bend and collect the fallen flowers. I spread old dupattas under the trees, gather the flowers and weave them into garlands. Everyone likes to have one. It motivates them.” Meghali Khatdare, CEO of Athashri Homes that caters to nearly 1,900 seniors, backs Savita up by saying, “It was the psychological impact of the pandemic that posed a new challenge.” She adds, “We made sure that the residents’ every need — grocery, fruits, vegetables, ATM machines, medicines — was made available at their doorstep. To counter the isolation, we planned monthly virtual programmes designed for seniors.” Initially it was difficult to bring the older people together virtually, “as many seniors do not use the smart phones much,” but resident managers taught them to use it and familiarised them with video calls, text messaging and using social media. “This was another engaging and learning activity for the seniors,” Meghali adds. At 92, Captain Kunjipalu TA is the oldest resident of Chacko Homes in Kochi. Driving around the campus in his Honda City, the retired pilot chats with other residents and regales them with stories from his distinguished 37-year-long career in the Indian Airlines. “There should be no complaining. The sun is up. Everything is looking good. The day should start like this,” says the man who invested in a retirement home 23 years ago, and moved in seven years ago after his wife passed away. Despite being bedridden after a stroke last year, Swarn Mongia, 92, remains the centre of affection at the Senior Living Home, Godhuli, New Delhi. One of the first residents of the commune nearly 20 years ago, others visit to “seek her blessings”. Her daughter, Amita who lives in Maryland, USA, discloses that when her parents took the decision to move into a senior living commune, it was “social suicide. The act was frowned upon. My mother has been a very spirited woman, always an example to others at Godhuli. That’s why they continue to come to her for inspiration, more so in these tough times.” Colonel Sridharan points to the fact that the seniors at the centres are highly qualified retired professionals and very resourceful. “They have devised interesting ways to negotiate the prevailing times.” Game on He shares the example of 71-year-old Revathi Bhaskar, a former bank officer who quickly came up with a game of tambola for the residents. “In every elderly person, there is a child. This is our second childhood,” says Revathi, adding that she put the game together to prevent residents from falling into depression. Around 40 residents signed up immediately for the LockDown Tambola, as Revathi called it. She designed the tickets and preceded the game with a quiz, “as a warm up”. Though Revathi lost her husband during the pandemic, she says the tambola games are in his memory. She recalls him encouraging her by saying, “You spend one hour and bring joy to 50 people; so it is 50 hours of happiness. This is worth all the trouble.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tackling-a-pandemic-with-bridge/article34942250.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A love letter to Peanuts||As Jean Schulz navigates the hallways of the Charles M Schulz Museum in Santa Rosa, California, she frequently runs into enthusiastic Peanuts fans who are eager to share how the comic series or books affected their lives, or how a Snoopy plushie they held onto saw them from their childhood into their adult years. “People have always found comfort in it,” she says. Even over a video call, Jean, 82 has a sparkle in her eye, as she lovingly speaks of her late husband Charles Monroe ‘Sparky’ Schulz, the creator of Peanuts . On June 25, AppleTV+ is releasing a documentary Who Are You, Charlie Brown? detailing Charles’ journey to creating Peanuts , of which the first strip débuted on October 2, 1950. The film, narrated by Lupita Nyong’o, follows two stories: one of Charles’ life, and the other of everyone’s favourite ‘lovable loser’ Charlie Brown tackling a school essay themed ‘who are you?’. Against a backdrop of the original music by Vince Guaraldi, audiences can look forward to archival clips of Charles’ voice recordings and interviews with Jean herself, journalist-presenter Al Roker, actor-producer Drew Barrymore and filmmaker Paul Feig. Apple TV had already released several Peanuts originals such as Snoopy in Space and The Snoopy Show — but executive producers Craig Schulz (Charles’ son), Ron Howard, Brian Grazer and director Michael Bonfiglio felt it was the right time to bring Charles’ story forward. Jean is not just the steward of Charles’ vast estate, she feels responsible for it all, right down to the wiggle of Snoopy’s tail. She praises Nyong’o, “I wondered when I heard the voice ‘who is this, she’s perfect!’ as I had no idea!” The Peanuts characters, having not grown up for the past 50-plus years, are forever relatable — be it Charlie Brown’s enduring determination (particularly when kicking a football), Linus’ eccentricity, Peppermint Patty’s go-get-’em attitude, Lucy’s stubbornness or Snoopy’s imagination. Jean is proud of each of these characters for their part in Charles’ life and legacy. “Charles often said, ‘all those characters have a little bit of me in it and I have a little of them in me’, so through the documentary, you see his life and the characters blended in his world,” she says fondly. Sparky’s mindful decisions One of the most loved characters is an African-American boy named Franklin who was introduced to the Peanuts world in 1968 on the heels of the Civil Rights Movement in USA. This was considered daring at the time. Jean reflects on this decision, “He thought long and hard about doing that because he wanted to be sure anything he wrote was authentic. If you look at the relationship between Franklin and Charlie, they meet not at school nor on the baseball diamond, but on the beach. Charlie Brown doesn’t go to the beach very often ( laughs ) but he did go there to meet Franklin, and I wish I had thought to ask Sparky why and how he came to that realisation.” It may seem a far cry from the USA and the rest of the world we see today, though Jean points out, “ Peanuts discusses the human condition so that is not going to change, people may express it differently. Now I find I have to switch my brain and catch up with how people are expressing their angst and needs (especially with social media), but I think it’s all the same. But it is not different — we have the same sorts of frustrations as there were 50 or 60 years ago. It is interesting that my husband captured something that still resonates today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-love-letter-to-peanuts/article34942254.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A leopard on my page||When David Raju shadowed dragonflies as a child in his hometown in Kottayam, Kerala, little did anyone realise his fascination for insects would become his profession. “A wildlife enthusiast spoke at my college and I realised I knew so many species by sight even though I didn’t know their names. It piqued my interest and I began hanging around at Nature clubs to learn more,” says David Raju, 35, discussing his foray into the world of wild animals. David met Surya Ramachandran, 31, while working at Satpura Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. An engineer, Surya visited the reserve and fell in love with the guiding experience. “I wanted to be one of them — taking people into the jungle, helping them connect with the wilderness and making a lasting impact.” He applied at Satpura for an internship in 2011, where he spent five years, followed by two at Kanha Tiger Reserve, Madhya Pradesh. As colleagues, David and Surya would act as guides for those venturing into the wild. “We would carry about eight to 10 field guides apart from provisions for guests, through difficult terrain,” says Surya, adding, “A friend of ours brought back a comprehensive guide from a safari in South Africa; it was packed with engaging information and photographs.” “It was an amazing book and we wondered why there wasn’t something similar in India. That was what got us started on our first book,” says David. The result — The Photographic Field Guide: Wildlife of Central India — was published in 2016.  “We put in useful information in simple words to serve as a basic guide. Even if someone was participating in a big cat safari, this book would have the required information on other life forms found in that area,” says Surya. The success of their first field guide spurred the duo to work on the wildlife of South India next. “Surya is from Chennai and I am from Kerala; between the two of us, we had covered quite a bit of the South and are well aware of its fauna. It pointed to our next practical step,” says David. For Surya, it was more than just collating their combined knowledge. He says, “At the time, we were also involved in a lot of field work for scientists. Though we already knew quite a lot, there were still areas where the experts would have to explain things to us. It dawned on us that the biodiversity in South India is so vast, a guide was essential.” He adds that the realisation was further pronounced when they began collating matter — the book on Central India had around 860 species, while the one on South Indian wildlife covers 2,000-odd species. As with their first book, the duo asked other naturalists to share photographs they had clicked during their own excursions into the jungle. Apart from their own contributions, The Photographic Field Guide: Wildlife of South India comprises  over 2,000 photos submitted by around 200 wildlife enthusiasts, naturalists and photographers. “We talk about the Western Ghats all the time, but the Eastern Ghats is no less; it’s just less explored. This is the kind of ideology that brought us into writing — we eventually want to have five to six books that cover the whole country,” says Surya. They are currently working on a book about Western Indian and Himalayan wildlife. Though The Photographic Field Guide: Wildlife of South India is praised for being comprehensive, handy and informative, David says the best feedback he has ever received is that children find it hard to put down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-leopard-on-my-page/article34942255.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Raina reminisces…||Suresh Raina is an emotional cricketer. During a practice session seven years ago, Sachin Tendulkar told him, “You have to believe in yourself, you have to believe you can do miracles.” The words from the great man meant so much to Raina that he tattooed the word ‘Believe’ on his right bicep the same day.  Believe (published by Penguin) also happens to be the title of his recently released autobiography. Through the book, Raina, with the help of sports writer Bharat Sundaresan, looks back at his life — 13 years of which he spent playing international cricket. He speaks toMetroPluson the people and moments he cherishes the most in this journey. MS Dhoni Mahi bhai has played a very important role in my life. I will forever be grateful that I got a chance to play with him, under his guidance. I still remember back in 2005, when I first met him for the Duleep Trophy. Though I didn’t get much of a chance to interact with him, I resonated in a lot of ways with him. He was from one of the small towns hoping to make it big in cricket, and so was I. When we started playing, we had the same bond on and off the field: We are both desi in style. He was always down to earth. He didn’t change even when he got into the limelight. For me, he will always be a legendary captain and a fantastic leader. World Cup 2011 Memories of World Cup 2011 still feel so fresh. I missed the World Cup 2007 because of my injury so I had to make sure that I gave my best for 2011, also it was being played in our own country. I was in my best shape during that time and kept working on my fitness. Though I was not the first choice, I didn’t let it get to me. Finally I got a chance to play and contribute to the tournament. It is not a one-day effort that goes behind a tournament but a culmination of a lot of months and the team effort behind it. We were just like a family who wanted to win this trophy. Chennai Super Kings I was making a comeback after my injury when the IPL auctions happened in 2008. I was happy to know that I was with the Chennai Super Kings. All the more reason for my happiness was to know Mahi bhai was in the same team with other great players. I knew this would definitely strengthen our team. Mahi bhai and I bonded more in CSK since we used to explore Chennai in our own way. The people in Chennai started referring to me as ‘ Chinna Thala ’. I also got an opportunity to captain for CSK when Mahi bhai got injured. Yellow is something I wear with a lot of pride and is very close to my heart. Priyanka C Raina Priyanka and I go a long way back. Our families had known each other before either of us were born. We hadn’t been in touch since school, then in 2008, we met at Mumbai airport. From there our friendship rekindled. She was working overseas but still decided to come back to India for me. She has been an absolute pillar in my life. She has stood by me through all the highs and lows. I draw inspiration from her since she has established herself really well both in her personal and professional life. Marrying her was the best decision I made.  (As told toPraveen Sudevan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/raina-reminisces/article34942251.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||All eyes on the creator||A few months ago, artist-storyteller Raghava KK sent a painting to his friend Madhan Karky. The Chennai-based lyricist was so inspired by it that he penned a few lines and sent it to a music composer, who weaved in a tune. This was then given to a visualiser, who, without knowing anything about the origin of this creative pursuit, created imagery. “Isn’t it beautiful; the way energy flows from one form to another?” says Karky. He is trying to recreate this through Canvas, a virtual tool that streamlines a content creator’s online presence across platforms and helps create new avenues of income. Conceptualised by entrepreneurs Vignesh Ramaswamy, Raghava KK and Madhan Karky, Canvas hopes to make life easier for creative people. “Post the pandemic, people are looking at creators in a different light,” explains Vignesh, who has established four start-ups. “The route was always creation, discovery and then monetisation, which is why creators are forced to think about numbers even before embarking on anything. We’ve shifted this model to creation, monetisation, distribution and then discovery,” he says. Apart from striving to be a safe space for creative pursuits such as art, photography, podcasting, writing, music and filmmaking, it will also offer freedom to its users. For instance, an author can choose to keep his work free, or choose to monetise it partly. “Imagine if a writer keeps most of his chapters for free and opts for a paid format for the last few portions or its climax; it opens exciting possibilities,” says Karky, who adds that the tool brings together technological offerings that most creative people use (like WordPress, YouTube and Facebook) under one roof. Canvas, set to roll out in July as an exclusive by-invitation tool, will be launched in India and the US, with Singapore being added later this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-eyes-on-the-creator/article34942252.ece
24 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram shows the way in jab drive||Out-of-the-box thinking by local health officials in holding special vaccination camps for different categories of beneficiaries and setting up drive-through vaccine centres, significant social media penetration and the participation of private hospitals have helped Gurugram achieve the feat of administering the highest number of vaccination doses in the State till date. Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij, in a press statement earlier this month, had claimed that Gurugram ranked first among 24 major urban cities in the country in vaccination coverage in a Central government survey with 49.3% of its population having received at least one dose of vaccination. As per the district health department, a total of 10,34,988 doses had been administered in Gurugram, including 8,58,964 first doses, till June 22. The highest number of 4,06,227 doses have been administered in the 18-44 age-group, followed by 2,81,799 in 45-60 age-group. A total of 2,28,533 doses have been administered to those above 60 years of age, including 1,59,978 first doses. Faridabad stands second in the State in vaccination coverage with around 7 lakh doses, followed by Sonipat and Hisar with approximately four lakh and three lakh doses respectively. High awareness Attributing it partially to high degree of awareness among the local population due to social media penetration, District Immunisation Officer Martand Pratap Singh said the local health authorities in a first-of-it-kind initiative conducted camps at group housing societies and industries premises to ensure maximum coverage. “We sent our health teams to gated communities and industries for vaccination. Ambulances were stationed at these camps to shift beneficiary to a nearby hospital in case of any Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) . It was, perhaps, the first such initiative in India. We got calls from health authorities in Mumbai and Bengaluru to enquire about these camps,” said Dr. Singh, also deputy civil surgeon. The health department also identified certain categories left out of the vaccination coverage for various reasons, such as transgenders, widows and physically challenged people, and held special camps for them. “We continue to hold camps for autorickshaw drivers, domestic helps and labourers,” said Dr. Singh. Special camps Besides, special camps have been held for media persons, advocates, bank employees and judicial staff, among others. With people scared to go to hospitals for vaccination post-second wave, civil surgeon Virender Yadav suggested setting up of drive-through vaccination centres in the basements of shopping malls and other buildings allowing the beneficiaries to get vaccinated without having to step out of their cars. The drive was not just received well by the masses, but was also lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual meeting with district magistrates last month. “We have conducted more than 20 such drives. On June 21, we vaccinated around 5,500 against the target of 2,500 in such drives,” said Mr. Yadav. He added that the administration could achieve cent per cent vaccination for its population if vaccines were available. A large network of private hospitals in the city too have contributed towards the vaccination coverage. As many as 81 private hospitals are empanelled in the city for COVID-19 vaccination and 23 of them are conducting vaccination sessions. “On an average, around 7,000-8,000 doses are administered in all private hospitals put together. No other city in Haryana has such a large network of private hospitals,” said Dr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurugram-shows-the-way-in-jab-drive/article34942059.ece
24 June 2021||Guwahati,||‘Assam’s two-child policy will stall development’||A coalition of civil society groups engaged in reproductive health has said Assam’s move to adopt a two-child policy for availing benefits under government schemes will hurt the poorest besides hindering the development goals of the State. In a statement issued on Tuesday evening, Advocating Reproductive Choices (ARC) said there was no evidence to suggest there was a population explosion in the country. Instead, NFHS-5 or the National Family Health Survey for 2019-2020 has made it clear that men and women want smaller families even without a coercive population policy. The ARC is a coalition of 115 organisations working towards expanding contraceptive choices, improving quality of care and ensuring availability, accessibility and affordability of reproductive health and family planning services. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on June 19 said that barring the tea plantation workers, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, people with more than two children would gradually not be able to avail benefits under specific schemes funded by the State. This will be in addition to the amendment made in 2018 to the Assam Panchayat Act, 1994, which requires a two-child norm along with minimum educational qualifications and functional sanitary toilets for contesting the rural polls. “Total Fertility Rate (TFR) in Assam is 1.9, which is less than the national average of 2.2. Data from the NFHS-5 shows that 77% of the currently married women and 63% of men aged 15-49 years in Assam want no more children, are already sterilised or have a spouse who is already sterilised,” the ARC said. “More than 82% of women and 79% of men consider the ideal family size to be two or fewer children and 11% of currently married women in Assam have an unmet need for family planning,” it added. Policy objectives It was critical that policy objectives catered to population stabilisation, enabling families, especially women, to exercise choices about having children. But outside Assam, even for States which had high fertility rates, there was no evidence that a two-child policy was effective, the ARC said. The coalition alluded to a five-State study by former bureaucrat Nirmala Buch that said sex-selective and unsafe abortions increased in States that adopted the two-child policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assams-two-child-policy-will-stall-development/article34942072.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU steps up efforts to tackle possible third COVID wave||Delhi University on Wednesday said steps were being taken to augment facilities for a possible third wave by setting up COVID care centres, procuring pulse oximeters and thermal scanners, and installing oxygen plants. The university said that Hansraj College and Janki Devi Memorial College have offered to set up COVID care facilities with 100 beds each, while adding that one of the campus hostels will also be offered with 200 beds. Facilities needed “These facilities will need beds, medical equipment, oxygen supply through in-situ small-scale oxygen plants with direct pipelines to beds, generators for uninterrupted power supply, medicines, facility for food, and above all salaries for doctors and nurses who are in great demand but short in supply. DU is trying its best to make the arrangements,” the university said in a statement. DU is also planning to sign MoUs with labs and organisations to strengthen facilities at healthcare centres, officials added. In a statement, DU said it will also set up an oxygen plant that can fill 50-80 cylinders per day and will provide cylinders to DU members and to those in the neighbourhood. “We have a total of 120 establishments in the university, including colleges, hostels and two campuses. With an average of two concentrators for each unit, we need about 240 oxygen concentrators. In addition, for the large number of students in hostels as well as residences, it will be worthwhile to have about 500 pulse oximeters and about 100 thermal scanners,” the statement read.  The university added that arrangements have been made to augment tests for COVID-19 and three such camps have already been conducted at Miranda House, Janki Devi Memorial College and Gargi College. Earlier, the university had also organised vaccination facilities at its three health centres apart from isolation centres being run by Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College and Lakshmibai College. Earlier in the day, North Delhi Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh held a meeting with the director of DU South Campus and discussed civic issues as well as installation of a medical oxygen plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-steps-up-efforts-to-tackle-possible-third-covid-wave/article34942056.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Karnam Malleswari made first V-C of Delhi Sports University||The Delhi government on Wednesday appointed India’s first woman Olympic medal winner Karnam Malleswari as the Vice-Chancellor of the upcoming Delhi Sports University (DSU). Announcing the appointment, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “Our dream of launching Delhi Sports University is coming true. It gives me great pride that Olympic medallist Karnam Malleswari will be first Vice-Chancellor of Delhi Sports University. We discussed the vision of Delhi Sports University today.” Creating Olympians Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the purpose of establishing DSU is to build and create athletes who will make “our nation proud”. He added that the Delhi government is trying to create an atmosphere where sports flourish and sportspersons can be trained to a level where they bring “at least 50 medals each year” and the Capital can host the 2048 Olympic Games. “The intention of building a world-class sports university is not to generate jobs but to provide a space for individuals to build their athletic talent. Through the university, we want to nurture and foster talent so that we can say at least 50 Olympians are proud alumni of Delhi Sports University. It will also provide state-of-the-art sports facilities. Our goal is to prepare international medal-winning champions in at least 10 sports fields,” Mr. Sisodia said. Ms. Malleswari said that the university would start visiting schools once they reopen and conduct a talent hunt for students interested in sports. “There are many children who take keen interest in sports but due to lack of any infrastructure, are unable to pursue their athletic dream. We will identify students and match their athletic skills to the sports they are apt for,” she said. Mr. Sisodia said the degree a student will receive upon graduation from the Delhi Sports University will be equivalent to degrees in mainstream courses. The Delhi Assembly had in 2019 passed a Bill to set up the DSU which would offer graduation, postgraduation and doctorate degrees in cricket, football, and hockey among other sports. DSU was envisioned to streamline sports facilities and bring sports talents under its ambit to prepare athletes for world-class competitions, the Delhi government had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/karnam-malleswari-made-first-v-c-of-delhi-sports-university/article34942064.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘TikTok aspirant’ reunited with family||Fed up of being constantly chided by her mother for not studying, a 12-year-old girl aspiring to be a social media star left her home in south Delhi but was finally reunited with her family here after the police traced her from Etawah, an officer said on Wednesday. The girl allegedly took a train from Delhi and reached Etawah in Uttar Pradesh, they said. The matter came to light after the child’s mother went to Sangam Vihar police station on June 18 and stated that her daughter was allegedly kidnapped. She informed that her daughter was carrying a mobile phone but the device was not active, the police said. The following day, the girl’s mother informed ASI Jai Singh that she had received a call from a woman named Shanti Devi who stated that her daughter was found sitting at Etawah railway station, a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, “Our team reached Etawah but the phone number of the said woman was found to be switched off. With the help of technical assistance and locals, our team located Shanti Devi who was found to be living in Etawah where she runs a stall near a temple.” The team reached finally located Ms. Devi’s house and recovered the missing girl from there, he said. When interrogated, Ms. Devi revealed that the girl was found sitting at Etawah railway station. Hence, she took the girl with her to her house and informed her mother, Mr. Thakur said. “The girl said she left her home because she wanted to be a TikTok star and her mother used to scold her about studies. She then took a train from Delhi and reached Etawah but got scared and went with Ms. Devi to her house,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tiktok-aspirant-reunited-with-family/article34942060.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two, including woman, arrested for cheating||Two persons, including a woman, were arrested in separate incidents for allegedly cheating people in the national capital, the police said on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Sahil Arora (24), a resident of Uttam Nagar, and Anjita (32), a resident of Chhawla. One gold chain of 121.180 g worth Rs. 6.53 lakh and two iPhones recovered from Arora’s possession and one gold chain recovered from Anjita, the police said. In the first incident, Arora made accounts on matrimonial sites posing to be a rich eligible suitor. He started contacting the girls’ families and became friendly with them. Later, he asked for expensive gifts like gold ornaments, iPhones and other high-end gifts from their families and relatives on the pretext of paying them through RTGS, a senior police officer said. In the present case, one of the relatives of a woman told Arora that he deals in gold and diamond jewellery on demand. Arora requested him to make a heavy gold chain. On June 16, he went to the house of complainant in Vasant Kunj, the officer said. Arora took delivery of the chain and in return, he flashed his phone towards the complainant saying that he has done RTGS payment and it will take some time to credit in the account, the police said. When no payment was credited in the bank account of the complainant, he approached the police. During investigation, the police got a tip-off and a trap was laid at Uttam Nagar from where Arora was apprehended, the officer said, adding that he was previously involved in three criminal in Delhi. In other incident, complainant Shamsher Singh reported that on June 12, when he reached near Western Inn, Mahipalpur, on the highway, he fell from his bike due to strong winds, the police said. Meanwhile, some passersby helped him in getting up. During the process, some unknown person took away his gold chain. A trap was laid on Tuesday and Anjita was held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-including-woman-arrested-for-cheating/article34942053.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Six held for cheating on pretext of giving jobs||Six men were arrested from north west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of providing jobs, the police said on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Satish Kumar Singh (32), Naveen Kumar (24), Abhishek Shrivastav (23), Ajit Kumar (20), Sudhir (24) and Ravi Singh (20), all residents of Jahangirpuri. On April 10, a complaint was received where complainant Parvesh Kumar alleged that he had applied for a job of a store supervisor in a department store through an online advertisement, the police said. He received a call from an unknown person who posed to be the manager of the store and said that they had shortlisted his resume for the role of the store supervisor, the police said. They asked for documents on WhatsApp. When the documents got verified, they arrange a telephonic interview. Later, they asked him to pay Rs. 650 for document verification and Rs. 3,100 for uniform. He paid the amount through UPI application, a senior officer said. They said that his selection was confirmed and asked him to deposit Rs. 5,000 for laptop security which they would give him for his work. He paid the money, the officer said. When they asked for Rs. 11,000 as insurance, he refused and realised that they were cheating him, the police said. “During investigation, a fake call centre was found running at Panchvati, Adarsh Nagar and six accused persons were arrested,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Guriqbal Singh Sidhu. They had opened a call centre at LIC building, Panchvati, Adarsh Nagar, in the name of a consultancy for assisting job aspirants to get jobs in various companies, the police said. They put their advertisement online for providing jobs in different companies. They used to get the data of job aspirants and call them in the name of different famous consultancies, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-held-for-cheating-on-pretext-of-giving-jobs/article34942054.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Constable’s pistol misfires outside envoy’s home||A woman constable stationed outside the house of of an Israeli diplomat accidentally fired off a shot while she was allegedly handling her service pistol on Wednesday evening, the police said. On Wednesday at 6.50 p.m., information was received from security officer, Israel Embassy, that a PCR staffer had misfired a round at the residence of Israeli Embassy attaché at Paschimi Marg, Vasant Vihar. The police found that the woman constable of the PCR unit, stationed outside the diplomat’s house, accidentally fired a round while handling the 9mm pistol. However, no one was hurt in the incident as the bullet pierced the roof of the police van, a senior police officer said. Inquiry under way The crime team was also called to the spot, the police said, adding further inquiry is under way. Earlier in January this year, a minor blast had occurred outside the Israeli Embassy, located in a high-security zone of the Capital. Security was beefed up outside the embassy as well as the residences of the diplomats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/constables-pistol-misfires-outside-envoys-home/article34942057.ece
24 June 2021||Chandigarh,||AAP hits out at Punjab govt. over unemployment||Leader of Opposition in Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Wednesday hit out at ruling Congress government, accusing it of betraying the unemployed youth of the State by not keeping its 2017 Assembly election promise of providing one job per family. The Aam Aadmi Party leader said the Congress has also failed to keep other election promises in its over four-year rule. “Even the perpetrators of the desecration of Sri Guru Granth Sahib and the conspirators who shot at the Sikhs had not been punished yet. Drug mafia, transport mafia, sand and mineral mafia and hooliganism, still continues in the State and the people are suffering from the tyranny of the mafia rule,” he said. “Instead of the common people, the sons and daughters of rich Congressmen were being given government jobs. Besides, attempts were being made to fool the employees of Punjab in the name of pay commission,” alleged Mr. Cheema. Separately, (AAP) MLA and Youth Wing State president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer and AAP leader Dinesh Chadha termed the claims of the State government of having provided jobs to 16.29 lakh youth of the State as a bundle of lies. ‘Names not given’ The leaders said to a reply under RTI Act, the department of Employment Generation and Training has refused to make public the names of 16 lakh people of Punjab who got the jobs. “Making the names public would expose the lie of the government. If the Congress government has provided jobs, then they should make all the information about giving jobs public on the government website, so that people can know the truth,” said the leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-hits-out-at-punjab-govt-over-unemployment/article34942069.ece
24 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Admissions for entry-level classes begin from June 26||The Directorate of Education on Wednesday released guidelines for admission to entry-level classes at Sarvodaya Vidyalayas for the academic session 2021-22. Each Sarvodaya Vidyalaya has at least one Nursery/KG/Class-1 section and will comprise 40 students. The application forms will be available from June 26 and the last date for submission of forms is July 11. The DoE has instructed heads of school to keep the forms available with the security guard at the entrance of the school. In a circular, the DoE said children residing in Delhi and within 1 km of the school are eligible to apply. For nursery admission, the applicant should have completed three years of age on March 31; for KG, four years; and for Class-1, five years. Students will be selected through a draw of lots and results will be declared on July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/admissions-for-entry-level-classes-begin-from-june-26/article34942052.ece
24 June 2021||June 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tales of drudgery||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tales-of-drudgery/article34942062.ece
24 June 2021||Nainital,||HC reprimands Uttarakhand govt.||The Uttarakhand High Court on Wednesday reprimanded the State government for the manner in which it was preparing to deal with the possible third wave of COVID-19. “Stop fooling us and tell us the truth. Don’t tell the Chief Justice that there is Ram Rajya in Uttarakhand and that we live in heaven. Show us the ground realities,” the High Court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-reprimands-uttarakhand-govt/article34942070.ece
24 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan digital drive praised||The digital initiatives taken in the field of education in Rajasthan during the pandemic were praised at an innovation summit, in which the experts called for extending the benefits of technology to the students. The State’s high rank in the performance grading index for school education was highlighted at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-digital-drive-praised/article34942067.ece
