26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE optional exams in August||Students of Class 10 and 12 who are not satisfied with their marks assigned under the assessment formula of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will be given a chance to write their examinations in August, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Friday. However, Mr. Nishank cancelled his planned interaction with students, failing to answer their queries on private CBSE candidates, entrance examinations and the current CBSE syllabus. The Minister’s office said he could not directly interact with students as he was still in hospital due to post-COVID complications. The Minister posted a short audio message on Twitter detailing the decision by the Centre to cancel the Class 10 and 12 board examinations due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the tabulation policy which the CBSE is using to calculate the results based on internal marks and scores from previous exams. The board will declare results by July 31. “For those who are not happy with the assessment formula, there is no need to worry. Exams will be conducted for you in August,” Mr. Nishank said. He stressed that the health of the students was the top priority of the government. The CBSE has said that those who choose to write the exams will have to abide by the marks they score, and cannot revert to the assigned marks under its tabulation policy. Mr. Nishank had previously said he would be interacting with students, and invited them to send in questions, concerns, doubts and suggestions via Twitter and Facebook. A number of such queries poured in from students, especially private candidates registered with the CBSE, seeking clarity on their examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbse-optional-exams-in-august/article34982244.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Govt. to review re-introducing Karavali package for paddy||Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil said here on Friday that the State government will review re-introducing the Karavali package for paddy growers in the coastal region. Speaking to presspersons after a meeting, the Minister said that the government had been providing Rs. 7,500 per hectare as an incentive to growers for promoting paddy cultivation in the region. But the scheme was withdrawn later. Meanwhile, the MLAs, who attended the meeting in the office of the Deputy Commissioner here, urged him (the Minister) to re-introduce the scheme. “I will discuss the matter with the department officials in Bengaluru and will later take a decision on re-introducing the scheme,” the Minister said. Mr. Patil said that Dakshina Kannada has 8,000 acres of paddy land left uncultivated. The department will examine whether they can be brought under farming through cooperative model. Minister for Welfare of Backward Classes and in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that about 651 acres of fallow paddy land is being brought under cultivation in the district in this kharif season. Of these, 200 acres each are in Bantwal and Moodbidri Assembly segments, 150 acres in Mangaluru City North Assembly constituency and 51 acres in Puttur Assembly segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-review-re-introducing-karavali-package-for-paddy/article34982538.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Experts look at the way ahead for Tamil Nadu||There has been a slow and steady fall in fresh COVID-19 cases over the past few weeks in Tamil Nadu. As the State gradually gets on track towards normality, experts outline the measures that should be among the focus areas in the coming months. These should include introduction of rapid antigen testing (RAT) for large clusters, genomic surveillance, improving the quality of patient care and ensuring adherence to the safety protocols. The Health Department has planned to increase sero-surveillance across the State, step up genomic sequencing to ensure early detection of new variants of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, and early identification of cases and initiation of the protocol-based treatment at the primary care level, according to a presentation by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Prabhdeep Kaur, Deputy Director of the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology, said, “We need to become self-reliant in oxygen [production], which was a big challenge in the second wave. We need to strengthen hospitals in smaller districts, while overall Intensive Care Unit (ICU)-capacity needs to be improved.” Continuous audit The quality of care needs to be improved, said Jayaprakash Muliyil, epidemiologist and former principal of the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore. “COVID-19 is a painful disease for many, though a large percentage of persons had sub-clinical infections. I think there should be a continuous audit of the quality of care... For instance, in an ICU, there should be constant monitoring whether the correct quantity of oxygen is given and whether the steroid dosage is right,” he said. Is the emergence of new variants a cause for concern? Dr. Kaur pointed out, “We know that the virus is constantly mutating. As it continues to spread, it will continue to mutate. What we have learned is that new variants will keep emerging, for which we need to have surveillance.” Genomic surveillance would be one way, she said. “As of now, 80% of the cases are of the Delta variant and a few cases are of the Delta Plus variant. We need to see if the new variant is replacing the older one. So, we need to test a fixed number of samples every week. We should look for unusual patterns or sudden increases in cases and do genomic sequencing of samples from such clusters.” Dr. Muliyil added that all variants had so far respected immunity. As for the third wave being predicted by some, he explained, “In a place like Chennai, a high percentage of the population has already been infected. A large percentage of susceptible population is required for a wave to occur. There may be clusters, but a wave is unlikely.” T. Jacob John, retired professor of clinical virology, CMC, said a third wave would be very unlikely for epidemiological reasons. “I am not saying do not prepare for any eventuality. The State is already on alert. People should follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, wear masks, keep others at arm’s length and avoid crowding. If a meeting is held indoors, ensure that the place is well- ventilated,” he said. Vaccination should be as fast-paced as it could be, he added. Dr. Kaur said for better containment, rapid antigen testing should be introduced, especially in large clusters, so that immediate testing and isolation could be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/experts-look-at-the-way-ahead-for-state/article34982384.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi CM, deputy attack PM, BJP over oxygen report||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a broadside at Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, said he was making arrangements for oxygen in Delhi when the latter was busy participating in rallies in poll-bound States. His statement came in the backdrop of a report submitted by a Supreme Court-appointed oxygen audit team, which said the Delhi government “exaggerated” its oxygen requirement by four times during the peak days of the second COVID-19 wave. BJP leaders had been attacking the Kejriwal-led government over the report since Friday morning. “My crime – I fought for the lives of 2 crore people of Delhi. When you were doing election rallies, I was awake all night making arrangements for oxygen. I fought, pleaded with people to get oxygen. People have lost their loved ones due to the lack of oxygen. You shouldn’t call them liars, they will feel really bad about it,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a tweet. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who was appointed as the point man for COVID-19 management in the Capital on April 16, denied the existence of the report altogether. “From today [Friday] morning BJP is abusing Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on the basis of a so-called report on oxygen. No such report exists. BJP is lying,” he said in a video statement. “The Supreme Court had formed an oxygen audit committee. We talked to many members of this committee. They all said that they have not signed any such report, they said they have not approved any report. Then which report is this?”  Sisodia’s challenge Mr. Sisodia said BJP leaders are alleging that the “so-called report” states that the oxygen demand in Delhi was inflated by four times. “I challenge you, get the report which has been approved and signed by members of the oxygen audit committee. BJP leaders should be ashamed. They sit in BJP headquarters and make a report and call it the oxygen committee’s report,” he said.  The report, authored by a team led by AIIMS Director Dr. Randeep Guleria, was annexed to an affidavit filed by the Health Ministry in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-cm-deputy-attack-pm-bjp-over-oxygen-report/article34982471.ece
26 June 2021||ONGOLE,||Govt. cancelled exams to comply with NEP: Minister||Education Minister A. Suresh on Friday said that the government had opted for cancellation of the Intermediate and SSC examinations, adhering to the Supreme Court verdict. “It is unfortunate that the TDP is trying to gain political mileage on the issue,” he told the media here. The apex court had wanted that the process of conducting the examinations should be completed by July 31 to comply with the National Education Policy (NEP). Had the NEP been evolved before, the government would have stuck to it in the first place. Maintaining that about 74% of the students wanted conduct of the examinations, he said the government had tried its best to protect the interest of students while taking precautions against COVID-19. “The government had no other option than cancelling the examinations as it is not in a position to complete the process within the deadline set for the purpose,” said Mr. Suresh. “The struggle spearheaded by Nara Lokesh in support of students has paid off,” said Telugu Nadu Students’ Federation Ongole Lok Sabha unit president T. Ravi Teja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-other-option-before-us/article34982215.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC lauds A.P. for scrapping Inter exams||The Supreme Court on Friday lauded the Andhra Pradesh government’s “pragmatic stand” to cancel its Class 12 (Intermediate) exams, saying it will be “very harsh” and “very unpredictable” to expose students to the dangers of the pandemic. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Andhra Pradesh, said the State did not want to do anything that would later “weigh heavy” on its heart, especially when nobody is being held accountable for Kumbh Mela and the West Bengal elections. These two events were reported to be super-spreaders. Appearing before a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, Mr. Dave said he had directly contacted Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy about the “sentiments” expressed by the Supreme Court on the conduct of the exam. Mr. Dave said Mr. Reddy had “gracefully agreed” to cancel the exams as done by other States across the country. “If the entire country is going in one direction, there is no point going in another direction,” Mr. Dave submitted. Court warning On Thursday, the Supreme Court had pulled up the Andhra Pradesh government for its insistence on conducting the exam amid the pandemic. The court had warned that the State would be held responsible even if there was one fatality and even ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 1 crore as compensation. The Bench had asked whether the State was “trying to prove it was different” by holding the exam when young lives were at stake. “You could have taken this stand yesterday… We were pushed to say some things which could have been avoided,” Justice Khanwilkar addressed Mr. Dave and advocate Mahfooz A. Nazki, for the State government. Mr. Dave said the State would form a High-Powered Committee which would consult with experts and decide the internal assessment scheme for evaluating the marks of Class 12 students. The State assured the court that it would adhere to the timelines given by the court. The court had ordered States to finalise their respective assessment schemes in 10 days and declare their results by July 31, in time for University Grants Commission admissions to colleges. Closing the proceedings, Justice Khanwilkar said “all is well that ends well”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-lauds-ap-for-scrapping-class-12-exam/article34982025.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||CM tells DGP to probe ‘custodial death’||Taking a serious note of the death of a Dalit woman while in police custody, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy to inquire into the incident and take stringent action against those found guilty. The police inquiry should bring out the facts and the personnel responsible for the incident should be removed from service if need be, the Chief Minister said. He termed the death of Mariamma, a Dalit woman from Chintakakani of Madhira constituency in Khammam district, as highly painful and said the government would not tolerate such incidents. The Chief Minister asserted that the government would help the son and daughters of the deceased. Mariamma’s son Uday Kiran would be provided a government job and a house along with exgratia of Rs. 15 lakh. He directed the officials concerned to provide ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh each to her two daughters. The DGP was instructed to visit Chintakakani to know first hand about the custodial death and console the family members of the victim. Mr. Rao gave the instructions after interacting with a delegation of Congress MLAs who called on him at Pragati Bhavan and submitted a memorandum seeking justice to Mariamma’s family and action against those responsible for the incident. CLP leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka led the delegation which comprised senior leaders D. Sridhar Babu, K. Rajagopal Reddy, T. Jayaprakash Reddy and TPCC SC cell chairman Pritam. The Chief Minister expressed his anger over the manner in which the police behaved in the incident. He wanted the local Minister P. Ajay Kumar, MP Nama Nageswara Rao and senior officials to accompany the CLP leader to the village on June 28 to meet the affected families. Mr. Rao underscored the need for police department to develop a positive approach towards Dalits and poor. It was painful that such incident occurred in a State where there was qualitative improvement in the law and order situation. The government would not tolerate such incidents and it was firmly against allowing atrocities against n Dalits. “There will be immediate action. Stringent steps will be initiated against those responsible for the custodial death. Officials should not delay the inquiry into the incident and that should be followed by action in accordance with law,” the Chief Minister said directing the DGP to take necessary steps with immediate effect. Ministers Mohd. Mahmood Ali and Vemula Prashanth Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar, Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-tells-dgp-to-probe-custodial-death/article34982575.ece
26 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||Structures in unauthorised residential layout cleared||Officials of the Hubballi -Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) carried out a demolition drive under police cover in an unauthorised residential layout that had come up on Kalghatgi Road on the outskirts of Dharwad on Friday. Using earthmovers, the authorities, with the help of workers, removed illegal structures and boundary stones installed in a 13-acre unauthorised layout that had come up at Rajeev Gandhi Nagar on Kalghatgi Road near Someshwar Temple on the outskirts of Dharwad. The demolition drive was carried out based on information about the layout that it was developed without any requisite permissions from the competent authorities. Chairman of HDUDA Nagesh Kalburgi told presspersons that the authority had served notice to land owners thrice and as there was no response from them, the drive was carried out. During the drive, drains, temporary roads and electricity poles were razed. Mr. Kalburgi said that because of the COVID-19-induced lockdown, HDUDA had temporarily suspended the drive against unauthorised layouts. And, now with the lockdown restrictions being relaxed, it had resumed the drive. He said that gullible people hoping to construct their own houses were being duped by such developers. He said that the authorities had warned the land owners against developing the illegal layout and they had failed to respond to notice. The objective of the drive is to send a strong message to those cheating people promising sites that are developed without any permissions. “I will also appeal to the people to think twice before investing in such unauthorised layouts. They should get documents checked thoroughly by consulting legal experts before purchasing any residential plots,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/structures-in-unauthorised-residential-layout-cleared/article34982536.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala University courses attracting global students||The COVID-19 pandemic has done little to lessen the interest among foreign students for the courses offered by the University of Kerala. As many as 1,042 students from 35 countries, including 550 from Afghanistan, have applied through the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) for various undergraduate (UG), postgraduate (PG), MPhil and PhD programmes. Preferred destination The university, which has been striving to position itself as a preferred destination for higher education among students from developing countries, hopes to enhance its global image by absorbing as many applicants as possible. According to Sabu Joseph, director of the university’s Centre for Global Academics which handles international students’ affairs, the number of applications is possibly the highest in the university’s history. Last year, the university had approved admissions for 105 students, of which 20 joined various courses. The count would be higher this year, he said. Besides Afghanistan, there were applications from Bangladesh, Nepal, Syria, Iraq and various African countries, including Uganda, Botswana and Kenya. The university received one application from the United States for a UG programme. There were 611 applications for various PG programmes, including 170 for MBA alone. Foreign students have also shown interest in pursuing Master’s in Computer Science, Political Science, Public Administration, Economics, English, Sociology, MCom, MCA, Mathematics and Environmental Science. 283 applications As many as 283 applications have been received for UG courses. There were also 148 applications submitted for PhD in 25 subjects such as Management Studies, Political Science, Computer Science, Chemistry, Sociology, English and Education. The university has recommended admitting 70 applicants among the PhD aspirants. Mr. Joseph said that while those who gained admissions would be given priority in the hostel facilities on the university’s Karyavattom campus, efforts were on to establish a separate hostel for foreign students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-university-courses-attracting-global-students/article34982738.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Third COVID-19 wave unlikely to be as severe as second’||A potential third wave of COVID-19 would unlikely be as severe as the second wave, as per a modelling study by a team of scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Imperial College London, U.K. For it to be as devastating, at least 30% of the population that had been infected earlier must entirely lose their immunity, or an emerging variant of the virus must have a reproductive rate (R) over 4.5, and these must occur almost immediately after the second wave ends. The authors, who include Balram Bhargava, Director-General, ICMR, and Samiran Panda, Head, Infectious Disease Unit, ICMR, suggest that these scenarios are implausible. “...For a virus to cause a major third wave in the face of this pre-existing immunity, extreme scenarios for the abrogation of that immunity are required, or for that matter, for the transmission fitness of any novel virus,” they report in their article that appears in the in-house Indian Journal of Medical Research as a pre-print. The scientists modelled a potential third wave under several scenarios: a complete loss of immunity from previous waves; emergence of a variant that was more infectious and capable of thwarting immunity than the ones observed; the impact of moving out of lockdowns; and the role of a highly infectious variant in case of a certain percentage of people getting vaccinated. Expanding vaccination Results showed that under all these situations, the peak infections remained much lower than in the second wave, unless the R rate exceeded 4.5, or those previously susceptible exceeded 30%. The emergence of a third wave could be buffered by expanding vaccination, they say. The authors calculate that were vaccines rolled out in a way to cover 40% of the population with two doses over a period of three months following the end of the second wave, it could reduce symptomatic incidence by around 55%. Less than 20% of Indians have received at least one dose of the vaccine and only 4% are fully vaccinated. The Centre proposes to vaccinate all adults — about 94.4 crore — by the end of 2021. However, Dr. Panda told The Hindu that while several factors needed to converge for a third wave as devastating as the second, complacency in observing safety could be dangerous. This is the first time that the ICMR’s scientists have attempted a formal forecast of a future wave. In spite of several modelling experts, no group estimated or warned of the severity of the second wave that saw new infections rise to nearly 400,000 a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-covid-19-wave-unlikely-to-be-as-severe-as-second/article34982468.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala ‘excess deaths’ 1.6 times official toll||After registering a lower number of deaths overall in 2020 compared to 2019, Kerala witnessed a significant increase in the overall death count due to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021, resulting in an estimated 15,222 “excess deaths” till May 31, month-wise data from the Civil Registration System show. The overall “excess deaths” for the period April 2020-May 2021 were 13,868, which is 1.6 times more than the official COVID-19 death toll of 8,816 during this period. Not all excess deaths will be related to COVID-19, but a bulk of them will be during the pandemic. Kerala’s estimated undercount factor of 1.6 is lower than what The Hindu estimated for Karnataka (5.8) and Tamil Nadu (6.2) for the same period. The undercount factor for 2021 alone (2.7) is also much lower than that of Karnataka (4.7), Tamil Nadu (6.5), Andhra Pradesh (33.8) and Madhya Pradesh (42.3). It is also the same as the World Health Organization estimate for the Americas and Europe in 2020 — 1.6 times the recorded COVID-19 death toll. The “excess deaths” were estimated by calculating the difference between the overall death count registered each month during the pandemic years and the average death tally in the pre-pandemic years (2015-2019).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-excess-deaths-16-times-official-toll/article34982248.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Public notices issued for cutting 2,340 trees for KIA metro link||The proposed Namma Metro link to Kempegowda International Airport will be built at a huge environmental cost and loss of Bengaluru’s green cover. Of the estimated 4,400 trees that will ultimately have to make way for the 58 km line, the tree officer has issued public notices for the removal of 2,340 trees on two stretches. As per the notices seeking objections from the public issued by the Deputy Conservator of Forest, who is also the tree officer, 1,507 trees have been identified for removal on one stretch, and the remaining 833 on another stretch. The public have ten days to file objections. Environmentalists and citizen activists are up in arms over the loss of green cover. As per the notice issued, 1,507 trees will be removed to build the metro line between the proposed Kasturinagar and Kempapura stations on Outer Ring Road. The distance between the two stations is 10 km and is a part of the phase II B of Namma Metro from K.R. Puram to KIA. On this stretch, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. has proposed to build stations at Kasturinagar, Horamavu, HRBR Layout, Kalyan Nagar, HBR Layout, Nagawara, Veerannapalya and Kempapura. The trees are mostly located on the median of the road required for building elevated line, and for entry and exit points of the stations. On the second stretch for which a public notice was issued, 833 trees have been identified for removal along the proposed elevated line between Central Silk Board and Kadubeesanahalli. This is part of Phase II A metro line from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram. The trees identified for removal include akash mallige, rain trees, honge, gulmohar, dali chandra, subabul and kadamba, among others. More may face the axe In the coming days, the tree officer is likely to issue public notices for the removal of trees on the remaining stretches. These include the stretch from Hebbal to Trumpet flyover as well as the construction of a depot. The ORR-Airport line is estimated to cost Rs. 14,788 crore. The tender has been already awarded for the construction of the elevated corridor from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram in two packages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/public-notices-issued-for-cutting-2340-trees-for-kia-metro-link/article34982293.ece
26 June 2021||Kolkata,||This Kalighat artist’s characters live in modern world||Bhaskar Chitrakar, 42, claims to be the last of the Kalighat painters, the community that originated in the 19th century around the Kali temple of Kalighat: “If you show me one more person in my neighbourhood engaged in the art, I will give up my profession”. He could be right, for modern Kalighat paintings shown off by popular online stores invariably bear his signature. “Art is not everybody’s cup of tea. One needs to be interested in art in order to learn art. I love my art more than I loved my parents,” Mr. Chitrakar, who lives in a modest home in the neighbourhood of Patua Para — close to the Kalighat temple as well as to the residence of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee — tells The Hindu . The central figures of a Kalighat painting are usually the Bengali babu and bibi (mostly depicted in comical situations) and the various Hindu gods and goddesses. “Traditionally, there have been political depictions too, but I try to keep away from politics because I happen to be living too close to the residence of a political figure,” says Mr. Chitrakar. But he more than makes up for the lack of political depictions with other contemporary issues — such as COVID-19. He has made about half-a-dozen paintings related to the pandemic so far. One of them shows Lord Shiva, clad in traditional Bengali attire, thrusting his trident into the virus. Another shows Goddess Kali targeting the virus (also clad in traditional Bengali attire) with light emerging from her third eye. Yet another shows a mask-wearing babu fleeing the virus. Even though the attire of his characters is always traditional, their lifestyle depicted is often modern. For example, there is a babu surrounded by Twitter birds; and there are also several depictions of the babu and bibi clicking selfies. One of his creations include his version of the Statue of Liberty, resembling a Hindu goddess, one half of her face white and the other black. This painting, created in response to the Black Lives Matter movement in America, was immediately purchased by an Indian collector living in Minneapolis. “My art is my response to contemporary events; I guess that is what art is all about. I read the newspaper every morning and that’s where I get most of my ideas,” says Mr. Chitrakar, who studied up to Class VII and was, for some time, fascinated by idol-making before he learned Kalighat-style painting from his grandfather and father. “I am a fourth-generation artist, and I am also the last,” he says. Mr. Chitrakar makes eight to 10 paintings a month — each takes about four days to complete — and a majority of his buyers happen to be Indians living abroad. When asked how exactly he feels when he finds his works being sold online for prices higher than he might have sold them for, he says: “I am not in this profession for money. I feel good that my work is selling because of the internet. I consider myself fortunate.” And when asked how easy it is for him to think of ideas in these uncertain times, when there was very little news other than those related to COVID-19, Mr. Chitrakar replies: “As long as there is the newspaper, I will get my ideas. And as for COVID-19, do you think it is going to last forever? One day, everything is going to be fine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/this-kalighat-artists-characters-live-in-modern-world/article34982711.ece
26 June 2021||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),||Officials sound alert as the flood level in the Godavari rises||With the flood level rising in the Godavari, the officials sounded an alert on Friday and shifted many tribal families residing in Polavaram and Velerupadu mandals to safer places. The rise in the flood level was attributed to overflowing rivulets as a result of rains in the catchment areas and stagnation of water due to closure of the coffer dam. A few families trekked up the nearby hilly areas to protect themselves from the floods. “The water level is increasing due to complete closure of the coffer dam,” they said. River bunds were being strengthened by placing sand bags to prevent breaching. District Collector Kartikeya Misra and SP K. Narayan Naik were monitoring the situation. “As of now, there is no flood threat,” Mr. Kartikeya Misra told The Hindu . K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer Y.V. Prasanna Lakshmi and Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Latha Kumari visited some of the affected areas. “As the water is stagnating in the river, we have cautioned the villagers. The VROs, the ITDA officials and police personnel are camping in the villages and monitoring the situation,” said Ms. Latha Kumari. It is feared that communication to 19 villages will be affected if the water level rises further and overflows from the Kothuru causeway. The overflowing Yedla Vaagu is a cause for concern for the tribal people at Yedlapalli. Ration stocks “The GCC is maintaining ration stocks in the depots enough for three months. Officials have distributed PDS rice, sugar, oil, dal, and vegetables to the affected families,” Ms. Lakshmi said. Authorities released 19,000 cusecs into the canals downstream for agriculture purpose, the ITDA Project Officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribals-in-ap-shifted-as-level-in-godavari-rises/article34982214.ece
26 June 2021||MADURAI,||Cultivating paddy, with all help from machines||The faculty members of Agricultural College and Research Institute in Madurai are cultivating paddy with complete mechanisation on 100 acres on the college premises with an aim to create awareness of mechanised rice cultivation among farmers. The project, taken up under the guidance of Dean V.K. Paulpandi, involves machines right from raising nurseries to harvesting the crop. Head of the Department of Agronomy R. Durai Singh is leading the project. Explaining the functions of the machines used by them, he said reversible mould board plough was used for summer ploughing which ensured that nutrients found under surface soil were brought to the top layer. Duck-foot cultivators were used for tilling the field and pulverising the soil before sowing. Tractor-drawn laser leveller levelled the field with accuracy. “This is widely used in Punjab and Haryana. In paddy cultivation, it is important to maintain water level. This can be achieved only if the entire field is of uniform level,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . Bund trimming of the field was important to maintain water level in the field. However, there was labour shortage to perform this task. “But, bund-trimming machines help to trim and plaster the bunds of the field. This also prevents any possible crop damage by rodents,” he added. Pre-germinated seeds could be placed inside a paddy drum seeder for sowing. Once the seedlings were ready, the six-row rice transplanter could be used for transplantation. “This helps to maintain proper distance between each plant and row. Around 20 combinations are achievable with the machine,” said Mr. Singh. Weeding was one of the most labour-intensive and highly expensive tasks. “Power weeders are faster and cost-effective,” he added. In recent years, most farmers were opting for machine harvesting of paddy crop. The mechanised cultivation helped farmers get higher yields, said Mr. Singh. “Usually young seedlings ensure higher yield. But, agricultural workers cannot plant them, and this can be achieved through machines,” he said. Complete mechanisation was also cost-effective and helped in water conservation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cultivating-paddy-with-all-help-from-machines/article34982761.ece
26 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||First NDA Cabinet in Puducherry to be sworn in on Sunday||The first NDA government in the Union Territory of Puducherry, led by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, is set to be sworn in on Sunday after the list of the Council of Ministers received the Presidential assent on Friday. The Cabinet will have A. Namassivayam and Sai Saravanan Kumar of the BJP and K. Lakshminarayanan, S. Chandira Priyanga and ‘Theni’ C. Djeacoumar of the All-India N.R. Congress. Gazette order issued Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar issued a gazette order republishing a notification from Govind Mohan, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, declaring the Presidential assent for the appointment of the five nominees as Ministers from the date of their swearing in. The swearing-in has been scheduled for 2.30 p.m. A make-shift pavilion is being put up to host the function in front of Raj Nivas. Mr. Rangasamy submitted the list to Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on June 23. As per procedure, the Lt. Governor forwarded it to the Ministry of Home Affairs to obtain ratification from the President. Apart from being the first NDA government in Puducherry, a largely Congress bastion which the AINRC-BJP-AIADMK alliance breached in the April 6 election, there are a few other stand-out aspects to Mr. Rangasamy’s Cabinet. It marks a record fourth stint as Chief Minister for Mr. Rangasamy, accommodates a woman after a gap of four decades, and strikes a balance between long-time loyalists and turncoats. Longest delay On the flip side, the swearing-in of the Cabinet on June 27, due to the differences over power-sharing between the BJP and the AINRC and the hospitalisation of the Chief Minister for COVID-19 treatment, also marks the longest delay of over seven weeks in constituting a Ministry since the declaration of results (on May 2). Mr. Rangasamy will preside over the government in his fourth stint as Chief Minister. He was a Congress Chief Minister during 2001-2006 and 2006-08. When he was ousted mid-term in 2008, he floated a break-away party and romped home in the 2011 election to return to the top post. By picking Ms. Chandira Priyanga, the legislator from Nedungadu (SC) in Karaikal, Mr. Rangasamy has made a calibrated choice that restores gender representation to the Cabinet after over 40 years and accommodates a voice for the Karaikal region in governance The daughter of the late M. Chandirakasu, veteran politician and former Agriculture Minister in the 2011 Rangasamy government, Ms. Chandira Priyanga is the first woman to sit at the high table of governance after the late Renuka Appadurai, the Congress leader who was the Education Minister in the 1980 DMK-Congress government. She is also the first woman from the Scheduled Castes in the Cabinet. A balancing act The composition of the Cabinet also represents a balancing of experience and new energy, newly arrived defectors and long-time party loyalists. A. Namassivayam, who as PWD Minister was also second-in-command in the previous Congress government led by V. Narayanasamy before moving to the BJP, K. Lakshminarayanan, five-time Congress legislator and former Education Minister before he switched to the AINRC, and Mr. Djeacoumar, a former Local Administration Minister, bring vast experience to the table. Mr. Saravanan Kumar, who is a first-timer, has been rewarded for his long game in building the BJP’s base in Oussudu (SC) — incidentally, he was also the only BJP leader not to lose his deposit when the party contested all 30 seats in 2016. In 2021, the BJP begins an innings in the governance-legislative domain of the Union Territory with the Speakership, two Ministers, six elected legislators and three nominated MLAs, a clear two decades after its candidate A.M. Krishnamurthy became an MLA in 2001.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-nda-cabinet-to-be-sworn-in-on-sunday-in-puducherry/article34982392.ece
26 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Television serial cast and crew heave a sigh of relief||Vinod Kovoor heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday when Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced during his daily briefing that the shoot of television serials could now be resumed. Actors and others associated with the television industry had become jobless when the shoot of television programmes had to stopped because of the State-wide lockdown induced by the spurt in COVID-19 cases. For an industry that gives livelihoods to thousands, a longer lockdown would have been disastrous. “I am looking forward to facing the camera once again,” says Vinod, who is one of the main actors in the popular comedy show Marimayam on Mazhavil Manorama. “All my colleagues are relieved and happy that we can return to work.” Main income For most of the cast and crew of Marimayam , he says, the show has been the main source of income for the last 10 years. “We joke that the payment from Marimayam is our monthly salary,” he says. “We have five days of shoot every month. Everything else, such as stage shows, we do is a bonus.” There has hardly been any show for artistes like Vinod for over a year, now. While he is eagerly waiting for the shoot of Marimayam to begin, some other serials are already back on the floor. The shoot of Santhwanam resumed in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. Its producer M. Renjith said he could not have afforded a further delay. “We were all waiting for the relaxation of the lockdown guidelines,” he says. “Making serials is a business that gives low margin to the producer; so it is imperative that we need to work on a regular basis.” Means of entertainment Renjith adds that on a given day about 40 Malayalam serials are shot. “So one can imagine how many lives depend on them,” he says. “Serials are also the main source of entertainment in most households. Many people ask me when Swanthanam will be back on air.” Their wait will end on July 5, when the latest episode will be screened on Asianet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/television-serial-cast-crew-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/article34982672.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,||Ex-member of DYFI involved in Karipur gold case, says accused||A Malappuram native who was arrested in connection with the Karipur gold smuggling case has given a statement before the Customs Department stating the role played by Arjun Ayanki, a former member of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), and others involved in it. Mohammed Shafeeque Melathil, who was held for smuggling 2.3 kg of gold worth Rs. 1.11 crore concealed in a coffee-maker on arrival from Dubai on June 21, said the gold seized from him was arranged through a man named Saleem. As directed by Saleem, two men approached him in Dubai and handed over a carton and a trolley bag containing the coffee-maker in which the gold cylinder was concealed, said the petition submitted by the Superintendent of Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate before the Ernakulam Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offence) on Friday, seeking custody of Shafeeque for 10 days. Shafeeque told the Customs that he was introduced to Saleem by a man identified as Mohammed, who in turn was introduced to him by Arjun. The accused admitted that he was offered Rs. 40,000 and an air ticket to Karipur for the smuggling act, according to the petition. Customs notice The Customs said the accused had connections with interstate smuggling rackets. The Customs has issued a notice to Arjun to appear for questioning on June 28. Five Palakkad natives were killed at Ramanattukara in a suspected case of car chase involving two smuggling rackets connected to the case. Since the accident, Arjun had switched off his phone and gone into hiding. He later posted on Facebook that he would cooperate with the investigation.  (With inputs from Kasaragod bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-dyfi-member-involved-in-gold-case-says-accused/article34982673.ece
26 June 2021||MADURAI,||Alarming that none booked three years after police firing: HC||“It is somewhat alarming that the State through its police fired at unarmed protesters and no one is booked some three years after the incident,” the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed on Friday on the Thoothukudi police firing incident, in which 13 anti-Sterlite protesters were killed in May 2018. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam observed, “It may not augur well for a civilised society governed by the constitutional principles that we have to merely throw money at the families of the victims [as compensation] and give closure to an incident of possible brutality and excessive police action.” The court made the remark while hearing a petition filed by advocate Henri Tiphagne who sought a direction to the National Human Rights Commission to reopen the case and furnish the report of the investigation team of the NHRC. The judges directed submission of the NHRC’s report and Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission’s interim report. The court took note of the fact that the NHRC had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident based on news reports that the victims’ Right to Life was grossly violated. The Commission’s initial observation referred to the police having resorted to firing on unarmed protesters without following the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). A team of NHRC’s investigation division conducted a spot inquiry and submitted its report. The Judicial Commission was set up to conduct an inquiry into the cause and the circumstances leading to the incident. The NHRC had taken note of the fact that compensation was being provided to the victims’ families and Thoothukudi district administration was taking adequate steps to restore normalcy. The Commission closed its proceedings considering these aspects and also the fact that the Judicial Commission was conducting an inquiry. During the course of the hearing, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted that the Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission submitted an interim report to the government on May 14, 2021. The petitioner said the interim report was submitted only after the government sought it. The court observed that there were two aspects. One was the riot and the State remedied the nuisance. But the greater aspect was why there was a riot and what was the punishment deserved for doing it. The court orally remarked, “Can we kill people and throw money at them and say our job is done? Is that the society that we want to build ? Just throwing money at some people and everything is hushed up.” Issuing notice to the NHRC and the State, the court said the State’s stand must be clearly spelt out in the counter affidavit. The NHRC could submit the report in a sealed cover if it felt that it was delicate at the moment, the judges said. Given that the matter was of importance, the Chief Justice said it would be taken up at the Principal Seat in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alarming-that-none-booked-three-years-after-police-firing-hc/article34982757.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IT Minister slams Twitter for blocking his account, taking ‘arbitrary’ action||Microblogging platform Twitter on Friday briefly blocked the account of Union Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad after receiving a complaint for violation of U.S. copyright law. After his account was unblocked, Mr. Prasad lashed out at Twitter, accusing it of violating the new Information and Technology Rules by not giving him prior notice of the action, and of taking “high-handed and arbitrary” action against those who do not suit its agenda. Mr. Prasad said his account was blocked for almost an hour. He shared a screenshot of Twitter’s notice which said that it had received “a compliant Digital Millennium Copyright Act notice for content posted on your account”, and warned that “accruing multiple DMCA strikes could lead to a suspension of your account”. The incident comes in the midst of a tussle between the Central government and Twitter over the company’s failure to comply with the new IT Act Rules which came into effect a month ago. Last week, the Uttar Pradesh Police filed an FIR against Twitter for the circulation of videos related to an attack in Ghaziabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-minister-slams-twitter-for-blocking-his-account-taking-arbitrary-action/article34982469.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Shopping complexes, malls to open in Chennai, neighbouring districts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday announced several relaxations even while extending the COVID-19 lockdown till 6 a.m. of July 5. Shopping complexes and malls will reopen in Chennai and surrounding districts (category 3) and intra- and inter-district bus transport will resume in 23 districts (category 2) from Monday. Additional relaxations have been offered in 11 districts in western and central Tamil Nadu, where a stricter lockdown is in force because of a higher infection rate. In Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, private offices can function with 100% workers, and shopping complexes and malls can function between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. Clothing and jewellery shops will be allowed to function without air-conditioning and with 50% of customer capacity between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. Eateries and shopping complexes and malls will be allowed to offer only takeaways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shopping-complexes-malls-to-open-in-chennai-neighbouring-districts/article34982346.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IT Minister slams Twitter for blocking his account||Microblogging platform Twitter on Friday briefly blocked the account of Union Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad after receiving a complaint for violation of U.S. copyright law. After his account was unblocked, Mr. Prasad lashed out at Twitter, accusing it of violating the new Information and Technology Rules by not giving him prior notice of the action, and of taking “high-handed and arbitrary” action against those who do not suit its agenda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-minister-slams-twitter-for-blocking-his-account/article34982246.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUPATI,||Delta Plus variant surfaces in Tirupati||The first case of a Delta Plus variant surfacing in Tirupati has sent shock waves among the medical fraternity as well as the general public. The sample belonging to a 56-year-old man was reported at SVR Ruia Government General Hospital and when sent for random analysis, was confirmed as ‘Delta Plus’ by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad. Though the incident was not in public domain when the patient was admitted for treatment, the announcement by Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Friday brought focus on the issue. According to Ruia sources, the patient was normal during diagnosis and was cured without any complications. On their part, the authorities carried out contact tracing and enhanced surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delta-plus-variant-surfaces-in-tirupati/article34982242.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan to remain on FATF greylist||Pakistan was retained on the greylist, or the list of countries under “increased monitoring”, by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), as the Paris-based UN watchdog judged it deficient in prosecuting the top leadership of UN Security Council-designated terror groups, including Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e Mohammad, Al Qaeda and Taliban. Announcing the decision at the end of its latest plenary session held virtually from June 21-25, the FATF said despite completing 26 of the 27 tasks it had been handed, Pakistan’s failure to complete the last task on convicting terrorists and terror entities meant it would not be delisted for now. In addition, the FATF handed down another six-point list of tasks, mainly on money laundering actions. “The FATF encourages Pakistan to continue to make progress to address as soon as possible the one remaining Countering Finance of Terrorism-related item by demonstrating that Terror Financing investigations and prosecutions target senior leaders and commanders of UN-designated terrorist groups,” the FATF president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakistan-to-remain-on-fatf-greylist/article34982249.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready for action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-for-action/article34982759.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||On cloud nine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-cloud-nine/article34982582.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||ED raids five places linked to Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted searches on five premises linked to former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur in connection with a money laundering case. The premises of Mr. Deshmukh’s chartered accountant was also searched. His private secretary was later taken to the ED’s Mumbai office for questioning. In April, the CBI had carried out searches in Mumbai and Nagpur after registering a corruption case against Mr. Deshmukh and others. The case alleges attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-raids-five-places-linked-to-deshmukh/article34982466.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready to serve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-serve/article34982475.ece
26 June 2021||KALABURAGI,||Agriculture staff go on mass leave||Staff of the Agriculture Department in Bidar went on mass leave and staged a protest outside the office building against Joint Director of Agriculture, Bidar, G.H. Taramani. The employees, including Assistant Directors of Agriculture of various taluks and Agriculture Officers, went on mass casual leave and gathered in front of the Agriculture Office and raised slogans against their Joint Director, demanding that she be immediately transferred. Assistant Director for Agriculture Humnabad taluk Mallikarjun held Ms. Taramani responsible for the shortage of soyabean seeds in the district. Kalyana Karnataka Agriculture Officers Association president Shivakumar Hugge said that the office worked smoothly under different Joint Directors who were posted to Bidar earlier. The officer demands employees to arrive earlier than office time and work till 8 p.m. She also threatened employees with transfers and is making adverse remarks in their service records. Mr. Hugge said, “If the government failed to transfer Ms. Taramani from Bidar immediately, the staff of Agriculture Department across the Kalyana Karnataka region will boycott duty.” Department employees across the region were asked to wear black ribbons to work on Friday as a sign of protest against the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/agriculture-staff-go-on-mass-leave/article34982534.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready to serve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-serve/article34982790.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Marriage halls to open from Monday||Further easing the COVID-19 restrictions, the State government on Friday decided to allow wedding ceremonies in choultries, halls, hotels, and resorts from Monday, not involving more than 40 people. As per the notification issued, those organising marriages should obtain prior permission from the concerned local authority, Joint Commissioner of the BBMP Zone in case of Bengaluru, or the concerned tahsildar at the taluks. The officer is to issue only 40 passes per marriage by name of attendees. Only people with passes will be allowed to attend the function and passes are not be transferable. Adhering to COVID-19 guidelines is mandatory, said the release issued by Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/marriage-halls-to-open-from-monday/article34982287.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. to attach Baig’s assets||After being repeatedly hauled up by the High Court of Karnataka, the State government has finally decided to attach both movable and immovable properties of former minister R. Roshan Baig in connection with IMA scam. It has now asked the Commissioners of BBMP and the Deputy Commissioners of Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts to provide the details of Mr. Baig’s property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-attach-baigs-assets/article34982288.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready to serve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-serve/article34982714.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||In a new role||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-a-new-role/article34982740.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,||CM convenes all-party meet on Dalit project||Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao has convened a meeting of all political parties to discuss about the implementation of Chief Minister's Dalit Empowerment programme to be launched in the State. The Chief Minister extended invitation to MPs, MLAs and MLCs, irrespective of political affiliations, to attend the day-long meeting on Sunday. In addition to elected representatives hailing from Dalit communities, floor leaders of MIM, Congress and the BJP have been invited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-convenes-all-party-meet-on-dalit-project/article34982577.ece
26 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||Protesting farmers back at Ghazipur border||Farmers have once again started assembling at the Ghaziapur border in large numbers to protest against the contentious farm laws as the number of COVID-19 cases dipped in western Uttar Pradesh. On Friday, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Naresh Tikait led a tractor rally from Saharanpur via Muzaffarnagar and Meerut to Ghazipur border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protesting-farmers-back-at-ghazipur-border/article34982473.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Former councillor murder case cracked||The police on Friday cracked the murder of former city councillor Rekha Kadiresh, who was hacked to death outside her office at Cottonpet on Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-councillor-murder-case-cracked/article34982290.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Tourism places in State to be opened next week||All tourism places in Karnataka, which are closed owing to the pandemic, will be opened for visitors from next week. Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar on Friday said the tourism sector had suffered a lot, and with number of cases declining, it was decided that spots could be opened for the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tourism-places-in-state-to-be-opened-next-week/article34982291.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,||IAC will be commissioned next year: Rajnath||The first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) being built at the Cochin Shipyard will join the naval fleet next year, coinciding with the 75th year of India’s Independence, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Friday after reviewing the progress of its construction. He said in a statement, after visiting the aircraft carrier at the Cochin Port Trust, that the combat capability, reach and versatility of the IAC would add formidable capabilities in India’s defence and help secure its interests in the maritime domain. On his Karwar visit on Thursday to review Project Seabird, the largest upcoming naval base, he said it would provide the facilities and infrastructure to support the Navy’s operations in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) and beyond. “Our impetus on modernisation, harnessing India's indigenous industry and know-how, is a key priority. That 42 of the 44 warships on order are being built at Indian shipyards is a testimony to this. The IAC boasts nearly 75% indigenous content, from design, to steel used in construction, to key weapons and sensors,” he said. The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) recently approved requests for proposals (RFP) of Project 75-I [for the construction of another line of diesel-electric submarines] under the strategic partnership model, which he said would give a fillip to indigenous development of niche manufacturing technologies. The Navy, he added, remained poised and combat-ready to tackle any challenge. Its proactive forward deployment during the Galwan standoff signalled India’s intent that though it sought peace, it was ready for any eventuality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iac-will-be-commissioned-next-year-rajnath/article34981966.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||ED raids 5 places linked to Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted searches on five premises linked to former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur in connection with a money laundering case. The premises of Mr. Deshmukh’s chartered accountant was also searched. His private secretary was later taken to the ED’s Mumbai office for questioning. In April, the CBI carried out searches in Mumbai and Nagpur after registering a corruption case against Mr. Deshmukh and others. The case — alleging attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty — was instituted following a preliminary inquiry initiated on the directions of the Bombay High Court on April 5. An inquiry revealed that now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze had been reinstated into the police force after being out of service for over 15 years. He was entrusted with most of the important cases of the Mumbai City Police and the then Home Minister was in the know of these facts, as alleged by the CBI. Param Bir Singh’s charge A petition of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in the High Court also alleged that the then Home Minister and others exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of police officers. Earlier, it was alleged that some police officers had been told to collect Rs. 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Mr. Deshmukh, who has refuted the charges, had resigned from the post following the High Court order for a CBI inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-raids-5-places-linked-to-deshmukh/article34981990.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||India records nearly 50 Delta Plus variant cases||India has so far reported almost 50 cases of the Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2, with Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu leading with the maximum number of cases, the Union Health Ministry said at a press conference on Friday. Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said in India, COVID-19 ‘variants of concerns’ were found to be distributed in 174 districts in 35 States. The highest numbers were reported from districts in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat. “Variants of Concerns with public health importance detected in community samples in India include Alpha [3,969], Beta [149], Gamma [1] and B.1.617, Delta and Kappa were detected in 16,238 samples,” said Dr. Singh. High proportion The proportion of cases with ‘variants of concerns’ had risen from 10.31% in May 2021 to 51% on June 20, 2021.  Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, said in the last couple of months, the first variant of concern was the one announced by the U.K., where it was identified. “Subsequently, we now have four of these, which the World Health Organization has called Alpha, Beta, Gamma & Delta. “Delta is the one that was identified in India,’’ she noted. Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Balram Bhargava, warned that India was still not out of the second wave of the pandemic. The reason why SARS-CoV-2 mutated includes random error during replication, immune pressure after treatments (Convalescent Plasma, Vaccination etc), and uninterrupted transmission due to lack of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, which allowed the virus to transmit more and acquire fitness, Dr. Bhargava pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-nearly-50-delta-plus-variant-cases/article34982014.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||India, China plan 12th round of talks on Ladakh stand-off||Agreeing on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, India and China on Friday agreed to hold the 12th round of military commander talks at an early date to achieve “complete disengagement” from “all the friction points” along the LAC in the Western Sector. This was agreed at the 22nd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs held virtually. “In this regard, the two sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through the diplomatic and military mechanisms to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points so as to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity to enable progress in the bilateral relations,” a statement from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. They also agreed that in the interim, the two sides will continue to ensure stability on the ground and “prevent any untoward incident”, the MEA said in a reference to the violent clash at Galwan valley last June. The Indian delegation was led by Additional Secretary, East Asia, from the MEA, while the Chinese delegation was led by the Director General of the Boundary and Oceanic Department of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A statement by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said that the two sides agreed to “consolidate the achievements” of the disengagement of border troops from both sides and “properly resolve the remaining issues” along the western section of the Sino-Indian border. “The two sides will continue to work to promote further de-escalation of the border situation, avoid any recurrence of the situation on the ground and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area,” the MFA statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-plan-12th-round-of-talks-on-ladakh-stand-off/article34981987.ece
26 June 2021||Mumbai,||Study links air pollution to COVID-19 cases and deaths||A first-of-its-kind pan India study says Mumbai and Pune are among hotspots where high air pollution from the transport and industrial sectors is related to a higher number of COVID-19 cases and deaths. The study is titled ‘Establishing a link between fine particulate matter (PM2.5) zones and COVID-19 over India based on anthropogenic emission sources and air quality data’. The study was conducted by Dr. Saroj Kumar Sahu and Poonam Mangaraj from Utkal University, Bhubaneswar; Gufran Beig, senior scientist, and Suvarna Tikle, scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology-Pune; Bhishma Tyagi, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela; and V. Vinoj, Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar. In the study, COVID-19 cases were observed from March to November 2020, while national PM2.5 emissions load was estimated from the base year 2019. Of 16 cities across 36 States, Mumbai and Pune were evaluated in Maharashtra. “Our findings suggest a significant correlation between district level air pollution data and COVID-19 cases. We found that regions using huge amounts of fossil fuels such as petrol, diesel and coal by combustion in transport and industrial activities also experience a far higher number of COVID-19 cases,” said Dr. Sahu, adding, “Maharashtra recorded the second highest emission load in India — 828.3 gigagram per year (Gg/Yr) of PM2.5 — based on the National Emission Inventory developed by us. Uttar Pradesh had the highest.” Among the 16 cities captured in the study, Mumbai and Pune recorded the third- and fourth-highest number of “bad air quality days”, respectively. Delhi and Ahmedabad stood first and second, respectively. “Through our analysis, it has become clear that the rising pollution load is a catalyst in aggravating COVID-19 cases,” Dr. Sahu said. He added that polluted hotspots are also triggering long-term effects, and more studies are needed to understand this better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/study-links-air-pollution-to-covid-19-cases-and-deaths/article34982010.ece
26 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Congress flays Haryana govt. for ‘anti-farmer’ decision||The Congress leaders on Friday said the Haryana government’s decision to increase the market fee and rural development fee on paddy had yet again revealed the “anti-farmer” attitude of the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party coalition. The party’s national general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala has demanded immediate withdrawal of the decision. He said the government’s move is a short sighted decision. “The farmers will be compelled either to sell off their crops in the neighbouring States or to traders at a lower price,” he said. Mr. Surjewala said, on one hand the government insists that the grain markets are not being abolished, but on the other hand such decisions in the name of reducing the losses of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board were clearly indicative of its intention to eliminate mandis and “push the farm business to big private players”. The Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, said after inflation, recession and the massive increase in petrol and diesel prices, the government had placed another burden on the farmers. “The fee is much higher as compared to the neighbouring States. Traders would prefer to do business in other States instead of in Haryana and this would lead to a direct loss to the market system and farmers of the State,” he said. Congress State president Kumari Selja said the decision would hit the farmers badly. She said even the rice traders would suffer a big blow. Such decisions make it evident that the State government was not concerned with securing the interests of anyone, she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-flays-haryana-for-anti-farmer-decision/article34982532.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Publishers give details under ethics code||Information and Broadcasting Ministry Joint Secretary Vikram Sahay said on Friday that over 1,500 publishers had so far submitted information in the formats prescribed under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The formats were released on May 26. “Several bodies/associations have sent communication regarding constitution of self-regulating body,” he said at a virtual interactive meeting organised by the Press Information Bureau (South Zone), Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, in association with the Film Federation of India. The session on Digital Media Ethics Code-2021 was attended by representatives of various digital media and film associations. Mr. Sahay said although many forms did not have details about self-regulating bodies, the publishers should nevertheless furnish the rest of the basic details. The bodies would come up in due course. The publishers could come together at the State or regional level to form such bodies headed by persons of eminence, if not retired Supreme Court/High Court judges, he said. Several entities in Kerala, Patna and Jammu & Kashmir had already expressed interest in forming small bodies. He clarified that digital media platforms that were part of traditional media outlets were not required to join a separate self-regulating body. “The concern is only one that once you are a news publisher, you are expected to adhere to the Code of Ethics. Anyone can get into this profession... there is no pre-registration, no prior permission required,” he said. The Joint Secretary said anyone who was into a casual enterprise of placing some news on intermediary platforms, or putting out non-news contents, was not a publisher. Such a person was required only to adhere to the due diligence part under the intermediary platform framework. The Code of Ethics for online news publishers essentially covers the norms of journalistic conduct under the Press Council Act, Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Rules), and non-transmission of prohibited contents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/publishers-give-details-under-ethics-code/article34981969.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||India ‘politicising’ FATF process: Pakistan||Pakistan’s Energy Minister Hammad Azhar on Friday accused India of attempting to “politicise the process” at the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), after the Paris-based UN watchdog decided to retain Pakistan on its greylist of countries under “increased monitoring”. “Whether [India] admits it or not, everyone at FATF knows that India’s goal is to make the technical forum a political one [by targeting] Pakistan. This is something we have raised with FATF officials in Paris as well,” he said. The MEA did not respond to Mr. Azhar’s accusation, but has in the past, dismissed all such charges. Confident of relief In the weeks leading up to the FATF plenary, Pakistan had been fairly confident of being let off the greylist during the June 21-25 plenary session. During the FATF proceedings, Pakistan is believed to have provided documentation that it has prosecuted around 30 UNSC designated terrorists and their associates, charging them in 70 terror financing cases, of which convictions were granted in about 50 cases. Unlike the next level “blacklist”, greylisting carries no legal sanctions, but it attracts economic strictures and restricts a country’s access to international loans. Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi had estimated a loss of $10 billion annually to the economy for every year Pakistan has been on the greylist. He had said earlier this week that there was “no justification” for retaining Pakistan on the list, now that it had been adjudged compliant on 26 of 27 points. However, when asked on Friday whether Pakistan was treated fairly, given it had only one outstanding task, FATF President Marcus Pleyer was firm about the decision. “Our rules and procedures are very clear, all deficiencies must be addressed,” he said, adding that the FATF “treats all countries equally”. Mr. Azhar, who has been overseeing the FATF process, said the new combined action list of seven points was “relatively less challenging” than the previous 27-point list as it focusses largely on money laundering and that he was hopeful that Pakistan would be found compliant “within a year”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-politicising-fatf-process-pakistan/article34981981.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||President and First Lady embark on special train ride||President Ram Nath Kovind, accompanied by First Lady Savita Devi Kovind, boarded a special train from the Safdarjung railway station on Friday to travel to his native place Kanpur. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Chairman of the Railway Board Suneet Sharma were present at the station to see him off. “President Kovind boards a special Presidential train from Safdarjung railway station to Kanpur. The train will make two stop-overs, at Jhinjhak and Rura of Kanpur Dehat, and will reach Kanpur Central in the evening,” the official handle of the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted. The two stops have been organised to facilitate Mr. Kovind’s interaction with his old acquaintances from his schooldays, a statement from Rashtrapati Bhavan said. “On June 28, the President will board the train at Kanpur Central railway station to reach Lucknow for his two-day visit to the State capital. On June 29, he will a return to New Delhi on a special flight,” a statement said. After a gap of 15 years, Mr. Kovind has revived the tradition of the Head of State travelling in a presidential saloon. The last time an incumbent President used a presidential saloon was in 2006 when A.P.J Abdul Kalam travelled from Delhi to Dehradun to attend a passing out parade of cadets at the Indian Military Academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-and-first-lady-embark-on-special-train-ride/article34981999.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC allows Mamata, Minister to file fresh affidavits in Narada case||The Supreme Court on Friday annulled a Calcutta High Court order of June 9 refusing to consider the affidavits filed by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Law Minister Moloy Ghatak and the State government countering allegations about their role on the day of the arrest of four TMC leaders by the CBI in the Narada sting tape case. A Vacation Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari allowed Ms. Banerjee, Mr. Ghatak and the government to apply to the High Court again for permission to file their affidavits. It requested the High Court to consider their applications afresh on June 29, the next date of hearing. It asked the High Court to consider their applications first before going further into the merits of the case. The Supreme Court did not get into the merits of the case, but went to the extent of opining that the petitioners (Ms. Banerjee, Mr. Ghatak and government) ought to have first applied to the High Court, urging it to take their counter-affidavits on record, “especially when the arguments were going on [in the Narada case] and had progressed substantially”.  The CBI had objected to the filing of counter affidavits by the petitioners and argued that the High Court’s June 9 order was fully justified. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had argued that the petitioners had “fully participated” in the hearings and they had “waived their right” to file their replies. Senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Vikas Singh, for the petitioners, said the High Court, instead of refusing the affidavits, should have taken them on record in the normal course of the hearings. Mr. Singh said the CBI did not have to file an application before submitting its affidavits. Mr. Dwivedi said the affidavits were “essential” to the case and provided the truth about the events of May 17, day of arrest of four TMC leaders. The separate plea by Ms. Banerjee in the Supreme Court contended that the CBI was trying to malign the State Ministers without any proof to substantiate its allegations against them. She said it was essential to allow her to file an affidavit to counter the agency’s claims that she “terrorised” them by protesting outside their office. Mr. Dwivedi countered the CBI’s claims that Mr. Ghatak was present in the courtroom with a mob when the four TMC leaders were produced after their arrest. He said the Minister was in an official meeting at the time. Even CBI officials were not present at the spot as the hearing was held virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-allows-mamata-minister-to-file-fresh-affidavits-in-narada-case/article34981973.ece
26 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||274 people in Odisha study found COVID-19-positive after two jabs||The Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar, an Indian Council of Medical Research institute, has examined 274 persons infected with COVID-19 two weeks after receiving two doses of the vaccines. From March 1 to June 10, nasopharyngeal swab and serum samples of vaccinated individuals were collected from various healthcare facilities in Odisha and sent to RMRC. Individuals who tested positive in RT-PCR test 14 days after taking both doses of either Covaxin or Covishield were considered breakthrough cases. 361 samples A total of 361 samples of vaccinated individuals were referred to RMRC. All the 361 samples were found positive in RT-PCR test, but 87 were excluded as they were either not fully vaccinated or had not completed 14 days after the second dose. “Out of the 274 samples with confirmed breakthrough infection, 35 (12.8%) had received Covaxin and 239 (87.2%) received Covishield,” said RMRC in its report. Meanwhile, the State reported its first case of the Delta Plus variant from the Deogarh district on Friday. “Contact tracing of the infected person will be carried out diligently,” said C.B.K. Mohanty, Director of Medical Education and Training, Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/274-people-in-odisha-study-found-covid-19-positive-after-two-jabs/article34982012.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Third wave may not be as severe as second’||A potential third wave of COVID-19 would unlikely be as severe as the second wave, as per a modelling study by a team of scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Imperial College London, U.K. For it to be as devastating, at least 30% of the population who had been infected earlier must entirely lose their immunity, or an emerging variant of the virus must have a reproductive rate (R) over 4.5, and these must occur almost immediately after the second wave ends. The authors, who include Balram Bhargava, Director-General, ICMR, and Samiran Panda, Head, Infectious Disease Unit, ICMR, suggest that these scenarios are implausible. “...For a virus to cause a major third wave in the face of this pre-existing immunity, extreme scenarios for the abrogation of that immunity are required, or for that matter, for the transmission fitness of any novel virus,” they report in their article that appears in the in-house Indian Journal of Medical Research as a pre-print. The scientists modelled a potential third wave under several scenarios: a complete loss of immunity from previous waves; emergence of a variant that was more infectious and capable of thwarting immunity than the ones observed; the impact of moving out of lockdowns; and the role of a highly infectious variant in case of a certain percentage of people getting vaccinated. Expanding vaccination Results showed that under all these situations, the peak infections remained much lower than in the second wave, unless the R rate exceeded 4.5, or those previously susceptible exceeded 30%. The emergence of a third wave could be buffered by expanding vaccination, they say. The authors calculate that were vaccines rolled out in a way to cover 40% of the population with two doses over a period of three months following the end of the second wave, it could reduce symptomatic incidence by around 55%.  However, Dr. Panda told The Hindu that while several factors needed to converge for a third wave as devastating as the second, complacency in observing safety could be dangerous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/third-wave-may-not-be-as-severe-as-second/article34982015.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.P. ranked best under Smart Cities Mission||Uttar Pradesh was on Friday ranked the best State, and Indore and Surat were jointly named the best cities by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry for their work under the Smart Cities Mission. At a virtual event to mark the sixth anniversary of the launch of the Smart Cities Mission, the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U), the Ministry announced that Uttar Pradesh had been ranked one, Madhya Pradesh was second and Tamil Nadu third in the India Smart Cities Awards 2020. The Ministry said in a statement that 22% in terms of the total value of the projects proposed and 52% in terms of the total number of projects proposed by the 100 Smart Cities had been completed so far. “It is also noteworthy that the average monthly expenditure in the Smart Cities Mission has almost doubled in the last year,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-ranked-best-under-smart-cities-mission/article34981968.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,||Carrier will be the Navy’s most potent platform||The first indigenous carrier (IAC) is expected to have its maiden entry into the sea for a series of trials before September this year, and delivery to the Navy is slated for early 2022. Basin trials of the vessel being built by Cochin Shipyard were completed in November 2020, but travel restrictions put the brakes on its preparations for sea trials. The vessel, to be named Vikrant after the decommissioned maiden carrier of the Navy, will have an air component of 30 aircraft, comprising MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 airborne early warning helicopters and the soon-to-be-inducted MH-60R multi-role helicopter, besides the indigenous Advanced Light Helicopters. With an overall length of 263 metre and a breadth of 63 metre, it is the largest vessel made in India and carries a price tag of about Rs. 20,000 crore. The towering vessel has a total of 15 decks and a displacement of 40,000 tonnes. It is expected to have a top speed of 30 knots (approximately 55 kmph) and is propelled by four gas turbines. The shipborne weapons include Barak LR SAM and AK-630, while it has MFSTAR and RAN-40L 3D radars as sensors. The vessel has a Shakti EW Suite.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/carrier-will-be-the-navys-most-potent-platform/article34981971.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||CBSE optional exams in August, says Minister||Aspirants of professional entrance examinations such as JEE and NEET also wanted to know if and when their examinations would be held. The engineering entrance test JEE-Main is held four times a year, but two sessions scheduled for April and May had been suspended because of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The undergraduate medical entrance test NEET is scheduled to be held on August 1 as of now. There is also uncertainty regarding the Central Universities Common Entrance Test, with questions being raised whether it will apply to all central institutions this year, including those like the University of Delhi and the Jawaharlal Nehru University which have previously used Class 12 marks or their own entrance tests for admissions. Current students of Class 10 and 12 have raised queries regarding the syllabus for 2021-22, seeking clarity on whether the 30% reduction announced last year would continue, given that teaching and learning is still being disrupted by school closures due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-optional-exams-in-august-says-minister/article34981974.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||IT Minister slams Twitter for blocking his account||The incident comes in the midst of a tussle between the Centre and Twitter over the company’s failure to comply with the new IT Act Rules, which came into effect a month ago. Mr. Prasad said his account was blocked for almost an hour. He shared a screenshot of Twitter’s notice which said that it had received “a compliant Digital Millennium Copyright Act notice for content posted on your account”, and warned that “accruing multiple DMCA strikes could lead to a suspension of your account”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-minister-slams-twitter-for-blocking-his-account/article34981975.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala ‘excess deaths’ 1.6 times official toll||If instead of averages, a year-by-year growth rate of deaths is considered from 2015 to 2021, the 3,03,313 registered deaths in the State were still lower than the estimated 3,12,664 deaths between April 2020 and May 2021. Yet, as registrations for recent months are not fully complete, we utilised the averages method for better approximation. Among districts, while Thiruvananthapuram registered the most COVID-19 deaths (1,745), the estimated excess deaths for the pandemic period was lower (941). Kannur (2,149), Palakkad (1,762) and Malappuram (1,634) recorded the highest number of excess deaths, with undercount factors 3.5, 2.9 and 2.4 respectively. Idukki (5.1) and Kasaragod (4.8) also recorded high undercounts but had fewer excess deaths (316 and 724 respectively). Kozhikode and Pathanamthitta also register fewer excess deaths than the actual COVID-19 tally. Rajan Khobragade, Principal Secretary (Health), Kerala, told The Hindu , “Since March-April 2020, we have followed a system where deaths occurring will be reported in the medical bulletin. Those who died after testing positive had been counted and reported. A State-level death audit committee looked at all deaths due to communicable diseases and accordingly the reports were updated. We may be the only State doing this properly by a multi disciplinary team of doctors.” The State government had taken into account concerns about possible omission of deaths due to COVID-19, especially in some cases where patients recovered from COVID-19, tested negative and then died due to health complications. Since June 15, following criticism about the manner in which Kerala was reporting COVID-19 deaths, the State government has introduced an online, real time COVID-19 death reporting system, wherein all deaths would be entered directly by doctors onto the WHO’s reporting format. The medical bulletins would be checked, the deaths compiled and the count released by districts. A reconciliation of the death figures in June with 3,766 COVID-19 deaths having been registered till date, could also reduce the undercount factor for the year as more data come in. Arun N.M., a consultant in Internal Medicine in Palakkad and one who has been closely studying the State’s COVID deaths, however, said, “It is too early to calculate excess deaths because even the deaths which occurred in 2020 are still being registered.” He added, “Kerala definitely fares well in comparison to other States because most COVID deaths happen in hospitals and our testing and case detection has been very good.” A Technical Paper released by the Department of Health & Family Welfare in March 2021 pointed to the fact that in 2020, despite the first wave, there was “a 5.5% reduction in absolute number of deaths in 2020 when compared to 2019. When converted to crude death rates it was 7. 5/1,000 population in 2019 and ..only 7.2 per 1,000 population in 2020”. It attributed this reduction to “preventive and curative health services” by the department. The lockdowns also contributed to a reduction in deaths due to fewer road traffic accidents, respiratory illnesses and food/water borne illnesses as people stayed indoors.   (With inputs from C. Maya in Thiruvananthapuram and data support from Sumant Sen)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-excess-deaths-16-times-official-toll/article34981983.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||DRDO tests enhanced range Pinaka rocket||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Friday successfully test fired the enhanced range versions of the indigenously developed 122 mm calibre rocket as well as the extended range version of indigenously developed Pinaka rocket from a Multi-Barrel Rocket Launcher (MBRL) at integrated test range, Chandipur in Odisha. “Four enhanced range version of 122mm rockets were test fired with full instrumentation and they met the complete mission objectives. These rockets have been developed for Army applications and can destroy targets up to 40 km,” a DRDO statement said. This enhanced rocket system would replace the existing 122mm Grad rockets. In a second statement, the DRDO said that 25 enhanced Pinaka rockets were launched in quick succession against targets at different ranges on June 24 and 25. “The enhanced range version of Pinaka rocket system can destroy targets at distances up to 45 kms,” it stated. Both the Pinaka and the 122 mm rockets were developed by Pune-based Armament Research and Development Establishment and High Energy Materials Research Laboratory with manufacturing support from Economic Explosives Limited, Nagpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-tests-enhanced-range-pinaka-rocket/article34981985.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||OFB federations threaten to go on indefinite strike||The three main recognised federations of defence civilian employees of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) have threatened to go on an indefinite strike against the Union Cabinet decision to split the organisation into seven corporate entities. They have jointly written a letter to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Secretary Defence Production Raj Kumar protesting against the “arbitrary, one-sided and biased decision” in violation of all the previous written agreements and assurances, and demanded it be withdrawn. “It is astonishing that when negotiations are pending, conciliation process is inconclusive, in the absence of the federations in the conciliation meeting held on June 15, 2021, the government has taken a hurried decision to corporatise the OFB into seven entities,” the federations said in the letter dated June 23. On June 16, the Cabinet approved the corporatisation plan to turn the OFB, which has 41 factories, into seven fully government-owned corporate entities for better management and improvement of efficiency. The letter stated that the Secretary DP had agreed to arrange a meeting with the Empowered Group of Ministers (EGoM) formed to oversee the corporatisation to discuss about the alternate proposals given by the federations. “It is a clear case of betrayal by the government, because Secretary, DP himself has asked the federations to give a viable alternate and robust proposal to MoD which would be submitted to the EGOM for a discussion with the federations, so that OFB could achieve the higher expectations of its customers, being in the government set up itself,” it said. The federations said that the entire process to corporatise the OFB is “stage-managed, hasty and taken in a hurried manner, without any application of mind about the impact of this decision on the defence preparedness of our country and also about the future and service conditions of 76,000 employees”. The letter noted that employees were recruited as Central government employees, and as per Article 309 of the Constitution, there was no mention in their appointment letters that their status would be changed during the service period and would have to work in Corporation or Public Sector Undertakings (PSU). The federations, as well as three other associations, have called for a joint meeting on June 27.  The decision is stage-managed, hasty and taken in a hurried manner Letter from OFB federations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ofb-federations-threaten-to-go-on-indefinite-strike/article34981988.ece
26 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Third body of trapped coal miner retrieved||Rescue workers on Friday afternoon retrieved the third body of the miners trapped in a coal mine in Meghalaya’s East Jaintia Hills district since June 30. The body of the first miner was fished out by a team of Navy personnel on June 16 and the second on June 24. The trapped miners were among a dozen workers who were operating illegally in a 500 ft deep rat-hole coal mine at Krem Ule in the district’s Umpleng area. District Deputy Commissioner Ethelbert Kharmalki said an inquest was conducted by an executive magistrate at the spot and the body was later transported to the civil hospital in district headquarters Khliehriat for post mortem. “We have informed the relatives of the victims from Cachar, Barpeta and Kamrup districts in Assam and North Tripura district through their respective Superintendent of Police to identify the retrieved bodies,” he said. No one has come forward to identify the bodies, he added. The Navy team is being assisted by the personnel of the National Disaster Response Force, the State Disaster Response Force and the local police. Officials said intermittent heavy showers and the tendency of interconnected mines to fill up with water have been hampering the operations to retrieve the bodies. The police had arrested the former and current owners of the Krem Ule mine. Both are out on bail while the contractor of labourers has been absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/third-body-of-trapped-coal-miner-retrieved/article34982530.ece
26 June 2021||Srinagar,||Afghan exit by U.S. may bring infiltrators: Army||The Army on Friday said the U.S. pull-out from Afghanistan this year may result in some militants moving into Kashmir. “Whatever happened 30 years ago has caused a huge distress to the people of Kashmir. Yes, there is a possibility that the U.S. forces’ pull-out from Afghanistan may push some militants into Kashmir, but the situation is not what it was 30 years ago,” General officer Commanding (GoC), 15 Corps, Lieutenant General D.P. Pandey, said on the sidelines of a passing out parade of a JAKLI regimental in Srinagar. Lt. Gen. Pandey said the Army was ready and fully geared to foil all infiltrations and face every challenge, whether on the Line of Control (LoC) or the hinterland. There had been zero infiltration this year. “Launch pads, however, are active,” he added. “A ceasefire or not, the Army’s eyes are set on our enemy. We are ready to face any misadventure. We are ready to respond at every level effectively,” he noted. ‘Balance of forces’ On the situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, he stated, “Given the Chinese situation on the LAC, a balance of forces is being maintained.” On Thursday, the GoC said all the parameters of violence in Kashmir have come down by 50% and the situation was very good with stability across the Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghan-exit-by-us-may-bring-infiltrators-army/article34981994.ece
26 June 2021||Mumbai,||SIT to probe fake camps for vaccination in Mumbai||After reports of fake COVID-19 vaccination camps being held in the city, the Mumbai Police on Friday said that it has formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the racket. A total of six instances in the city have been identified where fake vaccination drives were conducted and saw the attendance of more than 1,500 people. The racket came to light on June 17 after a camp at a residential complex in Kandivli, where many residents complained of not receiving vaccination certificates. “A Special Investigation Team under Deputy Commissioner of Police Vishal Thakur has been constituted,” said a Mumbai Police official. The other vaccination drives under a shadow were held at Aditya College, Borivali (225 vaccinations); Manasi Shares & Stock, Shimpoli, Borivali (514 vaccinations); Poddar Education Centre, Parel (207 vaccinations); Tips Company, Andheri (151 vaccinations), Tips Company, Khar (206 vaccinations) and Bank of Baroda, Malad (40 vaccinations). The police have arrested 10 individuals, including Shivraj Paratia and Nita Shivraj Pataria of Shivam Hospital, as the alleged fake vaccines were provided through this hospital to the society in Kandivli. Mahendra Singh, Sanjay Gupta and Karim Akbarali were arrested for organising the camp at Kandivli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sit-to-probe-fake-camps-for-vaccination-in-mumbai/article34982011.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Delhi govt. exaggerated oxygen needs by 4 times’||A report submitted by a Supreme Court-appointed oxygen audit team led by AIIMS Director Dr. Randeep Guleria said the Delhi government “exaggerated” its oxygen needs by four times during the peak days of the second wave of the pandemic. But the report also quoted the Delhi government’s version that the supply of oxygen from neighbouring States was “erratic and unreliable” at the time. The report is annexed with an affidavit filed by the Union Health Ministry in the Supreme Court. The Sub-group on Oxygen Audit Delhi, led by Dr. Guleria, recorded in its interim report that there was “gross discrepancy” in claims of oxygen consumption in Delhi. “There was gross discrepancy [about four times] in that the actual oxygen consumption claimed [1140 MT] was about four times higher than the calculated consumption based on the formula for bed capacity [289 MT],” the report said. However, the sub-group referred to the Delhi government’s version that the schedule for the supply of oxygen was awry during May. Delhi had required adequate liquid medical oxygen stock to treat COVID-19 patients. It had to replenish its oxygen supply and avoid an “SOS situation which the State had witnessed after April 24 on a consistent basis”. At one point, the report recorded, the Centre was “anguished” over the discrepancy in liquid medical oxygen data uploaded. The report said it was not clear “on what basis an allocation of 700 MT was sought by the Government of Delhi in the Supreme Court when the collected data had so many gross errors and it took an oxygen audit to point out the same”. On May 5, the court ordered the Centre to prepare a “comprehensive plan” for the supply of 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi on a daily basis.  But the sub-group report noted that the “Government of Delhi used a wrong formula and made exaggerated claims on April 30” in the court. “Some hospitals could not differentiate between KL and MT and the same was not examined while projecting 700 MT,” the report said. It was “obvious there was an excess supply of oxygen to Delhi … Tankers in Delhi could not offload oxygen and were lying idle as oxygen tanks in various hospitals were completely filled”, it said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-govt-exaggerated-oxygen-needs-by-4-times/article34982018.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra reports first fatality from Delta Plus||An 80-year-old patient from Ratnagiri district in the Konkan region became Maharashtra’s first fatality due to the Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus, Health Minister Rajesh Tope confirmed on Friday. District officials said the deceased, who was from Sangameshwar taluk, was also suffering from other age-related comorbidities. Mr. Tope said of the 21 Delta plus patients identified thus far in seven districts across Maharashtra, only one had succumbed to the infection; the others were stable and some had been discharged. However, urging people to observe COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, the Health Minister ruled out suggestions for an immediate stringent lockdown. “The Delta variant is not new … with one death, the remaining 20 cases are being closely monitored by authorities. While there are not a large number of patients at present, we are collecting more samples in each of the 36 districts and the National Center for Disease Control is assisting the State government in this,” he said. He observed that the proportion of the cases in which the Delta plus variants were detected was barely 0.005%. “So, while the Delta plus type has not yet grown significantly and not an immediate matter of concern, the variant’s properties are serious,” Mr. Tope said. The most cases have been found in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai, and one each in Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-reports-first-fatality-from-delta-plus/article34982023.ece
26 June 2021||Kolkata,||NHRC teams visit areas hit by post-poll violence||Officials of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) have started visiting areas in north and south Bengal affected by violence after the Assembly polls. Two separate teams arrived in the State on Thursday. On Friday one team visited Cooch Behar in north Bengal, while the other travelled to Harao and Sandeshkhali in North 24 Parganas. The members of the team spoke to villagers in these two affected areas. A five-judge Bench of the Calcutta High Court headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on June 18 urged the chairperson of NHRC to set up a committee to look into allegations of post-poll violence while hearing a writ petition on the issue. In its order, the court had asked the Committee to suggest “steps to be taken to ensure confidence of the people that they can peacefully live in their houses and also carry on their occupation or business to earn their livelihood” and point out “persons prima facie responsible for crime and the officers who maintained calculated silence on the issue”. The State government’s request to the high court to recall the order was turned down on June 21. On the same day the NHRC set up a committee led by Rajiv Jain, member of Commission, National Commission for Minorities vice-chairman Atif Rasheed, NHRC’s (director) investigation Santosh Mehra, and DIG (investigation) Manzil Saini. Raju Mukherjee, member secretary West Bengal State Legal Services Authority, and Pradip Kumar Panja, registrar of West Bengal Human Rights Commission, are also part of the committee. It is expected to visit South 24 Parganas and Birbhum, which reported incidents of post-poll violence. Earlier, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited Cooch Behar and Nandigram. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has maintained that “ stray incidents” of violence occurred before her government was sworn in and the administration was under the Election Commission.  Point out persons prima facie responsible for crime and the officers who maintained calculated silence on the issue Calcutta High Court order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-teams-visit-areas-hit-by-post-poll-violence/article34981978.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra tightens curbs||Amid concerns of the spread of the new Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus, the Maharashtra government on Friday issued new orders tightening curbs by imposing three levels of unlocking norms as opposed to the previous five levels which are to be applied to across the State. The first two levels, which permitted maximum relaxations for districts and cities have been removed till further orders, as per the notification issued by State Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. The new orders follow soon after the State reported the country’s first fatality of the new variant, an 80-year-old man who succumbed to the virus in Ratnagiri district. “Given that the virus causing COVID-19 is undergoing mutations in various geographies and that these mutations are displaying more transmissibility and potential reductions in monoclonal antibody response, a State Level Trigger mandating all the administrative units, irrespective of values of the indices of weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage to remain at a level not below 3 is to be in operation till withdrawn by the specific order of the State Disaster Management Authority,” reads the order. As per the new order, districts or municipal corporations with a weekly positivity rate of between 5-10% or oxygen bed occupancy over 40% will now be classified under level 3. In this category, shops selling essentials can stay open till 4 p.m. on all days and those selling non-essentials are allowed to operate only on weekdays. Malls and theatres will remain shut in these areas while section 144 of the CrPC will be in force and public movement after 5 p.m. must be minimal. Gyms, saloons will be open only till 4 p.m. with appointments and air-conditioners will not be allowed to run inside the premises. Restaurants can stay open till 4 p.m. only on weekdays with only takeaways permitted thereafter. Construction activities will be allowed with 50% staff. The order directs district authorities to make attempts to achieve at least 70% of the eligible population at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-tightens-curbs/article34982719.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ineffable ways of Devi||The stories in the Devi Bhagavata Purana illustrate how many have propitiated the excellent Goddess Devi and have been recipients of Her boundless grace. She is the Supreme, Parama Shakti who is the cause of creation and of all beings including the Trimurtis. In her Supreme State she is the Nirguna Shakti. She is not the object of jnana, but is the very essence of jnana and hence beyond the reach of even great yogis. But She is also manifest as Saguna Shakti, when it is possible for many of us to worship and serve her with full meditation and involvement. That is why many devout souls have become enlightened through Her grace, explains Vyasa to Janamejaya when he relates the story of one Sudarsana, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. In the case of Sudarsana, though he is the heir apparent of the kingdom of Kosala, circumstances had forced him to suffer exile even when he was a child. But he had the good fortune to obtain the powerful Kama Bija Mantra of Devi. Though he was not aware of its power and the method of meditation, he began to chant it with devotion. In course of time, when he lived with the rishis in their hermitage, he was initiated into the proper way of Devi upasana that led him towards the highest form of bhakti, Parama bhakti, believed to confer Darsana of the Goddess to the aspirant. So, when a situation arose in his life and he had to face his enemies, Devi personally intervened and fought on his behalf, killed them and bestowed the kingdom to him. Devi also is Maya Shakti that deludes people and immerses them in the ocean of samsara infected with crocodiles of lust, anger, greed, etc. But She alone is the boat to lead them out of this mess if only they worship her with devotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ineffable-ways-of-devi/article34982001.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul meets former Punjab PCC chief||The Congress leadership continued to seek feedback from Punjab leaders to end the bitter factionalism, with former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi meeting Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo on Friday. Mr. Dullo, a former PCC president, has been a long-time critic of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Dullo seemed critical of former Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu as well without naming him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-meets-former-punjab-pcc-chief/article34981977.ece
26 June 2021||Srinagar,||Militant killed in Shopian operation||One militant was killed and another surrendered in an anti-militancy operation in south Kashmir’s Shopian on Friday. Security forces also foiled an infiltration in north Kashmir’s Tangdhar the same day. A police spokesman said the encounter occurred in Hanjipora village of Kachdoora hamlet in Shopian. The operation, carried out jointly by the police, the Army’s 34 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF against some hiding militants, apparently followed a tip-off. The police did not identify the slain militant. “A terrorist of the Lashkar-e-Taiba surrendered along with an AK-56 rifle,” the police said. The police said an infiltration bid was stopped in Kupwara. “The Kupwara police, along with the Army’s 7RR and Border Security Forces’ 87 Battalion, foiled an infiltration bid at Tangdhar area,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militant-killed-in-shopian-operation/article34981997.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||Pawar flags ‘misuse’ of central agency||Hitting out at the Enforcement Directorate raids on senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh’s Mumbai and Nagpur residences, party chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said the sole objective of the investigations was to harass Mr. Deshmukh. “It is out of despair and frustration that the ED was set upon Mr. Deshmukh… This misuse of central agencies is a new pattern of the BJP-ruled Centre. Even prior to this, central agencies had their eye on businesses owned by Mr. Deshmukh’s son. At that time, too, they failed to unearth anything. Anil Deshmukh is not the first to face such action. So, we are not unduly worried by all this,” said Mr. Pawar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawar-flags-misuse-of-central-agency/article34982000.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NTF calls for 100 MT storage in metro cities||All 18 metro cities have to be made oxygen-independent, with at least 100 MT storage in each of them, the Supreme Court-appointed National Task Force (NTF) recommended. There should be a strategy to manufacture oxygen locally or in the neighbourhood of big cities to fulfil at least 50% of their Liquid Medical Oxygen demand as road transportation is vulnerable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ntf-calls-for-100-mt-storage-in-metro-cities/article34982019.ece
26 June 2021||Kolkata,||In Kolkata, antibiotic given as jab||Kolkata officials alleged that at several camps, instead of COVID-19 vaccine, people were administered Amikacin, an antibiotic. Medical teams have been sent to assess such people. Apart from the fake centre at Kasba, which was busted after Trinamool Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty raised an alarm earlier this week, two other centres have surfaced — City College in north Kolkata and Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas — where the accused, Debanjan Deb, vaccinated a few hundred people. Officials of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) have over the past two days sent medical teams to the areas to assess those who got jabs at these camps. Investigation has revealed that Mr. Deb posed as a Joint Commissioner of the KMC and defrauded people for several months. He not only forged documents of the KMC but also opened a fake account of the civic body. He was actively engaged in making transactions with medical suppliers. The 28-year-old is the son of a retired bureaucrat and his photographs with several leaders, including senior functionaries of the Indian Medical Association, have surfaced. Businessmen and those engaged as his staff said they did not suspect any wrongdoing as Mr. Deb had the necessary documents. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari has demanded a probe by a central investigation agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-kolkata-antibiotic-given-as-jab/article34982022.ece
26 June 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya sets condition for opening shops||Shopkeepers, vendors and passenger vehicle operators in Meghalaya can opt out of COVID-19 vaccination to resume business. But they will need to undergo tests every 10 days for the safety of others. The East Khasi Hills district administration issued an order directing the staff members of shops, business establishments and drivers to get tested periodically if they choose not to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-sets-condition-for-opening-shops/article34982491.ece
26 June 2021||Balrampur,||6 of family drown as car plunges into pond in U.P.||Six members of a family drowned after their car overturned and fell into a pond on Balrampur-Tulsipur road on Friday, police said. The car overturned while trying to save a motorcyclist, who was also injured in the mishap and referred to a hospital in Gonda town, police said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-of-family-drown-as-car-plunges-into-pond-in-up/article34982481.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||NIA files charge sheet against 7 suspected terrorists in J&K||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet against seven alleged Tehreek-ul- Mujahideen (TuM) terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. The accused have been identified as Mohammed Mustafa Khan, Yaseen, Farooq, Ibrar, Javid Khan, Sher Ali and Rafiq Nai. The case was initially registered in Poonch after the arrest of Mohammed Mustafa Khan and alleged seizure of six hand grenades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-7-suspected-terrorists-in-jk/article34981991.ece
26 June 2021||Lucknow,||News portal The Wire, journalist booked in U.P.||An FIR was lodged against news portal The Wire in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly spreading false information that religious scriptures of a particular community were thrown into a river and drain following the demolition of a mosque by the administration in Barabanki. The FIR was lodged over a documentary by the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/news-portal-the-wire-journalist-booked-in-up/article34981992.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC declines to stay release of film based on Sushant||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to stay the release of movie Nyay: The Justice , purportedly based on the late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, in cinema halls and on OTT platforms, saying there is no “unholy interest” in the story of the man’s life which was “exceptional”.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-declines-to-stay-release-of-film-based-on-sushant/article34981996.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||SII manufacturing first batch of Covovax COVID-19 vaccine, says Poonawalla||The first batch of Covovax, a COVID-19 vaccine developed by Novavax Inc, is being manufactured at the Serum Institute of India’s Pune facility, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Friday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-manufacturing-first-batch-of-covovax-covid-19-vaccine-says-poonawalla/article34982008.ece
26 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Kimin row: FIR against Arunachal CM||A youth organisation in Arunachal Pradesh lodged an FIR against Chief Minister Pema Khandu over the Kimin row. The All Arunachal Pradesh Abo Tani Students’ Union said in the FIR that Mr. Khandu connived with the BRO authority “to cede the Kimin-Potin portion of Arunachal Pradesh to Assam”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kimin-row-fir-against-arunachal-cm/article34982016.ece
26 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam home guard who refused bribe to be made constable||Borsing Bey, an Assam home guard who refused to take bribe from drug dealers and helped the police recover high-grade crystal methamphetamine worth Rs. 12 crore, would be appointed as a constable. The Himanta Biswa Sarma Cabinet took the decision on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-home-guard-who-refused-bribe-to-be-made-constable/article34982020.ece
26 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19 scare causes egret chicks’ deaths in Assam’s Tangla||A complaint over a “theory” that bird droppings spread COVID-19 led to the death of scores of egret chicks in Udalguri district of Assam. A notice was issued to five persons of Ward Number 1asking them to cut down their bamboo groves, where the egrets nested. It says: “Your neighbours have complained that the egrets nesting on your bamboo groves are destroying the environment with their urine and droppings. This can spread corona infection too. You are thereby asked to cut down the bamboo groves for a cleaner, healthier surrounding.” On Friday, a team was sent to chop the groves at a person’s land. But the nests came crashing down, killing about 300 chicks, said locals. Locals said the chicks died before wildlife activists could bring the gravity of the municipal board’s action to the notice of the district authorities. A severe crime “Destroying of habitat and nests of birds are treated as severe crime under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. If bird droppings threaten public health, then the Tangla Municipality Board should regularly clean the ground instead of threatening the landowners, who did not invite the birds. The birds are not pets either,” Dilwar Hussain, member of central Assam’s Laokhowa Burhachapori Wildlife Conservation Society in central Assam’s Nagaon district, wrote in an email to the Udalguri authorities. “Let the municipal board make alternative arrangements and serve notice to the birds to vacate the municipality area,” he said. Udalguri Deputy Commissioner P. Uday Praveen said he had asked the municipal authorities to stop hewing down any more trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-scare-causes-egret-chicks-deaths-in-assams-tangla/article34982021.ece
26 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||SI held for sexually assaulting minor girl||A sub-inspector of police has been arrested and remanded for sexual assaulting a 15-year-old girl in Madhavaram. The mother and aunt of the victim have also been arrested. Police identified the offender as Sathish Kumar, 37, a resident of Tiruvallur. He was working in a special team attached to the Kasimedu police station. During the period, he had been working in the Madhavaram Milk Depot area and had become acquainted with the victim’s 37-year-old mother while he was regulating crowds in a ration shop. He later visited her house frequently and started an illicit relationship. The girl found out about the relationship and threatened to disclose it to her father. However, Sathish allegedly kept her under control by threatening to kill her father and brother. The relationship continued for a year and during this time, the sub-inspector started making sexual advances towards the girl. Sathish managed to convince her mother and aunt to force the girl to agree to his demands. He tried to lure her with a birthday cake and a high-end mobile phone, and gave Rs. 1 lakh in cash to her mother and aunt to force the girl to fall in line. Unable to bear the harassment meted out by him, the girl told her father, who was threatened by the sub-inspector when he went to lodge a complaint with the police. Following the publication of the issue on a news portal, an investigation was ordered by high-level officers. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Madhavaram, E. Sundaravathanam held an inquiry and ordered Sathish’s arrest. A case was booked under Sections 9 (Aggravated sexual assault) (a) (Whoever, being a police officer, commits sexual assault on a child) and 10 (Punishment for Aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Sathish and the girl’s mother and aunt were lodged in prison after being produced in a court, the police said.  The accused gave Rs. 1 lakh in cash to her mother and aunt to force the girl to fall in line||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/si-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/article34982362.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||45% of cases from five western districts, Chennai||Five western districts, along with Chennai, accounted for 45% of the fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Friday. The State logged 5,755 cases and 150 deaths, taking the tally to 24,55,332 and toll to 32,051. Chennai reported fewer deaths than three districts — Coimbatore, Vellore and Tiruppur. There were 11 deaths in the city, while 26 people died in Coimbatore, 16 in Vellore and 13 in Tiruppur. The State has been registering a gradual decline in fresh cases over the past few weeks. As cases dipped below 6,000, 19 of the 37 districts reported fewer than 100 infections each. Among the western districts, Coimbatore recorded 698 cases, followed by Erode with 597. There were 398 cases in Salem, 361 in Tiruppur and 228 in Namakkal. In Chennai, 350 people tested positive for the infection. Three other districts had 200-plus cases — Chengalpattu (251), Thanjavur (277) and Tiruchi (220). The State’s active caseload stood at 47,318. Of these, 6,721 people are in Coimbatore, 4,695 in Erode and 3,611 in Chennai. A total of 8,132 people were discharged after treatment across the State. Of the 150 deceased, 125 had co-morbidities. They included an 18-year-old from Kanniyakumari, who had seizure disorder and cerebral palsy, and was admitted to the Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital on June 22. She died on June 24 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 23-year-old man from Ranipet died on June 22 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 1,71,117 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 3,20,17,144. Over 4 lakh vaccinated For the second day in a row, over four lakh people were vaccinated. A total of 4,29,001 people, including 2,57,859 in the 18-44 age group and 1,27,601 aged 45 to 59, received the vaccines. The overall coverage rose to 1,36,88,229.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-of-cases-from-five-western-districts-chennai/article34982378.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco resumes maintenance work after a gap of three months||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has started maintenance work on mission mode all over the city to prevent unscheduled power cuts. Maintenance work has been initiated in the backdrop of complaints being received from residents from various places about sudden disruption of electricity supply. The Assembly election and the announcement of the lockdown from May 10 had forced senior officials to stop all routine maintenance work. A senior Tangedco official said maintenance work was planned to be implemented after the Assembly election but with the announcement of the lockdown from May 10 to curtail the spread of COVID-19 infections during the second wave and based on the advice of Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji to provide uninterrupted power supply to residents, routine maintenance work could not be taken up for more than three months. The delay in carrying out maintenance — pruning of tree branches, tightening sagging overhead power lines, replacement of worn out conductors and switches and electrical equipment — had resulted in power outages caused by technical snags to transformers and junction boxes. Also, in several places the overgrowth of tree branches had resulted in the snapping of cables due to birds getting electrocuted. To overcome this, Tangedco has resumed routine maintenance in both the city’s north and south regions, covering several localities in Anna Salai, T. Nagar, Royapettah, Purasawalkam, Adyar, Taramani, Guindy, Kodambakkam, Ashok Nagar and the IT corridor of Sholinganallur, Thoraipakkam and Perungudi. Routine maintenance had resumed from May 19.  The official said previously, maintenance work was carried out from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. but now it had been curtailed till 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-resumes-maintenance-work-after-a-gap-of-three-months/article34982354.ece
26 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kattur village achieves 100% coverage with first dose of vaccine||All eligible residents of Kattur village in Tiruvarur district have been vaccinated against COVID-19, making it a model village for Tamil Nadu, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said. All 2,334 eligible beneficiaries of the village have received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccines. “The village in Koradacheri block has a total population of 3,332. A total of 998 people were excluded — persons aged less than 18 years, pregnant women and those who cannot take the vaccine on the basis of medical conditions. The remaining 2,334 eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated, and this is a model village for the State,” he told reporters on Thursday. He said that Tiruvarur MLA ‘Poondi’ Kalaivanan had taken up the initiative to achieve 100% vaccination and created awareness among the residents. This is the village where a memorial of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi is coming up. At the national level, Weyan village in Bandipora district in Jammu and Kashmir had earlier achieved 100% vaccination coverage, Mr. Subramanian said. The Minister said that in every district, the government had decided to prioritise vaccination of persons residing in villages near tourism destinations where public converge and places where there are memorials. “Accordingly, work to vaccinate all tribals and tea estate workers in the Nilgiris is in progress. All of them will be vaccinated in 10 days,” he added. Similarly, the government is aiming to achieve 100% vaccination in districts with less population, such as the Nilgiris and Ariyalur, he said.  On patients covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS), he said from March 23, 2020, to May 6, 2021, a total of 1,466 people were covered under the scheme with an approved amount of Rs. 6.95 crore. “After the DMK government took over on May 7, a total of 20,938 beneficiaries were covered under CMCHIS till June 23. The approved amount was around Rs. 266 crore. There was an appeal to include patients affected with mucormycosis under the CMCHIS. Accordingly, a total of 423 people affected with mucormycosis were treated under the scheme, with the approved amount being Rs. 1.27 crore,” he said.  The government has decided to prioritise vaccination of persons residing in villages near tourism destinations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kattur-village-achieves-100-coverage-with-first-dose-of-vaccine/article34982383.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation’s vaccination portal gets a good response||The online portal launched on Thursday by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to book slots for COVID-19 vaccination received an overwhelming response on day one with all slots getting booked in a few hours. People who tried to book early on Friday were in for disappointment as all the slots were full. Launching the portalgccvaccine.inon Thursday, the Corporation said that one-third of the doses allocated to each vaccination centre every day would be reserved for booking through the portal. The remaining two-thirds would be kept for walk-in beneficiaries. Apart from the portal, the Corporation announced two other modes of booking slots — by calling 044-46122300 or via WhatsApp on 9499933644. Of the total 17,300 Covishield doses that were available across 45 vaccination centres and 19 Urban Community Health Centres on Friday, one-thirds were reserved for online booking. Corporation officials said all the slots were booked soon after they opened. Late in the afternoon on Friday, 4,550 slots were opened for Saturday. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said more than 50% of these slots had been booked by Friday evening. “We are receiving very positive response for the portal. The idea is to ease the procedure and avoid queuing at the centres,” he said. He added that others who walk-in without appointments will be catered through a separate queue at the centre. Vishu Mahajan, Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance), said the slots would be opened a day in advance once the Corporation gets information on how many doses would be available for the following day. “The slots will be opened between 12 noon to 2 p.m. everyday,” he added. The Corporation has, however, opened the online booking at the moment only for Covishield. Mr. Mahajan said this was due to the special drive that was in progress until Saturday to administer the second dose of Covaxin to those who missed it. “Once that is over, Covaxin will also be available for online booking,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporations-vaccination-portal-gets-a-good-response/article34982350.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief handed over to kin of guard killed in robbery||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday handed over a cheque of Rs. 5 lakh as relief to the family members of an on-contract security guard at a temple who was killed by robbers. T. Babu was killed while on duty, when some persons attempted to rob the Arulmigu Theerthabaleeswarar temple. Mr. Stalin also handed over a cheque of Rs. 5 lakh as compensation to the family of Divakar, who was killed in a scaffolding collapse at the Arulmigu Nagappa Chetty Pillayar temple. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekar Babu, Commissioner of HR and CE J. Kumaragurubaran and Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-handed-over-to-kin-of-guard-killed-in-robbery/article34982357.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP condemns DMK’s usage of the term ‘union’ government||The State unit of the BJP on Friday condemned the usage of the term ‘union’ government instead of ‘Central’ government by the DMK. “The DMK thinks that it is demeaning the Central government by using the term when the Constitution only says, ‘India that is Bharat shall be Union of States’, and not as what [Chief Minister] Mr. Stalin keeps saying,” the party said at a meeting of its State executive committee. “The BJP considers that while there is no crime in saying union government, there is some other intention behind the DMK’s usage of the term,” a resolution adopted at the meeting said. The party said the government does not have any powers or rights to interfere in the day-to-day rituals of Hindu temples, selling temple land, appointingarchakasor office staff. Adopting a resolution to this effect, the party demanded that temple trustees be appointed immediately where there were none, but said this should be done based on guidelines framed by the judiciary. “Politicians should not appoint trustees,” the resolution said. The party demanded the removal of encroachments on temple lands and insisted that funds received from the use of such land must be used only for the temple’s expenses. The meeting was attended by Union Minister of State V.K. Singh, national general secretary in-charge for Tamil Nadu C.T. Ravi, national co-incharge Sudhakar Reddy and State president L. Murugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-condemns-dmks-usage-of-the-term-union-government/article34982385.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight more samples test positive for Delta Plus||Eight samples have returned positive for the Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus in Tamil Nadu. So far, this variant has been found in nine samples lifted from COVID-19 patients in the State. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said three samples sent from the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine and six sent by the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) had returned positive for the variant. While the DPH had sent nearly 1,150 samples to InStem, Bengaluru, for genomic sequencing to detect the SARS-CoV-2 variants, the NIE’s pool had a sample size of 457. Two days ago, the sample of a 32-year-old woman from Chennai had returned positive for the variant. Of the six samples sent by the NIE, three were from residents of Chennai and three from Tiruvallur. The samples were collected during the end of April and the first week of May and sent for analysis to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. All six of them had recovered from COVID-19. The remaining two samples — among those sent by the DPH — were from Kancheepuram and Madurai. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian told reporters on Friday that the person from Kancheepuram had recovered from COVID-19, while the Madurai resident had succumbed to the infection after which a sample was lifted. Their contacts were tested and found negative for COVID-19. “We will continue to send samples for genomic sequencing to InStem every month,” he said. The Minister pointed out that as of now, there were nearly 14 laboratories where genomic sequencing of the virus was being done in the country. All these laboratories came under the control of the Centre and followed ICMR guidelines, he said. “There are certain regulations and the need for approval to set up such a laboratory in Chennai. We have sought the Centre’s approval to set up a laboratory today. Equipment will cost around Rs. 2.5 crore... We are planning to complete the required processes in 20 to 25 days, and have identified two to three places... As of now, sending samples to Bengaluru and getting the results is taking a lot of time,” he said. Wards for the treatment of mucormycosis had been opened at all government medical college hospitals with a total of 7,000 beds. Thus far, 2,822 patients had been affected. On Thursday, the State vaccinated 4,32,044 people, the highest daily figure so far, Mr. Subramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-more-samples-test-positive-for-delta-plus/article34982372.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reiterates opposition to Mekedatu dam||The Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA), which met on Friday after six months, saw Tamil Nadu reiterating its position against the Mekedatu dam project of Karnataka. “We had strongly objected to anything to be done with regard to Mekedatu. The matter is sub judice. No clearance should be given [by the Central government],” said Sandeep Saxena, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS - Public Works) of the Tamil Nadu government. The 12th meeting of the authority, which lasted nearly 90 minutes, deferred the subject. Held online, the event was presided over by S.K. Haldar, Chairman of the Central Water Commission, with Rakesh Singh, ACS of the Water Resources Department of Karnataka; T.K. Jose, ACS (Water Resources) of Kerala; and A. Vikranth Raja, Secretary (Public Works) of Puducherry, being present. Representatives of the Union Ministries of Jal Shakti, Agriculture and Rural Development also took part. When the agenda was prepared for the meeting, the proceedings on Mekedatu were pending before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had, by then, issued notices to many, including the authority. This was why the subject had got included in the agenda. As a result, the matter came up in the meeting. [On June 17, the NGT closed the proceedings, pointing out that the Mekedatu issue had been raised by Tamil Nadu before the Supreme Court]. As the two riparian States — Karnataka and Tamil Nadu — opposed each other’s lift irrigation schemes, apart from the former objecting to the latter’s Cauvery-Gundar link project, the authority also decided to defer the subjects. Tamil Nadu had made it clear that all its schemes were “old”. The authority asked Karnataka to release water during June (9.19 thousand million cubic feet) and July (31.24 tmc ft) as per a schedule that was based on the Supreme Court’s judgment of 2018. Till June 23, Tamil Nadu recorded about 3.6 tmc ft, against its due of 7 tmc ft. By coincidence, the CWMA’s meeting took place on the day the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) delivered its interim award exactly 30 years ago. The interim award also had a larger significance than being a mere response to Tamil Nadu’s prayer for immediate relief then. For the first time in the country, a river water disputes tribunal gave an interim award which was, in turn, facilitated by a verdict of the Supreme Court. In 19 of the 30 water years, Tamil Nadu has realised more than its share of water as stipulated by the tribunal and later by the Supreme Court. On average, the State receives about 260 tmc ft annually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-reiterates-opposition-to-mekedatu-dam/article34982376.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. bags awards for COVID-19 management, waterbody clean-up||The Greater Chennai Corporation has won two awards for COVID-19 management and waterbody restoration at the national level contest organised by the Smart Cities Mission. The Corporation won the award for innovation in management of COVID-19, particularly for the use of tele-counselling for patients, home quarantine monitoring system, door-to-door surveillance, app for medical support and social media campaign.  Another award for the Corporation was announced for the restoration of waterbodies. The project has an estimated budget of Rs. 194 crore, including CSR funding. The city will get 0.87 tmc water and additional groundwater recharge of 4.35 tmc because of the restoration of 1,240 acres of water bodies, said Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. A total of 141 water bodies have been restored and 38 projects are under progress, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-bags-awards-for-covid-19-management-waterbody-clean-up/article34982358.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Goondas Act invoked against two persons||G. Rajagopalan, 59, the former commerce teacher of a city-based school who was arrested on charges of sexually harassing girl students, has been detained under the Goondas Act. He was arrested by the All-Women police, Ashok Nagar, last month, and has been lodged in the Central Prison, Puzhal. Social media commentator Kishore K. Swamy, held for derogatory content on social media, has been also detained under Goondas Act. City Commissioner Shankar Jiwal invoked the provisions to prevent the accused from indulging in further cyber offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goondas-act-invoked-against-two-persons/article34982359.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital uses new technology to carry out liver transplant||A 44-year-old man recently underwent a one-of-its-kind liver transplant. Nearly three months later, he is back to his normal self, said his wife Sakthi Devi. M. Ram Prabhu, who had liver cirrhosis, was listed for transplant in the State’s transplant registry for a year. The pandemic made it difficult to procure a cadaver organ for him. On two occasions, an organ was available from Chandigarh and Kolkata but the logistics of procuring it posed a hurdle. In March, when a patient admitted to MGM Healthcare died and his blood group (AB) matched with that of the donor, doctors prepared Mr. Ram Prabhu for transplant. But the donor liver’s condition was unstable owing to administration of high doses of blood pressure support drugs. A biopsy revealed that the liver had a fat content of 40%, said Thiagarajan Srinivasan, director of the Institute of Liver Diseases and Transplantation, MGM Hospital. “We kept it (the organ) in a dynamic cold perfusion for six hours. Normally, a liver, after retrieval from a brain dead donor, is perfused by static ice cold preservative solution,” he said. The surgeon used a hypothermic oxygenated perfusion (HOPE) liver pump that helped repair and improve the quality of the organ by pumping preservative fluid into the organ at a temperature of 4-6 degrees Celsius, and oxygen was further added to the fluid through a membrane oxygenator,” he said. The patient was prepared for surgery, and the organ was transplanted. Dr. Thiagarajan said around 20% of the liver was discarded because of its poor condition. He suggested that the State government set up perfusion centres in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai. These centres could help improve the quality of retrieved organs. Such organs can be perfused for as long as 24 hours. He said in western countries, hospitals retrieved donor organs and perfused them before finding a recipient. The cost of perfusion is around Rs. 3 to Rs. 4 lakh. Though some transplant centres in India had tried normothermic perfusion (using human blood to improve the quality of donor organs), the prohibitive costs had forced them to abandon the procedure, said Karthik Mathivanan, associate director of the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-uses-new-technology-to-carry-out-liver-transplant/article34982361.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR and CE helpline launched||For any complaint pertaining to temples being managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department, here is a helpline. Devotees can call 044-28339999 on all working days between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. and log in complaints relating to temple lands or ‘thiruppani’ works needed for temples or even allegations relating to the running of temples in their area. Minister for HR and CE P.K. Sekar Babu on Friday inaugurated the call centre located at the department’s headquarters in the presence of Secretary B. Chandramohan and Commissioner J. Kumaraguruparan. Already, the department had launched an online link, where devotees can post their complaints. “We have been getting complaints related to delays in conduct ofkumbhabhishekam, allegations against executive officers, trustees andthakkarsand even asking that Hindu temples be freed from the control of department,” said a source. The complaints would be sent to the respective Joint Commissioners and temples for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hr-and-ce-helpline-launched/article34982363.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Air France to introduce its Chennai-Paris link flight soon||Third time’s the charm for Air France, with the city all set to become the airline’s fourth Indian gateway. The French flag carrier will begin direct operations, once a week, from June 26 on the Paris Charles de Gaulle-Chennai-Paris sector. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent travel restrictions, the service, first scheduled for June 2020, was put off to October 26, and later rescheduled for this year. An airline spokesperson said the 9-hour-and-50-minute flight (AF108) will be operated with a 276-seater three-class configured Boeing 787-9, landing in Chennai at 11.45 p.m. For the inaugural flight (it will be a Boeing 777-200ER that day), the departure from Meenambakkam airport (AF107) will be on June 28 at 1.20 a.m. Thereafter, from July, the inbound flight will be every Thursday (from July 1) and the outbound flight every Saturday (from July 3). The official said the airline continues to fly to Bengaluru, Mumbai and New Delhi in compliance with the bilateral air bubble agreement. Operations to Chennai will be a part of this existing agreement. The once-a-week Air India Boeing 787 air bubble service (AI 180/179) on the same sector, which began on April 2, has been stopped following the second wave of the pandemic and the subsequent travel regulations that were put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-france-to-introduce-its-chennai-paris-link-flight-soon/article34982364.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MLAs to get tablets for a paperless budget||As part of its objective to achieve a paperless Legislative Assembly, the State government has decided to give tablets to all the 234 MLAs and the Finance Minister will present a paperless budget, Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj said on Friday. He said the government’s move would fully prepare all the MLA’s for e-governance. On Friday, Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd (ELCOT) called for tenders for supply of tablets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-to-get-tablets-for-a-paperless-budget/article34982387.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to chalk out tourism revival plan||The Tamil Nadu government has issued a government order, constituting a committee to come up with a revival plan for the tourism sector and suggest COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for tourists in the State. The Director of Tourism will be the chairperson of the 16-member panel. The Director of Museums, the Commissioner of the Department of Art and Culture, the Commissioner of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, the Director of Public Health, the Commissioner of Archaeology, the Regional Director of the Union Ministry of Tourism, and former city health officer of Chennai Corporation P. Kuganantham are among the members. Representatives from Travel Agents’ Association of India (TAAI), Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO), Tamil Nadu Travel Mart (TTM), South Indian Hotels’ and Restaurants’ Association (SIHRA), Tamil Nadu Tour Travel and Hospitality Association (TTTHA), FICCI, CII and South India MICE Association (SIMA) are also among the members. The Director of Tourism has been asked to immediately convene a meeting of the committee, come up with a revival plan for the tourism sector and also suggest SOPs for tourists and submit the same to the government. The government’s decision followed a proposal from the Commissioner of Tourism for constituting such a panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-chalk-out-tourism-revival-plan/article34982368.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras varsity stops M. Phil programme||The University of Madras has informed its affiliated colleges that the Syndicate, in its meeting on June 16, decided that the M. Phil programme will be discontinued from the current academic year 2021-2022. University Registrar in-charge N. Mathivanan further said no admission would be allowed or entertained for the programme in the current academic year in the university departments, affiliated colleges, research institutions and autonomous colleges, and they should strictly abide by the Syndicate’s decision. However, those students who had been admitted to the programme in the previous academic years shall be allowed to complete their studies within the time prescribed for awarding of the M. Phil degree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-varsity-stops-m-phil-programme/article34982352.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal to meet party cadres to discuss local body polls||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan is likely to meet office-bearers of the party via video-conferencing on Saturday to discuss and debate whether the party is ready to face the urban local body polls as and when they are held. The MNM did not contest in the rural local body polls in 2019, contending that it did not prefer to spend its limited resources fighting the two major Dravidian parties when the 2021 Assembly election was on the horizon. “Our leader would like to understand what the party cadres feel and how prepared they are. The battle-readiness of the party will be discussed,” said a senior office-bearer. “He wants to assess the party and speak to the office-bearers before that.” Asked whether Mr. Haasan would announce the structure of the ‘mutated’ version of MNM that he promised after the exodus of almost all key second-in-line leaders following the debacle of the Assembly election, the senior office-bearer said that it would take some more time. Another office-bearer said he expects Mr. Haasan to appoint a few members to key posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-to-meet-party-cadres-to-discuss-local-body-polls/article34982381.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retain people’s goodwill: Stalin||Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday asked party district secretaries to live up to the goodwill earned by the government in a short span of time. In a meeting at the party headquarters, he said the image of the DMK had improved after it assumed office and advised Ministers, MLAs and senior leaders to retain the goodwill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retain-peoples-goodwill-stalin/article34982388.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM gives away ration kits to migrant workers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday launched a scheme to provide dry ration kits to migrant labourers, who are facing hardships due to the lockdown in force in the State to curb the spread of COVID-19. He also launched a vaccination drive for construction labourers. The kit includes 15 kg of rice, 1 kg of tur dal and 1 kg of cooking oil. Over two lakh construction labourers, who have been registered as members of the Tamil Nadu Construction Labourers’ Welfare Board, will benefit during the first phase of the vaccination drive, an official press release said. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan, Rajya Sabha MP M. Shanmugam, Chennai South MP Thamizhachi Thangapandian and senior officials were present during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-gives-away-ration-kits-to-migrant-workers/article34982393.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bail denied to ex Minister||The Principal Sessions Court on Friday dismissed the bail petition filed by former AIADMK Minister M. Manikandan. Dismissing his bail petition, Principal Sessions Judge R.Selvakumar pointed out that the High Court discussed the case at length and held that the offence under Section 37 (punishment for rape) IPC was made out with available materials. A Malaysian-Indian woman, an actor, complained to police that the former Minister had cheated her after having been in a live-in relationship with her for a few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-denied-to-ex-minister/article34982772.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MLAs to get tablets||The State government has decided to give tablets to all the 234 MLAs and the Finance Minister will present a paperless budget, Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj said on Friday. He said the government’s move would fully prepare all the MLA’s for e-governance. On Friday, Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd called for tenders for supply of tablets. The tenders would be open on July 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-to-get-tablets/article34982764.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Operation launched to nab ATM thieves in Haryana||A special team of the Greater Chennai Police has launched a major operation with the help of the Haryana police to nab the main suspect and others involved in the SBI ATM thefts. Sources said the team, led by the Deputy Commissioner, T. Nagar, launched a major operation, assisted by the Haryana police. Over 100 police personnel from the State are part of the operation. They are conducting searches in several villages, where the suspects are believed to be holed up, and have appealed to the villagers to cooperate. Over 14 cases of theft at SBI ATMs with cash deposit facilities were reported in the city from June 15 to 18. Initial investigations revealed that the accused had come from the northern States and committed the offence. Around Rs. 45 lakh cash was stolen. The team nabbed one Amir Arsh, of Ballabhgarh, Haryana, on Wednesday. He was produced before a local court and brought to the city late on Thursday. He was interrogated by police personnel and remanded in judicial custody. Meanwhile, the police filed a petition in the court, seeking to order his custodial interrogation for five days. The special team is camping in Faridabad to arrest the remaining accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/operation-launched-to-nab-atm-thieves-in-haryana/article34982347.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bail denied to former Minister Manikandan||The principal sessions court on Friday dismissed the bail petition filed by former AIADMK Minister M. Manikandan. A Malaysian-Indian woman, who is an actor, complained to the police that the former Minister had cheated her after being in a live-in relationship with her for a few years. She alleged that he had promised to marry her, and she had become pregnant thrice. She also alleged that he had forced her to get abortions and threatened her family members in Malaysia when she insisted that he marry her. Dismissing his bail petition, principal sessions judge R. Selvakumar pointed out that the High Court discussed the case at length and categorically held that the offence under Section 37 (punishment for rape) IPC was made out with available materials. The petitioner was at large for about 20 days since the case was registered on May 29, and only after the dismissal of anticipatory bail, with great difficulty, was he secured from Bengaluru, the judge said, and added, “Manikandan is a powerful person, having political and financial clout. In case he is released on bail at this earliest point of time, there is every chance the investigation will be tampered with.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-denied-to-former-minister-manikandan/article34982348.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five held in Neelankarai for smuggling marijuana||Personnel from the Neelankarai police station on Friday arrested five persons, who had smuggled marijuana from Andhra Pradesh. The team, led by sub-inspector Selvakumar, intercepted an autorickshaw and a motorcycle on Thursday night. They found and confiscated 12 kg of marijuana concealed in the vehicles. The police arrested R. Ramkumar, 31, of Tiruvottiyur, R. Saravanan, 22, and three others, and seized the vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-in-neelankarai-for-smuggling-marijuana/article34982349.ece
26 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco’s maintenance works to continue till June 28||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) would continue maintenance works and trim tree branches in the district till June 28, said an official of the Corporation here. The Tangedco is taking up tree branch trimming and maintenance works such as attending to leaning poles and sagging lines across the State. “We have studied areas in the district where there are problems. Maintenance works were not taken up for nine months and so this work is taken up as an emergency now,” the official said. The works were done in a select area every day within three hours. If one area was identified for a particular day, the Tangedco would not return to the same area the next day. Works were taken up in a particular area only on one day. So the public should not believe rumours that there would be disruption in supply every day, the official added. In Coimbatore region, which covers Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts, the works were on in seven distribution circles. These had 1,135 electricity feeders of 161 sub-stations. Almost 1,600 personnel were engaged in the maintenance works. Since June 19 when the works commenced, tree clearance works had been carried out in 29,000 locations, resagging of lines at 330 locations, straightening of leaned poles at 100 locations, and replacement of damaged poles at 100 locations, the official added. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the Tangedco should look at shutting down sub-stations once a month or once in two months for maintenance works. Or it should take up the works regularly once in three months. Maintenance works were essential and the public should also understand the need for disruption in supply for such works. It would not be enough to take up the works just for three hours now. Similarly, if saplings were planted below the electricity lines, the Tangedco should ensure that such saplings were replanted away from the power lines. If the saplings had grown to a certain height, the branches should be cut so that the power lines were not disrupted, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedcos-maintenance-works-to-continue-till-june-28/article34982420.ece
26 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Relatives of COVID-19 patient booked for attack on hospital staff||The Podanur police registered a case against a group of relatives of a man, who died after testing positive for COVID-19, on charges of attacking a staff member of a private hospital, under the Coimbatore City Police limits, on Thursday. The police said that a 62-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the private hospital on Madukkarai Main Road in Sundarapuram, died after five days of treatment on May 29. Nearly a month later, over seven persons claiming to be the deceased’s relatives visited the hospital on Thursday and allegedly engaged in a verbal altercation with a doctor over the medical expenses. Following the spat, one of them allegedly snatched the doctor’s mobile phone and ran outside. The hospital’s public relations officer K. Balasubramanian (45) followed him and was allegedly assaulted by four men. Before leaving the spot, they threw the doctor’s phone on the road, according to the police. Based on the PRO’s complaint, the Podanur police registered a case invoking section 4 (Cognisance of offence) of the Tamil Nadu Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2008 along with sections 294 (b) (Uttering obscenities), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (1) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Police sources said on Friday that the relatives accused the hospital of not providing proper treatment to the man and allegedly refusing to produce certain documents regarding the treatment cost, which led to the altercation with the doctor at the hospital on Thursday. Further inquiries are on and efforts to nab the accused using the CCTV footages are under way, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relatives-of-covid-19-patient-booked-for-attack-on-hospital-staff/article34982412.ece
26 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police organise vaccination camp||Over 400 persons, including police personnel, got their COVID-19 vaccine shots in the vaccination camp organised by the Coimbatore District Police here on Friday. District Collector G.S. Sameeran and Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam inaugurated the camp on Police Recruits School (PRS) Grounds in the city. Sources said that 405 persons, including police personnel, their relatives and ministerial staff, were vaccinated in the camp. Two medical teams from a private hospital were involved in this camp, which began at around 10 a.m. and ended at 2 p.m. As per the availability of vaccine doses, the camp would be organised again, the sources said. The Coimbatore District Police have also been organising vaccination drives at the sub-division level to ensure maximum coverage of police personnel. Separate camps for the police personnel working in hilly regions such as Pollachi and Valparai will be held soon, according to the police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-organise-vaccination-camp/article34982415.ece
26 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani demands reopening of temples||Members of Hindu Munnani on Friday staged demonstrations outside various temples demanding the reopening of temples which were closed by the State government as part of the COVID-19 lockdown. In Coimbatore, the members led by district president K. Dasarathan gathered outside Siddhi Vinayagar temple in Gandhipuram and burnt camphor tablets outside the closed gates of the temple as part of the demonstration. Following this, they raised slogans condemning the State government for reopening Tasmac outlets prior to temples. C. Dhanapal, district public relations in-charge of Hindu Munnani, claimed that the demonstrations were held outside 150 temples across the district. In a statement, he alleged that it is a “matter of shame” that Tasmac outlets have been allowed to operate in 27 districts as part of lockdown relaxations while temples still remain closed for the public. Urging Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu to announce the reopening of temples at the earliest, Mr. Dhanapal warned that the Hindu Munnani will continue its protests, if the temples remain closed. In Salem, the protests were held in front of major temples including Kottai Mariamman Temple, Sugneshwarar Temple, and Ellai Pidariamman temple. Similar protests were held in Namakkal district too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-demands-reopening-of-temples/article34982413.ece
26 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies in road accident||A woman was killed after she was run over by a truck near Perur on Friday. The police said that Balamani (55) was riding pillion on a two-wheeler with her relative Muthukumar (44)when the accident took place. Around 12.30 p.m., both fell off the two-wheeler after the rider lost control of the vehicle and a truck that was coming from behind ran over the woman, killing her on the spot. Perur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-in-road-accident/article34982429.ece
26 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Plea for lift at Collector’s office||Members of Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-Abled and Caregivers have urged Chief Minister M K Stalin to construct a lift at the Collectorate here. Its president P Selvanayagam said that thousands of people including differently-abled persons and senior citizens used to visit the Collectorate daily. As many offices and departments function in the first and second floor, persons with disability cannot reach officers including the Collector. When the DMK’s senior leader M Durai Murugan visited the district recently in his capacity, he came to know about the absence of lift. He told the officials then that as and when the DMK comes to power, the lift would be installed here, they recalled and expressed the hope that the building would have a lift soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-lift-at-collectors-office/article34982765.ece
26 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power loom owners seek permission to operate units||With power looms in the district halting production for over seven weeks affecting the livelihood of thousands of workers, power loom unit owners urged the district administration to permit them to run their units at the earliest. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, over 50,000 power looms were functioning only in one shift from the last week of April to the first week of May. Workers were given jobs only for three days a week instead of six days. Due to new restrictions imposed by the State government to control the spread of virus, all the units halted production from May 7 making the workers jobless. Power loom unit owners were expecting relaxations from the government to resume operations which did not happen so far. L.P. Balasubramanian, secretary, Lakkapuram Power Loom Owners Association, said about 3,500 power looms were functioning at Lakkapuram village providing jobs to over 1,000 people directly and indirectly. “Despite closure, owners have managed to provide essential commodities to the workers in the past seven weeks. But it is not possible to support them further,” he said. He said most of the units functioned within 2,000 sq feet with less than four workers a shift. “Since the workplace is not crowded and is not visited by outsiders, the administration should allow them to resume operations so that workers could fulfil their basic needs,” he said. Other owners wanted the government to open spare parts shops and workshops and help in smooth operation of the power looms. “If the situation continues, workers will be forced to borrow money at exorbitant rates making them debtors permanently,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-owners-seek-permission-to-operate-units/article34982431.ece
26 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 23,500 persons vaccinated in Erode||Over 23,500 persons were vaccinated at 111 locations during the second day of special camps being held across the district on Friday. During the first day of the special camps held at 113 locations on Thursday, a total of 12,884 persons were vaccinated. For Friday, the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine allotted 11,100 vaccine doses. However, with receipt of more vaccine stock, allocation was increased to 17,250 doses of Covishield and 6,600 doses of Covaxin. Each centre was allotted 200 to 250 doses and vaccination began at 8 a.m. People waited in long queues for over 12 hours to get tokens and get vaccinated both in rural and urban areas. Senior citizens faced hardship as they had to wait for long hours in queue to get the tokens. Also, persons who had registered in the app were not given priority as they were asked to wait in queue and get the tokens. Officials said vaccination camps would continue across the district on Saturday also as the present stock stood at 14,410 doses on Friday evening. They expected vaccines to arrive in the coming days and the special camps to continue. A total of 3,71,831 persons were vaccinated as of Friday morning, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-23500-persons-vaccinated-in-erode/article34982424.ece
26 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Woman, two children found dead||A woman and her two children were found dead at her parent’s house in Lakshmi Nagar, Thindal, here on Thursday. Police identified the deceased as Nithya (37), wife of Bhaskar (42), and their two children -- Magathi (11) and Yadav Krishnan (6). Bhaskar, who was working in Chennai, had died of COVID-19 on May 9. After his death, Nithya and the children returned to her parent’s house in Thindal. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Nithya was upset over the death of her husband and had reportedly ended her life along with the children. Erode Taluk police registered a case and are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-two-children-found-dead/article34982436.ece
26 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Essentials distributed||Administrators of E.K.M. Abdul Gani Matharasa Islamia Primary and High Schools, both government-aided schools, distributed essential commodities to parents of 360 students here on Friday. School Correspondent E.K.M. Mohammed Taj Muhaideen handed over the pack of rice and essential commodities to the beneficiaries, all worth Rs. 3.60 lakh to them. P. Moosa Raja Junaidhi, headmaster of primary school, Uthuman, headmaster of high school, and teachers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/essentials-distributed/article34982421.ece
26 June 2021||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Two murdered||The police are on the lookout for a gang that murdered two ganja peddlers here on Thursday. They said J. Jesuraj, 28, of Swaminathapuram near Kanniyakumari and D. Selwyn, 24, of Kattaiyanvilai, now living at Vadakku Kundal, were found murdered near Murugankundram here. Only when the associate of the deceased M. Sahaya Shaji Jenis, 26, of Tsunami Colony came to the hospital with stab injury in the abdomen, the crime came to light. He told the police that unidentified persons attacked them in which his friends were murdered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-murdered/article34982771.ece
26 June 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Collect only 75 % of tuition fee in instalments, schools told||Private schools in Karaikal have received instructions to collect only 75% of tuition fee for 2020-21, based on the Fee Committee recommendations for 2019-20. The school education department has informed the schools that the fee can be collected twice, preferably 40 % in the first instalment and 35 % in second instalment. Specific instructions have been issued not to collect annual fee, bus fee, uniform fee, fee for extra-curricular activities, library fee, lab fee, sports and fine arts fee, medical fee and fee for value added services until the offline classes commence. There has been no representation from parents on schools demanding excess fee from the State-board schools. However, parents of children in CBSE schools did have issues with fee payment last year. But, no parent is prepared to give a complaint in writing which is necessary for initiating action, Chief Educational Officer Alli said. The 62 private schools in Karaikal enclave will, as usual, conduct online classes for the students. As for the government schools, the teachers say the Puducherry Government has evolved a mechanism to keep the students engaged in teaching-learning activities at home on a daily basis under remote monitoring of teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collect-only-75-of-tuition-fee-in-instalments-schools-told/article34982807.ece
26 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Charges cast doubt over cause of death of COVID-19 patient in Krishnagiri GH||Claims and counterclaims on the cause of death have cast a shadow on the passing of a 30-year-old COVID-19 positive patient on non-invasive ventilator. His attender claimed that he died shortly after the ventilator ran out of charge during a power shutdown at the Krishnagiri Government Medical College Hospital on Friday. The patient’s brother-in-law and primary caretaker, C. Udhayakumar, has charged the COVID-19 care staff with negligence. He claimed they did not shift the patient before the battery ran out. However, the hospital has denied the allegation and claimed the patient was shifted on time and survived for sometime after the shift. Around forenoon on Friday, the patient died soon after he was taken by stretcher from the ground floor ventilator room to the 2nd floor to be connected to another ventilator, after the ventilator he was on shut down after it ran out of charge. This was during the two-hour power outage at the hospital. The ICU staff did not respond on time to shift the patient to a reserve ventilator even as the battery level continued to drop over a period of 1.5 hours, alleged Mr. Udhayakumar. “In the morning, I fed him two glasses of porridge and milk, and he was fine. When the power went, both of us got worried. He was reminding me to call the nurse or the doctor. I kept going to see the doctors, nurses, they repeated “power will be back’, ‘electricians will come’.” Incidentally, part of the ground floor wires had melted cutting it off from the generator support, says a hospital maintenance source. “Finally, they came after the ventilator shut down. When they shifted him to another machine, that machine was leaking,” claimed Mr. Udhayakumar. Speaking to The Hindu , a medical official at the hospital, denied that the man was “shifted late”, but accepted that the shifting was done due to power shut down. “All ventilators are supported by a separate power unit and more power. But this particular ventilator’s power unit was out of order. So, it was working on its own battery. “The doctor’s version is that the patient was shifted after the machine indicated low power alarm,” the source said. However, Dean B. Ashokan dismissed the allegations. All ventilators have necessary backup and the patient was alive after he was shifted to the second ventilator. “It was a non-invasive ventilator support and even if the ventilator is pulled out, the patient can still breathe.” In this case, the patient had underlying complications, he said. Earlier, members of the patient’s family sat on the road outside the government hospital blaming the hospital for negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/charges-cast-doubt-over-cause-of-death-of-covid-19-patient-in-krishnagiri-gh/article34982434.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: CBI moves HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday, challenging a trial court order that has not framed charges against the accused police personnel in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks under Section 120 B of the IPC (Criminal Conspiracy) for committing the offence. Justice Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup ordered notice to all accused lodged in the Madurai Central Prison. The case was adjourned till July 12. While framing the charges, I Additional District and Sessions Judge, Madurai, held that no materials were available to frame charges under Section 120 B of the IPC. Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri submitted that there were sufficient materials on record to prove the offence under Section 120 B of the IPC for committing the offence under Section 302 (Murder) and other offences of the IPC. Further, it was submitted that the trial court had not framed the charges for two counts against some accused. The CBI said the case was sensitive and if proper charges were not framed at the beginning stage of the trial, the accused police personnel could take advantage of the same. It could cause serious prejudice to the prosecution. The CBI sought a direction to set aside the order passed by the trial court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-cbi-moves-hc/article34982386.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Alarming that none has been booked 3 years after Thoothukudi police firing: HC||“It is somewhat alarming that the State through its police fired at unarmed protesters and no one is booked some three years after the incident,” the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed on Friday on the Thoothukudi police firing incident, in which 13 anti-Sterlite protesters were killed in May 2018. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam observed, “It may not augur well for a civilised society governed by the constitutional principles that we have to merely throw money at the families of the victims [as compensation] and give closure to an incident of possible brutality and excessive police action.” The court made the remarks while hearing a petition filed by advocate Henri Tiphagne, who sought a direction to the National Human Rights Commission to reopen the case and furnish the investigation report submitted by the investigation team of the NHRC. The judges directed that the NHRC’s and Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission’s interim report to be submitted to the court. The court took note of the fact that the NHRC had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident based on news reports that the victims’ right to life was grossly violated. A team of the NHRC’s investigation division conducted a spot inquiry. A judicial commission was also set up to conduct an inquiry into the incident. The NHRC had taken note of the fact that compensation was being provided to the families of the victims and the Thoothukudi district administration was taking adequate steps to restore normalcy in the district. The commission closed its proceedings considering these aspects and also the fact that the judicial commission was conducting an inquiry. During the course of the hearing, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted that the Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission submitted an interim report to the government on May 14, 2021. The petitioner pointed out that the interim report was submitted only after the government sought the report. The court orally remarked, “Can we kill people and throw money at them and say our job is done? Is that the society that we want to build? Just throwing money at some people and everything is hushed up. No conclusions need to be drawn yet before the facts come to light. But it is necessary that the facts come to light and be made public.” The court issued notice to the NHRC and the State. The judges said the State’s stand must be clearly spelt out in the counter-affidavit. The NHRC could submit its report in a sealed cover if it feels that it is delicate, the judges said. Given that the matter was of importance, the Chief Justice said it would be taken up at the principal seat in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alarming-that-none-has-been-booked-3-years-after-thoothukudi-police-firing-hc/article34982390.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||email leads to arrest of car thieves||An innocuous automated messaging service from an authorised four-wheeler workshop in Kappalur giving details to a customer owning an SUV that his vehicle had been taken for service led to the arrest of a seven-member gang that was involved in stealing vehicles. “Upon receiving the message on e-mail, Tamilarasan, 65, of Thanjavur, was perplexed as his SUV, registered in his wife’s name, was parked in his house. He immediately alerted the workshop that there was something fishy and also sent by post a complaint about the fraud to Madurai District Police,” Tirumangalam Deputy Superintendent of Police S. S. Vinothini said. Based on his complaint, the Austinpatti police started investigation and secured, one by one, the seven members of a gang. The police said that the original registration certificate of the SUV had been lost by Tamilarasan and he applied and got a duplicate RC. The people who had stolen it had used the same and matched it with a stolen vehicle of the same brand. “Since, the vehicle had changed hands several times, we are yet to find out the original owner of the vehicle,” the DSP said. All the seven, six from Chennai and one from Tenkasi, have been arrested and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/email-leads-to-arrest-of-car-thieves/article34982779.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to ease lockdown restrictions||The lockdown restrictions must be eased to allow industries, buses and restaurants to function with 100% capacity, in the wake of fall in COVID-19 positive cases, said Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) president B. Muruganantham. In a release, he said that it had been more than 50 days since the imposition of lockdown restrictions following the rise in COVID-19 positive cases in the second wave. The lockdown affected the production in industries and many of the workers had lost their jobs. The entrepreneurs also could not travel to other places to collect their dues. Hence, industries, commercial establishments, restaurants, textile shops, jewellery shops and buses must be allowed to function with no restrictions across the whole State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-ease-lockdown-restrictions/article34982780.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: CBI moves HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday challenging a trial court order that has not framed charges against the accused police personnel in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks under Section 120 B of the IPC (Criminal Conspiracy) for committing the offence. Justice Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup ordered notice to all the accused currently lodged in the Madurai Central Prison. The case was adjourned till July 12. While framing the charges against the accused, I Additional District and Sessions Judge of Madurai held that no materials were available to frame charges under Section 120 B of the IPC. Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri submitted that there were sufficient materials available on record to prove the offence under Section 120 B of the IPC for committing the offence under Section 302 (Murder) and other offences of the IPC. Further, it was submitted that the trial court had not framed the charges for two counts against some of the accused. That apart, certain other offences under the IPC were not framed against some accused in the case. The CBI said that the custodial death case was sensitive and if proper charges were not framed at the beginning stage of the trial, the accused police personnel could take advantage of the same. It could cause serious prejudice to the prosecution. The CBI sought a direction to set aside the order passed by the trial court and direct the trial court to add the charges under Section 120 B against the accused and also add the other charges for two counts against the accused. If the objection for non-framing of charges can be raised at an early stage, no one will be prejudiced. Otherwise it will affect the Right to Speedy Fair Trial, the CBI said. The CBI filed the chargesheet under Section 120 B (party to a criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), read with Sections 302 (murder), 342 (wrongful confinement), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 182 (false information), 193 (false evidence), 211 (false charge of offence), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. The charge sheet has been filed against the then inspector S. Sridhar, sub-inspectors P. Raghu Ganesh and K. Balakrishnan, head constables S. Murugan and A. Saamidurai and constables M. Muthuraj, S. Chelladurai, X. Thomas Francis and S. Veilumuthu. Special sub-inspector Pauldurai, an accused in the case, died after contracting COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-cbi-moves-hc/article34982778.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Elderly man ends life following wife’s death||Unable to tolerate the recent death of his wife K. Nagajothi, a 72-year-old man, C. Kannappan, ended his life in desperation near Sholavandan. Police said that the man from Mannadimangalam had gone missing from his house on Wednesday. Laterthe man’s body was found near Kattakulam junction on Thursday. The police said that the man had consumed poison. The Sholavandan police have registered a case and are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-man-ends-life-following-wifes-death/article34982783.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman robbed of gold chain||A clerk with Tirumangalam union, T. Hema Sudha, 44, was robbed of one sovereign of gold chain near Thoppur flyover on Tuesday late evening. When the victim was returning home from office, two unidentified persons followed her two-wheeler on a motorcycle and one of them pushed her down and yanked the chain. Part of the chain remained with the victim and one sovereign was snatched away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-robbed-of-gold-chain/article34982773.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Move to form Economic Advisory Council hailed||The Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry has welcomed the proposal of the State government to constitute an Economic Advisory Council to bail out the State from the economic crisis. Its president S. Rethinavelu has said in a press release that the initiative had infused hope that the State was on its way to become the ultimate investment destination. The white paper on the State’s finances, to be released by the Finance Minister, would reveal the true financial status of the government, he said. Mr. Rethinavelu thanked the Chief Minister for introducing a separate annual budget for agriculture. The announcement that more farmers’ markets would be established in the State was a proactive step, which would benefit both farmers and consumers. The announcement to constitute an expert committee with industrialists and bankers to offer suggestions for the revival of the MSME sector should also welcomed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-form-economic-advisory-council-hailed/article34982774.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Delta Plus variant reported||A 34-year-old man, who had died due to COVID-19 in the third week of April, had tested positive for the Delta Plus variant. Government Rajaji Hospital sources said the patient was admitted on April 10. Since he did not show any signs of breathlessness or other complications, he was shifted to Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur. But after two days he developed hemoptysis, faced difficulties in breathing and brought back to the GRH. His attendants shifted him to a private hospital on April 16. But he died after five days. His sample was sent to the DPH lab in Chennai, and further sent to InSTEM in Bengaluru for whole genome sequence studies. The results showed that he was infected with Delta Plus variant. Meanwhile, Madurai recorded 104 fresh cases on Friday, with which the district’s tally has risen to 71,894. A total of 112 persons were discharged and with one death, Madurai’s death toll stands at 1,078. For the second consecutive day, Virudhunagar district did not record any death. With an identical number of 79 new positive cases and discharged patients, the number of active cases stands at 784.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-plus-variant-reported/article34982776.ece
26 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 132.80 feet (permissible level is 142 feet), with an inflow of 783 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 65.49 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,595 cusecs and a discharge of 3,469 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,573 mcft. There was no rainfall in Madurai region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday. Tirunelveli Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 134.35 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 862.12 cusecs and a discharge of 696.25 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 81.95 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 180 cusecs and a discharge of 200 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34982782.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man gets advance bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court granted anticipatory bail to a man from Tiruchi who along with his associates had abused police personnel when they questioned the group for not following COVID-19 protocol. They were not wearing face masks. The petitioner, Kaja Hussain, filed an undertaking affidavit to the court giving an unconditional apology for the incident. He undertook that he would not be involved in such offences in the future. He paid Rs. 10,000 to Advocate Clerks Welfare Association as directed by the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-advance-bail/article34982810.ece
26 June 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop shale gas exploration move’||The Anti-Methane Project Movement has urged the State Government to prevent Oil and Natural Gas Corporation from establishing a new well for shale gas exploration in the vicinity of a discarded well at Anjaruvarthalai in Tirumanancheri Panchayat in the district. “The ONGC is making preparations for drilling a new well by hydraulic fracking process under the pretext of carrying out cleaning works in the existing well. Paths were being created for movement of heavy vehicles and a pond has been created for holding the waste water generated in the process of deep drilling,” T. Jayaraman, Chief Coordinator, Anti-Methane Project Movement, said in a petition submitted to the Mayiladuthurai district administration on Friday. Prof. Jayaraman sought to know on what basis the ONGC was preparing to drill a new well to extract shale gas now that the State Government has made known its clear stand to the Centre that no new exploration activity will be permitted in the Cauvery Basin under the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020. In the backdrop of Tamil Nadu rejecting ONGC's application recently for establishing 15 hydrocarbon wells in Ariyalur and Cuddalore districts by taking a categoric position that exploration of methane or shale gas will not be permitted, “drilling of any new well was illegal and must be stopped”, Prof. Jayaraman said in his petition, a copy of which was addressed to the Chief Minister's office as well. Though the Union Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas had taken a policy decision in 2013 that exploration activity in already awarded acreages was permissible, it was irrelevant in Tamil Nadu as the previous as well as the new government in the State have been consistent in their decision not to permit ONGC and Oil India Limited to derive any leverage from the Central Government's permission in the nine shale blocks, Prof. Jayaraman pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-shale-gas-exploration-move/article34982816.ece
26 June 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||MSME units look for early execution of CPCL project||The MSME sector in Nagapattinam looks for early execution of CPCL’s (Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited) over Rs. 31,000 crore project to set up a grass-root refinery of 9 MMTPA (Million Metric Ton Per Annum) capacity in the district for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation in February. Start of the work for the mega project which is understood to have been delayed due to land acquisition issues, has to be facilitated by all stakeholders for betterment of the local economy. A lot of ancillary industries can be started for recyclng remnant chemicals once the project is implemented fully, V. Ramachandran, president of Nagapattinam District Small and Tiny Industries' Association, said. The initial unit was set up with a capacity of 0.5 MMTPA in 1993 and later revamped to 1.0 MMTPA. The new project under way on joint venture basis entails production of LPG, BS VI quality gasoline and diesel and Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF). The project also includes a polypropylene unit as part of petrochemical integration, with potential to further increase production of petrochemicals in future. As per the MoU signed by CPCL with the State government, the company will receive a structured package of incentives for the Cauvery Basin Refinery project to be carried out through a joint venture with IOCL and other financial/strategic/public investors. The project envisages utilisation of 130 million man hours during the execution phase, resulting in substantial socio economic benefit to the region. During the operation phase, it is expected to provide direct and indirect employment to over 7,600 persons. In addition to the project which is to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 31,580 crore, an investment of Rs. 4,000 crore is anticipated from other stakeholders on Build Own and Operate (BOO) basis. The refinery is to be set up on an area of about 1,300 acres, out of which 618 acres are already owned by the CPCL. A major extent of land acquisition proces has been completed and the hitch in acquiring a little over 20 acres of a temple land has to be sorted out for an early start of the work, Mr. Ramachandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-units-look-for-early-execution-of-cpcl-project/article34982806.ece
26 June 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Call for concerted efforts to protect children’s rights||The government and non-governmental agencies working for the children’s welfare should ensure better coordination among themselves so as to protect the children’s rights and well being whenever it was under threat, Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson Saraswathi Rangaswamy has said. Addressing a review meeting held here on Friday, she said better coordination among departments like education, social welfare, district child welfare committee, district child protection unit, the police and non-governmental organisations, must be ensured so as to take appropriate steps to protect the children’s rights. The stakeholders should have thorough understanding of the laws pertaining to protection of children and their rights so that immediate action to alleviate their problems could be taken. Any complaint pertaining to sexual harassment of the children should be viewed very seriously and immediate intervention and assistance should be ensured while the identity of the victim was guarded at all levels. The Chief Educational Officer should give unambiguous and stern instructions to heads of all schools to put in place every possible measure to protect the children from being sexually abused. Rehabilitation of the sexual harassment or assault victims should be ensured by the district administration through District Child Welfare Committee and the police. The Collector should be updated about the action taken on the complaints.  Awareness should be created among the parents before the ‘third wave’ of the pandemic strikes by involving anganvadi workers. “Special efforts should be taken to take care of the children who have lost their father or mother or both to COVID-19. The District Child Protection Unit should conduct field visits in every area to identify such children so as to ensure disbursal of assistance being given by the State and the Union Governments and the much-needed care for them,” she said. When she was informed that 10 child marriages in the district had been prevented in Kanniyakumari district ever since lockdown was clamped in 2020, the chairperson said awareness should be created among the parents about the legal consequences involved in arranging child marriages. Collector M. Aravind said the district administration had prepared proposals for giving relief to 109 children who had lost their mother, father or both to COVID-19. He informed that 740 of the 876 caretakers of 72 children’s homes in the district had been vaccinated. Superintendent of Police V. Badrinarayanan, District Revenue Officer R. Revathi, Member of Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights V. Ramaraj, Joint Director Raj Saravanakumar, District Child Protection Officer M. Jayaprakash, District Social Welfare Officer R. Sarojini and senior officials attended the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-concerted-efforts-to-protect-childrens-rights/article34982766.ece
26 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Comments on Jai Hind trigger a row||Thiruchengode MLA E.R. Eswaran, whose comments in the Assembly hailing the absence of the slogan Jai Hind in the Governor’s address triggered a row, on Friday said his remarks were based on the “two-language policy” and had nothing to do with patriotism. Participating in the proceedings of the Assembly session that concluded on Thursday, Mr. Eswaran had noted that unlike the Governor’s address last year, after the DMK government assumed office, Jai Hind was not said by the Governor while concluding his address. BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai tweeted that the political discourse in Tamil Nadu had hit a low. On Friday, Mr. Eswaran, leader of the KMDK, told journalists in Namakkal that his comments were language-based, but some people were trying to distort it. He said some individuals were trying to confuse the people and were linking it to [question his] patriotism. Mr. Eswaran said during the Governor’s address in the AIADMK regime, even though the speech would mention that the two-language policy would be implemented, it would conclude with Jai Hind . “Having mentioned the two-language policy, the Governor’s address [during the AIADMK regime] should have concluded with Bharatham Vazhaga  in Tamil,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/comments-on-jai-hind-trigger-a-row/article34982375.ece
26 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Mainatain high alert in anticipation of third wave’||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has advocated maintaining a state of high alert anticipating a third wave of the pandemic and the emergence of new highly transmissible variants of COVID-19. Ms. Soundarajan, who is also Telangana Governor, while chairing a video-conference to review the pandemic situation in Puducherry from Raj Bhavan in Hyderabad, told officials to act with the expectation that the third wave would be severe. Noting that amid reports of a third wave and emergence of a new variant Delta Plus that spread even more rapidly, the Lt. Governor underscored the importance of sustaining coronavirus prevention activities along with the vaccination programme. She also called for a regional survey on efficacy of curfew restrictions/relaxations and the vaccination situation, besides initiating research on samples of black fungus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mainatain-high-alert-in-anticipation-of-third-wave/article34982382.ece
26 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||261 new cases, 5 deaths recorded in U.T.||The active cases in the Union Territory dropped below the 3,000-mark as 261 new cases were reported against 363 recoveries on Friday. The Union Territory also recorded five COVID-19 deaths to take the cumulative toll to 1,739. Puducherry registered four deaths and Karaikal one. The cumulative toll by region is Puducherry 1,389, Karaikal 215, Yanam 102 and Mahe 33. Puducherry logged 225 new cases from 8,185 tests, followed by Karaikal (20), Yanam (eight) and Mahe (eight). The test positivity rate was 3.19 %, case fatality rate 1.5% and recovery rate 95.95%. The active cases stood at 2,970 with 493 patients in hospitals and 2,477 in home isolation. Meanwhile, 28 healthcare workers, 13 frontline staff and 6,886 members of the public took the COVID-19 vaccines in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/261-new-cases-5-deaths-recorded-in-ut/article34982394.ece
26 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Inflow to Mettur dam increases||The inflow to Mettur dam increased from Wednesday following rains in the catchment areas of the dam and discharge from Kabini and KRS dams in Karnataka. According to the Public Works Department officials, the water level at the dam on Friday was 88.98 ft against a total scale of 120 ft. The stored capacity was 51,493 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 8,035 cusecs. The discharge from the dam to River Cauvery was 10,000 cusecs. While the dam received an inflow of 2,376 cusecs on Wednesday, it increased to 7,492 cusecs on Thursday. Chief Minister M.K.Stalin raised the shutters of the dam for Kuruvai cultivation in delta region on June 12 this year. According to officials, 10,000 cusecs would be released during the month of June and it would be gradually increased to 16,000 cusecs in July. In the month of August, 18,000 cusecs would be released based on requirement from farmers. About 5,22,000 acres of land would benefit from the water discharge. In 2020, on the corresponding day, the water level at the dam was 94.33 ft and the stored capacity was 57,741 mcft. The dam received an inflow of 1,435 cusecs of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-to-mettur-dam-increases/article34982432.ece
26 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman petitions Collector alleging irregularities in husband’s death summary||A young woman, who reportedly lost her husband to COVID-19, petitioned the District Collector here on Friday stating that the reason for her husband’s death was not mentioned as COVID-19 in the death summary and requested the authorities to take necessary action. The petition submitted by S. Prabhadevi, a private college employee, stated that her husband Nandhakumar (34) died without responding to COVID-19 treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in May. Nandhakumar had a COVID-19 severity score of 14/25 in CT-scan and was undergoing treatment at home. He reportedly suffered from breathlessness and was rushed to GMKMCH for treatment. However, as there was no vacant bed, he was provided oxygen support at the out-patient ward and he subsequently died, the petition alleged. However, the death summary issued by the hospital mentioned the cause of death as some other illness. The petitioner said that she has a 6-year-old girl child and was dependent on the relief schemes announced by governments for the education of the child. She requested the district administration to take necessary action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-petitions-collector-alleging-irregularities-in-husbands-death-summary/article34982428.ece
26 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||133 vaccination centres in Salem||Vaccination drive will be conducted at 133 centres in the district on Saturday. Health officials said 16,020 doses had been allotted for vaccination. According to a release, 220 Covaxin doses have been allotted for differently-abled persons, 14,530 Covishield doses for the public and 1,270 doses for differently-abled persons. A total of 100 vaccination centres would be set up in rural areas and 33 centres in Salem Corporation limits, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/133-vaccination-centres-in-salem/article34982426.ece
26 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA to develop new device to ascertain blood glucose level||SASTRA Deemed University is all set to develop a device in collaboration with the industry, to ascertain blood glucose levels in the human body using the electrochemical biosensor invented by it. The Centre for Nanotechnology and Advanced Biomaterials (CeNTAB), School of Electrical and Electronics Engineering and the School of Chemical and Biotechnology of the University came together and undertook a research project in 2014 to identify biomarkers which could help decode the main cause behind the onset of the metabolic disorder – diabetes. The research led to the invention of an electrochemical biosensor for the rapid detection of methylglyoxal (MG) in blood plasma and correlation of its concentration with diabetes. MG has been considered as one of the emerging biomarkers in detecting the onset of diabetes mellitus and related complications. Subsequently, the University applied for a patent in the same year and received the patent certificate earlier this month for the Methylglyoxal Biosensor invented by it. In the meantime, the University submitted a project proposal to carry out clinical studies to detect MG in diabetic and pre-diabetic stages and this was sanctioned by the Science Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi. After two years of investigations, the research team comprising Dr. John Bosco Balaguru Rayappan of CeNTAB and Dr. Srinivasan Vedantham of the School of Chemical and Biotechnology, collected the data and validated the sensor performance concerning the ELISA data and submitted the report. As the results were encouraging, the University has decided to develop the biosensor as a point-of-care device for the rapid detection of MG levels in blood plasma in collaboration with the industry, according to official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-to-develop-new-device-to-ascertain-blood-glucose-level/article34982815.ece
26 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Deiva Tamizh Peravai’s plea||Deiva Tamizh Peravai has sought amelioration of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department so as to prevent intervention of politicians in its activities. Addressing the media here on Thursday, its coordinator P. Maniarasan said that it had become imperative to reform the department to safeguard properties and funds of temples and to ensure that the funds were utilised for charitable activities and for performing pujas and festivals in temples with lesser or nil income. Urging the government to constitute a committee headed by a retired Judge with exposure to the Tamil Hindu religion to suggest reforms to be effected in the department, he said that the panel’s suggestions must be implemented. Stating that separate training schools for Sanskrit ‘pusagars/archakgars’ should also be instituted, he said the 200 persons belonging to different castes who had been trained must be appointed in the temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deiva-tamizh-peravais-plea/article34982811.ece
26 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Chamber plea for further relaxations||The Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Thanjavur, has urged the State government to consider further relaxations of the lockdown restrictions with riders in order to help save the industrial and business establishments. Pointing out that business stocks are the capital reserve and keeping the units closed for a long time will make the units cash-starved and affect the debit and credit cycle, the chamber in a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister, M.K.Stalin has pleaded for further relaxation of lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-plea-for-further-relaxations/article34982817.ece
26 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||75 out of 89 petitions cleared immediately||Seventy-five out of 89 petitions received at the `jamabandhi’ held under the supervision of the Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver at Budalur Taluk Office on June 25 were settled immediately. According to an official release, the Collector cleared six petitions seeking name transfer in the priceless house site pattas and 69 petitions relating to social security schemes after verifying the supporting documents. He inspected the paddy procurement process at the `Pudhu Kariyapatti’ direct purchase centre in Sengipatti taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75-out-of-89-petitions-cleared-immediately/article34982818.ece
26 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘Transfer murder case to CB-CID’||The Director General of Police should transfer the murder case of Dalit activist of Cumbum here to the CB-CID, said A Kathir, executive director, Evidence, an NGO based in Madurai. He told reporters that a fact-finding team visited Cumbum where Thirunavukarasu, 35, was murdered by two persons. The police have registered a case against the two but there were attempts to dilute the issue. ‘The police were keen to project that the two had committed the murder in an inebriated condition.’ The team felt that the two might have been directed to kill Thirunavukarasu as he always stood for the welfare of Dalits. He did not prefer out of court settlements or other methods in cases of usury or abuse against girls or women. He believed in the judiciary. The government should examine the profile of the accused and take action. The victim’s family should be given Rs. 8.25 lakh as compensation under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. The government should give Rs. 15 lakh more to the family and take care of education of his 6-year-old daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transfer-murder-case-to-cb-cid/article34982767.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Women Help Desks set up in 32 police stations in three districts||Women Help Desks have been established in 32 police stations in Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts to provide emergency services to women in distress and deal with complaints relating to crimes against women. Sanctioned from the Nirbhaya Fund, each Women Help Desk has been provided with two women police personnel: one Woman Sub Inspector or a Woman Head Constable and a Woman Police Constable. The help desk in Pudukottai district has been created in 20 police stations, including five All Women Police Stations. The police stations in Pudukottai district where the help desks have been created include Pudukottai Town, Ganesh Nagar, Alangudi, Aranthangi, Ponnamaravathi, Viralimalai, Keeranur, Avudaiyarkoil, Vadakadu and Gandarvakottai. The help desk has been set up in eight police stations, including two All Women Police Stations in Ariyalur district. In Perambalur district, the help desks have been set up in three law and order police stations and one All Women Police Station. Every help desk has been provided with a two-wheeler for the women police personnel to visit the spot and conduct inquiry in case of receipt of information relating to crimes against women and initiate necessary legal action besides attending to those in distress and requiring emergency services. Separate orientation classes were organised by the police authorities for women police personnel attached with the help desk in the three districts by also involving other stakeholders connected with ensuring safety of women. The help desks would be the first point of contact for any affected woman approaching a police station seeking remedy, said a police officer. It would provide a conducive atmosphere for the victim to express their grievances to women police personnel, the officer added. Personnel of the help desk, which would function round-the-clock, would also attend to grievances received through the dedicated helpline numbers 181 and 112. It would coordinate with other stakeholders, including the Social Welfare Department, Health Department, Labour Department and Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women for providing emergency medical assistance to victims of violence, shelter and for providing skill development for rehabilitation depending on the requirement. The help desk would also provide counselling to the victims to help them in overcoming the trauma, the officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-help-desks-set-up-in-32-police-stations-in-three-districts/article34982823.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Enrolment of children in P.U. schools goes up||The Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Department that has sustained supply of dry rations and eggs for families of free noon meal beneficiaries in schools in view of the persisting pandemic situation will have to increase allotment for every school this year in all likelihood, teachers say. Enrolment of children in rural parts in panchayat union schools is on the rise as many parents, due to the setback caused to their economic conditions by the lockdown, are shifting their wards from self-financed institutions to the panchayat union schools, according to a senior teacher of a government school. The need for teachers to go on door-to-door canvassing has been obviated this year owing to the inclination of parents in villages to admit their wards in government schools, he said. Rajendran, secretary of the Tiruchi district unit of Tamil Nadu Noon Meal Workers’ Association, said that for the last one year, the family of each child had been provided with dry rations every month. Children in Classes I to V were given the dry rations on the basis of 40 grams of dal and 100 grams of rice per day. For those from Classes VI to VIII, 56 grams of dal and 150 grams of rice were given. Once a month, 10 eggs were given per child. The School Education Department would also have to provide freebies to higher number of students in view of the rise in enrolment, school heads said. According to a headmaster of a panchayat union school, the enrolment would witness a growth this year, also because parents have realised that there is no point in paying exorbitant fee to private schools for conduct of online classes. Government school teachers are also doing their part to keep the students engaged through WhatsApp groups. For once, the level-playing field caused by the COVID-19 pandemic is a heartening factor, he said.  Parents have realised that there is no point in paying exorbitant fee to private schools for conduct of online classes Headmaster of a school||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enrolment-of-children-in-pu-schools-goes-up/article34982805.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 900 fresh COVID-19 cases||The central districts on Friday reported 900 fresh cases of COVID-19. The number of deaths reported too witnessed a significant decline. As many as 24 patients died. All districts reported less than 10 deaths. Seven patients died in Tiruchi district. Nagapattinam recorded five deaths, while Tiruvarur and Thanjavur reported four each. Three patients died in Ariyalur district, while one died in Perambalur. No deaths were reported in both Karur and Perambalur districts. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region with 277 patients reporting positive. The district has continued to report a significant dip in numbers over the last few weeks and has reported less than 300 cases for the first time since April. In Tiruchi district, 220 patients tested positive, while Nagapattinam reported 97 fresh cases. Pudukottai reported 73, while Tiruvarur reported 72. Meanwhile, Karur reported 69 fresh cases. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had only 22 ICU beds vacant, and Pudukottai, 17. Karur had increased its ICU- bed vacancy to 71, Tiruvarur had 68, Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 271 and 199 beds vacant, respectively. Ariyalur recorded 59 fresh COVID-19 cases, while Perambalur district reported 33. Meanwhile, Perambalur had 40 vacant ICU beds, and Ariyalur 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-900-fresh-covid-19-cases/article34982821.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Meet this ‘garden doctor’||A city-based gastroenterologist has set an example by transforming the roadsides into gardens, thereby changing the outlook of the residential locality where he lives. When K. Sridharan, a native of Mayiladuthurai, moved to an apartment at State Bank Officers’ Colony on Lawsons Road in Cantonment about 13 years ago, the roadsides were barren with boulders, gravel and blue metal dumped by construction companies. Now the streets sport greenery and a pleasant look with the well-grown garden thanks to the hard work and commitment of Dr. Sridharan, 62. Besides raising about 100 pot plants around the apartment complex, he has raised a number of flower plants in two out of four streets in the colony. He tills the ground, clear weeds and supply water both in the mornings and evenings. He spends at least two hours on weekdays and four hours on holidays. “It gives me an immense satisfaction. Except my working hours, I love to spend time in raising the roadside gardens,” says Dr. Sridharan who works in a private hospital. He has raised ‘maramalli,’ ‘magizham,’ ‘Parijatham,’ ‘arali,’ ‘vilvam,’ ‘nandhiavittai,’ and other varieties. His meticulous and sincere work has earned him accolades among the residents of the colony. Some fondly call him ‘garden doctor.’ “I am happy that my passion has motivated other residents in my locality to raise plants. I am trying to raise roadside gardens on all streets,” Dr. Sridharan says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-this-garden-doctor/article34982813.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Student writes to Chief Minister seeking access to extra-curricular activities||A young student of the Panchayat Union Middle School, Koppampatti has written a letter to the Chief Minister and the School Education Minister seeking their intervention in conducting extra-curricular classes in rural government schools. These classes would provide an all-around development for the students, the child said. M.V. Mahapatanjali, a Class 5 student, took it upon himself to convey the needs of the students in Koppampatti, Thuraiyur after attending various Grama Sabha meetings. "My father is a regular attendee and I would accompany him to these meetings and see people voicing out their problems and seeking resolution. I realised that the Chief Minister is our representative and I could express our needs to him," he said. He wrote a letter addressed to the CM asking for smart classes in their classrooms and regular classes for music, dance, arts, and yoga among others. "These classes would create a happy environment and would allow us to learn things other than our syllabus," Mahapatanjali said. He said that it was the arts which would allow children to showcase their hidden talents. "While we all study well, each student might have a special skill which goes unrecognised," he added. Mahapatanjali hopes to receive a positive response from the ministers. His father, M. Venkatesan, a junior training officer at an Industrial Training Institute, encouraged Mahapatanjali to write to the CM. "I see parents taking hefty loans to enrol their children to private schools solely for access to extra-curricular activities. Why can't our government schools provide it to the children?" he asked. Through these classes, the students would learn how to interact with the outside world, Mr. Venkatesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-writes-to-chief-minister-seeking-access-to-extra-curricular-activities/article34982820.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||ACP envisages 5.61% rise in credit flow||The annual credit plan (ACP) for Tiruchi district envisages a credit flow of at Rs. 10,090.85 crore during 2021-22, an increase of Rs. 536.34 crore (5.61%) over the previous financial year. Agriculture and allied activities have been allotted the lion’s share of Rs. 5619.17 crore, while MSME’s have been earmarked Rs. 1,686.52 crore. The ACP envisages education loan advances to the tune of Rs. 490.71 crore and Rs. 1,335.09 crore for housing. Renewable energy sources has been allotted Rs. 91.67 crore and social infrastructure Rs. 170.14 crore. The other priority sector advances is projected at Rs. 697.55 crore. The ACP, prepared by the Indian Overseas Bank, the lead bank of the district, in tune with the Potential Linked Credit Plan of NABARD, was released on Thursday by Collector S. Sivarasu in the presence of K. Velayutham, Senior Regional Manager, IOB, and S. Gangadharan, Assistant General Manager. Mr. Sivarasu urged banks to allocate more for medium and long term agriculture credit, SHGs and MSME sector. R. Shankar, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency; N. M. Mohan Karthik, District Development Manager, NABARD; G.Sathiyanarayanan, Lead District Manager, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/acp-envisages-561-rise-in-credit-flow/article34982814.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||College teachers advocate 10-minute break between virtual classroom sessions||College teachers who are bracing up for conduct of online classes for the odd semester of 2021-22 advocate a 10-minute break in between virtual classroom sessions. The break is necessary since enormous strain is caused to the eyes fixated on the screens for both students and teachers, according to the college faculty. The break was necessary for getting over the discomfort caused by the continuous physical strain, David Livingston, Zonal Secretary of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers' Association, said. The TNGCTA, in its list of suggestions to the Higher Education Department for fine-tuning the online teaching-learning process, has mooted apportioning of 30 classroom sessions spread over six working days in a week. There should be a maximum of three virtual classrooms per day, totalling a maximum of 18 hours per week. The remaining 12 hours could be conducted through asynchronous mode: off-line teaching through digital means such as e-contents / videos / power points / study material / reference links to certified academic portals such as NCERT, e-Pathasala, etc., posted in students' learning portal (Google Classroom or College website or WhatsApp or other suitable platform), the TNGCTA has emphasised. As per its suggestions, the course teacher will provide the students with the relevant study material for e-resource based learning. The virtual classes for the entire odd semester could be conducted for 15 weeks (90 working days) which include conduct of tests, revision and related academic works. For effective implementation of online teaching-learning process, it is recommended to teach 60% of the syllabus through live online classes and 40% through e-resource-based learning. The practical component has been planned for completion using online live or pre-recorded demonstrations, YouTube Videos or using virtual lab software, according to the TNGCTA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-teachers-advocate-10-minute-break-between-virtual-classroom-sessions/article34982808.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Octogenarian researcher passes away||G. Ganapathy, 82-year-old physician who received his doctorate degree from National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi last year, over two decades after retiring from government service as Joint Director of Medical Services, passed away on Friday. Dr. Ganapathy's doctorate degree on 'Applications of Machine Learning Algorithms in Health Care' featured developing models for early and quick diagnosis of breast cancer and lower back pain. He investigated the applicability of conventional machine learning techniques and artificial neural networks as predictive tools for health care in any situation, especially during the current pandemic. He is survived by his 80-year-old wife G. Krishnaveni, son Gopinath Ganapathy, Registrar, Bharathidasan University, and daughter Booma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/octogenarian-researcher-passes-away/article34982809.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Trains extended to run||Southern Railway has announced that the Mysore - Mayiladuthurai daily festival special (Train No. 06232) has been extended to run from July 1 until further advice. The Mayiladuthurai - Mysore daily festival special (Train No. 06231) has been extended to run from July 2 until further advice, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-extended-to-run/article34982824.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Smart City work in Tirunelveli bags third place||The Tirunelveli Smart City Limited has bagged the third place in the entire country among the smart cities selected in the third round of the prestigious project being implemented by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. While Dehradun, capital of Uttarakhand, and Sagar of Madhya Pradesh have bagged the first and second places respectively, Tirunelveli has won the third place among the cities selected for the project. Apart from Tirunelveli, Erode is the only other city from Tamil Nadu in the entire list of winners, which was selected in the fourth round. Interestingly, Tirupur and Vellore that won all-India rankings in the past have not figured in the rankings released on Friday in Mumbai by Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri. Indore and Surat have become the overall winners by bagging the first and second places in the overall category comprising the cities selected in all four rounds. The Tirunelveli Corporation, which was selected as one of the 100 ‘Smart Cities’ in the country only in the third round, climbed up the ranking ladder to reach the 16th position in the entire country in 2019 following the third phase of assessment of the progress achieved on the projects getting executed under the scheme. The Tirunelveli Smart City Limited, the special purpose vehicle floated for implementing the smart city projects on an outlay of Rs. 940 crore for the holistic development of the city, proposed to construct a trade centre at the Exhibition Ground opposite the Corporation’s administrative office, reconstruct the Tirunelveli Junction bus-stand and create a truck terminal at Pettai. Since Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts, all fall under the ‘influence area’ around the upcoming project (influence area up to 100 km), do not have a spacious hall for organising conventions or expositions though they house good number of industries, the corporation has proposed to construct the trade centre on the 7.44-acre Exhibition Grounds on an outlay of Rs. 56.71 crore. More than 74% of the physical work of this project that was started in 2019 has been completed. Another outlay of Rs. 79 crore has been earmarked for recreating the 62-year-old Tirunelveli junction bus-stand with modern amenities. Since the corporation has proposed to construct an ultra-modern bus-stand at Tirunelveli Junction, the existing dingy structure has been removed. Besides having basement parking to accommodate over 106 cars and 1,629 bikes, the new bus terminus will have 27 bays and 144 shops in the ground plus three floor shopping mall. The new bus-stand, which is expected to generate annual net revenue of Rs. 1.87 crore after expenditures, will be completed within 18 months. Around 69% of this work has been completed. While more than 75% of the work of new bus-stand has been completed, the Palaayamkottai bus-stand will be handed over for operation in August this year while work on the construction of shops around this bus terminus will take some more time. Though work on the Nehru Open Theatre was started in belated fashion, more than 60% of this work has been completed. As the entry of heavy vehicles proceeding to destinations in Kerala from Thoothukudi and the trucks from Madurai to Nagercoil have to cross Tirunelveli in the absence of ring road on the western side of the city, a truck terminal was planned at Pettai. As the truck terminal has been commissioned, it has greatly reduced the entry of heavy vehicles in the city. Besides, the Tirunelveli Smart City Limited earmarked funds for modernising drinking water distribution, traffic regulation, streetlights, roads, technology-based infrastructure development etc. “This is a recognition given by the Union Government for our team effort. Though the pandemic-induced lockdown affected our work a lot, we are determined to show significant progress and complete the projects at the earliest,” said V. Narayanan Nair, Chief Executive Officer, Tirunelveli Smart City Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-work-in-tirunelveli-bags-third-place/article34982769.ece
26 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Sudanese national held for overstaying his visa||The Perumanallur police on Friday arrested a Sudanese national at Kanakkampalayam village here, in connection with visa term violations. Police said that Mohammed Al-Mamoon Khalid (22) from Khartoum, Sudan, had travelled to Coimbatore with a tourist visa in 2018. He allegedly overstayed his visa after its expiry in February 2019. On Friday noon, as he was returning to Coimbatore from Erode, he stopped near Perumanallur to refuel his two-wheeler, when some people informed the police about him. Upon confirming that his visa had expired, the police booked him. He was sent to Puzhal prison in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudanese-national-held-for-overstaying-his-visa/article34982435.ece
26 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Expert committee to decide on Rivaldo’s release||An eight-member expert committee, set up to decide on the fate of elephant Rivaldo, who is kept in a kraal (elephant shelter) for treatment, will decide whether the animal can be released into the wild. K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), on Friday said the committee, comprising veterinarians, conservationists and wildlife biologists, would decide on the future treatment of the elephant for its “general health, tackling trunk infirmity and eye problem,” as well as aspects relating to whether it could be released back into the wild. Mr. Kaushal said the panel had been given three weeks to submit its recommendations, and added that he was pushing for the report’s submission to be expedited. Request to CM BJP MP and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi has written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, calling for the elephant’s immediate release. Ms. Gandhi said there was nothing wrong with the elephant, and that he was “healthy”, and the campaign to capture him was started by a person from Bangaluru, who recently settled in the tiger reserve. She also added that the Madras High Court had passed orders to release the animal and not to take it into captivity permanently. The animal rights activist said that the elephant had been in captivity for 50 days, and the “harmless” animal, who had not injured anyone or had any problematic interaction with people in the area, was being needlessly subject to training for being turned into a captive elephant. Ms. Gandhi said 10,000 people living in the region had signed a petition calling for the animal’s immediate release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expert-committee-to-decide-on-rivaldos-release/article34982370.ece
26 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kumki ‘blinded’ by mahout’s assistant at Theppakadu||Cheran, a kumki elephant at the Theppakadu camp, was blinded by a ‘kaavadi’, or assistant to its mahout, on May 17. The elephant, aged around 35, has been used in many operations to capture or drive away wild elephants in the Western Ghats. It had already lost sight in one eye and depended on the left eye for vision, officials said. It has been alleged that Cheran was being given commands at the camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) when the injury occurred. Activists have alleged that mahout Ravi had informally handed over the responsibility of training the elephant to a person who was known to him, but not on the payroll of the Forest Department. But MTR Field Director K.K. Kaushal dismissed the charge. He said it was the assistant to the mahout that had inflicted the injury on the elephant. “The incident happened on May 17 and a report has been filed. Disciplinary action has been initiated against the forest staff in question, and strict action will be taken,” he said. It is unclear if the injury has rendered Cheran blind. “I will be conducting a thorough investigation, and veterinarians will also ascertain the severity of the injury and see if any course of treatment can be provided to restore eyesight to the animal,” Mr. Kaushal said. The injury has again raised questions about the treatment of captive elephants at Theppakadu. In September 2019, John, a captive elephant at the camp, was videotaped being hit by mahouts, who were seen throwing sticks and stones at the animal to control it. The Forest Department has maintained that it is one of the most humane elephant camps in the country, with captive elephants enjoying a much better quality of life than anywhere else. A conservationist from the Nilgiris said some force is required to keep any elephant under control. “At the end of the day, elephants are wild animals, which can only be controlled and trained by use of force... Kumkis, especially, are treated very harshly to obey complex commands so that they can be used in operations by the Forest Department. It is very important for people to remember that all captive elephants, which are in camps and temples, are kept in check with at least some kind of force, and at times, the use of such force can lead to injuries. These are moral and philosophical questions, which are connected to keeping elephants in captivity,” he said.  Activists have said that mahout Ravi informally handed over the responsibility of training the elephant to a person who was known to him, but not on the payroll of the Forest Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kumki-blinded-by-mahouts-assistant-at-theppakadu/article34982374.ece
26 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Q-branch SSI arrested for woman’s murder||The Nilgiris district police on Friday arrested a Special Sub-Inspector attached to the Q-branch CID police for the murder of a 51-year-old woman at Khandal in Udhagamandalam. The victim was identified as P. Mahi, a resident of Khandal. According to the police, Mahi had been recently discharged from a hospital after contracting COVID-19. The woman and the accused, Mustafa (55), had visited a guest house together on Thursday night. The two had reportedly consumed alcohol before an argument broke out between them. Mustafa is suspected to have assaulted Mahi resulting in her death. Sources said that Mustafa wrapped the body in a bedsheet and left it at her house on Friday morning, claiming that she died from COVID-19. The family of the deceased, suspecting foul play, informed the Nilgiris district police. A case of suspicious death was registered by the police on Friday and it was later modified to murder. Mustafa surrendered before the local village administrative officer and was arrested by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/q-branch-ssi-arrested-for-womans-murder/article34982437.ece
26 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine to be administered in the Nilgiris today||The Nilgiris district administration has released a list of hospitals and schools where Covishield vaccine will be available on Saturday. Schools Vaccines will be administered at the Shanthi Vijai school in Udhagamandalam, Breeks School (Ooty), Rex School (Ooty), St. Joseph’s School (Ooty), Saint Mary’s Higher Secondary School (Gudalur), Government Hospital in Pandalur, Government boys higher secondary school (Manjoor), and Saint Anthony’s School (Kotagiri). The vaccine will be administered in the Primary Health Centres in Cherambadi, Gudalur town, Nelliyalam town, Nilakottai, O-Valley, Masinagudi, Sholur Mattam, Aravenu, Theppakadu, Ayyankolli, Ambalamoola, Srimadurai, Kolapalli, Uppatty and Kodanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-to-be-administered-in-the-nilgiris-today/article34982425.ece
26 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||13,051 persons vaccinated||As many as 13,051 persons were inoculated in the district on Thursday. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine was administered to 3,12,530 persons till date and 74,138 of them have got their second dose. On June 22, 3,817 got vaccine and 6,743 persons got vaccine on June 23. This included vaccination at doorsteps of 233 differently-abled persons and 98 of their family members, 50 leprosy patients, 1,201 workers of various industrial units, 297 lactating mothers, one HIV-infected person, 426 persons involved in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Besides, 153 government employees, 175 teachers, 179 traders and 467 persons from crowded places were given the vaccination, he said. Based on supply of vaccine doses, more doses would be stocked in places where the demand is more and people would be inoculated through special camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13051-persons-vaccinated/article34982770.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shopping complexes, malls to open in Chennai and neighbouring districts||No permission has been granted for cinema halls and gaming centres. All places of worship in these four districts will be allowed to open in compliance with the Standard Operating Procedure. However, special prayers (‘archanai’), functions and consecration will not be allowed. Sports academies and training centres will be allowed to function on open grounds, but without any audience, between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. All shops and establishments already opened in these districts have been allowed till 7 p.m. In 23 districts under category-II, intra- and inter-district bus transport with 50% of seating and without air-conditioning will be allowed. All private offices will be allowed to function with 50% of their staff. Roadside eateries will be allowed for takeaways between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. Shops offering servicing and sale of mobile phones, computer hardware and software and spare parts of electronic appliances will be allowed between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. In all except 11 districts (Coimbatore, Erode, Karur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Salem, Thanjavur, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur and Tiruvarur identified as category-I districts), the following relaxations have been allowed. All government offices, other industries, banks and ATM services and insurance companies will be allowed to function with 100% of their staff. IT and ITES companies will be allowed only with 50% of staff. Gymnasiums and yoga centres will be allowed to open with 50% of their capacity but without air-conditioning. Entry into museums and protected monuments will be allowed between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Housekeeping and security services will be allowed without e-registration. In category-I districts, tea shops will be allowed but only for takeaways between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. In the case of eateries, restaurants, bakeries and e-commerce services, the timing will be between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. Beauty parlours and salons will be allowed without air-conditioning between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. but only with 50% of customers at a time. All essential government departments and sub-registrar offices will function with 100% of their workers. Schools, colleges, universities and training centres will be allowed to undertake admission activities. Government parks and those under the control of the local bodies and sports grounds will be allowed for training between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. Stationery, electrical, footwear, hardware and fancy shops and those offering video, photography and photocopy services will be allowed between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. Sweet and savoury shops will be allowed between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. E-Seva centres will function. Service centres for home appliances and those servicing vehicles will be allowed between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. Roadside eateries and establishments selling construction materials in these 11 districts will be allowed between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. All essential government departments will be allowed with 100% workers. All private offices and establishments will be allowed to function with 50% staff in these 11 districts. IT and ITES companies will be allowed only with 20% staff. “All kinds of construction activities will be allowed,” the order said. Shooting for films and television serials will be allowed after RT-PCR tests but only with a maximum of 100 artists. People will be allowed on all beaches between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shopping-complexes-malls-to-open-in-chennai-and-neighbouring-districts/article34982380.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 698 new cases, 26 deaths||Coimbatore district reported 698 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 2,16,506. The Health Department reported 26 more deaths taking the toll to 1,994. As many as 6,721 active cases were present in the district and 1,199 patients were reported to have recovered on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 361 new cases and the total number of cases touched 80,789. A total of 13 new deaths took the overall toll to 736. The district had 2,135 active cases and reported the recovery of 462 patients on Friday. Erode district reported 597 new cases, taking the tally to 87,110. While 865 persons were discharged, 4,695 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 566. The daily cases dropped below the 400-mark in Salem on Friday as 398 cases were reported. As per bulletin, nine deaths were reported. In Namakkal, 228 cases and six deaths were reported. Krishnagiri recorded 139 new cases and two deaths. The total number of cases in the district stood at 1,147 as of Friday. Dharmapuri recorded 102 fresh cases and one death. The total number of cases in the district was 817. In the Nilgiris, 132 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 27,858. The toll stood at 155 while 782 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-698-new-cases-26-deaths/article34982418.ece
26 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Priority is not to discuss CM candidate’||“Our priority is to defeat the BJP, not to fight over the next Chief Ministerial candidate,” Congress leader and MLC S.R. Patil said in Belagavi on Friday. ‘There is some talk of differences between Congress leaders over who will be the next Chief Minister. This is baseless. There are no differences among our leaders. Our first priority is to defeat the BJP in the coming polls and not to discuss about aspirants for the Chief Minister’s post,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priority-is-not-to-discuss-cm-candidate/article34982552.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Task force to be set up to look into resuming offline classes||The State government has decided to constitute a task force that will explore options for reopening classes on campus in schools . This was decided at a meeting held by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Friday with department officials, non-government organisations, and academicians. After much deliberation, it was decided that resuming physical classes should be the first priority. If that is not possible, the alternative will be to restart the Vidyagama programme for all schools in the State where teachers can meet with students in small groups in their neighbourhoods. Although everyone at the meeting batted for resuming offline classes in a phased manner, many suggested that the Vidyagama programme can be conducted in schools that do not have the infrastructure to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed. The department has also decided that State board schools will follow a Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) method where evaluation will be conducted every three months, six months, and on a yearly basis. Mr. Suresh Kumar said that the department officials met to discuss the recommendations made by the government appointed committee for the prevention and management of the third wave of COVID-19. “Many of the stakeholders said that there was a need to restart Vidyagama and several other opinions were received. We will be constituting a task force to decide about reopening offline classes,” he said. Some of the experts suggested unlocking schools in a phased manner, similar to how districts were unlocked based on the positivity rate of COVID 19 infections. However, Mr. Suresh Kumar added that before taking any decision to resume the offline classes, they would consult the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Department officials said that all this will be discussed at a videoconference scheduled by the Minister with District Commissioners, Chief Executive Officers, and District Health Officers next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/task-force-to-be-set-up-to-look-into-resuming-offline-classes/article34982319.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka sees huge rise in infected children during second wave||Karnataka has recorded a significant rise in the number of children infected since March 2021, when the surge in cases of COVID-19 began in second wave. According to data from the State COVID-19 War Room, 58,818 children between 0 and 9 years and 1,49,111 between 10 and 19 years tested positive from March 9 till June 23, 2021. The figures from March 8, 2020 till March 8, 2021 were 27,646 and 65,677, respectively. Regarding deaths , while 28 children between 0 and 9 years and 46 between 10 and 19 years succumbed to the virus between March 8, 2020, and March 8, 2021, the numbers from March 9, 2021 till June 23 is 34 and 42, respectively. Paediatric experts said although children can get infected and can transmit it to others, they are at a much lower risk compared to older adults. Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is the lowest in children in these age groups. A high-level expert committee set up to analyse, advise, and control the third wave of COVID-19 has estimated that around 3.4 lakh out of the total 2.3 crore population in the 0-18 age group might get infected during the peak of the third wave. The 13-member panel , headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty, has said that, based on projections by the IISc., 80%-85% of children are likely to suffer a mild infection (asymptomatic) and only about 2% may need intensive care. ‘Less likely to get infected’ Chikkanarasa Reddy, professor of Paediatrics at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, said children are less likely to get infected after contact with a COVID-19 patient as they have ACE2 receptors (the main receptor for the entry of the virus into human cells) with a lower affinity for SARS-CoV-2. “Even if they get infected, they do not develop a severe form of disease,” he said, adding that there were no deaths among the over 100 children in his hospital. ‘Added protective factor’ Asha Benekappa, former director of the State-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, said children do not tend to develop a severe form of the disease because their immunological system is intact and active. “Except for 5%-10%, children do not have comorbidities, which is an added protective factor. Moreover, as all childhood vaccines are live viral vaccines, they are more protected,” she said. “This pattern is strikingly different to that for infection with most other respiratory viruses, for which both the prevalence and severity are higher in children. However, the number of other infections too reduced in children during this pandemic. COVID-19 precautions helped check other infections,” said Dr. Benekappa, who now heads the Department of Paediatrics at Dr. Chandramma Dayananda Sagar Institute of Medical Education and Research. Need to upgrade V. Ravi, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and chairman of the State Genomic Surveillance Committee, said it is essential to upgrade government hospitals with paediatric facilities and train fraternity. “It is true that the number of children manifesting serious illness is low. But, we should not be caught unawares. What if there is a new mutation that can infect children the most?” he asked, cautioning that most district hospitals have no paediatricians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-sees-huge-rise-in-infected-children-during-second-wave/article34982323.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tourism places in State to be opened for public next week||All tourism places in Karnataka, which are closed owing to the pandemic, will be opened for visitors from next week. Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar on Friday said the tourism sector had suffered a lot, and with number of cases declining, it was decided that tourism places could be opened for the public. At a press conference here, he said Rs. 185 crore would be spent on providing better facilities for tourists at the world famous Jog Falls in Shivamogga district. Tenders had been called and Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. would execute works at Jog Falls. During government holidays, water at the rate of 200 cusecs would be released from the Linganamakki reservoir to Jog Falls so that tourists can savour the magic of the falls. A 35-km waterway would be developed for attracting tourists from Kerala and Goa. Two new hotels would be constructed. Mr. Yogeshwar said three star hotels would be developed at Belur, Hampi, and Badami and foundation stones for building them would be laid soon. On the lines of ‘Brand Mysuru’,tourism would be developed in 10 districts. Development of heli tourism and coastal tourism were other priority areas of the department, he said.Mr. Yogeshwarhas urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance portfolio, to allocate Rs. 1,000 crore for tourism sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourism-places-in-state-to-be-opened-for-public-next-week/article34982343.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||App for tree census to be launched soon||Soon, citizens will be able to download an app and input details of trees in their premises or private property. The Forest Department, which has developed the app, believes this will help hasten the much-delayed tree census in the city. Trees are often the first casualty following moderate rain and gusty winds, necessitating a survey. The tree census that was to begin in 2019 has been delayed for various reasons, despite repeated raps from the High Court of Karnataka. The outbreak of COVID-19 is cited as one of the reasons for the delay in the tree census by both the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is to survey trees on public property, and the Forest Department’s Bengaluru Urban division, which is to enumerate trees on the premises of government institutions and private property. Sources told The Hindu that so far, over 81,000 trees in the city of an estimated two crore have been surveyed — more than 63,000 by the Forest Department and over 18,000 by the BBMP. The Forest Department has released eight volumes of the trees already surveyed by its officials. Deputy Conservator of Forests (Bengaluru Urban) S.S. Ravishankar said the department had developed an app with the Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd. (Keonics) to hasten the survey. The app is likely to be launched soon. It, he said, has a feature that will allow citizens to input details of trees on their premises, which will later be verified by forest officials. “The citizens can upload photo, GPS coordinates, and other details into the app.” Meanwhile, the BBMP, which had tied up with the Institute of Wood Science and Technology (IWST) for the tree census, is now corresponding with the Gandhi Krishi Vignana Kendra, University of Agricultural Sciences. BBMP Deputy Conservator of Forests H.C. Ranganathaswamy said that IWST was citing a lack of manpower and COVID-19 as reasons for not being able to take up the survey again. As per the agreement, IWST was to complete the survey in three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/app-for-tree-census-to-be-launched-soon/article34982298.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccine testing centre set up at IISc||A COVID-19 vaccine testing centre has been established at the viral Bio Safety Level-3 (BSL-3) facility at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research (CIDR), Indian Institute of Science (IISc). The centre will test solutions to tackle the pandemic — from vaccines and antivirals to materials and equipment — with the help of academic and industry partners. Tests will be conducted via a fee-for-service model, said IISc in a release on Friday. The vaccine testing centre has been funded by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council under the Department of Biotechnology (DBT-BIRAC). The lab has been helping industry partners in evaluating COVID-19 antibodies. “The DBT-BIRAC support will allow augmentation of the existing facility with high-end equipment and initial support for personnel operating the facility. Research will also be conducted to develop high-throughput assays for evaluating antivirals and vaccines against SARS-CoV-2,” said the release. In addition to SARS-CoV-2, this facility will also support the development of antivirals and vaccines against other viral pathogens responsible for diseases such as influenza, dengue, chikungunya and HIV through similar fee-for-service collaborations with academic and industry partners. Before the COVID-19 pandemic hit, the Division of Biological Sciences at IISc had commissioned the establishment of a dedicated viral BSL-3 facility at CIDR with funding from DBT-IISc partnership, to support research into highly pathogenic human viruses, said IISc in a press release. The construction of the facility was completed in October 2020 and it became operational in January 2021 with all the necessary Standard Operating Procedures. It was made available to academic labs (within and outside IISc) and the industry for training personnel and carrying out antiviral research, the release stated. “By February, the lab, which studies emerging viral pathogens, began working on establishing cell culture and animal models to study SARS-CoV-2 in the viral BSL-3 facility,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccine-testing-centre-set-up-at-iisc/article34982305.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bhupender Yadav met CM?||A reported meeting between Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and key party strategist Bhupender Yadav, which was followed by B.Y. Vijayendra’s daylong trip to New Delhi on Thursday, have raised eyebrows in political circles. Political circles are abuzz with speculation over the reported development, seeing this as a “message from the high command” following the recent exercise carried out by Arun Singh, in charge of party affairs in the State. While the Chief Minister’s detractors continue to predict and set new deadlines for his replacement, sources close to him maintain that the outcome had been “positive” and rubbish all rumours. Reports suggest BJP national general secretary Bhupender Yadav, considered to be close to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, made an unscheduled brief visit to the city and met the Chief Minister at a resort in Devanahalli on Wednesday. While a source close to the Chief Minister indicated that the meeting did take place, party sources denied any knowledge of it. Hours after this reported meeting, Mr. Vijayendra flew to Delhi on Thursday morning and returned to the city late night, triggering further speculation. Mr. Yadav was reported to have made a similar visit to the State in December 2020 when he is said to have consulted senior RSS leaders on the political situation. Not even the State unit of the party was kept in the loop, sources said. Shortly after his visit, the party high command had cleared the decks for the much-delayed Cabinet expansion in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhupender-yadav-met-cm/article34982335.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Corporates in Bengaluru push for COVID-19 vaccination||With the second wave of COVID-19 appearing to be on the wane, the focus has moved towards preparations for a third wave through infrastructure augmentation and vaccination. While awareness, and in turn the demand for vaccines, has picked up, more so after the window was opened to people in the 18-44 age bracket, private companies are coming forward, along with residents’ welfare and apartment associations, to facilitate vaccination for their staff. Hitachi ABB Power Grids in India, for instance, said 88% of its employees aged above 45 have been given the shot under a voluntary vaccination drive, and the facility has been extended to the rest of the staff as well now. “We are in touch with hospitals to conduct mass vaccination at our offices and factory sites, and are conducting a multi-channel employee awareness campaign on the vaccination drive,” said N. Venu, CEO and managing director, Hitachi ABB Power Grids in India. Ride-sharing app Ola said administration of the first dose of vaccination to over 50% of its employees and their dependants above 45 was completed in April, and a drive to vaccinate the rest began after the government opened up vaccination for everyone over the age of 18 in May. “The vaccination drive is live in Bengaluru, where a majority of Ola’s employees are based, and will expand to other cities in the coming weeks as the vaccine supplies improve,” the company said in a statement. It has partnered with hospitals and set up a vaccination camps within the campus. “This helps people avoid unnecessary exposure during hospital visits and also makes it super convenient as there is minimal waiting time.” Real estate firms too have been organising vaccination camps. Embassy Group rolled out a free vaccination drive for its employees across India from June 1, through which the company aimed to inoculate all 1,867 employees located in its offices in Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai, and the NCR. Puravankara rolled out an on-site vaccination programme at its Bengaluru office on June 5. The inoculation drive offerS safe, free-of-cost access to vaccine to all its employees and contractual staff as well as their family members. “Puravankara has partnered with multiple health service providers for the ongoing vaccination programme in Bengaluru. All the processes within the programme are strictly aligned with the State-mandated health regulations and local guidelines. By building on our partnership with local health bodies, we aim to protect our employees from COVID-19 as well as contribute towards the nationwide immunisation efforts,” said Ashish R. Puravankara, MD of Puravankara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corporates-in-bengaluru-push-for-covid-19-vaccination/article34982313.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID effect: Traffic at KIA plummets||The pandemic, subsequent lockdowns, countries prohibiting or restricting flights, and the impact on tourism and fear of travelling have taken a huge toll on passenger movement and air traffic at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). In 2020-21, which Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL) described as “unprecedented”, KIA saw its passenger traffic fall by 66%. In 2019-20, around 32.3 million passengers passed through KIA. The number plummeted to 10.91 million the following year. International routes, which saw four million passengers in 2019-20, were the worst affected, with KIA recording a decline of 90%. In 2020-21, only 0.46 million international passengers passed through the airport. Domestic travel, too, was hit. In a press release issued this week, BIAL stated that 10.45 million passengers flew domestic routes last financial year, recording a 63% drop, as compared to 27 million in 2019-20. Last year, KIA resumed domestic flight operations on May 25 after a gap of two months because of the lockdown. While passenger movement gradually started to rise, it plummeted again with the second wave of COVID-19. “This is mainly attributed to the continued suspension of international flights and COVID-19 restrictions across the globe. After showing signs of recovery during the middle of the fiscal year, the traffic dropped significantly with the rise in COVID-19 cases in India starting February 2021,” the BIAL said in the release. ATM down In the same period, air traffic movement (ATM) dropped by 50% — to 1,13,993 from 2,31,051 in 2019-20. While domestic movement saw a reduction of 49%, international traffic saw only 11,192 air traffic movements — lower by 61% in the last 311 days of operations, said the BIAL. Incidentally, according to BIAL, the pandemic had only a “marginal” impact on cargo operations. Cargo processed during 2020-21 was 3,26,643 MT — 12.7% short of last fiscal’s 3,74,181 MT. The domestic tonnage of 2020-21 was 1,19,125 MT — 20% short of the previous year’s tonnage — while the international was 2,07,518 MT (7% short). “Bengaluru airport was the only major airport in the country to reach 100% of the previous year’s tonnage on a year-on-year basis from September 2020 through January 2021. In March, it regained momentum, recording 34,401 MT — the highest in the last 31 months,” said BIAL.  After showing signs of recovery in the middle of the fiscal year, the traffic dropped with the rise in COVID-19 cases in India starting Feb. Bangalore International Airport Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-effect-traffic-at-kia-plummets/article34982311.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Innovation award for Index App||The city’s Index App, which was developed following the outbreak of COVID-19, has been recognised for using technology to set up the COVID-19 war room. It has been adjudged the winner in the third round of the COVID-19 Innovation Award in the India Smart Cities Awards Contest (ISAC) 2020. The results of ISAC 2020 along with Climate Smart CitiesAssessment Results 2.0 were announced by Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri in New Delhi on Friday. Bengaluru bagged three stars with an overall score of 1,271 out of 2,800. It fared fairly well and bagged three stars each in the areas of energy and green building (330/600) and urban planning, green cover and biodiversity (244/500). The city also bagged four stars in waste management (395/600), but fared poorly in the areas of mobility and air quality (two stars; 187/500) and water management (one star; 115/600). Tumakuru’s Digital Library Solution also bagged third place in ISAC 2020 under the social aspects category. P. Rajendra Cholan, managing director of Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. (BSCL), told The Hindu that the Index App was the main driver of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s COVID-19 war room. During the second wave, the app was integrated with all other applications, such as the Central Hospital Bed Management System, contact tracing app, the monitoring of those under home isolation, apart from the State war room. “This ensured that there was end-to-end information available at a click of a button. The system will stand in good stead for COVID-19 management during the third wave when that happens,” he said, adding that the State war room was now looking at adopting the Index App technology. About the overall score of three stars under the Climate Smart Cities Assessment Results 2.0, Mr. Cholan claimed Bengaluru had performed better than other Smart Cities in the country. As many as 54 Smart Cities were assessed on various parameters by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Other initiatives He added that a nodal officer was appointed from BSCL to collect details, documents and records from various stakeholders, including the BBMP and Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board, and submit the same for the assessment. “While it is a fair assessment of where the city stands, there are a lot of initiatives that have been taken already by the respective stakeholders and the State government that did not fit into the assessment criteria,” he pointed out, citing initiatives and projects already taken up under BengaluruMission 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/innovation-award-for-index-app/article34982297.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Report documents pandemic woes of transgender persons||The transgender community was one of the worst hit during the pandemic. Not only did members struggle with loss of income, they also faced discrimination and stigma that jeopardised access to relief and healthcare. But the community organised relief work and helped several vulnerable groups, including their own. These were some of the findings of a report published by the Alternative Law Forum (ALF) In their report, ‘Asserting Dignity in Times of COVID’, authors Rumi Harish and Sunil Mohan documented how the transgender community was mostly left out of relief measures initially. They were included after the community impleaded in a PIL petition before the High Court in April 2020. But even with this, the community faced several problems in accessing relief. The report foundthat one of the main hurdles was the insistence of ID proof, both by government and private relief workers, which most transgender persons did not have. Meanwhile, People Living with HIV in the community had their ART treatment cycles disrupted and faced several hurdles in accessing medicines. The lockdown pushed them into isolation, forcing them to spend time with their families who may not be sympathetic to them, causing mental health issues, as per the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/report-documents-pandemic-woes-of-transgender-persons/article34982303.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3,310 new cases, 114 deaths reported in State||Karnataka on Friday reported 3,310 new cases of COVID-19 and 114 deaths, taking the total caseload to 28,26,754 and toll to 34,539. Bengaluru Urban logged 614 new cases and 17 deaths. While the positivity rate stood at 2.09%, the case fatality rate was at 3.44%. The Health Department bulletin showed that the day also saw 6,524 patients discharged, pushing the total recoveries to 26,84,997. Cumulatively, 3,35,08,382 samples have been tested in the State so far, of which 1,58,072 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3310-new-cases-114-deaths-reported-in-state/article34982309.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CD scandal: ‘Ensure no closure reports by SIT’||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday asked the State Advocate-General to ensure that no closure report is filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on the probes into the criminal cases registered related to the CD scandal involving the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued oral direction to A-G Prabjuling K. Navadgi during the hearing of PIL petitions questioning legality of setting up the SIT and seeking transfer of probe to an independent agency. Though the SIT on June 18 told the court that its investigation was not yet complete into the two criminal cases — one registered based on Mr. Jarkiholi’s complaint and another on the complaint of the woman — the Bench issued oral direction to the A-G as the woman’s advocate expressed apprehension about possibility of the SIT filling closure reports. Meanwhile, the Bench passed the order tagging on the two independent petitions filed by the victim — one questioning legality of setting up the SIT on the instruction of the Home Minister, who acted on the plea of Mr. Jarkiholi, and another seeking quashing of a case registered on Mr. Jarkiholi’s complaint of extortion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cd-scandal-ensure-no-closure-reports-by-sit/article34982336.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Need for caution as cases surge in other States’||Given the surge in cases in Kerala and Maharashtra, Karnataka needs to be cautious and conduct more tests in border areas, said Health and Medical Education Minister K.Sudhakar, speaking to presspersons here on Friday. “We have instructed the district administration to conduct more tests in border areas,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “It is not appropriate to close borders. We need to be cautions at bus and railway stations.” He also said that there is no need to panic about the Delta Plus variant. “There are two cases of this variant, in Bengaluru and in Mysuru. Both the patients are having mild symptoms. The one in Mysuru is completely recovered. There was no severity in both the cases. Primary contacts of these cases have tested negative. Therefore, there is no need to panic about these virus. Genome sequencing is being done everyday to detect nee strains,” said the Minister. There is some difference in treatment protocol for Delta and Delta Plus variants. All these will be discussed with experts in the meeting with Chief Minister, he added||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-for-caution-as-cases-surge-in-other-states/article34982314.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIA arrests man in 2018 counterfeit note case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a person from Malda, a district bordering Bangladesh in West Bengal, in connection with a fake currency case registered in Bengaluru in 2018. The accused has been identified as Jahiruddin S.K., who hails from Murshidabad district, West Bengal. The Bengaluru city police had unearthed the case in Madanayakanahalli, on the outskirts of the city, on August 7, 2018, and recovered fake currency notes with a face value of Rs. 6.84 lakh in denominations of Rs. 2,000. Four persons were arrested. With cross-border links from Bangladesh emerging in the case, the NIA took over the case and re-registered an FIR in September 2018, and since then two more have been arrested. The agency has filed three charge-sheets against the six accused till date. Jahiruddin had been absconding until recently. “The investigation has revealed that the absconding accused was a close aide of the arrested, Abdul Kadir and Sabiruddin, who had procured the fake currency notes from their associates in Bangladesh and supplied them to their associates in India for circulation,” the NIA said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nia-arrests-man-in-2018-counterfeit-note-case/article34982302.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 1,493 crore action plan for KK region||Governor Vajubhai R. Vala has approved an action plan of Rs. 1,492.97 crore for the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board. The amount will be utilised for development of the region during 2021–22. Funds will be released for both micro and macro projects. Funds will also be released for a few major projects, said Minister for Planning and Statistics and Youth Empowerment K.C. Narayana Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-1493-crore-action-plan-for-kk-region/article34982339.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 50.23 crore worth seized drugs to be destroyed||On International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, the State police will destroy 12 types of drugs seized during the last year, at district headquarters as per the prescribed procedures, on Saturday. An estimated value of the drugs would be Rs. 50.23 crore, said an official release.A total of 4,066 cases have been registered in the State under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.A total 5,291 people have been arrested for peddling drugs, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-5023-crore-worth-seized-drugs-to-be-destroyed/article34982341.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal water connections detected||A team that was formed by Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) to prevent water theft and to detect water connections that have bypassed water meters has detected 41 such “illegal” connections in the East zone and 50 in the West zone in the city. All these connections have been disconnected by the board and the consumers penalised. In a press release issued here recently, the BWSSB said that it would initiate legal action against those with such connections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-water-connections-detected/article34982295.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Basavanna’s bust to be installed at Vidhana Soudha||The Karnataka government has decided to install a bust of 12th century social reformer Basaveshwara on the premises of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru, according to a note by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Social awareness Basaveshwara spread social awareness through his poetry, popularly known as vachanas. Basaveshwara built the Anubhava Mantapa, often referred to as the ‘first parliament of the world’ at Basavakalyan in Bidar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basavannas-bust-to-be-installed-at-vidhana-soudha/article34982338.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru/ Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Relaxations in three more districts||With positivity rate of COVID-19 reducing to less than 5%, the State government has extended more relaxations in three districts — Chamarajanagar, Davangere, and Chikkamagaluru. In these districts, shops will be allowed to open till 5 p.m. till July 5. Mysuru, which was the sole district in the State under total lockdown because of its test positivity rate (TPR), was partially unlocked with effect from Friday following its inclusion under Category 2 district based on the weekly moving average positivity rate. The district was earlier included in Category 3 with no relaxation in lockdown curbs. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham told reporters here on Friday that the additional activities permitted under Category 2 districts (list of activities issued on June 19) would be permitted with immediate effect following the government’s order. “Friday’s positivity rate stands at 6%. It was 6.8% on Thursday,” he said. All production units, establishments and industries are now permitted to function with 50% of their staff strength adhering to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. However, units engaged in garment manufacturing are permitted to function with 30% of their staff. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, dairy and milk, and animal fodder are allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Street vendors are also allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relaxations-in-three-more-districts/article34982340.ece
26 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Film highlights plight of students, migrant workers during lockdown||Being witness to the plight of schoolchildren in rural areas and migrant workers, who returned from cities during the lockdown, 24-year-old Arochi N.D. has shot a movie on what he saw. The engineering graduate returned to his native place Harogolige in Tirthahalli last year after his studies, to prepare for competitive exams for civil services. He came across migrant workers, who were stopped from entering their village, and students of rural schools struggling to get Internet connection to attend online classes. With the experience he had acquired on making short films during his time in college, Mr. Arochi prepared a script and shot a movie with his Canon 700D camera. The story revolves around two students who get separated after the lockdown over COVID-19. While one goes to his uncle’s house in a city, the other stays in the village, waiting for his father, a migrant worker, to return home. The contrasting environments that the characters are exposed to is the crux of the movie. The city boy gets good internet connectivity, attends online classes, watches movies and listens to some lectures on his mobile phone. The village boy is busy with agriculture, listening to the radio. The boy in the village struggles to call his father over the phone as there is no network. He has to walk about five kilometres in search of better connectivity. Mr. Arochi told The Hindu that the film is based on what he saw. “I made use of resources available in the village to shoot the movie,” he said. With the support of his father Nempe Devaraj, a journalist and activist, and mother Y.M. Sudha, principal of government pre-university college at Tirthahalli, Mr. Arochi spent over Rs. 15,000 to make the short film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-highlights-plight-of-students-migrant-workers-during-lockdown/article34982317.ece
26 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Protest against price hike||Hassan district unit of CPI(M) staged a protest opposing the hike in the price of fuel and other essential things here on Friday. Party members staged the dharna at Hemavati Statue Circle, under the leadership of district secretary Dharmesh. They carried placards criticising the Union government in the wake of the hike in the price of petrol, diesel and LPG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-price-hike/article34982543.ece
26 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Probe sought into cash offer made to CMC members||Stating that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s political secretary N.R. Santhosh offered cash to Janata Dal(S) members of Arsikere City Municipal Council to shift party loyalty, Janata Dal(S) MLAs H.D. Revanna and K.M. Shivalinge Gowda have demanded a CBI inquiry into the issue. In a press conference in Hassan on Friday, the Janata Dal(S) leaders displayed Rs. 10 lakh in cash and stated that it was paid to M. Kalai Arasi, a Janata Dal(S) member of the council, forcing her to quit the party. “The Chief Minister’s political secretary is directly involved in the issue. He had sent his close associates Sikander and Harshavardhan to the residence of Kalai Arasi and left currency notes at her place on Thursday evening,” Mr. Revanna said. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s previous statement on the Janata Dal(S)-Congress coalition government as “10% government”, Mr. Revanna wanted to know from the Prime Minister, how the political secretary of the Chief Minister was getting so much money to lure Janata Dal(S) members. “You were calling our government corrupt, what would you call your own party rule in Karnataka now,” he wondered. The Janata Dal(S) leader also said that the Chief Minister should resign if he had morality left in him. In a council of 31 members, the Janata Dal(S) had won 21 seats in the elections held in 2018. The BJP won five seats. The council president’s post was reserved for the Scheduled Tribes category. The row over reservation has reached court. Recently, seven members of the Janata Dal(S) submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner of Hassan stating that they are coming out of the Janata Dal(S) and that they be recognised as independent members of the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-sought-into-cash-offer-made-to-cmc-members/article34982555.ece
26 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Heavy vehicles banned on Agumbe Ghat road||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner has prohibited the movement of heavy vehicles on the Agumbe Ghat stretch of National Highway 169A in view of heavy rain in the area. This order will be in effect till October 15. The alternative routes for heavy vehicles are: Shivamogga-Thirthahalli- Unturu Katte Kaimara-Mastikatte-Hulikal- Kundur and Shivamogga-Kammaradi- Sringeri-Kerekatte-Karkala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-vehicles-banned-on-agumbe-ghat-road/article34982544.ece
26 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Only shops selling essential items to remain open||As announced earlier, there will be weekend curfew in Dharwad district and the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad has clarified that there will be restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles and also on shops doing business. Weekend curfew, which came into force at 7 p.m. on Friday, will be in force till 5 a.m. on Monday (June 28). Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has issued order stating that the movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between till 5 a.m. Monday, except for essential and emergency activities. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, dairy and milk booths and animal fodder, PDS shops and liquor outlets (only parcel) can remain open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Street vendors can also operate from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Home delivery of all items is allowed 24 x 7. Restaurants and eateries can be open but they are allowed only selling take-aways and home deliveries. Dining-in is strictly prohibited. Movement of buses, trains and air travel is permitted. marriages already scheduled are permitted to be conducted in the respective houses of the parties concerned in a low-key manner involving only close family relatives up to 40 people and strictly adhering to pandemic appropriate behaviour. Cremation is also allowed with a maximum of five persons present. Patients and attendants requiring medical need and those intending to take vaccination will be allowed to go to hospitals and vaccination centres. The Deputy Commissioner has said that industries dealing with essential and emergency services are allowed to operate. He has clarified that all kinds of shops dealing with non-essential items should remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. Those violating the orders will be penalised, he has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-shops-selling-essential-items-to-remain-open/article34982549.ece
26 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Gulbarga University exams from July 15||With the second wave of the pandemic slowing down and the State government lifting restrictions in a phased manner, Gulbarga University has decided to start its pending examinations from July 15 for undergraduate and postgraduate courses for 2020-2021. Addressing a media conference at the university conference hall here on Friday, Vice-Chancellor of the university Dayanand Agsar said that examinations for I, III and V semesters of undergraduate courses and I and III semesters of postgraduate courses will commence on July 15 and those for II, IV and VI semesters of undergraduate and II and IV semesters of postgraduate programmes will start after September 20. He added that the classes for the academic year 2021-22 will start by November 2021. In the backdrop of discussions on whether Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) should be adopted for saving evaluation time, Mr. Agsar made it clear that the university will not opt for MCQ pattern but will continue with the descriptive questions as the former will adversely impact students. “It is true that MCQ model saves a lot of time as the answer sheets are evaluated by computers. But, that model of examination will adversely impact career of students and we will not opt for it. Whatever the gaps created due to the pandemic and resultant lockdowns in the academic year of 2020-21 will be covered in 2021-2022 by optimum utilisation of time. We will then be ready for an uniform academic calendar planned by the Department of Higher Education,” Mr. Asgar said. Four-year degree As part of the university’s commitment to implementing the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020), Mr. Agsar said that he is planning to replace the three-year degree course with a four-year one in a phased manner from the next academic year. “All the universities in the State have been asked to replace the three-year degree courses with four-year ones as envisaged in NEP 2020. Since this cannot be done uniformly in all universities at a time owing to various reasons involving infrastructure, manpower and other issues, the universities are asked to do it in a phased manner taking into account the specific issues pertaining to the individual university. We are making preparations and we will, to start with, introduce the four-year degree at least in a few courses from the next academic year,” Mr. Agsar said. He added that students who have completed their three-year undergraduate course can do a two-year postgraduate programme and those who completed their four-year degree course will have a one-year postgraduate degree programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gulbarga-university-exams-from-july-15/article34982554.ece
26 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police plan to intensify night patrolling in Kalaburagi||Taking incidents of theft and burglary being reported in Kalaburagi seriously, the police have planned to intensify night patrolling with senior officers being on the field throughout the night. “So far, lower-level police officers were on night patrolling duty. Now, I am fielding senior officers as well. An Assistant Commissioner of Police and three Circle Inspectors will also take up rounds in the city throughout the night monitoring the patrolling teams on the field,” Commissioner of Police Y.S. Ravikumar told mediapersons on his office premises here on Friday. Appealing to people to assist the police by calling emergency number 112 when in need of assistance, the officer said that there are 12 dedicated police vehicles to attend to emergency calls and they will reach such spots within 15 minutes. “After we adopted the emergency calling number 112 one-and-a-half months ago, we received 750 calls on a range of issues — right from people’s need for mere police presence to feel safe through quarrels between two groups to a murder. “We have successfully attended all calls,” Mr. Ravikumar said. Asked about criminal activities being on the rise in the city, the Police Commissioner said that his force will focus on identifying anti-social elements and curbing crime. “A considerable number of personnel of our police force were busy in COVID-19 lockdown enforcement. With restrictions being lifted, our focus will now be on anti-social elements. Apart from intensifying night patrolling, we will enhance day vigilance as crimes such as theft and burglary are planned and reconaisance carried out during the daytime,” Mr. Ravikumar said. To a question, the officer admitted that the number of CCTV cameras installed in important public places across the city is inadequate and he will shortly increase it. “Only a 1,000 CCTV cameras for a city having a population of 7.5 lakh are inadequate. We need at least around 5,000 CCTV cameras and we will increase them shortly,” he said. On the issue of staff crunch, Mr. Ravikumar said that the newly established commissionerate has only 600 staff — 500 civil police and 100 armed reserve — as compared to 1,100 sanctioned force. “Nearly 300 of the 600 personnel working are away for training. They will shortly report to duty,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police Adduru Srinivasulu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-plan-to-intensify-night-patrolling-in-kalaburagi/article34982547.ece
26 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Despite assurances to contrary, hoarding creates artificial scarcity of seeds||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil asserted at a press meet in Bengaluru recently that there is no shortage of either sowing seeds or fertilizer for kharif season in the State. The same day saw farmers thronging the Horticulture Department in Ballari to purchase chilli seeds being lathi-charged as shortage of seeds created a chaotic situation. A few days later, farmers inAurad taluk in Bidar district who tried to purchase soya bean seeds in vain dragged an officer at a local Raita Samparka Kendra out of his office and tied him up to the gate to vent their anger. Bidar has received good rain and farmers have prepared their land for soya bean cultivation. However, many of them have not been able to get seeds in time. “No Raita Samparka Kendra in our area has sowing seeds that farmers demand. After desperately visiting some kendras, I purchased seeds in the black market paying exorbitant price. There was no other way, as we could not afford to lose a season. For example, I purchased soya bean at Rs. 3,500 a bag of 30 kg as against Rs. 2,200 MRP,” Sunil Srimanth Kotre, a farmer from Bhosga village in Kalaburagi district, told The Hindu . State honorary president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Chamarasa Malipatil blamed the State government for allowing what he called a “chaotic situation” as hoarders have created an artificial scarcity. “The State government has failed to ensure adequate stock of sowing seeds before the onset of monsoon. No Raita Samparka Kendra in Ballari, Koppal, and Raichur districts has Syngenta 5531 variety of chilli seeds which farmers are demanding. But the same seeds are being sold at three times the original rate in the black market,” he said. Ballari administration has received a number of complaints of chilli seeds being sold in black.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-assurances-to-contrary-hoarding-creates-artificial-scarcity-of-seeds/article34982331.ece
26 June 2021||KARIMNAGAR,KARNATAKA||‘Pay Rs. 5 lakh to kin of COVID-hit’||Y.S. Sharmila, daughter of late Chief Minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy, has demanded that the government pay an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to those who died of Coronavirus in the State. She said that while Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had been getting treatment at a corporate hospital, people were left to government hospitals where facilities were not up to the mark or had to undergo treatment at private hospitals by spending lakshs of rupees. Ms. Sharmila visited several families including that of Sridhar of Almaspur in Rajanna Sircilla district and consoled those families. “Government has not spent any amount for the poor suffering from COVID. The family of Sridhar had spent about Rs. 19 lakh to get treated for corona for three members of the family. Late Chief Minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy had introduced Arogya Sri to help the poor. One could not understand why corona was not included in the list of this health scheme,” said Ms. Sharmila while consoling the families of corona-hit and speaking to reporters. She said the Chief Minister would know facts and prevailing conditions if he came out of farm house and moved among people. Earlier, she garlanded a statue of YSR at Vantimamidi and Pragnapur in Siddipet district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pay-rs-5-lakh-to-kin-of-covid-hit/article34982330.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Road structures hampering easy movement of locals||Residents of Kundapur town in Udupi district were longing nearly for a decade for the completion of the flyover on National Highway 66 by the National Highways Authority of India at Shastri Circle, work of which had been going on at a slow pace. Once the flyover was completed along with a vehicular underpass at Basrur Moorkai, about 1.5 km south of Shastri Circle last month, the residents are left cursing their fate, as both the structures, with their barricaded down and up ramps, have now formed a wall-like structure dividing the town and preventing people as well as vehicles from going to the other side for a stretch of about 2 km. Besides the old town, Kundapur has seen extensive development between Shastri Circle and Koteshwara on both sides of NH 66 on a stretch of about 4 km. Over 25 government offices, including sub-divisional police offices, LIC, Bhandarkar’s College, MESCOM, PWD, are situated on the western side of the highway very close to Bobbaryana Katte. Social activist Vivek Nayak told The Hindu that right from Shastri Circle till Basrur Moorkai, there is no pedestrian crossing allowed between the two flyovers. Consequently, people have to walk for long distances to reach their destination which otherwise is just a few hundred meters away. Thousands of people visiting over 25 offices near Bobbaryana Katte are finding it difficult to reach their destinations. Many jump the fence at the down ramps of the flyovers and cross the highway risking their life, Mr. Nayak said. The problem is not just confined to pedestrians. It has also severely affected vehicle users, said Kishore Kumar from Heddari Horata Samithi that had fought for completion of the flyover works. He said that people driving either from Udupi or from Bhatkal and intending to enter Kundapur town either have to take the congested service roads or drive all the way on the flyovers to take U turns to reach their destinations. According to Mr. Kumar, there is a proposal for entry and exit from the four-lane National Highway at Bobbaryana Katte in the original plan; but the National Highways Authority of India did not provide them. People’s representatives kept mum before the completion of the flyovers as well as after the completion in scant regard to the woes of the general public, he said. Udupi Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhana said that he would inspect the stretch in a couple of days and attempt to find solution with the help of the district administration and the NHAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-structures-hampering-easy-movement-of-locals/article34982542.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Video of event in MLA’s office goes viral||A person claiming in a video clip that Karkala MLA V. Sunil Kumar has violated COVID-19 guidelines by holding a meeting in his office in Karkala on Friday went viral on the social media. In the video taken from his car, the person shows many cars parked outside the office of Mr. Kumar in Udupi district. “Law is same for a common man and an elected representative. I urge Udupi Deputy Commissioner to take action against the MLA for holding an event in violation of COVID-19 protocol,” the person is heard as saying. Meanwhile, the MLA told The Hindu that the event in his office was related to observing black day to oppose the 1975 Emergency imposed on the country. Less than 50 persons attended the virtual event. “There is no bar on holding events in compliance with the norms,” he said and added that those who attended the event wore masks and social distancing was ensured. Some of the vehicles outside his office were of those who attended the event, he said. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha told The Hindu that he immediately instructed the local revenue officials to visit the MLA’s office. “The team reported that it was a virtual event in which (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader) Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat was among the speakers. They did not find any violation of norms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/video-of-event-in-mlas-office-goes-viral/article34982550.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ill-planned structure||The completed flyovers at Shastri Circle and Basrur Moorkai on National Highway 66 in Kundapur town are ill-planed without giving any respite to people, say town residents. Kishore Kumar from Heddari Horata Samithi said that though the vehicular underpass at Basrur Moorkai was ready, NHAI has not commissioned it yet, stating that a few speed breakers are to be erected. “Who has to erect the speed breakers?” asked Mr. Kumar. Similarly, NHAI has not erected any signboards at the entry and exit of the flyovers on both the sides leaving drivers utterly confused, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ill-planned-structure/article34982540.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Walk-in appointments for vaccine at KMC hospitals||KMC hospitals in Mangaluru, Manipal, Udupi and Karkala will have walk-in appointments for paid vaccination of COVID-19 vaccine. People can also register their names on the Co-Win portal and go to these four hospitals for vaccination. A press release here said that walk-in appointments will be accepted at the vaccination centre in Mareena Indoor Sports Complex, Kaprigudda, in Mangaluru, between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. from Monday to Saturday. People can choose between Covaxin and Covishield. They have to bring their Aadhaar card or any other identity proof for vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/walk-in-appointments-for-vaccine-at-kmc-hospitals/article34982551.ece
26 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tribal haadis in Chamarajanagar district are now free from COVID-19||Tribals living in the forest fringes of Chamarajanagar district who had contracted COVID-19 recently and recovered from the infection are now returning to their ‘haadis’ (settlements), thanking the ZP and GP authorities for the healthcare provided to them. Thanks to the concern of the gram panchayat and the special attention given for their treatment, the Soliga haadis that had reported infection are now free from COVID-19. The State’s first COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) for tribals was set up at the ashram school in Jeerige Gadde village in P.G. Palya Gram Panchayat in the district. Tribals from Jeerige Gadde, Haavina Moole, and Bellave haadis who had tested positive were isolated at the CCC and all of them have recovered from the infection, a press release said here. The ZP CEO, Boyar Harshal Narayana Rao, who visited the haadis on knowing about tribals testing positive, gave directions for setting up the CCC at Jeerige Gadde. The timely intervention and treatment at the CCC helped control the spread of the infection. The tribal leaders, ASHAs and anganwadi workers, besides the GP officers and task force, collectively worked in freeing the haadis from COVID-19. As many as 30 tribals had tested positive and all of them have recovered.. The entire team also played a key role in removing misapprehensions about vaccines and convincing the tribals to get the doses. The tribals in B.R. Hills Gram Panchayat also showed interest in taking the vaccine. “The tribals who were reluctant to get vaccinated are now coming forward to take the vaccine. More than 500 have secured jobs under the MGNREGA. Today, the Soliga haadis are free from COVID-19 and many are coming forward for the jabs,” said the ZP CEO.  “The funds under the 15th Finance Commission were used to set up the CCC. More awareness drives were done and people were sensitised about the pandemic and the precautions to be taken. This helped us to free tribal haadis from COVID-19,” said P.G. Palya GP PDO Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribal-haadis-in-chamarajanagar-district-are-now-free-from-covid-19/article34982325.ece
26 June 2021||Mysuru/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ramesh Jarkiholi ‘disappointed’, but won’t resign from Assembly||The former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who resigned from the Cabinet after facing allegations in a sex CD scandal, on Friday said he had contemplated resignation from the Legislative Assembly, but had put off the decision for the next few days. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru and later in Belagavi, Mr. Jarkiholi admitted that he had decided to resign from the Assembly because he was emotionally hurt and disappointed. But, he added that some of his well-wishers had advised him against going public with his decision for the time being. “I will think over it for another eight to ten days because of the advice given by certain leaders and then talk about it,” he said. He sought to make it clear that he was neither lobbying to return to the Cabinet led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa nor would he return to the Congress. ‘Will remain in BJP’ He vowed to remain in the BJP till he retires from politics in view of the respect shown to him by the party’s national and State leaders, besides the Sangh Parivar. There is no question of betraying the BJP, he said. The former Minister admitted to having visited Mumbai alone to meet the former Chief Minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis, whom he described as his “godfather”. “I was hurt, so I went to him and told him so,” Mr. Jarkiholi said while clarifying that he had planned to resign alone and no other leader had accompanied him to Mumbai. He claimed that Mr. Fadnavis had assured him of his full support. He said Mr. Yediyurappa would continue as Chief Minister for the remaining two years of the Assembly’s term. “The party will go to the elections in 2023 under Mr. Yediyurappa’s leadership and return to power, but the party leadership will have to decide on the next Chief Minister,” he said. During his visit to Mysuru along with his brother Lakhan Jarkiholi, Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi called on Suttur Mutt seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami, who lost his mother recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramesh-jarkiholi-disappointed-but-wont-resign-from-assembly/article34982333.ece
26 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir admn. taking all steps to hold SSLC exam||The Education Department has made preparations to conduct SSLC examinations with necessary health precautions in Yadgir district as the examinations are expected to be conducted in the third week of July. The second wave of the pandemic has declined in the district. However, the department has been planning to ensure the maximum health care for students appearing for the examinations. Initially, it was decided to form a block for 24 students. But, considering the threat of a possible third wave, it was later decided to reduce the number of students to 12 in one block. Officials have identified a total 1,480 blocks in 96 examination centres across the district. Of these, 566 blocks in 36 centres are in Yadgir taluk followed by 468 blocks in 29 centres in Shahapur taluk and 446 blocks in 27 centres in Surpur taluk. And, each block will be supervised by superintendents. As many as 17,749 students have registered for the examinations this year. Of these, 6,790 students are in Yadgir taluk followed by 5,608 in Shahapur taluk and 5,351 students in Surpur taluk. “We have taken necessary initiatives for holding the examinations. Each centre will be sanitised. Students appearing for the examinations should undergo medical examinations such as fever check by Health Department officials who will be deployed for the purpose. Students must wear face masks and apply hand sanitisers,” Deputy Director of Public Instruction Shantagowda Patil told The Hindu . Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat Shilpa Sharma, who held meetings with the Education Department officials, has asked them to ensure that students are appearing for the examinations as per the guidelines issue, while maintaining social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-admn-taking-all-steps-to-hold-sslc-exam/article34982548.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers lend a helping hand to ASHAs||Described as unsung heroes, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) who are on the frontline in the battle against COVID-19 have received a helping hand from the farming community in Mysuru district. For, the farmers who have constituted a voluntary group to spread awareness on COVID-19 in rural areas through Grameena Janara Corona Seva Pade is distributing ration kits to ASHAs across the district. The Gramina Janara Corona Seva Pade was constituted by the Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators Association to provide telemedicine and consultation to COVID-19 patients in rural areas. In the process the members got in touch with the health authorities in the district and secured the list of ASHAs so as to extend this gesture in recognition of their tireless work. The distribution of ration kits is to express their thanks to the thousands of ASHAs who are working behind the scenes and outside the media spotlight in the battle against COVID-19. “As farmers we ourselves are in dire straits but the contribution of ASHAs in the fight against the pandemic is immense and hence our small gesture,” said Atahalli Devaraj of the Grameena Janara Corona Seva Pade. It is not only during the current pandemic situation that the ASHAs have struggled to bail out the society; they are the backbone in ensuring the functioning of the public health services in rural areas even during normal times, he added. “The ration kit may not amount to much but is intended to boost the morale of the ASHAs. Each kit contains rice, wheat flour, spice items, red gram etc., to last almost 15 days’’, according to Kurubur Shanthakumar, who conceived the idea of the Seva Pade with other likeminded farmers. In the district hinterland ASHAs walk from village to village not only counselling people on their physical health and providing vital information to doctors but also giving psychological strength to patients.  “The credit to ensure that the villages are free of COVID-19 goes in a large measure to the ASHAs and we intend to distribute kits to each one of them,’’ said Mr. Shanthakumar.  As farmers we ourselves are in dire straits but the contribution of ASHAs in the fight against the pandemic is immense and hence our small gesture Atahalli Devaraj, Grameena Janara Corona Seva Pade||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-lend-a-helping-hand-to-ashas/article34982324.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Renewal of tax exemptions sought for Mysuru airport||Stakeholders, including the Airports Authority of India (AAI), have sought a renewal of tax exemptions and other subsidies from the State government to Mysuru airport after they expired in September 2020. Coupled with plummeting air traffic and cancellations or suspension of flight services because of the lockdown and the pandemic situation, the withdrawal of tax exemptions is adding to the overhead cost of keeping the airport operational. Sources told The Hindu that theState government had extended concessions to Mysuru airport with regard to electricity and water, apart from exempting it from remitting property taxes to the local body. The concession was initially extended for a period of five years with effect from October 6, 2005, following an MoU between the Government of Karnataka andthe AAI. The concessions were renewed again with effect from October 1, 2015, for another five years. The tax waiver and free electricity and water charges were to help minimise the operational costs of the fledgling airport, which was developed by the AAI spending nearly Rs. 82 crore. Once this lapsed, the AAI wrote a letter to the government on October 7, 2020, to extend the exemptions for another five years, on the grounds that the revenue generated was less than the expenditure incurred to provide essential services at the airport, mainly because of the subsidies provided as per the Regional Connectivity Scheme and the challenges imposed by the outbreak of COVID-19. The State government rejected the proposal and issued an order in February this year to the effect, and decided not to extend the tax exemption and other subsidies. ‘A routine issue’ However, sources in the AAI said this was a routine issue consequent to the withdrawal of exemption and that fresh efforts were being made to secure another renewal. But so far, it has not yielded any results. Meanwhile, the monthly water and electricity charges besides other cess due to the local bodies are being remitted, adding to the operational cost of the airport, whose originating passenger traffic has dwindled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/renewal-of-tax-exemptions-sought-for-mysuru-airport/article34982307.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tree-cutting: Public notices issued||On the second stretch for which a public notice was issued, 833 trees have been identified for removal along the proposed elevated line between Central Silk Board and Kadubeesanahalli. This is part of Phase II A metro line from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram. The trees identified for removal include akash mallige, rain trees, honge, gulmohar, dali chandra, subabul and kadamba.  In the coming days, the tree officer is likely to issue public notices for the removal of trees on the remaining stretches. These include the stretch from Hebbal to Trumpet flyover as well as the construction of a depot. The ORR-Airport line is estimated to cost Rs. 14,788 crore. The tender has been awarded for the elevated corridor from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram in two packages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tree-cutting-public-notices-issued/article34982306.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Agriculture staff go on mass leave||Kalyana Karnataka Agriculture Officers Association president Shivakumar Hugge said that the officer demands employees to arrive earlier than office time and work till 8 p.m. She also threatened employees with transfers and is making adverse remarks in their service records, he added. Mr. Hugge said, “If the government failed to transfer Ms. Taramani from Bidar immediately, the staff of Agriculture Department across the Kalyana Karnataka region will boycott duty.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agriculture-staff-go-on-mass-leave/article34982545.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back to rightful place||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/back-to-rightful-place/article34982300.ece
26 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||30 pet pigeons dead, police begin probe||The police have launched an investigation into the death of 30 ornamental pigeons reared by an 11-year-old boy at Maruthorvattom in Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat in Alappuzha. The birds, belonging to Christy Devasiya, a Class 6 student of Pratheeksha Bhavan English Medium School, were allegedly killed by miscreants on June 3. “The pigeons were my best friends for the past two years. I painstakingly collected the birds from various places with the help of my parents. The culprits should be punished,” says Christy. The dead pigeons consisted of Bokhara Trumpeter, Modena, Hungarian Mix, among other varieties. In quarantine The incident came to light recently. Devasiya Benny, Christy’s father, said the family lodged a complaint with the police only two days ago as they were in quarantine. “The birds were found dead on the morning of June 3 when my wife, Minimol, went to feed them. At the time, I was in a hospital with my father who had tested positive for COVID-19 on the night of June 2. My father died a few days later and we all went into quarantine. After the incident, my son showed signs of depression and stopped eating. Members of Seva Bharathi who provided us food during the quarantine period asked us to file a police complaint,” Mr. Benny said. Act of revenge: RSS Seva Bharathi is associated with Sangh Parivar. Abhilash Maruthorvattom, shakha karyavah, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, said the pigeons were killed by CPI(M) activists in an act of revenge. “Devasiya’s family members are CPI(M) supporters. But the party did not help them when they were in quarantine. They were taken care of by Seva Bharathi. The killing of birds is a warning to the party members against associating with other parties,” Mr. Maruthorvattom said. Family’s rebuttal Mr. Benny, however, said he did not believe that the CPI(M) was behind the killing. “My wife is a CPI(M) activist. Yes, the party did not help us when we were in quarantine, and my wife expressed her displeasure at it recently. But the incident happened a few weeks ago. We are not blaming anyone,” he said. ‘No political angle’ Vijayan N., Circle Inspector, Muhamma, said a probe was on. “We have registered a case. The preliminary investigation has not revealed any political angle,” said Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-pet-pigeons-dead-police-begin-probe/article34982801.ece
26 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Statements of Suchitra’s parents taken||The police probing the death of Suchitra, a 19-year-old woman who was found dead at her husband’s house at Vallikunnam on June 22, recorded the statements of her parents on Friday. The police said her parents, Sunil and Sunitha, had alleged that their daughter was subjected to physical and mental torture in the name of dowry by her husband’s family, especially her mother-in-law. Though they had given Suchitra gold ornaments and a car, her husband’s family had demanded Rs. 10 lakh more, her parents said. Suchitra was tortured as her family did not give in to their demand for money. They alleged that their daughter was murdered. “We have launched a detailed probe into the death based on the statements,” said a police officer. The police said she was found hanging in her bedroom on Tuesday. The Vallikunnam police have registered a case for unnatural death. Suchitra, hailing from Krishnapuram, near Kayamkulam, got married to Vishnu, an Army man, in March 2021. Vishu returned to Uttarakhand in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/statements-of-suchitras-parents-taken/article34982684.ece
26 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rosewood ‘theft’ unearthed in Wayanad village||Revenue officials investigating the felling of rosewood at Krishnagiri village in Wayanad unearthed stumps of two huge rosewood trees on a revenue pattaya land in the village on Friday. A team of 12 officials, under the Sulthan Bathery tahsildar, on verifying a 3.5-acre coffee plantation with the tree register found that three rosewood trees had been stolen from the land. While logs of one of the trees were seized a few months ago and a case had been registered, a probe has been initiated in the case of the other two trees, officials said. The team was able to unearth the stumps of two trees that were covered with mud after felling it, Krishnagiri village officer Abdul Salam, a member of the team, said. He said cases would be registered against the land owner in this connection. As many as 20 of the 29 rosewood trees on the land had been identified with the tree register and the process of verification of the rest was on, Mr. Salam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rosewood-theft-unearthed-in-wayanad-village/article34982699.ece
26 June 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man found dead on track near Kasaragod station||A 34-year-old man was found dead, apparently after being hit by a train near the Kasaragod railway station on Friday morning. The deceased has been identified as Arul Raj, a native of Tamil Nadu. According to the police, Raj may have been hit by a goods train that had left for Mangalore around 5 a.m. Raj, a labourer, was staying with his friends in a rented house in Pallath. He had left the room on Thursday night saying that he was going to Kannur. The police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-found-dead-on-track-near-kasaragod-station/article34982647.ece
26 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Postwoman charged with swindling of money||A case has been registered against a postwoman on the charge of swindling money at the Pullur post office in Ambalathara in Kasaragod district. The Ambalathara police registered a case against K.S. Indukumari of Pallikkara Poochakatte on a complaint lodged by the Kanhangad subdivision postal inspector, K.E. Ismail. Complaint The action was taken after four women customers lodged a complaint with the postal department stating that the money they had deposited in the Sukanya Smriti Yojana scheme at the Ambalathara post office was missing. The alleged irregularities took place between August 20, 2016, and February 25 this year. The complaint by the women said they had been cheated of Rs. 1.46 lakh. ‘Not deposited’ The money paid by the investors was recorded in the book but was not credited into the post office account. The issue came to notice when two depositors went to withdraw money but found no funds in their accounts. Meanwhile, two others too have forward with a similar complaint. Based on the complaints, Indukumari has been suspended from service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postwoman-charged-with-swindling-of-money/article34982646.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cancel varsities’ offline exams, say students||A section of students in Kerala have stepped up their demand for cancelling the final-semester university examinations scheduled to begin offline on June 28. Many students have joined a campaign in Twitter with the hashtag #Canceluniversityexams. They are asking authorities to either cancel the tests or ensure vaccination of all aspirants before holding offline exams. The Kerala government gave its nod for the universities in the State to hold the final-semester exams offline as part of the partial relaxations that came into effect last week. The exams were postponed twice after the second wave of COVID-19. However, the students point out that the pandemic situation has triggered several emotional issues among the students and the best option to assuage their distress is to cancel the offline exams. Risk of disease spread Students said on social media platforms that many among them had not even received the first dose of vaccine. With a likely third wave round the corner, hundreds of students will be exposed to the risk of the disease spread while appearing for the exams. ‘Based on feedback’ However, the Higher Education Department authorities pointed out that the decision to hold the offline exams had been taken on the basis of feedback collected from universities. Any further delay in the conduct of exams will affect the higher studies of thousands of students. Directions have been issued to all universities to comply with the COVID-19 protocol and safety measures while holding offline exams||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-seek-cancellation-of-varsities-offline-exams/article34982661.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Operation Breakthrough: delay in commencing work irks HC||The Kerala High Court on Friday expressed displeasure over the delay in commencing the third phase of works under Operation Breakthrough, including the cleaning-up of the Perandoor canal. Hearing a case pertaining to flooding in the city, Justice Devan Ramachandran took note of a report filed by the District Collector on the delay in starting the third phase of Operation Breakthrough and observed that the primary reason for the delay was that no contractor had responded to the tender notification for the proposed works. This was owing to the fact that contractors’ bills pertaining to completed projects had not been paid. The court, therefore, directed the District Collector to ensure that the bills for completed works under Phase-II of Operation Breakthrough were processed with the concurrence of the finance wing of the Operation Breakthrough team without waiting for the permission of the Chief Technical Examiner of the State government. The court also directed the Southern Railway to initiate steps for reconstructing culverts under the railway line between the CBI quarters and Kammattipadam and asked the Kochi Corporation to clean up the stretch with the assistance of the railway authorities. It ordered the corporation to ensure that the stretch between the Reserve Bank quarters and Bhaskareeyam at Kaloor was cleaned. The court further directed the civic body to file a report on works being undertaken with respect to monsoon preparedness, including cleaning of stormwater drains. The High Court asked the State government to inform it of the action taken by the Irrigation Department to remove the temporary bund set up at Vaduthala which obstructed the flow of water in the Periyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/operation-breakthrough-delay-in-commencing-work-irks-hc/article34982664.ece
26 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Child with MIS-C recovers||An 11-year-old in Ernakulam with a severe case of post-COVID Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C) was rescued using ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation). Doctors who treated the child at Amrita Hospital said early diagnosis and intervention remained crucial in MIS-C cases. When the child was brought to the hospital, the inflammatory condition had already affected his heart muscles. Pumping of the heart was hit, and blood pressure was critically low, said Dr. Sajith Kesavan, head of the department of paediatric pulmonary and critical care at the hospital. Since the child had positive antibody titers to COVID in his blood, doctors suspected that he was exposed to the infection and might have had asymptomatic COVID-19. The team of specialists decided to put the child on ECMO to give the heart a chance to recover and time for steroids and IV immunoglobin to act. The ECMO machine pumps blood and oxygenates it, letting the heart rest. Three days later, he had regained enough heart function and could be taken off the machine. The child, who is well on the way to recovery, will be discharged soon. “Kids with MIS-C do well if they are diagnosed early,” Dr. Kesavan said at an online session where doctors elaborated on the 11-year-old’s case. The child’s parents said he had developed fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, and red eyes and was taken to the hospital on the third day after fever began. Symptoms MIS-C can have different presentations, though the heart is most commonly affected, said Dr. Suma Balan, paediatric rheumatologist at the hospital. Symptoms include severe fatigue, fever lasting more than a day, rashes, red eyes, abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhoea. The doctors clarified that not all fevers are a sign of MIS-C. There are no predictors for which the child might get MIS-C, since it is due to the inherent activation of one’s own immune system, Dr. Balan said. “Incidence of serious COVID infection in children is low,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-with-mis-c-recovers/article34982657.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Smart electricity meters in Kochi||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) is setting up 26,000 ‘smart electricity meters’ in the city. These are being installed in homes in divisions 1 to 5, and 62, 66, and 67 of the Kochi Corporation. A total of 8,039 meters have already been installed. CSML is replacing existing meters with the smart ones for the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), in the first such project for the State. There will be no change in the existing tariff even if the meter is replaced. Consumers will be able to gather meter readings on their own and can monitor consumption regularly. The smart meter can be connected to the consumer’s phone number, and an application will be launched for the purpose. Meter readers can get readings without visiting homes, and it will ensure that bills can be generated even if houses are locked up, or meter readers are unable to visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smart-electricity-meters-in-kochi/article34982659.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Assault: accused get anticipatory bail||The Kerala High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Abhilash Chandran, a civil police officer on probation attached to the Kochi Metro police station, and his cousin Amal Murali of Mavelikara, the first and second accused respectively in a case related to assaulting Rahul Mathew, a junior consultant surgeon at the Government District Hospital, Mavelikara. The prosecution case was that the petitioners had barged into the room of the doctor, attacked and abused the doctor, alleging delay in giving medical attention to Abhilash’s mother who succumbed to COVID-19 at the hospital. According to the petitioners, the incident occurred because their were shocked by the death of Abhilash’s mother. His mother did not get prompt medical attention at the hospital. By the time a doctor and nurse attended to her, she was dead. Justice K. Haripal ordered that if the petitioners were arrested, they be released on bail on their executing a bond for Rs. 50,000 each with two solvent sureties each to the satisfaction of the investigation officer. Arrest demanded Doctors at government hospitals in Ernakulam participated in the State-wide strike demanding the arrest of a police officer accused of assaulting a doctor in Mavelikkara. Specialty outpatient services were boycotted entirely, while general outpatient services were boycotted for an hour. Emergency and COVID-19 treatment services were not disrupted. Doctors of all government health care facilities, including primary and community health centres, all taluk hospitals, and the general hospital, participated in the strike, according to representatives of the Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-on-doctor-accused-get-bail/article34982665.ece
26 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,112 test positive in Ernakulam||Chellanam recorded the highest number of new COVID cases in Ernakulam district on Friday with 60 people testing positive in the area. This was out of a total of 1,112 people who tested positive in the district on Friday, leaving the test positivity rate (TPR) at 9.23%, when 12,043 tests were done. With 1,504 recoveries on the day, the active caseload is 12,938. As part of a special vaccination camp at TDM Hall here, 200 HIV positive persons who are registered with the Antiretroviral Therapy centre took the vaccine. Vaccination camps are also being organised for migrant workers in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1112-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article34982660.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Residents complain of contaminated water||Residents of many parts of Vyttila area in Kochi complained of getting contaminated drinking water which smelt like having traces of diesel from Kerala Water Authority (KWA) pipelines, on Friday evening. People fear to use the water, and the matter has been taken up with KWA officials. The water must be pumped out of pipelines, office-bearers of Aam Aadmi Party said in a release. Sent for analysis A KWA engineer said water samples had been collected from homes and sent for analysis. There is no alarming situation. More samples will be collected on Monday for examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-complain-of-contaminated-water/article34982662.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC adjourns Sr Lucy’s plea for police protection||The Kerala High Court on Friday adjourned till next week the hearing on a writ petition seeking police protection filed by Sister Lucy Kalappurackal, who has been expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation. She also sought to restrain the Mother Superior of the convent at Karakkamala, Wayanad, from interfering with her life and the complete freedom she enjoyed in the convent. She also pleaded that she be provided with food and water. She contended that though she had lodged many complaints with the police, no action had been taken on therm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-adjourns-sr-lucys-plea-for-police-protection/article34982666.ece
26 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Resurvey works on time: Minister||The resurvey works in the State will be completed within the stipulated time using the Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS) technology, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. The Minister visited Kollam collectorate, Chathannur mini civil station and village offices in Chirakara and Kottapuram. He was accompanied by Land Revenue Commissioner K. Biju and District Collector B. Abdul Nasar. “Using ReLIS, a web application devised by the department for enabling online integration with Registration and Survey departments, an integral portal system will be introduced. All village offices in Chathannur constituency will be made smart offices as part of the 100-day action plan,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resurvey-works-on-time-minister/article34982798.ece
26 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Bodies of two women recovered from river||The bodies of Arya, 23, and Greeshma, 19, two Kalluvathukkal residents who went missing on Thursday, were recovered from the Ithikkara river on Friday. Reportedly, the women went missing after they were summoned by the police in connection with a case related to the death of a newborn. The Paripally police on Tuesday had arrested Reshma, a close relative of the deceased, after a DNA report confirmed her as the biological mother of a baby found abandoned in last January. The one-day-old infant had died the same day. As per Reshma’s statement, she had left the baby outside her house after the delivery, believing that the baby would not survive. She confessed to abandoning her newborn so that she could live with a friend she met on social media. The police said Arya was called to verify Reshma’s statements. “Reshma was living in a joint family and her claim that nobody was aware of her pregnancy was unbelievable. She and Arya were living in the same house. We wanted to crosscheck the incongruities in Reshma’s confession,” said the Paripally SHO. Arya, who left home with Greeshma on Thursday, did not return and the police started searching near the Ithikkara river following clues from CCTV footage and mobile tower location. The police also found a note left behind by Arya in which she blamed Reshma. She said she could not imagine getting arrested for the murder of a newborn. (Suicide prevention helpline: 0471-2552056)  Police summoned them to crosscheck statements of the accused in a case related to a newborn’s death||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bodies-of-two-women-recovered-from-river/article34982799.ece
26 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Diploma courses||The T.K.M International Centre for Training & Placement has invited applications for its diploma courses in Logistic Management and Airport Operation. Plus Two is the qualification required while internship and placement interviews are also part of the six-month course. For details, visit www.tkmictp.in or call 8089909343.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diploma-courses/article34982741.ece
26 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||The Kollam region centre of the LBS Centre for Science and Technology has invited applications for its Tally (Computerised financial accounting and GST) course. The last date for accepting applications is July 13. For details, visit www.lbscentre.kerala.gov.in or contact 0474 2970780||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article34982752.ece
26 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||North Kerala farmers face a double whammy||Farmers in north Kerala have been hit by the double whammy of COVID lockdown and non-payment of dues for produce auctioned at the Agricultural Urban Wholesale Market at Vengeri for over six months. Scores of them have not been reimbursed for the vegetables and fruits, especially banana and plantain, sold at the market since August last. “My payment of Rs. 4.75 lakh is pending for nearly 10 months. Now I am forced to take a loan and even pledge gold ornaments of my wife to carry on with farming,” said Saji Penakkavil, a farmer. About 200 farmers from Malappuram, Kannur, Palakkad and Kozhikode have registered with the Vengeri market to sell produce harvested on their land. The non-payment of dues has compelled many to sell their produce at low prices to local vendors or even leave vegetables rotting on farmlands because the Horticorp has stopped transport subsidy. The reimbursement due to each farmer varies. While P. Abdullakutty of Manjeri has to receive around Rs. 6 lakh, Roy Mathew of Puthuppady is waiting payment of Rs. 1.25 lakh. “We are not seeking any benefits from the government, but only asking to be paid our money. This is injustice done to farmers,” said Mr. Mathew. Farmers have been knocking on the doors of authorities for a long time, but to no avail. “Each time we received dusty answers from the officials. We are fed up with the excuses,” said Mohammed Haji, a 78-year old farmer from Mukkom who is yet to get about Rs. 1.75 lakh. “We have no choice but to stage a token protest next week,” said he, adding that the issue of non-payment of dues had been going on for many years. Kunnamangalam-based farmer Mohammed Ali said officials had been giving excuses that the payment would be done after the Assembly polls. “Sometimes they say the process is being carried out in Thiruvananthapuram,” he added. A farmer from Koodaranji, K.A. Roy, said he had to receive a payment of Rs. 1.35 lakh for bananas auctioned to Horitcorp. “Besides, the farmers are denied the floor price fixed by the government for vegetables,” said E.P. Babu of Karassery. Farmers have to be paid a minimum of Rs. 1.50 per kg for transportation of produce up to 25 km while the maximum allowance is Rs. 2.50 for a distance above 50 km for the auction markets every Monday and Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/north-kerala-farmers-face-a-double-whammy/article34982644.ece
26 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ambedkar Chair yet to be reality||A study Chair in the name of B.R. Ambedkar is yet to see the light of day at the University of Calicut over six years after a proposal was put forward by a private trust. According to sources, the proposal moved by Mahatma Ayyankali Cultural and Educational Trust was approved by the Syndicate on March 21, 2015. The university on February 16, 2016, wrote to the Trust to provide Rs. 25 lakh as corpus for the functioning of the Chair. The Trust functionaries expressed their inability to raise the amount, while pointing out that various other study chairs had been given relaxations. P. Velayudhan, a functionary of the Trust, claimed that despite sending various representations to the university thereafter, no step had been taken to set up the chair. “We are planning to move one more representation to the Vice Chancellor and the Syndicate. If there is no positive response, we will explore legal options, including approaching the judiciary,” he said. Sources in the Vice Chancellor’s office said the university was yet to get any fresh proposal. It is learnt that the university might explore the possibility of setting up an Ambedkar Chair on its own after holding discussions on appropriate forums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambedkar-chair-yet-to-be-reality/article34982656.ece
26 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,004 test positive in Kozhikode; TPR 10.02%||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) in Kozhikode has gone above 10% for the second day in a row on Friday, after it had fallen to less than 9% a week ago. Of the 10,186 people who were tested, 1,004 turned positive for SARS-CoV-2 and the TPR recorded was 10.02%. Meanwhile, 475 people have recovered from COVID-19. At present, there are 10,642 people under treatment in the district. Violations With more lockdown relaxations in place, the number of people violating the COVID-19 protocol has gone up in the district. There were 521 cases registered in the district in this regard on Friday. Ninety-two cases related to violation of physical distancing norms or not closing shops on time, while 429 cases were registered for not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1004-test-positive-in-kozhikode-tpr-1002/article34982645.ece
26 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Elephant electrocuted as power line snaps||An elephant was electrocuted at VRT Kava near Mangalam dam in Palakkad district on Friday afternoon. Forest officials said that the tragedy took place around 3 p.m. when a power line snapped and fell on the elephant at a private land. Necropsy The female elephant appeared to be eight years old. A forest veterinary surgeon will conduct a necropsy on Saturday morning. The carcass will be buried in the forest. Meanwhile, a group of local people protested against the forest authorities’ plans to bury the elephant near a stream. They complained that the burial would dirty the water in the stream. Forest officials said that they would bury the elephant in a safe place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-electrocuted-as-power-line-snaps/article34982649.ece
26 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Writers up against excluding Malayalam||Malayalam writers on Friday protested against dropping Malayalam from a language training programme meant for MPs and other officials organised by the Parliament Research and Training Institute for Democracies (PRIDE). PRIDE is conducting a 30-hour virtual language training programme for MPs, legislators from Union Territories, officials and their families with the objective of boosting the country’s language diversity. Six foreign languages and six Indian languages were considered in the first phase of training. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inaugurated the training programme on Tuesday. When French, Portuguese, Japanese, Russian, Spanish and German were selected among foreign languages, the six Indian languages chosen were Bengali, Gujarati, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu and Odia. Jnanpith laureate M.T. Vasudevan Nair inaugurated an online meeting that protested against dropping Malayalam from the list of Indian languages. He demanded that Malayalam being a classical language be given the priority it deserved. “PRIDE should give Malayalam the due consideration,” said poet Manambur Rajan Babu, who presided over the meeting. Among the writers who aired their concerns over non-inclusion of Malayalam included C. Radhakrishnan, Vaisakhan, Alankode Leelakrishnan, Chandramati, Anil Vallathol, P.K. Gopi, and K. Sreekumar. KDA protest The Kannada Development Authority (KDA) led by T.S. Nagabharana had raised a strong banner of protest against dropping Kannada from the list of languages. Former Karnataka Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for ignoring Kannada. Following protests, PRIDE clarified that training would be given in all Indian languages included in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. As many as 22 languages have been included in the Eight Schedule. . As per the PRIDE’s revised training schedule, classes of Gujarati, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Tamil, Telugu, Hindi and Sanskrit will be held from July 5. Classes of Assamese, Kashmiri, Sindhi, Urdu, Santhali, Nepali, Meitei (Manipuri), Bodo, Dogri, Konkani, Maithili and Punjabi will start from July 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/writers-up-against-excluding-malayalam/article34982687.ece
26 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||A cross-border sojourn in search of spirits||Hundreds of people from Tamil Nadu are crossing the Kerala borders everyday to procure liquor from the outlets of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) in Palakkad district. People in Coimbatore district are depending on Palakkad district as liquor outlets in Tamil Nadu are lying closed. The liquor outlets in Palakkad’s border panchayats such as Puthusseri and Vadakarappathi have witnessed huge crowding and endless queues in the last few days. With those local bodies directing the closure of Bevco outlets at Menonpara and Kanjikode, people from across the border began to spread out to various places in Palakkad. No choice The outlets in Palakkad town witnessed heavy rush on Friday. “We have no choice but to come here for liquor. None is causing any issue,” said Murugan, who refused to reveal his full identity. Hundreds of bikes with Tamil Nadu registration were seen parked by the roadside as the people stood in queue. Although the price of the liquor was higher in Kerala than in Tamil Nadu, it did not deter the buyers. Pandemic concerns Many of them, however, did not wear a mask and no physical distancing was maintained in queues. The pouring in of people from across the border has raised fears among the local people in Palakkad, especially as Coimbatore had a high COVID-19 infection rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-cross-border-sojourn-in-search-of-spirits/article34982439.ece
26 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Health Minister visits SLTC at Plachimada||Health Minister Veena George visited the COVID second-line treatment centre (SLTC) set up at the defunct Coca-Cola plant at Plachimada on Friday. The 35,000-sq.-ft plant was converted into a 550-bed COVID facility with the objective of strengthening the fight against the pandemic. The SLTC was set up jointly by Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages Limited and the government at a cost of Rs. 1.10 crore. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had inaugurated the centre a few days ago. Ms. Veena congratulated those who had worked overtime to set up the centre within a month. The SLTC began admitting COVID-19 patients on Friday. Of the 550 beds, 100 have oxygen facility and 20 ventilator facility. Fifty of the beds are in ICU. The centre has air-conditioned cabins, oxygen cylinder support for all beds, 1-kl oxygen tank which can be expanded to 2 kl, portable X-ray console, and round-the-clock COVID outpatient wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-minister-visits-sltc-at-plachimada/article34982652.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. staff pitch in to help students, weavers||Even as the public response has been less than enthusiastic to the city Corporation’s ‘Gift a Smile’ challenge to provide smartphones or tablets to students who do not have access to the same to attend online classes, Corporation workers and employees have been pitching in with all their might for the purpose. The employees, under the aegis of the Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Union (KMCSU) and the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation Workers’ Association (CITU), have been since the beginning of May organising a ‘mundu challenge’ to generate funds to purchase mobiles or tablets for students. Dhotis The employees’ and workers’ unions have procured dhotis from weavers in Balaramapuram, which are being sold at a small profit margin. This will be used for purchasing mobiles or tablets. As on Friday, the unions have made profits of Rs. 3.5 lakh from selling dhotis. “A majority of the Corporation’s workers and employees have become a part of the challenge, while a few from outside have also joined. We are selling dhotis at prices ranging from Rs. 300 to Rs. 1,500. The weavers in Balaramapuram were also struggling, and so this ‘mundu challenge’ was in a way helpful for them too. We started with an aim to raise Rs. 10 lakh from this. With the amount, which will be handed over to the city Corporation, phones or tablets can be bought for more than 50 students. Considering the demand for handloom saris, we have extended this campaign to be a ‘sari challenge’ too,” says Sureshkumar of the KMCSU. According to the Corporation, there are anywhere between 1,000 to 1,500 students at the school or college levels without access to phones or laptops. Mayor Arya Rajendran said steps were being taken to rope in more institutions to sponsor mobile phones or tablets, as the response till now to the ‘Gift a Smile’ campaign initiated by the Corporation had been cold. “Unlike after the first wave, there has not been a very enthusiastic response to this campaign. Until now, we have got 10 mobile phones and three tablets. Earlier this week, we opened a dedicated bank account for this. We are planning to write to various companies and institutions. We will be handing over all the devices to the education department,” Ms. Rajendran told The Hindu . Even though the contributions have been less, the demand has been steady. Councillors have been receiving calls from school and college students. According to some councillors, they have received as many as 50 calls from their respective wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-staff-pitch-in-to-help-students-weavers/article34982746.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||7-member panel to look into fishers’ safety||Increasing instances of fishing-related accidents at sea, particularly during the monsoons, and problems related to coastal security and illegal and unregulated fishing have prompted the State Fisheries Department to seek viable long-term solutions. The department has constituted a seven-member committee headed by P. Sahadevan, former Additional Director of Fisheries, to study and submit a report on methods to resolve issues pertaining to safety at sea, coastal security and vessel monitoring systems and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. The committee will analyse the “latest trends and internationally available options” as a part of its study, the department said. Report in a month “The committee has already met twice and we expect to submit the report within a month,” Anil Kumar S., Deputy Director of Fisheries, Kerala, and committee member, said. The committee also includes the Superintendent of Police (Marine Enforcement); Registrar, Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies; the Joint Executive Director, Agency For Development of Aquaculture; and the Joint Director and Assistant Directors (Projects) of the Fisheries Department. Overriding concern While it is essential to equip fishing vessels with sea safety equipment, fishermen seldom take it seriously, the Fisheries Department noted in a June 11 order constituting the panel. “At present, only fishing boats owned by entrepreneurs are equipped with electronic safety aids. Incidents of fishermen going astray across the ocean, pulled away by strong currents, and landing in neighbouring coastal countries such as Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan are not rare,” according to the department. Porous coastline Further, a porous coastline poses a threat from the perspective of national security. “The current discourse is to consider the vast coastline as a ‘border’ that needs to be protected as well as the land-locked frontiers. If such ‘broken windows’ continue to be unfixed, it would possibly be used by terrorists to mount symbolic attacks against nation’s assets in peninsular India, including Kerala. An effective vessel monitoring and surveillance system in the State would help to resolve the issue to a fair extent,” the department noted. Illegal fishing thrives when the State lacks the capability to effectively monitor and control such activities. Moreover, such practices rob bona fide fishers, especially traditional fishermen, of marine resources, it observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-member-panel-to-look-into-fishers-safety/article34982694.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Adieu to Anil Radhakrishnan||S. Anil Radhakrishnan, Chief of Bureau, Kerala, The Hindu , who passed away on Wednesday was cremated at the Shanthikavadom electric crematorium here on Friday. Earlier in the day, the body was kept at the Press Club for the public to pay homage. Several political leaders, including Speaker M.B. Rajesh, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, Transport Minister Antony Raju, KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, former Ministers M. Vijayakumar, V.S. Sivakumar and others paid floral tributes to the departed journalist. The press fraternity of the capital was also in attendance. Condolence meeting Speaking later at a condolence meeting organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists at the Kesari Hall, Mr. Balagopal said Anil Radhakrishnan had dedicatedly followed the developments in the finance beat. He reminisced how the late journalist had constantly kept in touch and was also present last week at a press meet attended by the Minister. Leaders pay respects Former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the State had lost a journalist who had the capabilities to contribute much more through his reports. He said Anil Radhakrishnan stood out with his incisive reporting skills. CPI(M) leader and former Speaker M.Vijayakumar said his writings had played a key role in the growth of the ‘Responsible Tourism’ programme. BJP State Secretary C. Sivankutty said that even while holding the heavy responsibilities of the bureau chief of The Hindu , he had involved himself with the local residents’ association and worked among the people. T. Nandakumar, Resident Editor, The Hindu , said Radhakrishnan had gained strong domain knowledge in finance in a short time with his strong work ethic. R.S. Babu, Chairman of the Media Academy, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adieu-to-anil-radhakrishnan/article34982745.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR yet to go below 10%||Kerala reported 11,546 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 1,08,867 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate is yet to go below 10% and was 10.6% on the day. With 11,056 patients reported to have recovered from the disease, the active case pool in the State now has 1,00,230 patients. The State’s active case pool is yet to register a significant dip, as the new cases reported daily and the daily recoveries have evened out. The cumulative case fatality in the State now stands at 12,699 with the State adding 118 deaths, which occurred for the past two or three days, to the official toll list on Friday. On Friday, 2,388 COVID patients were newly admitted to hospitals. The number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe infection in hospitals in the State now stands at 25,983. ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients, in both public and private hospitals, were 2,368 on Friday, with those patients requiring ventilator support dropping to 923. The cumulative case burden now stands at 28,65,871 cases. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,374, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,291, Kollam 1,200, Thrissur 1.134, Ernakulam 1,112, Palakkad 1,061, Kozhikode 1,004, Kasaragod 729, Alappuzha, 660, Kannur 619, Kottayam 488, Pathanamthitta 432, Idukki 239 and Wayanad 203.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-yet-to-go-below-10/article34982690.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Doctors boycott OP clinics in State||Doctors in Health Services across the State boycotted specialty OP clinics and elective surgeries and staged demonstrations in all government hospitals on Friday in protest against the police’s refusal to arrest a person accused of having assaulted a doctor while the latter was on duty Doctors also boycotted all OP clinics for an hour in the morning when they staged a dharna in protest . Patient-care services were not affected anywhere as emergency services and other service delivery were uninterrupted. The Kerala Government Medical Officer's Association (KGMOA) pointed out that though the assault on the doctor at Mavelikara Government District Hospital took place 40 days ago, the police were yet to arrest the accused, who happens to be a police officer. The protest at the State-level was inaugurated by KGMOA general secretary G. S. Vijayakrishnan at Mavelikara. He said the KGMOA will pursue the matter in court till justice is served.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-boycott-op-clinics-in-state/article34982691.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Projects to protect women’s rights launched||Three projects aimed at protecting the rights of women and children and to ensure fast redressal of issues have been launched in the district, District Women and Child Development Officer S. Sabeena Begum has said. Under the ‘Kathorthu’ project, women who are facing various issues can raise their complaints online at kathorthu.wcd.kerala.gov.in to get free counselling or legal support or help from the police. As part of another project ‘Rakshadooth’ being implemented jointly by the Department for Women and Child Development and the Postal Department, women and children who are facing domestic abuse can directly or through a representative contact the nearest post office and drop a complaint attached with their own address and contact number, along with the code ‘thapal’. Complaints These complaints will be sent to the women protection officer or the child protection officer, who will contact the complainant and take the necessary steps. For more information, contact 0471-2969101. The ‘Ponvakku’ project is being implemented to provide rewards for those who report instances of child marriage. An amount of Rs. 2,500 will be given as reward to those who make such reports. The personal details of the person who reports will be kept confidential. For more information, contact 9188969201, ponvakkutvpm@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/projects-to-protect-womens-rights-launched/article34982747.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 1,291 fresh cases, TPR at 9.9%||The COVID-19 case load in the district rose by 1,291 cases on Friday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 9.9%. In all, 11,036 people are under treatment for the infection in the district, as on Friday. The district has also reported 1,392 recoveries. Friday’s list also included 10 health workers. In all, 12,984 COVID-19 tests were carried out in the past 24 hours, according to the district administration. A little over 40,000 people are currently quarantined in the district as part of the precautionary measures to curb the spread of infection. This number includes 1,512 people who were quarantined on Friday. Stringent restrictions will be in place on Saturday and Sunday in the capital city as part of the weekend lockdown measures, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay has said. Only medical stores and shops selling milk, vegetables and essential food items will be allowed. Hotels and restaurants are permitted to make home delivery of food. Inspections will be carried out at entry points to the city. In all, 70 checking points have been arranged across the city, Mr. Upadhyay says, urging the public to avoid unnecessary travel over the weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-reports-1291-fresh-cases-tpr-at-99/article34982749.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lecture on Saturday||The Press Club Institute of Journalism Trivandrum’s (IJT) professional lecture series will be live-streamed on YouTube channel at 11 a.m. on Saturday. Justice Thottathil Radhakrishnan will deliver the lecture that will be on ‘Law, ethics and practice regarding journalists’ claim to non-disclosure of source identity’. Link The YouTube link for the professional lecture is https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCTIxo_YffmhWgL4kI1JvBJw||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lecture-on-saturday/article34982750.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||6 held for murder attempt||The Kovalam police have arrested six people for an alleged attempt to murder a youth few days ago. The accused were identified as Amal, 23, and Vimalmithra, 20, of Vellar; Inshad, 23, of Vizhinjam; Prakashan, 21, and Sumesh, 21, of Kuzhivilakam; and Nadirshah, 21, of KS Road. They have been accused of grievously injuring Akhil of Azhakulam in Kannancode around 10.30 p.m. on June 21. The gang attacked Akhil for having complained to the police earlier about their anti-social activities, the Kovalam police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6-held-for-murder-attempt/article34982743.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrangements for KU exams||As many as 435 students will appear for the final-semester exams to be conducted by the University of Kerala from 11 examination centres outside its jurisdiction. Undergraduate and postgraduate examinations will commence on June 28 and 29 respectively. The university will pay Rs. 5,000 to examination centres that will accommodate less than 500 students and Rs. 10,000 to those with more than 500 students. The university has prohibited COVID-19-infected students from appearing for the examinations. These students will be allowed to appear for a special examination later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrangements-for-ku-exams/article34982800.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrested on POCSO charge||The Kazhakkuttom police on Friday arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly raping a minor girl. The police identified the accused as Akhinesh Ashok of Vallakadavu. He was arrested on the basis of a complaint submitted by the victim two days ago. The accused purportedly befriended the victim through a social networking platform. He had claimed to be a philanthropist and allegedly sexually abused the victim since September last. The incident came to light when the victim was found to be pregnant. Booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the accused has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrested-on-pocso-charge/article34982742.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LPG line to be mandatory in flat complexes||A direct liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) line will be made mandatory in all flat complexes and apartments to be constructed henceforth, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan has said. In a press release here on Friday, he said such facilities should be arranged in existing buildings within three years. With the completion of the GAIL pipeline project, city gas distribution directly to houses has begun in Kochi and Kanhangad. Pipelines to more houses are being added now. This method of gas distribution will ensure safe and cost-effective supply of LPG. The required width for roads leading to buildings where LPG cylinders are stocked will be reduced from 7 metres to 6 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lpg-line-to-be-mandatory-in-flat-complexes/article34982693.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mary George opens farmers’ protest||Economist Mary George has said the three contentious farm laws that have been introduced by the Centre are bound to have widespread repercussions on the Indian economy. She has demanded the repeal of the laws. Dr. George was inaugurating a ‘Nilppu Samaram’ (standing protest) jointly organised by the Delhi Chalo Farmers’ Strike Solidarity Committee and Rashtriya Kissan Maha Sangh in front of Raj Bhavan here on Friday to mark seven months of the agitation in the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mary-george-opens-farmers-protest/article34982692.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Balaramapuram handloom to be exported to U.S.||Handloom products from Balaramapuram will be exported to the U.S. under the auspices of the Centre for Innovation in Science and Social Action (CISSA) ahead of the upcoming Onam season. Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, addressing Non-Resident Keralities’ organisations and CISSA representatives at a virtual meeting on Friday, had urged them to help the Balaramapuram handloom industry survive the adverse impacts of COVID-19. Responding to the call, the organisations agreed to purchase the handloom products now held up at Balaramapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/balaramapuram-handloom-to-be-exported-to-us/article34982696.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Regulatory mechanism for digital media is citizen-centric’||The three-tier regulatory mechanism for digital media is citizen-centric rather than government-centric, according to Vikram Sahay, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Press Information Bureau, Southern region, on Friday, he said publishers were expected to adhere to the code of ethics, furnish information to the Ministry in requisite format as early as possible, and constitute a self-regulatory body. On queries regarding pre-censorship, he said the government had already invited comments from stakeholders regarding the amendment of the Cinematograph Act, 1952. As many as 240 representatives of online media, OTT platforms, film industry, production houses, distributors and theatre owners from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, and Andhra Pradesh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/regulatory-mechanism-for-digital-media-is-citizen-centric/article34982697.ece
26 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Collector reviews work on Kuthiran tunnels||District Collector S. Shanavas on Friday reviewed the progress of work on the twin tunnels at Kuthiran. Work to facilitate the opening of one of the tunnels was progressing, he said. Work on strengthening the tunnel wall, where there was a landslip during the floods, is going on. Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, who had visited the site recently, had asked authorities to complete work on one tunnel urgently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-reviews-work-on-kuthiran-tunnels/article34982655.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Resistance to the fore||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resistance-to-the-fore/article34982803.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Boiling fuel prices||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boiling-fuel-prices/article34982701.ece
26 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulance that can be drawn by an auto||The coronavirus pandemic has exposed the lack of health infrastructure in rural areas in tackling emergencies as many died unable to reach hospital having beds with oxygen support. Considering at the paucity of ‘108’ ambulances, with just one vehicle catering to an entire revenue mandal, owner of Munirathnam Travels N. Munirathnam Srinivasulu and his friends have designed an ambulance that can be drawn by an autorickshaw. The vehicle,what they call ‘Village Ambulances’ is equipped with an oxygen cylinder, life-saving drugs, first-aid kits, and enough space for two persons to accompany a patient. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has donated six oxygen cylinders for these ambulances. The team utilised the resources at their command and built three cabins akin to the interiors of an ambulance. Sponsored by M.R. Ramesh of Bengaluru-based M.G. Charities, three Village Ambulances have been built at a cost of Rs. 4 lakh in 15 days. The first one will be stationed at the village secretariat at Kalavapalli in Beluguppa mandal of Anantapur district. “The vehicle does not have any engine, but it can be drawn by an autorickshaw, tractor or a jeep, one of which is available in every village these days,” said Mr. Srinivasulu. The group is now ready to ready one such ambulance in the next three days. They will build more as and when they are able to collect donations to meet exigencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambulance-that-can-be-drawn-by-an-auto/article34982849.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases among children shot up post-March||Karnataka has reported a significant rise in the number of children infected with COVID-19 since March 2021, when the second wave began. COVID-19 War Room data show that, 58,818 children between 0 and 9 years and 1,49,111 between 10 and 19 years tested positive from March 9 to June 23. The figures from a year ago, March 8, 2020, till March 8 this year were 27,646 and 65,677, respectively. In terms of deaths, 28 children between 0 and 9 years and 46 between 10 and 19 years succumbed between March 8, 2020, and March 8, 2021. The numbers from March 9 till June 23 this year were 34 and 42, respectively. Paediatric experts said although children could get infected and transmit it to others, they were at much lower risk compared to older adults. Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was the lowest in these age groups. A high-level expert committee estimated that around 3.4 lakh of the total 2.3 crore population in the 0-18 age group might get infected during the next peak. The 13-member panel, headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty, said that, based on projections by the IISc., 80%-85% of children who contract the virus were likely to have mild infection (asymptomatic) and about 2% may need intensive care. Chikkanarasa Reddy, Professor of Paediatrics at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, said children were less likely to get infected as they had ACE2 receptors (main receptor for the virus to enter human cells) with a lower affinity for SARS-CoV-2. “Even if they get infected, they do not develop severe disease,” he said. Asha Benekappa, former director of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, said children tended not to develop a severe form of the disease because their immune system was intact. “Except for 5%-10%, children do not have comorbidities, which is an added protective factor. Moreover, as all childhood vaccines are live viral vaccines, they are more protected,” she said. Karnataka on Friday reported 3,310 new cases of COVID-19 and 114 deaths. Bengaluru Urban logged 614 new cases and 17 deaths. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 2.09%. Kerala reported 11,546 new cases on Friday, the TPR registered 10.6% on the day. The State added more 118 deaths to the toll. Telangana recorded 1,061 new cases and 11 deaths. Five western districts, along with Chennai, accounted for 45% of the fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Friday. The State logged 5,755 cases and 150 deaths, taking the tally to 24,55,332 and toll to 32,051. Chennai reported fewer deaths than three districts — Coimbatore, Vellore and Tiruppur. There were 11 deaths in the city, while 26 people died in Coimbatore, 16 in Vellore and 13 in Tiruppur.   (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-cases-among-children-shot-up-post-march/article34982027.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police crack ex-councillor murder case in Bengaluru||The police on Friday cracked the murder of former city councillor Rekha Kadiresh, who was hacked to death outside her office at Cottonpet on Thursday morning. The police team opened fire and shot at two men — Peter and Surya — who are believed to have stabbed the corporator. Both men were former associates of her late husband Kadiresh S. Incidentally, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had given his assurances on Thursday that the assailants would nabbed within 24 hours. Special teams that were formed after the brazen attack tracked the duo down to a wooded area in Sunkadakatte. However, the police shot at their legs when the duo allegedly tried to attack them and flee. They have been admitted to a private hospital, where they are recovering. “We identified them as the assailants soon after the murder. While the complainant in the case, Sanjay, nephew of the deceased and one of the first responders after the attack, identified Peter and Surya, we recovered CCTV footage from the area that showed them fleeing the spot after the murder,” said a police officer. The police have determined there were at least five members in the hit team. “We have detained some of them and are on the lookout for the others,” said the officer. The former councillor’s husband met a similar end in 2018, when he was stabbed to death in Cottonpet. Peter and Surya, who were his associates at the time, had rowdy-sheets against them that were recently closed. “They were upset with Rekha Kadiresh for sidelining them after her husband’s death,” a source said. Rekha, a BJP leader, had blocked a garbage contract to Peter and had stopped giving the duo money. “The duo recently had a bitter tiff with her over the matter,” said the police source. Larger conspiracy? However, according to the police, they were not acting alone. “We have reason to believe others who held a grudge against the councillor joined hands with the duo. We suspect an internal family tiff between Kadiresh’s family over Rekha taking over his legacy, both in terms of property and politics. This played a role in the murder. There are people aspiring to become a councillor from the ward in the BBMP elections. Rekha Kadiresh, as a two-time councillor, posed a clear hurdle,” the police officer said. Kadiresh’s elder sister Mala, also a rowdy-sheeter, has been questioned in connection with the case. The last rites of the councillor were held in the city on Friday with several city BJP leaders in attendance. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel also paid his last respects and gave his word that the government would uncover the entire conspiracy.  We have reason to believe others who held a grudge against the councillor joined hands with the duo. We suspect an internal family tiff over Rekha taking over her husband’s legacy, both in terms of property and politics a police source||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-crack-ex-councillor-murder-case-in-bengaluru/article34982222.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will attach Roshan Baig’s assets in IMA scam case’||After three scathing orders passed by the High Court of Karnataka for not attaching properties of the former Minister R. Roshan Baig in connection with the IMA scam, the State government on Friday told the court that it had now decided to attach his properties prima facie terming him as one among the promoters of I Monetary Advisory (IMA) Group of companies. “The State government prima facie of the opinion that ex-MLA R. Roshan Baig has acted as a promoter, played a key role in promotion of IMA Group and its business activities, and has obtained financial gain from the said company,” stated the decision taken by the government on June 17, 2021. ‘Identify properties’ The government has also asked the Competent Authority in the IMA case to identify movable and immovable properties of Mr. Baig for the purpose of attaching them under the provisions of the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, 2004. Also, the government directed the Commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and the deputy commissioners of Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts to identify the properties belonging to Mr. Baig and submit their particulars for attaching them. The government informed the court that attachment orders would be issued soon after receipt of particulars from the BBMP Commissioner and the deputy commissioners. Meanwhile, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, before whom the government’s decision to attach properties of Mr. Baig was submitted, orally observed that the government decided to attach properties only after three orders by the court questioning non-attaching of properties even after intimation from the Competent Authority since March this year. When the Bench observed that the government could have straight away acted to attach properties based on Mr. Baig’s assets declaration made in his nomination papers filed while contesting elections, the government counsel said that proper boundaries and accurate details were required for attaching immovable properties and hence details were sought from the authorities. School development On the issue of Rs. 12.82 crore that the IMA Group had spent for redevelopment and maintenance of V.K. Obaidullah Government School at Shivajinagar, the Bench questioned the government’s stand that there was no need to return the money to investors as it was received as “donation” from the company. Asking what would have been the government’s action if the company had “donated” such a huge sum to a private school, the Bench said it would go into the legal issue on whether “donation” received from IMA would have to be returned to investors or not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-attach-roshan-baigs-assets-in-ima-scam-case/article34982028.ece
26 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four Maoists held in Telangana||Four Maoist militia members including three from Chhattisgarh were arrested by the Charla police on Friday. Police identified the arrested persons as Kunjam Devaiah, of Ramachandrapuram in Charla mandal, and K Suresh, Kovvasi Chukka and P Masaiah, hailing from Chhattisgarh, according to a press release. Combing operation During a joint combing operation, a combined team of local police and the CRPF men nabbed the four militia members of the banned outfit while they were moving in a suspicious manner in the Battinapalli-Ramachandrapuram forest area on Friday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-maoists-held-in-telangana/article34982842.ece
26 June 2021||BUTTAIGUDEM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Former ITDA PO arrested in tribal girls ‘exploitation’ case||Former K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer and Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana, who is facing sexual harassment charges, was arrested on Friday. Mr. Suryanarayana, who was relieved from the post of PO and surrendered to the government, was absconding for the last few days. He was produced in Jangareddygudem court, which remanded him for 15 days, said Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K. Latha Kumari. Police registered cases against seven persons, including the ITDA PO, for allegedly exploiting tribal women by promising jobs for them. Cases have been registered against the suspects under Sections 366 (Kidnap), 370 (Exploitation), 376 (Rape), 420 IPC (Cheating) and SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 2015 and Section 5 Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. Based on the allegations from two victims, police registered two separate cases on the sexual harassment charges, said Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik.“A detailed inquiry is on into the sexual harassment charges against the ITDA PO,” Collector Kartikeya Misra told The Hindu on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-itda-po-arrested-in-tribal-girls-exploitation-case/article34982845.ece
26 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases on the rise in Chittoor again||Chittoor district, which witnessed fewer than 500 cases per day in the past week, is now again witnessing an uptick with over 900 cases being reported on Friday. The district continued to top the State in the death toll as well, with nine casualties in the past 24 hours. Since March last year, Chittoor saw 1,575 COVID-related deaths. With the relaxation in curfew being extended from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m., public movement returned to normal even as COVID protocols were largely ignored. Heavy traffic was witnessed at many places in the district. Amid the threat of a third wave, the district medical and health administration has stepped up efforts to bring additional staff and medical equipment to COVID hospitals and care centres. Though the operation of APSRTC buses is yet to resume towards Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu, private vehicles are being freely allowed to cross the border. The report of a Delta-plus variant case emerging from Tirupati on Friday had put officials on edge, but they were relieved after knowing that the patient had fully recovered, and about 30 samples in the neighborhood also tested negative for the variant. District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) U. Sreehari said that the field staff of the medical and health wing were asked to be alert in the wake of growing cases in the past couple of days. “Compared to the 45% positivity rate in May, the present rate is at 5%. In spite of this, we are giving top priority to adherence to COVID protocols,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-cases-on-the-rise-in-chittoor-again/article34982832.ece
26 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notorious liquor offender, two aides arrested in Chittoor||Police on Friday morning nabbed a man named Kelvin ‘Black’ Vinodh (30), a resident of Mittoor locality in Chittoor who is wanted in several cases of liquor smuggling, and two of his accomplices, and seized an SUV with over 3,000 bottles of liquor manufactured in Karnataka, on the outskirts of Chittoor while the trio was on their way to Tirupati. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told reporters here that during the last couple of months, special surveillance was mounted on the movements of Vinod and his gang following large-scale smuggling of liquor bottles, ganja and other contraband from the neighbouring State. Acting on reliable information, the raid was conducted on the outskirts of Chittoor and the accused was nabbed. The Deputy SP said that police teams in the Chittoor sub-division had seized liquor worth over Rs. 3 crore in the past two months, and 30 offenders in various cases of inter-State smuggling of liquor were bound over before the mandal magistrates. Mr. Sudhakar Reddy said that as part of an action plan to tackle liquor smuggling, proposals were being readied to book the notorious offenders under the PD Act. Meanwhile, the Deputy SP organised special raids in Chittoor, Puthalapattu, Pakala, GD Nellore and Gudipala mandal, leading to the seizure of ganja sacks weighing 50 kg and arrest of 20 accused in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notorious-liquor-offender-two-aides-arrested-in-chittoor/article34982834.ece
26 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 vehicles seized from inter-State bike thieves||The Piler urban police arrested eight members of an inter-State bike-lifting gang, and seized 30 new motorcycles worth Rs. 45 lakh from their possession. A hunt is on for other gang members.  Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said that special teams took into custody a couple of youths on Thursday who were moving suspiciously on the outskirts of Madanapalle. On interrogation, it emerged that the duo was part of an inter-State gang of bike-lifters. Their modus operandi was to steal new bikes in Bengalaru and other places in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Preliminary interrogation led to the arrest of eight accused persons till Friday evening. Sumanth Babu alias Puli of Madakasira was identified as the kingpin of the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-vehicles-seized-from-inter-state-bike-thieves/article34982831.ece
26 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure medicines measure up to WHO standards, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to ensure that all medicines used in government hospitals measure up to the Good manufacturing practice (GMP) and World Health Organization (WHO) standards. The officials informed him that the number of coronavirus infection had come down and the recovery rate had increased significantly in the State. During a review meeting on COVID-19 control and vaccination at his camp office on Friday, the Chief Minister said that special attention should be paid to sanitation in hospitals and food provided to the patients, along with the hospital maintenance and health infrastructure by regular monitoring. He instructed the authorities to prepare a standard operating procedure (SOP) ensuring a proper mechanism in this regard. “A special officer must be appointed to ensure that all hospitals have the needed infrastructure and access to sanitation. The attendance of doctors, nurses, and other staff should be monitored,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Nadu-Nedu scheme Discussing on the Nadu-Nedu scheme being implemented at hospitals and in the health hubs, the Chief Minister said that maintenance should be prioritised in all works undertaken as part of the initiative. “The officials must ensure that patients receive quality healthcare services. All the Aarogyasri, 104 and 108 bills should be paid within 21 days,” he said. The officials submitted a report on the health hubs explaining that more people were going to other States for treatment of cancer, heart ailments and paediatric surgeries. The Chief Minister said the authorities must ensure that healthcare services for these ailments were available here, prioritising the establishment of such specialty hospitals in the hubs. Medical colleges “The construction of 16 new medical colleges, revamping the existing 11 colleges and setting up health hubs will strengthen the healthcare sector in State,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and asked the officials to complete the construction works of the new medical colleges on a war-footing. The officials informed the Chief Minster that the number of active COVID-19 cases had come down below 50,000, while the test positivity rate (TPR) had plummeted to only 5.23 %. “TPR is lower than 5% in six districts. The recovery rate has gone up to 96.67 %, higher than the national average. At present, 76.51 % of the beds in private hospitals are occupied by patients under the Aarogyasri scheme and the number of calls to 104 services, has dropped significantly, just 1,021 calls on June 25,” the officials said. Black fungus The officials said that there were about 3,148 black fungus cases, while surgeries had been performed on 1,095 patients and 1,398 patients had been discharged. Till date, black fungus has claimed 237 lives in the State. The government is setting up 134 oxygen plants (Pressure Swing Adsorption) in the state, focusing on establishment of the plants in hospitals with more than 50 beds. Officials said that 97 plants would be set up by September and 37 more were expected to be completed by March next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-medicines-measure-up-to-who-standards-cm-tells-officials/article34982851.ece
26 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NREGS: Guntur district achieves one crore man days in June||Digging up the earth with a shovel, Manikyamma is busy at the worksite on a drainage canal at Brahmanakoduru of Chebrolu mandal. She lives at Manchala village and works in farms during the harvest season. But the pandemic struck her hard. With no work and no means of livelihood, hunger and deprivation knocked on her door. She was staring at a very uncertain future, when the village sarpanch informed that work was available through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The mandate was to clear the weed in a drainage canal, so that waste water from the agricultural fields could flow unobstructed. She, along with 150 men and women, are engaged in clearing the weed, and each of them is paid Rs. 240 per day, and the wages are directly credited into their bank accounts once in 15 days. In keeping with the COVID-19 protocol, the men and women wear masks, follow social distancing and sanitise their hands with soap and water kept nearby. District Collector Vivek Yadav, who interacted with the workers, said that MGNREGS had proved to be the major source of livelihood during the pandemic. “During the most difficult times, the scheme has ensured direct employment to lakhs of men and women in the district. We are happy to announce that Guntur district has achieved the target of generating one crore person-days in June 2021, ensuring payment of Rs. 221.65 crore wage component directly into the their bank accounts. This has been made possible through regular monitoring with the staff of the District Water Management Agency, the Panchayat Raj and other line departments,” said Mr. Vivek Yadav. Manikyamma is among many men and women, whose lives have been sustained throughout the pandemic in the district through the scheme. Guntur district, with vast dry lands slicing through the Palnadu area, has achieved remarkable progress in generating one crore man-days by June 2021-22 and providing employment to 1.21 crore men and women, out of whom 42.73 lakh are women, 19.44 lakh SCs, 7.73 lakh STs, and 3.83 lakh BCs. ‘All-time high wages’ The achievement in the year 2020-21 is the highest in the last eight years. The wage component in 2020-21 is an all-time high at Rs. 242.83 crore, and the material component is Rs. 172.99 crore against Rs. 151.96 crore wage component and Rs. 19.99 crore material component in 2017-18. Project Director, DWMA, G. Srinivasa Reddy, said that the target was achieved in June itself. “The NREGS has ensured sustained livelihood to many people,” said Mr. Srinivasa Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nregs-guntur-district-achieves-one-crore-man-days-in-june/article34982253.ece
26 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu trying to politicise mango farmers’ issue’||Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu has said that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has only one agenda and that is to defame Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “Of late, Mr. Naidu and his son Lokesh have been talking about problems of mango farmers, and are trying to politicise the issue,” the Minister said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was firm in ensuring better prices for the farmers. The Chittoor Collector himself was monitoring the issue. The Commissioner of Horticulture was also monitoring. A MRO was placed as in charge of every processing unit, said Mr. Kannababu. Stating that the TDP government had paid only Rs. 2.5 more for every kg, the Minister said that Mr. Naidu was telling lies. “Mr. Naidu is beginning to enact a drama that the government is increasing the price only after he intervened. We have invited bids from entrepreneurs to start processing units in Chittoor,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-trying-to-politicise-mango-farmers-issue/article34982852.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘KCR silent on Seema project’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has to take the blame for Pothireddypadu as it was started by the Telugu Desam government when KCR was a minister in N. T. Rama Rao cabinet. At a press conference here, he said KCR had no moral right to blame Congress leaders on the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator as he had not opposed it as TDP minister then. In fact, it was Telangana Congress leaders who fought against the increase of water withdrawal from it. And it was Congress leaders who went to AICC president Sonia Gandhi seeking separate Telangana when KCR was enjoying power in Telugu Desam Party, he argued. Mr. Bhatti said Congress had been warning the government on the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation project at Sangameshwar for the last one year but KCR was silent worried over his financial relationship with AP leadership. On numerous occasions, Congress raised the issue that AP would take away 11 tmcft every day thus hitting inflows into Srisailam and subsequently into Nagarjuna Sagar projects but the TRS government was mum for reasons known to everyone. Now the Chief Minister woke from his slumber and started blaming the Congress. Was it not ridiculous to criticise the Congress that had built the projects on the Krishna which were being compromised by the TRS government, Mr. Bhatti argued. He said Congress governments irrigated 3.4 lakh acres under Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation; 3.7 lakh acres under SLBC, 2 lakh acres under Nettempadu in addition to 6.40 lakh acres under Nagarjuna Sagar Left Canal. Now irrigation in these 15.50 lakh acres was in danger due to the Rayalaseema project. All that KCR started was Dindi and Palamur-Ranga Reddy project, and despite spending thousands of crores on these not a single acre could be irrigated, he claimed. The Congress leader accused the Chief Minister of resorting to provocative sentiments yet again for political mileage after failing to react on time. “If he wanted he could have reacted and stopped the project last year itself. But he was silent when the GO was issued by the AP government due to his financial interests in it,” Mr. Bhatti alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-silent-on-seema-project/article34982622.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter second-year syllabus reduced to 70% in TS||Syllabus for Intermediate second-year students will be reduced to 70% for the academic year 2021-22 with the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) deciding to conduct physical classes on alternate days from July 1 when colleges reopen. If classes are held on alternate days for both first-year and second-year students due to COVID restrictions, the BIE fears that it may not meet the 220 mandatory instruction days. The instruction days will be effectively reduced to 110 and the syllabus also has to be reduced accordingly. A circular of the BIE sent to college managements said that “Since there is an uncertainty about the number of working days, 70% of the syllabus may be continued for teaching as well as for Intermediate Public Examination (lPE-2022) for the time being until there is clarity from the government or CBSE.” ‘Use technology’ The BIE does not expect an overwhelming response to physical classes from parents and realising this, it has asked colleges and teachers to use technology and social media platforms for effective teaching. It asked colleges to create WhatsApp groups with junior lecturers and students subject-wise and group-wise for first-year and second-year students separately. To make the online class interesting and effective, the BIE suggested to lecturers to integrate their lessons with the freely available educational resources like “PhEt” simulations, “Desmos” graphing tools and “animations” on the web. The groups should not be static and inactive and they must be dynamic in the sense that the principal, lecturers and students must actively engage in clearing the doubts or announcing the TV lesson schedules and online schedules. The groups should be utilised not only for doubt clearing sessions but also to elicit feedback from students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-2nd-yr-syllabus-reduced-to-70/article34982576.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||TRS govt. continues tirade against YSR||The Telangana government continued its attack on the late Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy accusing him of diverting water to the projects in the present Andhra Pradesh and also blaming him for the death of Congress leader P. Janardhan Reddy, who vehemently opposed the increase in drawing the water from Pothireddypadu Head Regulator. After Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashanth Reddy it was the turn of Excise Minister V. Srinivas Goud who said YSR had cheated Telangana and played havoc with the lives of people and also the political leadership here. He said YSR was also responsible for the death of Congress leader P. Janardhan Reddy who was his strong opponent. “Janardhan Reddy was humiliated and suffered a heart attack and medical experts in the ambulance meant for CM YSR did not come to his rescue. Or else he would have been saved,” he claimed in New Delhi. Mr. Goud also argued that YSR had killed Naxalites after they favoured a separate Telangana. “They were called for talks and those sympathetic to Telangana movement were killed in encounters,” he claimed, adding that even Congress leaders supporting the separate state demand were also humiliated. On being questioned over the overtly friendly relationship with Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister, YS Jaganmohan Reddy, he said it was with the belief that both the states should solve the issues amicably. However, Mr. Jagan turned out to be just like his father and diverting water illegally. “We thought he had changed. We are criticising him after realising that he had not changed.” Mr. Goud rejected the argument that the Telangana government was knowingly silent while the Andhra Pradesh government went ahead with the construction of the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation project. He accused the Central government of not doing enough to settle the differences. “It is for the Centre to intervene and settle the differences and they are not doing it,” he maintained.  Comments on Congress The Minister said Congress would continue to be relevant in politics and they should put pressure on its central leadership to approach the Bharatiya Janata Party government to resolve the issue. He advised Congress and BJP to oppose the Andhra Pradesh government projects even if there was no collective fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trs-govt-continues-tirade-against-ysr/article34982329.ece
26 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven held for theft cases in Kadapa||The Kadapa police on Friday arrested seven persons, including two minors, for their alleged involvement in several cases of burglary and robbery in Mydukur, Rayachoti and Proddatur police limits and recovered property worth Rs. 13 lakh. Two of a gang notorious for waylaying the public was arrested in Mydukur Rural limits. The two used to reportedly stop vehicles on highways seeking lift and steal mobile phones from the victims at knife-point. Since the accused were minors, they were sent to a rehabilitation centre. In Rayachoti Rural, two suspected chain snatchers were nabbed and gold chains weighing 81 gm worth Rs. 5 lakh were recovered from their possession, apart from two motorcycles. The accused Settipalle Siva Kalyan Reddy (27) and Shaik Shamir (33) were reportedly wanted in four cases. In Proddatur, police arrested Palle Dharma Tej (24), Putha Naveen Kumar Reddy and M. Vishnu Vamsi (23), wanted in various theft cases. About 120 gm of gold, two motorcycles and 25 gm of silver was seized. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan urged the public to utilise the Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS) app to keep criminals at bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-held-for-theft-cases-in-kadapa/article34982839.ece
26 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police appeal to Maoists battling COVID-19 infection to surrender||East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi on Friday appealed to the Maoists belonging to Galikonda Area Committee (Visakha agency), BK-East Godavari Division (Andhra-Telanga border), and Konta Area Committee (Chhattisgarh) to surrender before the A.P. police to get access to timely medical treatment for COVID-19 infection. Referring to the recent death of some Maoists owing to COVID-19 infection on the Andhra-Odisha and Andhra-Chhattisgarh State borders, Mr. Nayeem Asmi said the intelligence inputs had confirmed that many Maoists had been battling with the COVID-19 infection. “On the humanitarian ground, the police authorities have decided to guarantee timely medical treatment to the Maoists who are roaming in the tri-State borders for the medical assistance. We request the Maoists to surrender before the police,” said the SP. He appealed to the high command of the banned CPI (Maoists) to allow their cadre to surrender instead of pushing them to their death in the absence of medical treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-appeals-to-maoists-battling-covid-19-infection-to-surrender/article34982033.ece
26 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E.G. gearing up to tackle ‘third wave’||East Godavari Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Keerthi on Friday said that a total of 700 beds with medical oxygen facility would be provided in all the area hospitals, community and primary health centres across the district by mid of July. “Work will begin in one week to provide the beds as a part of preparing for the anticipated COVID-19 third wave. Tests will be conducted for pregnant women during the regular monthly checks-up,” said Ms. Keerthi. The district authorities have already arranged a paediatric ward comprising 200 beds at the Government General Hospital here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eg-gearing-up-to-tackle-third-wave/article34982254.ece
26 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sedition case against Aisha won’t stand: HC||Observing that prima facie the offences, including the sedition charge, alleged against Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana are not attracted, the Kerala High Court on Friday made absolute the interim anticipatory bail granted to her in a case registered by the Kavaratti police for making a remark about the Central government. A case under Sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Ms. Sultana, a native of Chetlat island, based on a petition filed by BJP’s Lakshadweep unit president Abdul Khader. The prosecution case is that on June 7, during a TV channel discussion, she had allegedly stated that the Centre had used ‘bioweapon’ against the natives of the islands. ‘No malice motive’ Justice Ashok Menon, while allowing her anticipatory bail petition, observed that prima facie the petitioner “did not have a malicious motive to subvert the government established by law by merely using the strong word 'bioweapon', to express her vehemence in disapproval of the subject under discussion. Her intention was explicitly in criticism of the modification of the SOP, introduced by the Administrator, forgoing the mandatory provision of subjecting the persons entering the islands to quarantine. This allegedly led to an exponential rise in the number of COVID-19 cases on the islands. The decisive ingredient for establishing the offence of sedition under Section 124 A of the IPC is the doing of certain acts which will bring the government established by law in India into hatred or contempt. In this case, there was not even a suggestion that the petitioner did anything as such against the Government of India.” Phone seized Akbar Kareem, Ms. Sultana’s lawyer, told The Hindu that the Lakshadweep police on Friday afternoon seized her mobile phone for the purpose of sending it for forensic examination. The action came in the wake of the Kerala High Court granting bail to her in a case of sedition registered against her, he said. In a video message, Ms. Sultana said she was not allowed to note down important contact details before the mobile phone was seized by the police. “That the phone was seized all of a sudden on the day the court granted me bail has come as a shock. I don't know how will I call my mother. Two of my uncles are hospitalised at two places and I am unable to contact them either,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sedition-case-against-aisha-wont-stand-hc/article34982032.ece
26 June 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village gets pedestrian bridge through crowd-funding||After their demand for a bridge across a rivulet did not get any response from the State government, like-minded people of a village in Dakshina Kannada district accomplished the task on their own. They built a pedestrian steel bridge through crowd-funding. The rivulet is on Edoni-Eranagudde-Mogra Road at Mogra village under the Guthigar Gram Panchayat in Sullia taluk. The road connects Balpa and Guthigar towns. Incidentally, the Balpa Gram Panchayat was selected by Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel as ‘ aadarsha grama ’ (model village). The steel bridge replaces a temporary bridge that was built using areca palm ahead of every monsoon by the Guthigar Gram Panchayat since decades. But the wooden bridge becomes weak in about two months owing to rains. “Whenever the rivulet was full due to heavy rain, students and women avoided using the wooden bridge,” said Mahesh Puchchappady, a journalist-cum-agriculturist who took the initiative of getting the steel bridge constructed throughcivil engineer Pathanjali Bharadwaj, son of Padma Shri winner Girish Bharadwaj who has built several hanging bridges for rural connectivity across India.Mr. Pathanjali Bharadwaj told The Hindu that the pedestrian bridge is 19.2 metre long and 1.2 metre wide. It was built in 20 days at a cost of around Rs. 1.25 lakh and can take the weight of a two-wheeler. “We used waterproof and durable plywood planks on an experimental basis to reduce the cost of construction with the consent of local peoplewho offered shramdaan [voluntary work]. Local construction materials were used to reduce cost,” he said. Mr. Puchchappady said 50% of the cost was borne by the villagers. The rest of the money was raised through contributions from some private companies. Use of the bridge on trial basis began on Thursday. It was expected to be ready for use by the public on the weekend after completing minor works, he said. The bridge would provide permanent connectivity to a government health centre and a school at Mogra. The project has brought a smile on the faces of about 80 families in the surroundings of the rivulet. Mr. Pathanjali Bharadwaj said this was probably a rare pedestrian steel bridge to be built through crowd-funding in recent years in the coastal and Malnad belts. People had been petitioning the local MLA (S. Angara, now Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport) for a regular bridge since 2006. In addition, they had submitted their request to all other elected representatives, like members of Parliament, zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat. As a last resort, they petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November 2020, Mr. Puchchappady said. “Following the petition to the Prime Minister, the Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat ordered work on assessing the feasibility and cost of construction of a regular concrete bridge,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-gets-pedestrian-bridge-through-crowd-funding/article34982031.ece
26 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJYM, AIYF stage protest over job calendar||Activsts of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and CPI-led All India Youth Federation staged separate demonstrations here on Friday in protest against the “disappointing” job calendar released by the State government. Police took 10 BJYM activists into preventive custody including its district president T. Ashok Reddy as they tried to obstruct the convoy of Education Minister A.Suresh, protesting over the announcement by the government that only 10,000 jobs would be filled this year. Police personnel posted at Prakasam Bhavan whisked the BJYM activists away to the police station. The activists were detained for violating prohibitory orders in force, said Ongole DSP K.V.V.N.V. Prasad. Leading the AIYF protest, its president Lakshma Reddy said the YSRCP government should come out with a revised job calender to fill over 2.35 lakh vacancies in various government departments. The meagre number of jobs announced by the State government came as a rude shock to the jobless youth who were toiling hard in their preparations for competitive exams, said AIYF district secretary Ramanjaneyulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjym-aiyf-stage-protest-over-job-calendar/article34982837.ece
26 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID graph declines in south coastal A.P.||The number of active COVID cases came down to a little over 8,500 in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh on Friday. Prakasam district reported zero deaths for the second day in a row while one patient succumbed to COVID in Nellore, taking the overall death toll in the region to 1,804. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by over 400. Prakasam district has accounted for 903 deaths so far while Nellore district has seen 901 deaths. The overall caseload rose to over 1.46 lakh in the wake of 212 persons from Nellore district and 335 persons from Prakasam district testing positive for the virus in the past 24 hours. As many as 578 patients in Prakasam district and another 365 patients in Nellore district made a recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-graph-declines-in-south-coastal-ap/article34982835.ece
26 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four major airports in A.P. in the red||Four major airports - Rajamahendravaram, Tirupati, Vijayawada, and Visakhapatnam - had suffered a whopping Rs. 119 crore loss during the 2018-19 financial year in Andhra Pradesh. As per the Airports Authority of India’s report on the ‘Loss-making airports (2018-19)’, the total expenditure on the four airports had exceeded Rs. 268 crore against their revenue of Rs. 148.35 crore. Since early 2020, the operations at these airports were halted at regular intervals due to the lockdowns during the first and second waves of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Tirupati airport suffered the highest loss of Rs. 42.70 crore. It had barely earned Rs. 21.72 crore against the expenditure of Rs. 64.42 crore. The Vijayawada airport had reported a loss of Rs. 41.70 crore against Rs. 73.24 crore expenditure with a meagre revenue of Rs. 31.54 crore. The Rajamahendravaram airport registered a revenue of Rs. 8.61 crore, the lowest among the four airports. Its expenditure was more than Rs. 41.45 crore, and the loss was a whopping Rs. 32.84 crore. The revenue earned by the Kadapa airport was Rs. 57 lakh, but the expenditure was more than Rs. 10.38 crore. The Visakhapatnam airport, however, managed to earn a revenue of Rs. 86.48 crore against an expenditure of Rs. 89.48 crore. Tourist attractions, international sports events, and international flight services remain the prime revenue sources for the airport. Privatisation threat MP and Member, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture, M. Bharat, had stated that strengthening the AAI was the need of the hour. Speaking at a meeting of the Standing Committee in New Delhi recently, Mr. Bharat feared that the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2021, would lead to privatisation of the loss-making airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-major-airports-in-ap-in-the-red/article34982855.ece
26 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Domestic air cargo terminal opened at Rajamahendravaram||The much-awaited domestic air cargo terminal was commissioned at the Rajamahendravaram airport in East Godavari district on Friday. The terminal will be operated by the Airport Authority of India Cargo Logistics and Allied Services Company Limited (AAICLAS), a subsidiary of the AAI. Rajamahendravaram Airport Director Manoj Kumar Nayak inaugurated the terminal in the presence of all the stakeholders and the officials from the AAICLAS, Visakhapatnam. “The first consignment of COVID-19 vaccine (Covaxin) was received on Friday and the automobile spare parts was despatched to Hyderabad. The cargo terminal facility will help boost the economic activity in the East and West Godavari districts,” said Mr. Manoj Kumar Nayak. Security clearance Meanwhile, the Bureau of Civil Aviation (BCAS) has issued the security clearance for the operation of the air cargo terminal. IndiGo Airlines will handle the cargo operations to various destinations from the Rajamahendravaram airport. Abraham Lincon, in-charge, AAICLAS, Visakhapatnam Branch, representatives from Indigo Airlines, Cargo Agents, and other stakeholders were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/domestic-air-cargo-terminal-opened-at-rajamahendravaram/article34982854.ece
26 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||United Breweries workers are a worried lot||The Andhra Pradesh government’s new liquor policy has turned out to be the bane of nearly 2,000 employees of the United Breweries unit at Ranasthalam in Srikakulam district. The company has reduced its production significantly because of lack of orders from the government. According to sources, the company used to produce six lakh bottles of the Kingfisher and other brands per day till 2019. The YSRCP government that had come to power later brought out a policy that aimed at imposing prohibition in a phased manner. New brands encouraging As a part of its policy, it has started encouraging new brands, which is proving to be disadvantageous to the products being rolled out by the UB. Representatives of the company had reportedly approached the government many a time to win back the orders in vain. With only a few orders from Odisha, Telangana and other States, the UB unit, with a view to minimising losses, has not only reduced its production but also laid off nearly 1,000 workers, which is causing consternation among others. Protests planned “The workers are now rendered ineligible for Provident Fund and ESI medical facility as they are hardly working for 10 days in a month,” said CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao. “All the workers, along with their family members, will stage protests from July 1 to 3 in a bid to draw the attention of the government to their plight,” said Ch. Ammannaidu, a CITU leader. Relay hunger strike He said the relay hunger strike being staged on the premises of the company for the last three days would continue. “The new policy has made our lives miserable. Earlier, we used to draw nearly Rs. 12,000 per month. But now, we are hardly drawing Rs. 4,000 per month, which is not sufficient even to pay house rent and power bills,” said Ch. Prabhkar, another union leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/united-breweries-workers-are-a-worried-lot/article34982255.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Josephine quits as Kerala women’s panel chief||Kerala Women's Commission chairperson M.C. Josephine has resigned. Ms. Josephine had drawn public ire for allegedly slighting a victim of domestic violence during a televised phone-in programme. The incident has unleashed a social media storm, with women activists, human right organisations and Opposition parties wading into the mele. The online anger manifested as street protests by women activists of the Congress and the BJP. The CPI(M) State secretariat, which met here on Friday, concluded that Ms. Josephine's continuation at the helm of the commission was politically untenable. The secretariat reportedly pointed out that Ms. Josephine's "needlessly strident tone" towards the petitioner was indefensible. The public had spurned the comment as high-handed and anti-egalitarian, it felt. The controversy erupted at an inconvenient moment for the CPI(M). It had planned a mass campaign, Sthree Paksha Keralam, to defend gender justice. The party had sought to occupy the political high ground by championing the cause of women at a time when domestic violence, imposition of dress and behavioural code, moral policing, honour killings, demonising interfaith marriage and dowry harassment were on the ascend. Gender equality The secretariat theorised that the rightward drift in society, catalysed by the rise of Hindu and Muslim fundamentalism, was the biggest threat to gender equality. Revanchist forces, seeking reinstatement of medieval values under cover of religion, had sought to relegate women to a subaltern position in society. Hence, the CPI(M) secretariat required the party to reinforce renaissance values that forged modern Kerala. Hence, the party did not want the controversy involving Ms. Josephine to turn into a drag on its ambitious socio-political campaign. CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said Ms. Josephine regretted the episode at the meeting. She expressed her desire to resign. The party backed her decision. “Society has realised the party's principled position,” he said. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said for seven days from July 1, CPI(M) members would fan out across the State to spread the message of gender equality. The campaign would conclude on July 8. It would stress the feminist narrative, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/josephine-quits-as-kerala-womens-panel-chief/article34982218.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siby Mathews gets anticipatory bail||A court here has granted anticipatory bail to retired Director General of Police Siby Mathews in a “police frame-up” that led to the infamous “ISRO spy scandal” case in 1994. Last month, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had indicted Mr. Mathews for the alleged wrongful arrest and custodial torture of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan and others in the case. Mr. Mathews had headed the Special Investigation Team then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siby-mathews-gets-anticipatory-bail/article34982220.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 held for peddling black fungus drugs||The Tirupati Urban police arrested 10 persons for allegedly selling drugs to cure black fungus in the black market. The police got scent of a gang that was reportedly on the prowl to make a fast buck out of the people’s desperation to get drugs to cure black fungus. C. Gunasekhar, Neerugattu Guruvardhan, M. Purushotham, V. Naga Bhaskar, Maddela Sai Babu, K. Viswanath, Bandari Rangaswami, Kota Ramakrishna, Beeram Papaiah, all hailing from Chittoor, Nellore, Prakasam, Anantapur and Krishna districts, and P. Ramachandra Prabhu of Chennai were arrested at three different locations in Tirupati on Friday. Liposomal Amphotericin B Lambin, Amfolin, Ambisome drugs were seized from their possession. The modus operandi of the group was to get details on black fungus from social media, befriend attendants in corporate hospitals and gather information about patients needing the drugs. They used to create an artificial demand and sell the drug costing Rs. 7000 for anything between Rs. 18,000 and Rs. 30,000, depending on the patient’s condition and their kin’s desperation. “We request the public not to buy drugs out of panic and encourage such fake sellers”, said Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, producing the accused before the media. All the accused are related to the field of medical and health in one way or the other, which is the common thread linking them. “One is a medical representative based at Nellore, who is still at large, while there is a computer operator working at a government hospital in Chennai,” Mr. Naidu said. Shareef of Nellore, Rama Raju and Parameswari of Chennai are on the run. The department had also alerted the Drug Control and A.P. Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited authorities about the arrests. Cases have been registered against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-held-for-peddling-black-fungus-drugs/article34982216.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati Smart City bags five awards||Tirupati has bagged five awards in the India Smart City Contest-2020. Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri announced the awards on Friday, in which Tirupati participated in six of the 10 categories . MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha and Mayor R. Sireesha said the city came first in Sanitation (Bio remediation and biomining) and Social Aspect - e-health (health benchmark for municipal schools). It won the second place in the second round for the City Award (among 48 cities) and in Economy–Art district (boost local identity and economy through design studio). The third place was won in Urban environment for the 4MW floating solar plant under the ‘renewable energy generation’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-smart-city-bags-five-awards/article34982856.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veteran scribe recounts memories of Emergency||A veteran journalist recounted his experience of the Emergency that was imposed by the Central government on June 25, 1975.  Narrating his experience to the BJP’s SC Morcha State general secretary S. Muni Subramanyam, , Mr. Ranga Rao explained how he had to go underground and evade police several times to avoid being caught. “However, I could not elude arrest for long, after which I was lodged in Musheerabad prison for eighteen months,” he recalled. After serving as a reporter for an English news agency, Mr. Ranga Rao went on to become the district general secretary of the Jana Sangh and later the BJP. The BJP leaders felicitated him with a shawl on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veteran-scribe-recounts-memories-of-emergency/article34982840.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 toll crosses 12,500 in State||The State reported 38 deaths due to COVID-19 and 4,458 new infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The toll crossed the 12,500-mark and reached 12,528 while the cumulative tally increased 18,71,475. The number of recoveries and recovery rate slightly increased to 18,11,157 and 96.78% respectively as 6,313 patients recovered in the past day. The total active cases came down to 47,790. The daily positivity rate of 91,849 samples tested in the past day was 4.84%, which is one of the lowest in the past several weeks. The overall positivity rate of the 2.15 crore samples tested so far was at 8.69%. Chittoor district reported nine moe deaths in the past day while Krishna reported eight. Guntur reported five and East Godavari reported four deaths, while Kurnool, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram reported two deaths each. Anantapur, Kadapa, Nellore and West Godavari reported one new death each and Prakasam reported no new death. All the districts reported less than a thousand new infections and East Godavari with 909 infections in the past day reported the highest daily tally. It was followed by Chittoor (708), West Godavari (591), Kadapa (370), Prakasam (335), Krishna (331), Guntur (239), Anantapur (224), Nellore (212), Visakhapatnam (198), Srikakulam (151), Kurnool (126) and Vizianagaram (64). The cumulative infection tally of the Krishna district crossed the one-lakh mark. The district has 3,697 active cases and a death rate of 1.09%, the highest among the districts. With this, all the districts except Vizianagaram witnessed more than one lakh infections. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,59,452), Chittoor (2,17,246), Guntur (1,60,888), West Godavari (1,59,390), Anantapur (1,53,168), Visakhapatnam (1,47,752), Nellore (1,26,383), Kurnool (1,21,413), Prakasam (1,19,625), Srikakulam (1,17,956), Kadapa (1,05,508), Krishna (1,00,123) and Vizianagaram (79,676).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-toll-crosses-12500-in-state/article34982847.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl assault case: efforts on to trace main accused||The Guntur Urban district police and the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate personnel investigating the alleged sexual assault case reported from the Seetanagaram Pushkar Ghat on the Krishna riverbank on June 19, are making efforts to find out the prime accused in the case. They reportedly paraded some suspects before the victim on Friday. Investigation officers suspect that more than two persons are involved in the crime.  “The abandoned place at the Pushkar Ghat is regularly frequented by ganja peddlers, blade batch offenders and rowdy-sheeters. Many gangs from Krishna and Guntur districts often resort to illegal activities there. There could be more than two accused at the scene of offence and abetted the crime,” said a police officer. A gang allegedly accosted the couple on Saturday night and threatened them with blades and pocket knives. They allegedly thrashed the boy and allegedly sexually assaulted the girl. “Rowdy-sheeters, ganja and blade batch gangs move on the tracks between Vijayawada railway station and KC Canal junction. They attack the passengers when trains slow down and rob them of valuables. Later, they consume liquor and ganja on the Krishna riverbank at Seetanagaram,” said a resident. Caution boards put up Meanwhile, the Tadepalli municipality and the Guntur Urban police have put up signboards cautioning the people not to move in abandoned areas on the riverbank. They have appealed to the women to install Disha App on their cellphones and alert the police in case of emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-assault-case-efforts-on-to-trace-main-accused/article34982250.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to develop secondary food processing units hailed||The Andhra Pradesh Food Processing Policy 2020-25 intends to develop secondary food processing ready-to-operate plug & play units in each parliamentary constituency and the proposed 42 product-specific units would create a continuous demand for the farmers’ produce, good sale price and adequate raw material for the industry, L. Sridhar Reddy, Chief Executive Officer, AP Food Processing Society, said on Friday. Speaking at an awareness session on ‘Food Processing Opportunities in Andhra Pradesh: Establishment of Secondary Food Processing Units’ organised by the State chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in the virtual mode, Mr. Sridhar Reddy said establishment of these units would help in building the required backward and forward integration and ensure remunerative price to the farmers’ produce. “The secondary food processing units are identified based on the availability of local raw material,” he explained. Win-win situation Society’s COO Bharath Thota said the move would create an ecosystem for value addition to various food products. It would create a win-win situation for the industry and for the government to accelerate growth in the food processing sector. Convener, primary sector panel, CII-Andhra Pradesh, P. Venkat Ram Reddy, highlighted the strength of Andhra Pradesh for the prospective investors. Seventy delegates representing the food processing industry participated and sought clarifications on various technical aspects of running the secondary food processing units. Chairman, CII-Vijayawada Zone, S. Narendra Kumar, participated in the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-develop-secondary-food-processing-units-hailed/article34982258.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP urges NCW to probe sexual assault case||Alleging that crimes against women are on the rise in the State, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has urged the National Commission for Women (NCW) to constitute a team for conducting an inquiry into such cases. In a letter to the NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday, Telugu Mahila (women’s wing of the party) State President V. Anita cited the case pertaining to the alleged molestation of a woman on the Krishna riverbank on June 19. “The place where the incident occurred is only 1 km to 2 km from the residence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and 2 km to 3 km from the State Police Headquarters. In another incident, a Dalit woman Malladi Mariyamma was found dead in suspicious circumstances in coconut fields at Tholukodu in Krishna district on June 22,” she pointed out and alleged that even as atrocities against women were on the rise, the government was not doing anything to take action against the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-urges-ncw-to-probe-sexual-assault-case/article34982857.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man killed in broad daylight||Rama Rao (35) of Kandriga was allegedly hacked to death in broad daylight by three persons at Durga Agraharam in the city on Friday. The accused reportedly chased the victim on a bike and hacked him to death on the main road and escaped. The victim and the accused reportedly had a quarrel after consuming liquor on Thursday night. Suspects in custody Police are trying to find out the exact reason for the killing. Based on the CCTV footage, a few suspects were taken into custody. Investigation is on, said the Suryaraopet police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-killed-in-broad-daylight/article34982251.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||D.El.Ed results released||The results of Diploma in Elementary Education (D. El. Ed) first year have been released. In a statement on Friday, Director, Government Examinations, said details of the marks memo were made available on the website, www.bse.ap.gov.in. Candidates seeking recounting of marks can submit their application by July 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deled-results-released/article34982257.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision to levy user charges on garbage collection draws flak||The decision to levy user charges for garbage collection by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) council has been drawing flak from citizens, Opposition parties and various residential associations. The Opposition parties criticised the civic body for taking the decision during the pandemic. To implement solid waste management rules 2016, the GVMC officials have proposed for imposition of user charges as agenda No 100 during the recently held council meet. Though the Opposition parties, including the TDP, Left parties and the Jana Sena Party, opposed the proposal, the Mayor conducted the voting. As over 60 votes received in favour of the proposal, the Mayor passed it. According to the agenda, households need to pay Rs. 120 per month by seventh of every month as the user charges. Late fee of Rs. 15 would be levied if they fail to pay the charges. Similarly, restaurants and hotels need to pay Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,500 depending on the size. Bar and restaurants will be charged about Rs. 3,000, fast foods, roadside eateries/mess/juice shops will be charged Rs. 300. Function halls will be charged from Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 15,000 per month based on the size. GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao said that though the proposal was passed in the council, a signed order needs to be given by the Mayor. The State government is preparing a mobile application to monitor the garbage collection. The G.O is likely to be implemented from the next month, he said. According to a senior official, there are around seven lakh households, including apartments, in the GVMC limits. “Per month, through the user charges, the GVMC may generate around Rs. 15 crore,” he added on condition of anonymity. “The GVMC should understand that there are many families in suburban areas who are paying Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,000 as rents. Since more than one year, a lot of families, especially those who depend on daily wage works, are financially hit and are living by borrowing money. In this situation, how can the corporation seek Rs. 120 per month just to collect wastes. Is it really necessary when people are panicking about the COVID third wave?” said TDP floor leader in the GVMC, Peela Srinivasa Rao. CPI(M) leader and Corporator of Ward no. 78, B. Ganga Rao, said that the decision will impose burden on people. Even street vendors have to pay some amount, he said. He alleged that the government was trying to make money from the people by levying such charges to repay the loans that it had taken for various welfare schemes. Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Association vice-president K.S.R. Murthy said that already apartments have been paying Rs. 50, while about Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 is being collected from small houses. Now charging about Rs. 120 is expensive, he said. Visakha Apartment Residents Welfare Association secretary B.B. Ganesh also condemned the move and expressed fear that charges may soon be levied on other civic amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decision-to-levy-user-charges-on-garbage-collection-draws-flak/article34982861.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports two deaths, 198 new COVID infections||As many as 198 new COVID-19 infections were reported in the Visakhapatnam district in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning. The new cases take the cumulative tally to 1,48,264. The death toll has also increased to 1,018 after two more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. According to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the officials, 331 persons undergoing treatment for the virus recovered in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has reduced to 3,043, while the number of discharges/recoveries has increased to 1,44,203.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-two-deaths-198-new-covid-infections/article34982863.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release a new job calendar with 2.4 lakh posts: BJYM||A half-naked protest was organised by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists in protest against the scanty number of posts, announced in the job calendar released by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, near the Collectorate here on Friday. Addressing the participants, BJYM State president Kethineni Surendra Mohan said that a mere 36 posts were announced while five lakh candidates were preparing for the Group II examinations. This was causing anger and unrest among the candidates, he said. He sought increase in the number of posts and inclusion of Assistant Executive Engineer and Assistant Engineer posts in the calendar. He said that all the vacant posts in the State should be notified and filled and a new job calendar released with 2.40 lakh posts as was promised by the Chief Minister in the past. He said that the previous government was dislodged from power as it had failed to keep its assurances given to the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-a-new-job-calendar-with-24-lakh-posts-bjym/article34982860.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1.7 crore seized from private bank locker||During the course of a follow-up investigation, officers from the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Visakhapatnam, have seized cash worth Rs. 1.7 crore from the locker of a private bank in Guntur. The bank locker is related to an ongoing investigation against a bill trading mastermind who was earlier arrested for his involvement in running a massive fake invoice racket. During the course of investigation, the mastermind was found to have been involved in floating close to 90 shell companies to generate fake invoices valued at Rs. 425 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-17-cr-seized-from-private-bank-locker/article34982841.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police offer help to Maoists for COVID treatment||Assuring all help, the Visakhapatnam district police on Friday appealed to the Maoists to approach police and get treated for COVID-19. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao in a release on Friday said that they have information that several members of the banned CPI(Maoist) party have been suffering from body pains, cold, fever and other COVID-19 symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-offer-help-to-maoists-for-covid-treatment/article34982864.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to make discussions on steel plant public||The Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee has demanded making public the discussions between the Steel Secretary, Chairman and Managing Director of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) and 45 officials at the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) meet organised in Delhi. Addressing the media here on Friday, the committee leaders demanded that the Centre revoke its decision to privatise the VSP failing which a strike would be held on June 29. They recalled that the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) had announced its decision on strategic sale of the VSP on January 29 this year. Advisors were appointed to hasten the sale of the plant, they said. The people of Andhra Pradesh have supported the agitation against the privatisation of VSP as they were against the sale of public assets to corporate groups, they said. Barring the BJP, all other political parties in Andhra Pradesh have directly participated in the agitation against privatisation of the plant. MPs have expressed their opposition to the privatisation of VSP both within and outside Parliament, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-make-discussions-on-steel-plant-public/article34982858.ece
26 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NEP will help students become multi-talented, says expert||The National Education Policy (NEP) will help India face the challenges in the future and enable it to meet the global academic standards, says T.V. Kattimani, NEP Implementation Committee member and Vice-Chancellor of Central Tribal University - Andhra Pradesh. “The NEP will help every student become multi-talented and ensure a decent career in different fields,” Dr. Kattimani told The Hindu here on Thursday. Dr. Kattimani, who hails from Karnataka, had worked as Vice-Chancellor of Indira Gandhi National Tribal University at Amarkantak in Madhya Pradesh. In 2016, he was taken on board the seven-member NEP drafting committee, and later included him in implementation committee as well. The committee has been eliciting the opinion of academicians, bureaucrats, parents and students over the implementation of the policy. Dr. Kattimani said the new policy would give the students the freedom to choose the subjects they were interested in instead of confining them to particular streams such as science, arts and commerce. “At present, students pursuing B.Sc. course cannot opt history and politics as one of the subjects of study even if they are interested in them. Similarly, students studying humanities and commerce cannot opt chemistry and physics as their subjects in the 10+2 education system,” Dr. Kattimani said. The NEP would, however, enable an engineering student to choose a subject related to medicine. The selection of subjects of various courses would help the youngsters excel in them. “Even if they could not make a mark in a particular field, opportunities will always be open for them in other streams,” explained Dr. Kattimani. ‘No fear of job loss’ There would not be any fear of job loss as the multi-talented students would be able to find opportunities in other fields, he said. Dr. Kattimani further said that introduction of pre-primary education system in the government sector would bring about remarkable changes in the future. “The introduction of 5+3+3+4 education system by replacing the existing 10+2 system will certainly pave the way for the overall development of the children right from their third year itself. Fortunately, many States, including Andhra Pradesh, are taking steps to adopt the NEP guidelines in letter and spirit,” Dr. Kattimani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nep-will-help-students-become-multi-talented-says-expert/article34982844.ece
26 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freedom fighter felicitated||The days of the Emergency imposed by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi 46 year ago would continue to haunt the people of the country, said BJP leader Bavireddy Shivaprasad Reddy on Friday. Speaking after felicitating freedom fighter U.A. Narasimham, Mr. Reddy alleged that the Congress government had suppressed the voice of the people in violation of the provisions of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/freedom-fighter-felicitated/article34982256.ece
26 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS crosses 1 crore COVID - 19 vaccine doses||With Telangana crossing the 1 crore COVID–19 vaccination doses mark on Friday, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said that the State could do this on account of its strategic approach, and emphasised that a larger number of people can be vaccinated once more doses are made available. According to data released by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare, as many as 1,00,53,358 doses were administered so far in the State, out of which 86,06,292 were first doses and were 14,47,066 second doses. Data also showed that the highest number of doses were administered in Hyderabad. While 19,19,324 were first doses, 3,11,331 were second doses, bringing the total number of doses administered in the State capital to 22,30,655. This was followed by Rangareddy district with a total of 12,78,287 doses. Of this 11,31,432 were first doses and 1,46,855 second doses. In Medak district, 11,86,140 vaccination doses were administered so far of which 10,17,204 were first doses and 1,68,936 were second doses. Describing the day as a ‘Red Letter Day’, the Chief Secretary said that as a part of its strategy adopted by the State, high risk groups and superspreaders were vaccinated first. They numbered around 26 lakh. He said that those under this group were prone to coming in contact with a large number of people, and that vaccinating one person was akin to saving many people. With educational institutions scheduled to reopen shortly, Mr. Kumar said that every teaching and non-teaching staff can get vaccinated at the nearest government vaccination centre. The beneficiary would only have to produce the educational institution-issued identity card before getting the shot. Mr. Kumar said that around 2 lakh persons are being vaccinated everyday and added that this number could be increased to 7 lakh to 8 lakh if the number of doses the State gets increases. He also opined that the State had issued global tenders but was unsuccessful on this front. Director of Public Health and Family Welfare G. Srinivasa Rao also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-crosses-1-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses/article34982600.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CV Anand reviews passing out parade||National Industrial Security Academy director CV Anand on Friday reviewed the passing out parade of constables of Fire Service Training Institute (FSTI)here. FSTI is a premier Fire and Disaster Management Training Institution of CISF, under the Ministry of Home Affairs. Mr. Anand presented trophies to the trainees who secured first position in Indoor, Outdoor and all round categories. Addressing the newly inducted officers, NISA director highlighted the important and unique role played by CISF Fire Wing in various fire-fighting and rescue operations and in saving precious lives and properties in the country. He recounted the fire accidents in recent times at ONGC Mumbai, LG Polymers at Visakhapatnam and Srisailam Dam where CISF fire personnel played a stellar role as first responder and controlled the fire while three personnel lost their lives in doing so. The senior IPS officer further praised the fire personnel deployed in 103 units out of the total of 350 installations covered by the CISF countrywide. “I request you all to maintain the highest standards of discipline and courtesy,” he said. After recruitment in CISF (Fire Cadre); apart from fire-safety subjects, constables are trained on different aspects such as physical training, weapon handling, security matters etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cv-anand-reviews-passing-out-parade/article34982607.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railway Board for total vaccination of staff by July-end||The Railway Board has instructed general managers of all the zones across the country to take necessary steps to vaccinate the entire railway workforce, including coolies, contract personnel and other stakeholders by July-end. It has called for more vaccination camps to be set up to increase the pace of vaccination with those needing the second dose to be prioritised. Suitable rewards are to be given to zones and divisions having high vaccinate rates, low wastage and good practices. However, that is easier said than done since the railways is totally dependent on the State governments for the supply of COVID vaccines and the latter too have been trying to vaccinate prioritised persons of varied age groups, though the supplies are likely to improve in the coming months. For instance, the South Central Railway (SCR) with about 2.5 lakh staff is dependent on the governments of Telangana (Hyderabad, Secunderabad divisions), Andhra Pradesh (Vijayawada, Guntur, Guntakal) and Maharashtra (Nanded) for vaccine dosages to be supplied, and personnel to be vaccinated. Vaccination of frontline staff like loco-pilots, ticket checking staff, security personnel and others was the priority in the last three months. It was done in phases depending on the vaccine supply, informed senior officials, pleading anonymity. Railway Board Chairman and CEO Suneet Sharma had informed earlier this month that about 6.5 lakh employees of 12 lakh got vaccinated and States were requested to provide the vaccines considering the important role railways is playing in movement of essential commodities and operating special passenger trains. Within SCR, close to 20,000-odd frontline staff were vaccinated and many others took independent initiative to get vaccinated either in government or private healthcare centres during the April/May months of change in vaccines policy of procurement/supply, and subsequent shortage. There were also apprehensions about vaccine availability since 16,000 staff had tested corona positive since March last year and there were 250 mortalities among the working staff. “In some divisions, we were able to vaccinate our employees helped by sufficient vaccine supply, like in AP,” they said. Vaccination camps have come up in Rail Nilayam apart from various divisions with the staff being told to get vaccinated, at the earliest. Thus far, 74,000 employees took the first dose and 20,000 the second dose with Covishield being the available vaccine. “No fee is being charged from the employees,” affirmed senior officials. Reimbursement Indian Railways has decided to reimburse the vaccination cost for the employees who had already taken the vaccine between June 9-21 in private hospitals at Rs. 780 per employee. This has been made applicable for only serving staff and the money will be credited into their respective salary accounts in July on submission of the vaccine certificate and payment receipt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/railway-board-for-total-vaccination-of-staff-by-july-end/article34982587.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Justice sought in lockup death case||Telangana Congress leaders met Governor, Tamilisai Soundararajan and sought her intervention in ensuring justice to Dalit woman Mariyamma, who died in police custody in Yadadri district. The delegation led by CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and consisting of MLAs D Sridhar Babu and T. Jayaprakash Reddy apprised the Governor of the issue and sought her help in ensuring stringent punishment to police officials involved in the incident. The woman died in Addaguduru police station in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district on June 18. An inquiry was launched already by the police. The Congress leaders’ contention was that the government was trying to shield the police officials involved in the incident. Mr Bharti said Mariamma had been tortured brutally along with her son and she died due to the physical torture. Mr Bhatti alleged that attacks on Dalits were on the rise and the government had rarely responded to punish the guilty despite repeated representations. He demanded that a case be filed under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act against police officers responsible for custodial death and inhuman torture of her son. The victim Mariamma, who was working as a maid at a pastor’'s house in Addagudur was picked up by the police after the pastor accused them of stealing Rs. 2 lakh from his house. She died in the police station on June 18 due to .the alleged police torture. However, the police claimed that she had suffered heart attack in the station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/justice-sought-in-lockup-death-case/article34982618.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kokapet to be role model for entire country: HMDA||Hundred feet road, underground electric cables, dedicated transmission and distribution substations, and exclusive drinking water pipeline are being touted as some of the special features for the upcoming e-auction of HMDA plots in the Kokapet layout on July 15. HMDA Commissioner and Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration & Urban Development, Arvind Kumar said the Kokapet HMDA Layout will be a multi-zone greenfield project without any zonal restrictions. He addressed representatives of real estate companies and developers at the pre-bid meeting conducted for the e-auction on Friday at Financial District. He said the project will have ultramodern infrastructural facilities, and will be a role model development zone for the entire country. Keeping in view the future development in coming two decades, an area of 5.3 acres has been allocated for power infrastructure, where a substation with 400/220/132/33 kV capacity will be constructed, Mr. Arvind Kumar said. A dedicated pipeline will be laid from Kollur for the drinking water needs of the area, while 9.3 acre land has been kept aside for construction of a pump house by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board. A trumpet road will be constructed from the ORR up to Kokapet so as to create unimpeded access to the area, keeping in view the future construction of multi-storeyed buildings, the increase in employee turnout, and floating population. Building permissions have been simplified through TS-bPASS and can be obtained within 15 to 21 days. There is no FSI regulation for the structure, Mr. Arvind Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kokapet-to-be-role-model-for-entire-country-hmda/article34982596.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two debit card offenders held||Two debit card offenders were arrested by the Cyberabad police here on Friday. The police seized Rs. 2.5 lakh, scanning/swiping machines, 319 debit cards, a bike and two mobile phones from Talla Srinivasula Reddy, 26, and Pilli Konda Reddy, 25, both residents of Shaikpet. The duo hatched a conspiracy to make a quick buck by cheating people. They later availed two Paytm POS machines in the name of Venkateswara Kirana and General Stores and Sri Lakshmi Kirana General Stores from the Paytm and devised a plan to commit theft of contactless mode debit cards from the ATM centres that were forgotten by the different bank clients. “After stealing such wifi enabled debits cards from ATM centers located at Kukatpally, KPHB Colony, Madhapur, Gachibowli, Golkonda, Ameerpet and elsewhere, they scan the stolen debit cards on the Paytm POS machines that they have purchased and have the money of the bank customers transferred to their bank linked saving accounts i.e. Kotak Mahindra and City Bank,” Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-debit-card-offenders-held/article34982604.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Military chief’ Damodar succeeds Haribhushan||The untimely demise of Yaapa Narayana, popular as Haribhushan, Central Committee member and State Secretary for outlawed CPI (Maoist) has dealt a body blow to the underground movement but the party leadership has quickly identified his successor in Damodar alias Bade Chokka Rao, who is the presently military commander. The state police particularly the Special Intelligence Branch are closely monitoring the emerging situation. Police are comparing the leadership styles of the departed naxalite and Damodar. In terms of leadership, the present military chief Damodar will be leading the force. “We have done a quick SWOT analysis. We are reworking our strategies, evolving them as new perceptions come in,” he said. A top police official said:“while Haribhushan was strategically pragmatic, Damodar is handicapped by analytical thinking. But, his strength is logistical prowess and quick military action.” A native of Tadvai in Mulugu district, 45-year-old Damodar was a close associate of Haribhushan and planned several naxal operations and cadre recruitments in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The police are anticipating that being a little aggressive, Damodar might try to commit some offences in the State. Even he was infected with COVID . “Now, with the death of their long-standing leader, the entire movement is in a state of shock. Many of them have tested COVID- positive and the senior leadership is violating human rights by not allowing them to come out of the jungle for better medical assistance and save their lives,” Bhadadri-Kothagudem Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said. Mr. Dutt has blamed that Central Committee members and other senior leaders for the death of Haribhushan, Madhukar and many Maoists. According to police, the State still has 139 Maoists operating from hideouts in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra.The intelligence inputs gathered from multiple sources made the police assess that there was not any formidable leadership for the Telangana State in the Maoist outfit, the scale of strength and penetration enjoyed by the leadership of Haribhushan. “We have grown from strength to strength in tackling Maoist offences. Gradually, we have enfeebled them,” said a top police officer . When asked if they were expecting more aggressive action from Maoists under Damodar, the officer said there was no movement after two Maoists were killed in an exchange of fire in Kumaram Bheem-Asifabad (district), September last. “Now, they don’t have any ground in Telangana. Our inputs suggest that Damodar might just fail to influence the cadre,” he said. What distinguishes Haribhushan, who was at top for more than two decades? A surrendered Maoist said, “Comrade Haribhushan had a mesmerising quality and a sharp wit. Whoever listens to him once cannot escape his spell, and inevitably joins the rank of Maoists. His understanding of social issues and knowledge of tribal deprivation was unparalleled, and his fight against the system sprung from his deep-rooted convictions.” He said Haribhushan was among the very few Maoists who rose through the ranks from the Koya community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/military-chief-damodar-succeeds-haribhushan/article34982613.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Postal ATMs help ryots withdraw Rs. 66 cr.||Department of Posts which has announced that farmer beneficiaries of ‘Rythu Bandhu’ can withdraw cash from their bank accounts in their villages at no extra cost has stated that about Rs. 66 crore has been distributed to 1.08 lakh farmers till June 23 across TS. Wanaparthy with 19,340 transactions and Rs. 11,98,02,032, Khammam 11,196/Rs. 5,79,06,267 and Suryapet 8,916/Rs. 67,13,398 were in the top three positions. For 21-22 kharif season, micro ATM services have been arranged at 5,794 post offices for making cash payment to farmers and these can be availed by farmers having Aadhaar-linked accounts of any bank from village PO, said a press release. A maximum amount of Rs. 10,000 can be withdrawn in a day. For using a micro ATM, farmers can visit the nearest post office with his/her Aadhaar card and mobile, linked to any bank account, and withdraw cash by impressing fingerprint and informing the OTP received on his/her registered mobile number to the post master. The micro ATM service is free of cost and is convenient to all farmers during the pandemic. The facility is very useful to the farmers not in a position to visit bank branch/fixed ATM for withdrawal of Rythu Bandhu money during current COVID-19 pandemic. An amount of Rs. 169 crore was distributed through postal micro ATMs during the 2020-21 rabi season. Farmers are requested to adhere to COVID-19 precatuions while taking cash at postal micro ATMs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postal-atms-help-ryots-withdraw-rs-66-cr/article34982615.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sub-standard seed seized||With the arrest of seven persons, the Cyberabad police on Friday busted two gangs supplying spurious and expired seed worth Rs. 2.07 crore. Acting on a tip-off, Special Operations Team of Shamshabad zone intercepted a goods vehicle at Shadnagar toll plaza and seized 1.5 tonnes of BG II cotton seed while their counterparts in Balanagar zone raided a house and seized 1.54 tonnes of spurious BG III cotton seed, Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said. Later, they raided Gubba cold storage and seized 14.4 tonnes of expired maize, paddy and bajra seed of Invicta Agritech tech India (Anjaneyulu) and Deccan core crops science (Subrahmanyam). The accused apprehended by the SOT Shamshabad are Kanala Mahesh (39), a farmer and raw seed supplier from Kurnool, and Gollapedda Doddanna (37), and Chakali Jayanna (35), both farmers and raw seed suppliers from Bingidoddi village of Jogulamba Gadwal district. While those apprehended by the Balanagar SOT are Shaik Kalesha Vali (35) ran seed business from Athvelly Medchal, Pulyala Ravi (43), Pedhi Purnachander (51), and Shaik Ghouse Lajam (39) are farmers from Chandrapur in Maharashtra. Mr. Sajjanar said Shaik Kalesha Vali would take rejected seed from companies through agents/organisers and package the seed in fake pouches of different companies which are having high demand in market and sells the same to farmers. Kanala Mahesh transports spurious seed and acts as a mediator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sub-standard-seed-seized/article34982619.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||24 officers graduate from MCEME||Engineering degrees to 24 officers of Technical Entry Scheme-35 (TES-35) course were awarded in a solemn convocation ceremony by Commandant MCEME & Colonel Commandant Corps of EME Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan, strictly adhering to all COVID-19 precautionary protocols at Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME), Secunderabad on Friday. Conferring of B.Tech degree empowers the officers to confidently undertake the challenging tasks of providing effective engineering solutions to the Indian Army during both peace as well as war. Lt Gen TSA Narayanan congratulated the graduating officers and extolled them to always lead ethical, professional lives and with a courage of conviction. DGEME Gold Medal was awarded to Lt. Akshaydeep Dwivedi for overall first in merit of TES-35 Course. GOC-in-C, ARTRAC trophy & book prize were awarded to Lt. Shubham Anandrao for best all round student officer of TES-35 Course. MCEME, functions under the aegis of Army Training Command Shimla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/24-officers-graduate-from-mceme/article34982588.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All ULBs to get building debris processing units||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao has announced that construction and demolition waste processing facilities will be set up in all cities in the State. Along the lines of the two commissioned in Hyderabad, more plants will be established for other urban clusters too, he said, after inaugurating the second such facility in the city at Fathullaguda of Nagole here on Friday. Mr. Rama Rao also announced a toll free number for shifting of construction and demolition debris to the processing facilities. Those seeking transfer of demolition waste by GHMC may call 18001201159, he said, after inaugurating the C&D waste processing unit at Fathullaguda. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rama Rao said this is the second plant in the city after the one at Jeedimetla for treatment of construction debris. Like Jeedimetla, the Fathullaguda plant too has been set up in Public-Private-Partnership model, and can process up to 500 metric tonnes of waste per day. Two more such processing facilities will be established in the city in the coming days, Mr. Rama Rao said, and urged people to shed the habit of dumping the debris in storm water drains and lakes. Garbage collection Speaking of solid waste management initiatives, Mr. Rama Rao noted that the collection of solid waste has increased to 7,500 metric tonnes from 3,000 MT, thanks to the multiple measures taken by GHMC to collect it more efficiently. Garbage collection points have been raised to 70, which will further be increased to 100 in future. Garbage transfer has been modernised by introducing 90 state-of-the-art transport vehicles. A 20 megawatt waste-to-energy plant has been established in Jawaharnagar dump yard, and one more 28 megawatt plant too will be established soon. Wet garbage is being used for production of compost, Mr. Rama Rao said. Flyovers built He reminded that flyovers and underpasses are being built in L.B.Nagar with an expenditure of Rs. 450 crore. In order to prevent flooding during heavy rains, administrative sanction has been given for nala development works to the tune of Rs. 858 crore. Legislators D.Sudheer Reddy, E.Mallesham, B.Dayanand and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-ulbs-to-get-building-debris-processing-units/article34982594.ece
26 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Microsoft donates UV boxes to police||Microsoft India Private Limited managing director Rajiv Kumar on Friday donated 135 units of Ultra Violet-C (UV-C) disinfection boxes to Hyderabad city police. The UV-C disinfection units will be sent to all police stations and officers in the Hyderabad Police Commissionerate. UV-C disinfection boxes are useful in all Police Stations for day-to-day routine work. It would help in sanitisation of documents, and reduce surface to human transmission of germs, bacteria, and viruses. Earlier in the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic too Microsoft India had come forward to help and support Hyderabad Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/microsoft-donates-uv-boxes-to-police/article34982590.ece
26 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||1,061 new cases reported in Telangana||The State recorded as many as 1,061 new COVID–19 cases on Friday. This brings to the total number of cases in Telangana to 6,18,837. According to the bulletin issued by the Office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare, 11 fatalities were recorded. The cumulative number of deaths recorded in the State now stands at 3,618. The total number of patients in treatment or isolation was recorded as 15,524. There were 1,556 COVID–19 recoveries. This brings the total number of recoveries to 5,99,695. The recovery rate in Telangana is 96.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1061-new-cases-reported-in-telangana/article34982601.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two chain snatchers held||Two chain snatchers were apprehended by the Cyberabad Special Operation Team of Balanagar Zone. In the process, four chain snatching cases reported at Dundigal, Alwal, Jagadgirigutta and Gowrama of Siddipet, were solved. The police recovered 16.3 tolas of old ornaments from the possession of Pala Santosh, 30, a private employee from Medchal, and Tenkampet Karunakar, 27, from Shamirpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-chain-snatchers-held/article34982605.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Extend R&R package to 79 senior citizens’||Telangana High Court on Friday passed interim orders instructing authorities not to demolish houses of 79 senior citizens living in Etigaddakishtapur and Vemulaghat villages who were displaced due to construction of Mallannasagar project. A division bench of Justices A. Rajashekar Reddy and P. Naveen Rao, hearing a couple of writ petitions filed by senior citizens of the two villages, instructed the government to extend full benefits of Rehabilitation and Resettlement package to them. The 79 men and women wanted the government to extend them complete benefits of the R and R package treating them as independent individuals as they were living separately from their families. The bench made it clear to the government that authorities should not resort to demolition of houses of the petitioners till they were given all benefits of R and R package for Mallannasagar project. It suggested that the petitioners approach the Siddipet district collectorate carrying their Aadhaar cards and avail the benefits extended under the package. The bench instructed the government to file compliance report by July 6. The matter was posted for July 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/extend-rr-package-to-79-senior-citizens/article34982616.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM nod for aid to HMRL||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials of Finance and related departments to examine the options for extending assistance to Hyderabad Metro Rail which has reported losses in operations since the onset of Coronavirus pandemic. The Chief Minister responded positively to the request made by the L&T, the operator of metro rail services, seeking the State government’s help in view of the losses incurred. A delegation of the Metro Rail authorities led by L&T CEO and MD S.N. Subrahmanyam called on the Chief Minister at Pragati Bhavan on Friday. When the delegation said that service was running in losses since the incidence of COVID-19, the Chief Minister responded positively asking officials concerned to work out modalities to examine the extent to which the Government could help the metro rail operator within the ambit of the agreement and rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-nod-for-aid-to-hmrl/article34982620.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ASI in ACB net||An Assistant Sub-Inspector with Gangahara police station in Karimnagar Commissionerate was arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau on Friday for accepting a bribe of Rs. 15,000. The accused officer, Patel Chandra Reddy, demanded and accepted bribe from Jurru Ramesh of Lingampally village of Gangadhara mandal for “not harassing the complainant” in a case in which the latter was accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asi-in-acb-net/article34982603.ece
26 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Engineer turns snake-rescuer||Aptly demonstrating social responsibility to protect the environment, Surya Pratap, a 35-year-old engineering graduate, turned into a full-time snake rescuer while maintaining a nursery in the fast-growing fort-town of Khammam to contribute his mite to help maintain ecological balance. Though an engineer by profession, Surya embarked on the path of channelling collective efforts to save snakes and prevent human-snake conflict by joining the Kothagudem-based Pranadhara Charitable Trust as a volunteer a couple of years ago. Nursery He learnt the skills of catching snakes from Santosh Babu, a nature enthusiast of Kothagudem in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, leader of a wide network of volunteers spread in several towns of the composite Khammam district. Surya moved to Khammam a few years ago and started a nursery at Naidupeta as a business venture in the town to pursue his hobby and further the cause of the environment. “I quit my job in a Bengaluru-based firm and returned to my native town to start a business venture,” recalls Surya. “My passion for wildlife conservation turned me into a full-time snake rescuer,” he adds, emphasising the significance of snakes in maintaining ecological balance. “I saved thousands of snakes by promptly responding to rescue calls on my mobile phone 9059004884 in the past few years,” he claims saying the mission of rescuing snakes and releasing them into the wild far away from human habitations was a service to society. “I have rescued two spectacled cobras after being alerted by the local residents at Srinivas Colony and Allipuram in the town in the past two days.” Every rescue mission ends after releasing the snakes in the forest region and educating local residents about the importance of snakes for ecological equilibrium, difference between venomous and non-venomous snakes and the precautionary measures including snake bite prevention and treatment aspects, Surya adds. The Pranadhara Charitable Trust has organised several awareness programmes on the significance of snakes in the ecosystem in various educational institutions in the Kothagudem coal belt region in the past, he notes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engineer-turns-snake-rescuer/article34982625.ece
26 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Tension at NSP canal area over demolition||Tension broke out at Nagarjunasagar Project (NSP) canal bund area in Division 20 of the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits on Friday when a group of BJP cadres tried to stall a demolition drive by the Revenue staff to remove what the latter called “illegal structures” on the Nagarjunasagar Project lands. A group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists led by the BJP Kisan Morcha State president K Sridhar Reddy along with some aggrieved local dwellers allegedly attempted to block a JCB machine from carrying out the demolition drive at the site. As mild tension gripped the area, the police whisked the protesters away to the three town police station and let them off later. In a statement, Mr Sridhar Reddy alleged that the demolition drive was arbitrary and uncalled for as it entailed rendering several poor families of the locality homeless during the COVID-19 pandemic. The aggrieved local dwellers had earlier approached the statutory bodies including the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) seeking regularisation of their houses constructed on NSP lands. The officials concerned did not heed to the requests of the poor families to spare roof over their heads, he alleged, reiterating his charge that a building constructed by a private educational institution on the Nagarjunasagar Project lands was regularised in the past. “This is nothing but double standards,” Mr Reddy charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-at-nsp-canal-area-over-demolition/article34982614.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Honour killing case: brother and cousin involved, alleges woman||For the first time in nearly a year, Vinay and his father spoke over the phone 10 days ago. “It was a 10-minute call. He asked me how I was and I said I was fine,” the father said before breaking into tears. In a suspected case of honour killing, the 23-year-old man, Vinay, was shot dead while his 19-year-old wife injured in a village in Dwarka on Thursday night, the police said on Friday. The woman, Kiran Dahiya, who sustained five bullet injuries, is said to be critical. Vinay’s 59-year-old father Om Prakash, who works at a post office, was at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital on Friday along with his brother and his son’s friend. He was waiting for his son’s body. The last time he had met the son was in August 2020, right before the couple left the village to get married. “They both belong to the same clan and lived in the same village. How could they get married? We have to live in the society and their marriage is an insult to us,” Mr. Prakash said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said Vinay and Kiran belonged from Sonipat’s Kharkhoda village. Vinay worked as a driver, he said, adding that the incident happened at the couple’s rented accommodation in Ambrahi village. Six men barged into their residence at 9 p.m. and shot at both of them multiple times, an officer said. Vinay succumbed to four injuries and Kiran is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Dwarka. Mr. Prakash said the couple got married on August 13 last year and they got to know about the marriage three days later. “They [couple] had a court marriage in Chandigarh. A lawyer from the village informed a family member, who further told us. I hadn’t seen my son since,” he said, adding that he doesn’t know if his wife ever spoke to Vinay. Though in tears, Mr. Prakash still holds a grudge against his son for marrying within the clan. “I was helpless because the police called me to come for post-mortem formalities. I wouldn’t have come otherwise,” he said, adding: “Vinay’s mother had fallen sick worrying about him in February and was hospitalised as well.” Mr. Prakash was informed about his son’s murder on Thursday night. On Friday, he went to the hospital to meet his daughter-in-law — for the first time after their wedlock. “She told me her brother and cousin had come along with a few others and shot at them. The police have picked up her family members to ask about the two,” he said. In a video captured in a CCTV close to the spot, the accused can be seen running. ‘Tea with couple’ Police sources said the accused didn’t shoot at the couple right after entering the house but first spoke to the woman and also had tea with the couple. Police teams are now looking for the woman’s brother and cousin and conducting raids at their suspected hideouts in Haryana.  They [couple] both belonged to the same clan and lived in the same village. How could they get married? We have to live in the society and their marriage is an insult to us Om Prakash Vinay Dahiya’s father||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/honour-killing-case-brother-and-cousin-involved-alleges-woman/article34982500.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shoe factory blaze: forensic team collects samples; six workers still missing||Four days after a massive fire broke out at a shoe factory in west Delhi’s Udyog Vihar, a forensic team on Friday collected charred human remains from the two-storey building. Meanwhile, six of the workers present at the godown during the incident are still missing. The officers added that they are conducting raids to nab the godown’s owner, Pankaj Garg, who has been on the run since the day of the incident. The police said the search operation will continue till all areas of the building have been scanned. The fire broke out in the building, where shoes were assembled and packed for sale, on Monday and 35 fire tenders and around 140 firefighters were pressed into service to douse the blaze. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said, “One set of human remains has been collected from the second-floor of the building by Forensic Science Laboratory experts. No identification has been possible. The remains have been sent to a mortuary for preliminary autopsy, pending further investigation.” Director of Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini, Deepa Verma, said: “Two forensic teams have been deployed at this site for finding and collecting biological evidence.” “From a forensic point of view, individual identification is a very challenging task in the case of a fire, especially when the body is highly decomposed or dismembered to deliberately conceal the identity of the individual. In such cases, various techniques of forensic biology are employed to identify individuals through bones or body parts. “In the current scenario, our forensic experts are involved in searching the body/skeletal remains at this scene of the fire,” she said. Crime scene examination in-charge (FSL), Sanjeev Gupta, said: “The burned material at the scene, including biological tissue, often ends up looking similar. Bones become discoloured, brittle, and highly fragmented. As a consequence, these remains are often disturbed, altered, or even destroyed during scene processing with the existing protocols.” DFS Director Atul Garg said, “Although it is dangerous to enter the building because of the heat. Some of its portions have already collapsed. Our priority is to search for the remains.” The SDMof Punjabi Bagh held a meeting on Thursday to discuss a further course of action to search for the missing workers, officials said. The SDM sought suggestions from the departments concerned, especially the NDRF, the DFS, the municipal corporation and the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation and police, regarding the extraction of the bodies, they said. During the meeting, the civic authorities said the building may collapse at any time as cracks have appeared in its beams. They suggested that a step-wise demolition be carried out, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shoe-factory-blaze-forensic-team-collects-samples-six-workers-still-missing/article34982503.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||CCTV technician held for blackmailing couple||The police arrested a CCTV technician from Bangalore for allegedly blackmailing a couple, an officer said on Friday. The accused — Rashid, is a CCTV technician, who worked with a company in Delhi — the police said. A few months ago, the company got a complaint of CCTV malfunction from one of their clients in south Delhi and they assigned Rashid to resolve the issue. “Rashid visited the couple’s house and while repairing the camera, he fraudulently took the access of their CCTVs on his mobile phone. After this, he left the house,” said the officer. Later, during the lockdown, he left the job and joined a new company in Banglore. ‘Accused seek Rs. 3 lakh’ “A few weeks back, the couple received their intimate video on their mobile phone. The sender demanded Rs. 3 lakh. He threatened to upload their videos on social media. Initially, the couple agreed to pay the amount but he started asking for more money,” said the officer. The couple filed a police complaint with Cyber Cell. The complainant said they had installed the CCTVs in their house, including the bedroom, to keep watch on their maid as their daughter stays alone with her when they go to work. Further probe is on to see if the accused blackmailed other people in a similar manner, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cctv-technician-held-for-blackmailing-couple/article34982501.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Israel Embassy blast: four students sent to 10-day police remand||The four students — arrested from Ladakh in connection with the blast near the Israel embassy in January this year — were produced before a Magistrate court, which sent them on 10 days police remand, officials said on Friday. The students were arrested from Kargil and brought to Delhi on transit remand, they said. The police said the four students — Nazir Hussain (26), Zulfikar Ali Wazir (25), Aiaz Hussain (28) and Muzammil Hussain (25) — are all from Thang village in Ladakh’s Kargil district. “They were presented before a Magistrate court on Thursday that sent them to police remand for 10 days,” a senior police officer said. They had come to Delhi in November last year and were preparing for competitive examinations, he said. All four of them were in Delhi on the day of incident and their phones were found to be switched off, an officer said, adding that five mobile phones have been recovered from them. The students were active in social media and used to comment on posts related to Israel, India and Palestine. They left the city just before the lockdown was announced, the police said. The police are likely to conduct searches at their locations of stay, including Mukherjee Nagar — they had been staying for a brief period. Further probe is under way, they said. A minor IED blast had taken place outside the Embassy of Israel in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi on January 29. There were no casualties. Some cars were damaged in the explosion that occurred about 150 metres away from the embassy on the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road. In a joint operation with a central intelligence agency and the Kargil police, the Special Cell of the Delhi Police detained the four persons from Kargil in connection with the conspiracy to plan and execute terror activities in the national capital, a statement quoting Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said. “They have been brought to Delhi for questioning,” he said. The Delhi Police Special Cell had registered a case of “conspiracy” behind the blast. The Ministry of Home Affairs had handed over the probe of the blast to the NIA on February 2. Recently, the NIA announced a reward of Rs. 10 lakh each for the identification of two people captured on CCTV camera.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/israel-embassy-blast-four-students-sent-to-10-day-police-remand/article34982502.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Students can now request confidential results: DU||The Delhi University on Friday announced that students will be able to request for “confidential results” before the results are officially declared to meet the deadline for applications to higher studies or jobs. Colleges will have to scrutinise the applications and send it to DU’s examination branch by July 6, said senior officials. DU Dean of Examinations D.S. Rawat, said: “Confidential results are the results which students often seek before the results are officially declared as they want to apply for higher studies or while seeking jobs. Last year the examination branch issued around 650 such confident results but the process usually becomes chaos. So this year we thought of streamlining the procedure.” In the notification issued, the university said, “...students are advised to send their request to the concerned department or college. Examination branch will try its level best to expedite the evaluation of those students’ scripts that requires confident result for the purpose of admission to higher studies or joining a job.” Mr. Rawat further explained: “The examination branch ends up getting hundreds of requests but incomplete applications and many times genuine applications get lost in the process. So I spoke to college principals as well. It is easier to screen out at the college level as the number of applications will be lesser. So by July 3 colleges will have to scrutinize the applications and by July 6 they have to send the same to the examination branch.” The notification further read, “Students are advised to talk only to the nodal officers of the respective colleges regarding confidential results or result-related queries. Merely applying for the confidential result will not guarantee the issuance of the confidential result.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/students-can-now-request-confidential-results-du/article34982507.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. announces contest for online window for public services||The Delhi government has announced a contest for suggesting the name of its new online single window portal for public services. The winner will be awarded a cash prize of Rs. 1,50,000 while 21 shortlisted entries will be awarded Rs. 10,000 each. The portal — https://edistrict.delhigov.nic.in — will have 400 services of all departments available online.The candidates can submit their entries to the portal —https://delhi.gov.in/newname. The last date for submission of entries is July 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-announces-contest-for-online-window-for-public-services/article34982496.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC slams AAP govt. on decision to limit non-PDS beneficiaries||Observing that providing ration is the obligation of the State and it cannot deny food to the hungry, the Delhi High Court Friday slammed the AAP government for putting a limit of 20 lakh beneficiaries for providing them dry ration under its non-PDS guidelines. “These are not issues on which you keep debating policy and say that file is under consideration. This is your obligation under the National Food Security Act." the high court said adding that the Delhi government has “randomly and arbitrarily” reduced the quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-slams-aap-govt-on-decision-to-limit-non-pds-beneficiaries/article34982497.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Civil work on Pink Line’s missing link completed’||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Friday said after repeated delays due to the pandemic, civil construction was completed in April on the missing Trilokpuri section of the Pink Line. The officials said the track laying work is expected to be completed by June end and preliminary trials expected to begin after that. To expedite work on the Trilokpuri section, steel girders were used instead of the conventional concrete ones, they explained. “A total of 40 steel girders have been placed on 10 spans for the 290-metre-long section. These steel girders have been fabricated and brought from a workshop in Ambala in Haryana. This has not only saved time but also there was no need to create a separate casting yard for the concrete casting of the girders,” said DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal. Civil construction on the stretch began in early 2020 and was affected by the pandemic leading to missed deadlines. “Work was repeatedly hampered by the pandemic induced lockdowns and issues such as non-availability of workforce. Now, track laying and other ancillary works have commenced on this stretch between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake following completion of civil work. In addition, overhead electrification work is also under progress,” Mr. Dayal said. Senior officials said the section will be made operational immediately after receiving mandatory clearances from authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civil-work-on-pink-lines-missing-link-completed/article34982504.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||SKM submits memorandum to President, urges him to direct Centre to repeal farm law||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him to direct the Centre to immediately repeal the three “anti-farmer laws”. Through its memorandum, the SKM said, it conveyed “anguish and deep anger” of crores of farming families to the president. Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the withdrawal of these three laws and that a new law be made to guarantee MSP for their crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/skm-submits-memorandum-to-president-urges-him-to-direct-centre-to-repeal-farm-law/article34982498.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shinjini- brief||The DDA on Friday said borewells lying dormant in 80 parks will be revived and used for water harvesting under the “Jal Shakti Abhiyan” campaign. “As part of these efforts to boost water table level and improve environment, it has been planned to revive borewells lying dormant in 80 parks to use them for water harvesting. Under the campaign, catchment areas have been identified and provision will be made to divert rainwater underground,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shinjini-brief/article34982505.ece
26 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||FIR against web portal in U.P.||An FIR was lodged against news portal The Wire in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly spreading false information that religious scriptures of a particular community were thrown into a river and drain following the demolition of a mosque by the administration in Barabanki. The FIR was lodged for a documentary titled ‘How a Mosque in U.P.’s Barabanki was Demolished’, which showed members of the committee of the demolished mosque terming the administrative act illegal and claiming that they had documents to prove the structure was legal. In May, the Barabanki administration, after carrying out the demolition, said an “illegal residential complex” was found situated opposite to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s residence in the Ramsanehi Ghat tehsil compounds. The Allahabad High Court recently issued notices to the administration on the demolition after petitions were filed before it terming the administrative act illegal and arbitrary. Adarsh Singh, District Magistrate, Barabanki, said the FIR against The Wire was lodged for allegedly spreading misleading and false information, trying to spread religious animosity and frenzy and spoiling communal harmony. Mohammad Anees; Mohammad Naeem; Seraj Ali, journalist of The Wire , who reported the documentary; Mukul S. Chauhan and The Wire were named in the FIR.  The Wire editor Siddharth Varadarajan said this was the fourth FIR filed by the U.P. police in the past 14 months against the portal and/or its journalists and “each of these cases is baseless”. The Yogi Adityanath government did not believe in media freedom and was criminalising the work of journalists who were reporting what was happening in the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fir-against-web-portal-in-up/article34982533.ece
26 June 2021||Mumbai,||SC verdict on OBC quota: Congress to protest today||As the row over the Supreme Court’s decision to scrap reservation for OBCs (Other Backward Class) in Maharashtra’s local civic bodies escalates, the Congress on Friday announced it would hold State-wide protests on Saturday against the Central government, claiming it had failed to provide empirical data on OBCs to present in the court. The Congress’s decision comes a day after the BJP announcement to hold similar protests across the State against the MVA government, of which the Congress is part. BJP leader Pankaja Munde on Thursday alleged that the State had failed to present the interests of OBCs in the Supreme Court, leading to the verdict against the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sc-verdict-on-obc-quota-congress-to-protest-today/article34982736.ece
26 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Police book 20,000 for protest in Navi Mumbai||The NRI Coastal police have booked around 20,000 people for unlawful assembly, not abiding by the orders, and taking out a protest march in Navi Mumbai on Thursday. The agitation over the naming of the Navi Mumbai airport saw participation of thousands of project affected people and members of political parties. While the stretch on Palm Beach Road from NRI Estate to Kill junction was blocked, the Sion-Panvel highway was closed from Uran Phata to Kharghar. The organisers also used a drone without permission to shoot the protest rally. Suresh Mengade, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, said they had sent notices and warning to leaders organising the protest. “We even enforced Section 144 of Cr.PC but the agitators did not abide by our orders. We will now send notices to all those who have been named in the FIR. Others would be identified by the video evidence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-book-20000-for-protest-in-navi-mumbai/article34982732.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 death toll crosses 1.20 lakh||Maharashtra reported 10,138 recoveries as against a surge of 9,677 new COVID-19 cases on Friday as the State’s active case tally dipped to 1,20,715. A total of 511 deaths were added to the State’s progressive death toll of which 359 were part of the Health Department’s ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process. As many as 117 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and a further 39 were from the past week. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,20,370 with the State’s case fatality rate rising to 2%. The State’s total cases have reached 60,17,035 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 57,72,799 with the recovery rate standing at 95.94%. “Of a total 4,05,96,965 laboratory samples tested thus far, 60,17,035 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 14.82%) have returned positive with over 2.36 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported 1,139 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,49,568. As per the State Health Department figures, eight deaths were recorded as the toll touched 16,495. According to district authorities, the active cases rose above 9,000 while the fatality count has reached 17,693. Mumbai recorded 693 new cases to take its total tally to 7,18,962 while the active count stood at 14,182. Twenty fatalities took the city’s toll to 15,368. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra added more than 2,000 new cases — its highest in days — taking its total cases to 1,48,550 of whom 10,537 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-120-lakh/article34982733.ece
26 June 2021||Washington,||Ghani to meet Biden as U.S. exit looms||Afghan leader Ashraf Ghani faces the cold reality of the end of U.S. military presence in Afghanistan on Friday when he meets with President Joe Biden in the White House. Under increasing threat from an emboldened Taliban insurgency, Mr. Ghani will be hoping for a significant commitment of U.S. aid to his government, which will be without the on-the-ground support of U.S. forces for the first time in nearly two decades. But any hopes for a delay in America’s exit from its longest war are likely to be snuffed. Speaking in Paris on Friday, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the U.S. could no longer adhere to the same approach to Afghanistan of the past 20 years, despite the fresh Taliban gains on the ground. “The status quo was not an option,” he said. Mr. Biden has ordered the departure of all U.S. forces from Afghanistan by September 11, 2021, the 20th anniversary of the attacks that triggered the invasion. The final pullout, begun last year by then-president Donald Trump and confirmed by Mr. Biden in April, has moved fast. Some speculate the exit of some 2,500 U.S. troops and 16,000 civilian contractors could be mostly completed in July. “This visit is first about our ongoing commitment and support to the Afghan people and to the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces,” White House spokeswoman Karine Jean-Pierre said Thursday. “The President will emphasise the need for unity, cohesion, and for the Afghan government to focus on key challenges Afghanistan faces.” But the White House will also pressure the Afghan leader to strike a deal with the Taliban. “We believe that a negotiated political settlement is the best way to end the conflict,” Ms. Jean-Pierre told journalists. Possibly underscoring how uncomfortable the situation is for both sides, no press conference was planned. Taliban gains Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, who is in charge of stalled negotiations with the Taliban on a power-sharing deal, arrived in Washington on Thursday. The looming U.S. exit has left the country in a deep state of uncertainty, with many worried about the return to power of extremists who applied a brutal version of Islam to the population when they ruled from 1996-2001. The Wall Street Journal reported that a new U.S. intelligence report assesses that the Taliban could possibly capture Kabul within six months — though other experts downplay that scenario, at least in the short-term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ghani-to-meet-biden-as-us-exit-looms/article34981959.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Tibet gets first bullet train, links Lhasa to India border||China on Friday started operating the first bullet train line in Tibet, linking Lhasa to Nyingchi near the border with Arunachal Pradesh. The China State Railway Group said the 435-km line, on which construction began in 2014, has a designed speed of 160 km per hour and would connect the capital city of the Tibet Autonomous Region to the border city of Nyingchi with a travel time of three and a half hours. Over 90% of the track is 3,000 metres above sea-level, state media quoted the railway group as saying, and the line is the first electrified high speed rail (HSR) line, as China refers to bullet trains, in Tibet. China has the world’s longest HSR network. The Lhasa-Nyingchi rail is one among several major infrastructure projects recently completed in Tibet’s southern and southeastern counties near the Arunachal border. Last month, China completed construction of a strategically significant highway through the Grand Canyon of the Yarlung Zangbo river, as the Brahmaputra is called in Tibet. This is the “second significant passageway” to Medog county that borders Arunachal, the official Xinhua news agency reported, directly connecting the Pad township in Nyingchi to Baibung in Medog county. The Lhasa-Nyingchi rail is one section of the Sichuan-Tibet railway line connecting the two provincial capitals, another strategic project deemed important enough for President Xi Jinping to officially launch it and described by the Chinese leader as “a major step in safeguarding national unity and a significant move in promoting economic and social development of the western region”. This will be the second railway line connecting Tibet to the hinterland, following the already open Qinghai-Tibet rail. The first section of the new line, from Chengdu, the provincial capital of Sichuan, to Yaan, was finished in December 2018, while work on the 1,011 km Yaan-Nyingchi line will compete the entire railway line by 2030. Zhu Weiqun, a senior Party official formerly in charge of Tibet policy, was quoted as saying by state media the railway will help “transport advanced equipment and technologies from the rest of China to Tibet and bring local products out”. “If a scenario of a crisis happens at the border,” he said, “the railway can act as a ‘fast track’ for the delivery of strategic materials”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tibet-gets-first-bullet-train-links-lhasa-to-india-border/article34981957.ece
26 June 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka’s ‘Metoo’ moment sparks reflection on newsrooms||A flurry of sexual harassment allegations from Sri Lankan journalists this week has brought the country’s media industry in sharp focus, with many, especially women, calling for urgent reform of newsrooms. Identifying with the global #Metoo campaign, women journalists took to Twitter and recalled incidents in their newsrooms, where they said male colleagues sexually harassed them, including with rape threats. While similar allegations surfaced on social media in 2019 in Sri Lanka, the recent accounts included some specific details of the men accused of harassment, although the women stopped short of naming them. In a Twitter thread on June 18, journalist Aisha Nazim compiled distressing accounts shared by many women, of facing sexual harassment from male colleagues and bosses, in various Sri Lankan media outlets. Currently on a study break abroad, Ms. Nazim said her Twitter action was driven by the desire to put out the stories in public. “Especially since many of these perpetrators are still out there, in prominent positions, and can often be seen bullying young women online,” she told The Hindu . A section of Sri Lankan media reported on the development, when a Cabinet spokesman, responding to a question at the weekly press briefing, said the government would investigate the allegations made, that also included state-run media. Colombo-based portal Roar.lk ran an editorial calling for a “top-down change” of culture within Sri Lanka’s media industry. “If there was ever a time for industry-wide introspection and dismantling of informal structures that allow abuse of power within newsrooms, it is now,” it said, calling for formal structures and mechanisms, for all involved parties “to be heard, afforded fair inquiry, and adequate redressal.” Mandana Ismail Abeywickrema, editor of The Sunday Morning weekend newspaper, said change must begin within newsrooms. “We have told our staff that the paper takes the issue very seriously, and that they should feel free to raise any concern without fear. We also hope to have regular discussions with our teams on what in their view constitutes sexual harassment, and what action they think would be appropriate, so that we can collectively come up with an organisational policy,” she said. Stern response A strong anti-sexual harassment policy is one of the outcomes those like Ms. Nazim, who flagged the issue, are also hoping for. “It is very important that media houses put policies and systems in place, so that such incidents do not occur in future. We are talking to colleagues in other parts of the world,including India, and looking at laws and policies there, while we evolve our own in Sri Lanka,” she said. At present, Sri Lanka has only a criminal law to address sexual harassment. A person found guilty may be imprisoned for up to five years, or fined, or both, and may have to pay compensation. However, the criminal law is rarely used, according to Ermiza Tegal, lawyer with a practice in human rights and addressing gender-based violence. “Accessing justice, particularly on gender-based violence, is a harrowing experience for victims,” she told The Hindu , citing examples of complaints not being recorded, victims being ridiculed, intimidated, and threatened, a failure to initiate legal proceedings, lengthy court cases, continued exposure to the alleged perpetrator and possible reprisal because of prolonged court cases, and procedures such as in-person identification parades. Further, the demands on finances and time, not only of the victim but also of her support system, if she has one, also dissuades survivors from seeking justice. “I think we need to remind ourselves that criminal laws are not the only laws that we need,” Ms. Tegal said, pointing to other laws, policies and services required in providing support and protection to the aggrieved. Meanwhile, responses to past grievances that have come to light must be guided by what the women who shared their accounts want, in Ms. Tegal’s view. “Asking for their consent and giving them control over their own narrative is important. Public disclosure about a grievance can be for many reasons. In these cases, it is often also to break the silence about pain that has been privately endured for many years,” she said, adding some survivors experience “relief and release”, by asserting that they were wronged. “If they want legal acknowledgement of violence or harassment, this must be supported, but given the legal system, the personal costs to survivors are often high. Which is also why in the past perpetrators have preferred the narrow path of legal victories and defeats,” the lawyer noted. Ultimately, addressing a “pervasive, systemic and institutionalised” problem such as sexual harassment requires a focus on social change, acknowledgement from leaders, institutions, and professional bodies that a real problem exists, she said, so that practical and sensitive mechanisms for redress and support for victims are put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankas-metoo-moment-sparks-reflection-on-newsrooms/article34981956.ece
26 June 2021||Washington,||Infrastructure deal reached but key Republicans are not on board||U.S. President Joe Biden’s infrastructure plan appeared to be closer to fruition as a bipartisan group of Senators, on Thursday, reached an agreement that would cost $1.2 trillion over eight years, including more than half a trillion dollars in transport and infrastructure spending. Mr. Biden has asked the U.S. Congress for about $4 trillion in infrastructure and social spending in the American Jobs Plan and American Families Plan. Thursday’s agreement, which covers only a fraction of the $4 trillion, is tied to — according to Mr. Biden and several Democrats — budget resolutions being passed to cover the social spending priorities. This could put the Bill in jeopardy as key Republicans have expressed opposition to the linking. “We have a deal,” Mr. Biden said, as he stood with a bipartisan group of 10 Senators behind him. The Bill will invest a total of $579 billion in infrastructure — including some $312 billion in transport. This will include roads, bridges, public transit, railways, ports, waterways and airports. It will also include $15 billion for electric buses and transit and electric vehicle (EV) infrastructure to meet Mr. Biden’s goal of 5,00,000 EV chargers across the country. The remaining approximately $266 billion will be spent on water infrastructure, broadband, resilience and environmental remediation. The financing of this infrastructure had become a bone of contention — with Mr. Biden wanting to stick to a campaign promise of not raising taxes for anyone making less than $ 4,00,000 per year. Republicans plan to index a tax on petrol to inflation, something several Democrats opposed. Tax on petrol Increasing the tax on petrol would result in a higher tax for those earning less than $4,00,000 per year and was therefore not an option, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said on Monday. Democrats have been split broadly along moderate and progressive lines around the infrastructure Bill. In the evenly split Senate, Democrats intend to use a process called budget reconciliation to fund these priorities . Resolutions passed via the reconciliation route require only 51 of 100 Senators to pass and can therefore make it through the Senate without Republican support. Mr. Biden said that while the Democratic party was “divided”, it was “rational” and that the party would not vote against a “good” Bill. However, he said that the budget (reconciliation) resolutions would also have to be passed for him to sign the infrastructure Bill into law. “So, what I expect – I expect that in the coming months this summer, before the fiscal year is over [September 30] , that we will have voted on this Bill, the infrastructure Bill, as well as voted on the budget resolution,” Mr. Biden said.“But if only one comes to me — if this is the only thing that comes to me, I’m not signing it. It’s in tandem,” he said. Republican Senator Lindsay Graham said Mr. Biden’s threat of vetoing the Bill unless the budget measures were passed would be a “deal breaker “ for him. “Less than two hours after publicly commending our colleagues and actually endorsing the bipartisan agreement, the President took the extraordinary step of threatening to veto it,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said in the Senate.“It was a tale of two press conferences,” he said. “It almost makes your head spin,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/infrastructure-deal-reached-but-key-republicans-are-not-on-board/article34981964.ece
26 June 2021||Washington,||About 650 U.S. troops will remain in Afghanistan||Roughly 650 U.S. troops are expected to remain in Afghanistan to provide security for diplomats after the main American military force completes its withdrawal, which is set to be largely done in the next two weeks, U.S. officials told the Associated Press. Several hundred additional U.S. forces will remain at Kabul airport, potentially until September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/about-650-us-troops-will-remain-in-afghanistan/article34981962.ece
26 June 2021||Surfside,||Four dead in U.S. building collapse, 159 still missing||Four people are now known to have died in the collapse of an oceanfront building near Miami Beach, officials said on Friday, while the number of those unaccounted for has risen to 159 — fuelling fears of a much higher death toll. An unknown number of residents are feared to have been asleep in the 12-storey condominium in the town of Surfside, when one of its wings was reduced early on Thursday to a pile of debris. “We do have 120 people now accounted for, which is very, very good news. But our unaccounted for number has gone up to 159,” Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava told a news conference. “In addition, we can tragically report the death count is now four,” she said. Rescue teams with sniffer dogs again worked through the night despite heavy rain — clinging to the diminishing chance of finding additional survivors. President Joe Biden declared an emergency early on Friday in response to the disaster, ordering federal assistance for the relief effort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/four-dead-in-us-building-collapse-159-still-missing/article34981960.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||When Greyhounds struck in a fading red zone||On June 16, rain-bearing clouds loomed over Koyyuru mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency, about 170 km from Visakhapatnam city. The monsoon had set in. The entire mandal is thickly forested, with hillocks, deep caverns and perennial streams. Soon, there was a steady drizzle. A team of around 30 Maoists, including some senior leaders, from the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) were camping on a hillock about 800 m high in the middle of this jungle near a village called Theegalametta. At around 9 a.m., while one group of Maoists, sheltered under plastic tarpaulins, was busy cooking a meal, the others were reportedly gearing up for an important meeting. There are two versions of what happened a few minutes later. According to a letter from the Maoists, the unsuspecting group suddenly came under heavy fire from the elite anti-Maoist force of Andhra Pradesh, the Greyhounds. Surprised by the fire power and stealth attack, the Maoists took time to respond. The exchange of fire reportedly lasted for about 25 minutes and left six Maoists — three women and three top leaders — dead. According to the official version, the Greyhounds asked the group to surrender but was forced to retaliate when the Maoists opened fire. A serious setback Visakhapatnam Agency, located in Viskhapatnam district, is around 6,200 sq km and has 11 mandals. Koyyuru is one among them. The district administration and the police have declared all the 11 mandals as “Maoist-affected”. Among the dead were two Divisional Committee Members (DCM) and one Area Committee Member (ACM). The six were identified as Ranadev alias Arjun (DCM), Sande Gangiah alias ‘Dr’ Ashok (DCM), Santu Nachike (ACM), Lalitha, Madakm Chaite, and Paike. Ranadev and Nachike were from Odisha; Ashok was from Pedapalli in Telangana; Lalitha was from GK Veedhi, another Maoist-affected mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency; and Chaite and Paike were from Chhattisgarh. Ranadev was among the few committed Maoist leaders left in the region. He had been part of the movement for about 20 years and was known to be an elusive and fierce fighter. He had earlier led the Kalimela Dalam. (Dalams are Maoist groups which operate in particular areas.) Not too long ago, he was moved to Boipariguda in Koraput, Odisha, after the merger of the Kalimela and Koraput Area Committees. The killing of Sande Gangaiah alias ‘Dr’ Ashok is a serious setback to the group as he was leading the medical team in the region. Ashok was not a qualified doctor; he had learnt the rudiments of nursing from local Registered Medical Practitioners. It is said that he could even perform minor surgeries, including treating bullet wounds. He hailed from a family of committed Maoists. His older brother, Sande Rajamouli, was the mastermind behind the mine blast in Alipiri in 2003 in which former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu was injured. Rajamouli was killed in 2007 by the police. The security forces also recovered one AK-47 rifle, two carbines, two modified .303 Lee Enfield rifles, one country-made weapon, at least one single-barrel muzzle-loading gun, some ammunition, explosive materials, extremist literature, VHF sets, medicines and kit bags from the spot. Sources say that some senior leaders such as Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, Secretary of the CPI (Maoist) Andhra-Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee; Aruna, the next in command; and Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan, who is in-charge of the Galikonda area were present at the campsite, too. The attack A senior police officer as well as tribals in the nearby villages say that the police had been aware of the Maoists’ presence as barely 20 days ago, there had been an exchange of fire at another place in Koyyuru. This attack was made possible by specific intelligence inputs, sources say. During the monsoon, for at least two months, many villages in the interior parts of the district remain cut off from the mandal headquarters. Traversing the area, which has slippery red soil, and streams and rivulets in spate, is fraught with danger. Given the difficulty in negotiating the terrain, both the Maoists and the security forces normally let their guard down during this time. While the Maoists refrain from their tactical counter offensive campaign (when they carry out maximum attacks against security forces), the security forces scale down their combing and area domination operations. According to sources in the police, the Greyhounds trekked overnight for at least 15 to 18 km in pitch darkness and swam the last lap to reach the vantage point early in the morning. But the most difficult part was climbing the hill without getting noticed. Sources in the police say that initially, the security forces had asked the Maoists to surrender, but the Maoists opened fire and the Greyhounds team retaliated. There was no question of surrender, say the police, as all the senior Maoist leaders were reportedly present at the spot. Their surrender or death would have meant an end to the movement in the Andhra-Odisha Border region. “That is why they fired at us and escaped under cover fire. But six lost their lives,” says a senior officer engaged in anti-Maoist operations in the region. This attack was similar to the Ramaguda attack that took place in the cut-off region of the Andhra-Odisha Border, in October 2016. In that attack, over 30 Maoists, including some top leaders, were killed in a single operation. That operation too was led by the Greyhounds. Inhospitable terrain The Greyhounds was raised in 1989 by IPS officer K.S. Vyas as an elite anti-Maoist force. Seeing its successful operations, many States facing the Maoist problem have raised their own forces. Training for the Greyhounds is gruelling. Members of the force cannot be over 35 years. Once they cross 35, they are drafted into the civil police until retirement. “Being young gives us an edge in terms of agility, strength and stamina,” says a Greyhounds officer. During combat operations, each party of the Greyhounds has about 30 men who are trained to trek long distances. They can stay in the jungle at a stretch for over five to six days. At times, they live only on dry fruits, as lighting a fire to cook a quick meal can attract enemy fire or help the enemy detect their location. The members communicate with the base using satellite phones or VHF sets and use scramblers to avoid being intercepted by the Maoists. The Maoists have the expertise to intercept radio communication. The region is not kind to anyone, whether the Maoists or the Greyhounds. The forces and the rebels are prone to malaria fever. In recent times, COVID-19 has made its way into these remote areas too. Senior leaders such as Gajarla Ravi alias Uday and Central Committee member Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna alias RK, who is in-charge of the Andhra-Odisha Border, are down with severe diabetes, eyesight issues and arthritis. “Lack of sleep and good food has weakened us,” says a senior Maoist leader, who surrendered recently. Nachike, who was killed on June 16, had been diagnosed with COVID-19 and ‘Dr’ Ashok had recently recovered from the virus. The Maoists use old, stolen police weapons including AK 47s, 9 mm carbines, Lee Enfield .303 rifles, SLRs and country-made weapons or double- or single-barrel shotguns. The Greyhounds naturally have superior arsenal including SLRs, MP-5 carbines, AK-47s with under-barrel grenade launchers, 5.56 mm Insas, 9 mm pistols and Tavor rifles. While the Greyhounds have had many successes against the Maoists, they suffered a major setback in 2008 when 37 of their men were ambushed by the Maoists when they were crossing the Balimela reservoir in a boat. The birth of a movement In undivided Andhra Pradesh, the seed of the armed struggle was sown by the Telangana Rebellion of 1946. The peasant movement was led by communist leaders such as Ravi Narayana Reddy, Puchalapalli Sundarayya and Sulaiman Areeb. They rebelled against the feudal lords of the Telangana region in the princely State of Hyderabad. The armed struggle ended in 1951, when the last of the guerilla squads was subdued by police force. Though the Srikakulam movement, which began in 1967, was squashed, it inspired leaders such as Kondapalli Seetharamaiah and K.G. Satyamurthi in the early part of 1980s. The movement grew in parts of what is now called Telangana, in districts such as Warangal, Khammam, Adilabad and Karimnagar. It was during Kondapalli’s leadership that the current crop of Maoist leaders such as former General Secretary of the CPI (Maoist), Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathi, and the present General Secretary, Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavraj, joined the movement. The movement grew due to oppression by feudal landlords and attempts by zamindars to take over lands from tribals. It attracted young and educated leaders such as Lakshmana Rao, a science teacher, and Keshava Rao and Cherukuri Rajkumar alias Azad, both B. Tech graduates from Regional Engineering College, Warangal (now known as the National Institute of Technology). Azad also completed his M. Tech from Andhra University. He was shot dead by the Andhra Pradesh police in 2010. When the Greyhounds was formed and the police began to make inroads into Maoist strongholds, the rebels were forced to seek a safe haven. “That was when Kondapalli asked leaders such as Lakshmana Rao and Nambala to find safer areas in the Dandakarnya forest and the forests of the Eastern Ghats, which included the districts of East Godavari and Visakhapatnam,” says a former Maoist who rose to the post of State Committee member. Nambala Keshava Rao, the present General Secretary of the party, along with Bopanna, Ganti Prasad and Ganti Mohan entered Visakhapatnam district via the Chinturu and Rampa areas of East Godavari. For Nambala, getting a hold in the region comprising the districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam was easy as he is from Srikakulam. This group led the movement under the People’s War Group banner. The group continued with its struggle until the CPI (Maoist) was founded by the then General Secretary, Ganapathi, with the merger of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), People’s War Group, and the Maoist Communist Centre of India in September 2004. The initial base for the CPI (Maoist) was on the East Godavari and Visakhapatnam border that touched Koyyuru mandal. That is why the Maoists named the division, their first in this region, as East Division. It comprises Addateegala, Chinturu and Rampa in East Godavari, Koyyuru in Visakhapatnam (also called Galikonda area), Parvathipuram in Vizianagaram and some tribal tracts of Srikakulam. Koyyuru became a fertile ground for the Maoists as the area was backward. “Most of the villages were inhabited by the Kondhu tribals, a particularly vulnerable tribal group, who had migrated earlier from Odisha after the dams built across the Balimela reservoir had displaced them,” says Venkata Rao, DSP, Special Branch (Extremist), Visakhapatnam District Police. “Since most of the villages in the interior parts were inhabited by particularly vulnerable tribal groups, it was easy for the Maoist leaders, who were educated, well-informed and steeped in ideology, to mould them,” says a former Additional Superintendent of Police who served in anti-Maoist operations for over three decades. “Moreover, oppression by the police, forest and revenue department officials paved the way for gaining popular and mass support.” “Back then, the major issues in Visakhpatnam Agency were getting a good price for forest produce such as honey, rajma, bamboo pulp, neem and adda leaves. Coffee and pepper came later,” says Professor P.D. Satyapal from the Anthropology department of Andhra University. The Maoist even set the price for the forest produce to ensure that the tribals were not exploited by contractors and middlemen. With Koyyuru in their control, the Maoists expanded their base slowly to Chintapalli and GK Veedhi, known as Korukonda area. Once in control, they established the Galikonda Area Committee and Korukonda Area Committee, which are still functional. The earlier dalams such as Nagulakonda and Thandava were merged with them. From Korukonda area, they moved to Pedabayalu and Munchingput on the Andhra side and Malkangiri, Koraput and Chitrakonda on the Odisha side. The Pedabayalu and Kalimela Area Committees were formed on the Andhra-Odisha Border region that encompassed the cut-off area. From the first offence in 1981, in which a landlord was killed in Choudidibbalu in Galikonda area, the Maoists have committed over 500 offences, including arson, killing, and planning and executing landmine blasts. In 1993, they kidnapped MLA P. Balaraju and IAS officer Dasari Srinivasulu, and in 2011, they kidnapped IAS officer Vineel Krishna. Earlier, in 1987, they abducted 11 officers, including seven IAS officers, from Gurtedu village. All these officers were returned in exchange for the release of jailed Maoists and jailed tribals, compensation to the families of Maoist sympathisers killed in police custody, cancellation of projects in the area, among other things. From the early 1980s till date, there have been at least 100 “encounters” in which at least 60 policemen and over 100 Maoists have been killed. An unusual gathering Given this history and the state’s constant chase of the Maoists, why were all the Maoist leaders present at one spot in Theegalametta? One plausible explanation, according to the official version, is that the Maoists were trying to find a safe haven after the security forces on both sides of the Andhra-Odisha border stepped up the offensive over the last few years. On the Andhra side, four armed outposts under the CRPF have come up at Rallagedda in Chintapalli mandal, Rudakota in Pedabayalu mandal, Pedavalasa in GK Veedhi, and Nurmathi in G Madugula. In Odisha, about 25 company operating bases (COBs) of the Border Security Force and about 10 Indian Reserve Battalion (IRBn) bases have come up. Odisha has been successful in creating about six COBs in the cut-off region, a Maoist hotbed, in Badapadar, Jambai, Jantapayi, Vantalguda, Badapada and Gurasethu, and one IRBN base at Jodombo. The other reason may have had to do with motivating the tribals to join the movement. Recruitment has practically dried up now due to factors such as lack of tribal leadership and development activities taken up by the police, say police sources and former Maoists. Except for Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan, there is no tribal leader of standing in this region, says Officer on Special Duty Sateesh Kumar, who coordinated the operation. “The police have taken up a number of programmes. They have provided clean drinking water by sinking borewells, connected villages with roads, launched schemes to train the tribals in various skills, and coached them to join the police force and Central Armed Police Force. The tribals now want roads and cellphone towers, which the Maoists have been objecting to. This has distanced the tribals from left-wing extremism,” says B. Krishna Rao, Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam. The police say that with the security forces stepping up the offensive, the Maoists are on the back foot and are finding it difficult to keep the movement going. From a strength of around 500 cadres in mid-2000, the group has shrunk to a mere 30 now. The recent killings are a big setback to the Maoist movement, which, today, is at its lowest ebb in the Agency and in the Andhra-Odisha Border region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/when-greyhounds-struck-in-a-fading-red-zone/article34981954.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Prepare the ground for a ‘Naya J&K’||It is too early to conclude whether the all-party meeting held at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence to reduce the trust deficit between New Delhi and the leaders of Jammu and Kashmir will succeed in building the foundations of a ‘Naya Jammu and Kashmir’. That the meeting was held, remarkably without rancor, does signal a new beginning after the momentous events of August 2019, which included the dilution of Article 370 and the preventive detention of many of the leaders who attended the all-party meeting . There are also signals that a new minimal consensus could be forged between the mainstream of political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir and the central leadership that could lead to an early return of democratic governance and full Statehood. In its long and chequered history, there have been several and previous occasions during which federal relations have been rebooted and reset and this would not be the first time that a new, forward-looking political compact is executed. Centre’s policies, the world It is tempting, especially for out-of-work diplomats, to over-analyse New Delhi’s latest moves within a chessboard of a ‘great game’ being played out, reminiscent of 19th century British strategies in the region. Anyone who has studied New Delhi policies since the troubles of the 1990s will recognise that the Centre’s policies on Jammu and Kashmir rarely shift under international pressure, even while tactical gestures may be made to assuage the sentiments of what the establishment often describes as woolly-headed liberals. In the hostile atmosphere of the early 1990s, when India was confronted with a full-blown insurgency in the Kashmir Valley and India’s staunchest ally, the Soviet Union had collapsed, the United States Assistant Secretary of State for South Asia (and Central Asia), Robin L. Raphel (with direct access to U.S. President Bill Clinton) questioned Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India. Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s fragile coalition, within an economically precarious India, refused to concede ground in any substantial measure. Surely, it is surreal to believe that the Modi government would do so under pressure from the Joe Biden administration or gratuitous advice from its Acting Assistant Secretary for South Asia, even while the photo opportunity presented by the all-party meeting would, of course, be flashed by the media czars of the Ministry of External Affairs across the globe. Similarly, while the dangers to Afghanistan from the gradual takeover by the Taliban are real and present, it is difficult to find any evidence that the once-messianic students rooted in the madrassas of the Frontier will now turn their attention to Kashmir. Moreover, any backchannel that exists between India and Pakistan that led to a successful ceasefire on the Line of Control is reflective much more of Rawalpindi’s own internal fault lines and problems on multiple fronts, than any real concession toward India. To be sure, if Pakistan’s leadership wanted a face saver to stand down from its fierce reaction to the ‘Ides of August’, Mr. Modi has provided the very steps to down the ante. From a position of strength Counterintuitively, the Modi government seems to have acted unilaterally precisely because there is a window of opportunity where it can speak and act from a position of almost absolute strength. Even while there are stray incidents of violence, terrorism and militancy are at their lowest levels in recent years; there is little popular disquiet that is finding expression in the streets of the towns and the cities of Kashmir; and the separatists are either in jail or are surprisingly silent. The popular press, once a source of anxiety for the establishment, has either been arm-twisted into projecting good news or found it pragmatic to do so given the scrutiny of central law enforcement agencies on almost every private institution of importance and influence in the Union Territory. The mainstream of political parties, who had been derided by the Centre as the ‘Gupkar gang’ et al and detained for months, (who had taken an absolutist stand on the dilution of Article 370) seem to have found at least a modicum of accommodation with the Centre, at least good enough for all of them to respond positively to the Prime Minister’s invitation. In sum the employment of the entire spectrum of Kautilyan policies ( saam , daam , dand and bhed — persuade, purchase, punish, and exploit the weakness) have helped to create this new space; this is not to justify the Centre’s conduct, but merely find a convincing explanation for the remarkable degree of acquiescence to the Centre’s policies, admittedly within the convenient judicial cover provided by the Supreme Court of India having admitted but not heard the case on the legitimacy of the dilution of Article 370. As the Harvard trained legal ace, Muzaffar Beigh, apparently declared in the all-party meeting : any discussion on Article 370 could be tantamount to contempt of the Supreme Court given its sub judice status. In turn, the Centre also seems to have realised that there are limits to which Chaplinesque ‘little dictators’ from the bureaucracy, and their minions can deliver in terms of better public services or investment opportunities despite the laudable intentions of the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, Manoj Sinha. The state of delivery of public service has not improved significantly nor has promised investment from corporate groups translated into reality. The promise of Kashmir remains just that: the promise of Kashmir! Need for a local connect Moreover, the experience in Jammu and Kashmir has amplified the Sangh Parivar’s long-standing recognition that real leaders cannot be manufactured, but have to be connected organically to the grassroots and supported by a cadre of dedicated workers. The over-reliance on a new crop of shifty leaders, who were paraded into television studios or before visiting diplomats (and who zealously mouthed Bharat mata ki jai ) had the strong imprint of an intelligence operation, and was, in any case, counterproductive amongst even those already sympathetic to New Delhi’s narrative on Kashmir. The elections to the District Development Council demonstrated that the Bharatiya Janata Party, the National Conference, the Congress, Peoples Democratic Party, People’s Conference and the Apni Party — all of whom relied on the political leaders of the so-called Ancien Régime — still had a significant constituency amongst the voters of the State. Federal relations are dynamic even in countries with almost inviolable rights of the States, including the United States. For most of the 20th century, even much before India’s Independence, New Delhi’s policies towards this border region have moved between tight central control and a gentler federal grip that provided space for autonomous self-governance. When the British sold Kashmir to the Dogra ruler, Gulab Singh, they wanted to secure the frontiers, but not be responsible for governance. But the British Empire too realised, especially within the reign of Pratap Singh, that they could not firewall security from governance. Use the bedrock of the young Twenty-first century governance and empowerment requires a federal solution that is contemporary and built on best practices globally. The fresh consensus for a ‘Naya’ Jammu and Kashmir must capture the best practices of democratic governance globally, especially from a country such as Australia which I know best, and yet be reflective of the idea of India: a celebration of diversity in all its forms. The challenge before Jammu and Kashmir’s leaders, old and new, is to arrive at a compelling blueprint for good governance within a framework of healthy federal relations that will be rooted in a vision for peace, prosperity and real empowerment. The bedrock of such a vision must be the extraordinarily talented and gifted young people of the State, who have, despite the troubles, been able to carve out a niche for themselves across the world. Amitabh Mattoo is Professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, and Honorary Professor at the University of Melbourne||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/prepare-the-ground-for-a-naya-jk/article34981947.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Relevant advice for health care-givers, mothers-to-be||India’s demographic dividend is largely dependent on its high birth rate. The number of births in India is ~ 72,000 per day; taking into account the 10 month duration of gestation and pregnancy losses, the number of pregnant women on any single day will be much larger. Currently, the number of new cases of COVID-19 per day and the number of daily COVID-19 deaths in India are among the highest in the world. Maternity services in India, both public and private, already overburdened with large numbers even in pre-COVID-19 times, face a crisis situation with the conditions caused by the pandemic. A danger Recent reports from Kerala ( The Hindu , May 14, 2021) on pregnant mothers, have uncovered many serious medical problems faced by pregnant women who contract COVID-19 and their new-born — pre-eclampsia, pre-term labour maternal infections, increased caesarean section rates, fetal growth restriction due to placental insufficiency, still births, neonatal infections and respiratory distress. According to a recent publication in the Journal of the American Medical Association , maternal mortality is several-fold higher in COVID-19 positive pregnant mothers than in non-COVID-19 pregnant women. Many pregnant women need admission to the intensive care unit and prolonged hospitalisation. Of all the COVID-19 deaths in the paediatric age-group, neonatal deaths are the most common. All maternal and neonatal complications increase with maternal obesity and diabetes in pregnancy — problems that are common in pregnant women in India. These facts underscore the need for urgent action to minimise the impact of the coronavirus infection on pregnant mothers and new-born. There is an urgent need for action from professional bodies to avert a serious calamity; the Government, in consultation with these bodies, should immediately facilitate counselling and care for women in the reproductive age group and provide resources to health-care professionals involved in their care. Quite early during the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, we cautioned about the potential adverse effects of COVID-19 in pregnancy and urged pre-conceptional advice for women planning a pregnancy during COVID-19 times ( The Hindu , September 14, 2020; https://bit.ly/2U3Nghq) — a simple precaution that could have averted serious problems for large numbers of women in the reproductive age group. Steps to be taken With the massive increase in numbers of COVID-19 infections with the second wave of the novel coronavirus pandemic in India, and its effect on pregnant mothers, this important matter should be taken up on a war footing, alerting women in the reproductive age group and the medical profession. Two important steps must be considered immediately: Advise all women to postpone pregnancy till both partners are vaccinated; Offer vaccination to all un-vaccinated pregnant women Temporary and reversible contraception during COVID-19 times is a simple and effective way to postpone pregnancies and thereby decrease the number of women who would otherwise seek antenatal advice in crowded hospitals and risk exposure to infection. The demands on health-care personnel who provide antenatal care would decrease; they can be redeployed for COVID-19 care and the vaccination programme, public health measures that make huge demands on health-care professionals. Reduction in the number of antenatal visits, online consultations, protocols for ultrasonography, glucose tolerance test and antepartum fetal evaluation have been introduced by many institutions. This must be followed by all caregivers. Ultrasound scans are routinely done during pregnancy. Dedicated and safe ultrasound scan centres for pregnant women, manned exclusively by immunised personnel (either vaccinated or after recovery from previous COVID-19 infection) is a need of the hour. Pregnant women with fever should be considered to have COVID-19 unless proven otherwise and be taken care of in triage areas with all personal protective measures in place till COVID-19 test results are available.  At present, COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 pregnant women coming for delivery are not strictly segregated in many hospitals, it is high time that COVID-19 pregnancies and non-COVID-19 pregnancies are handled in different settings to prevent infecting susceptible mothers. Both types of facilities should be manned by immunised personnel, the first to prevent infections in health-care personnel and the second to prevent infections in susceptible mothers. Unvaccinated health-care workers providing care for pregnant women should be quickly vaccinated. Clear benefits of vaccination The health authorities in the United Kingdom and the United States have realised the benefits and the safety of vaccinating pregnant women and have approved vaccination of all pregnant women with mRNA vaccines (https://bit.ly/3xYZIxX). These COVID-19 vaccines have been found to produce a good immune response and, maternal antibodies, demonstrated to cross the placenta and enter the fetus, confer protection against maternal to fetal transmission of the virus. The benefits of vaccination far outweigh the risks. Pregnancy and the immediate postpartum period are pro-thrombotic states — they favour the formation of blood clots in veins. Of the two vaccines readily available in India, the vectored vaccine (Covishield) was found to be associated with rare but serious side-effects pertaining to thrombosis of the veins draining critical areas such as the brain and intra-abdominal organs, a feature shared by the single dose (Janssen) vaccine; indeed, this side-effect may be a feature of all vectored vaccines against COVID-19. In general, inactivated virus vaccines are safe during pregnancy and the World Health Organization has given a nod to the use of the inactivated Synovac vaccine (https://bit.ly/35WzIHa). Therefore, the inactivated vaccine available in India (Covaxin) may have advantages over the vectored vaccines (Covishield and Sputnik) for vaccinating pregnant women. The availability and advantages of the vaccine for pregnant women should be publicised and awareness should be created among the public. Vaccine hesitancy in pregnant women is likely to be much higher than in the general population — this should be addressed by information, education and effective communication. Professional bodies recommended to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare that vaccination be offered to pregnant women after providing adequate information and counselling — and the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Ministry of Health have approved this, welcome steps in the right direction (https://bit.ly/3xRBAgl). India will do well to enhance vaccination coverage of couples planning pregnancy and pregnant women on a priority basis in order to protect mothers and their new-born. Lakshmi Seshadri, a former Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, is currently Senior Consultant Gynaecologist, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu. M.S. Seshadri, a former Professor of Clinical Endocrinology, CMC, Vellore, is currently Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/relevant-advice-for-health-care-givers-mothers-to-be/article34981950.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Future State||Political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) who attended a meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday came away with a sense of optimism: restoration of Statehood is somewhere on the horizon, even if a total reversal of the withdrawal of the special status remains unlikely. The meeting itself was a surprise, and came at a time when expectations of any quick resolution were very low. But the fact that a spectrum of political leaders got the invitation from the Centre without any set pre-conditions had raised hopes of progress. Eventually, the meeting gave reason to Kashmir’s political class to believe in possibilities that did not seem to exist just a week earlier. But restoration of Statehood to J&K, which was reorganised as two Union Territories, should be the first step in the revival of the democratic political process and not the culmination of some elaborate negotiation strategy. Mr. Modi described the meeting as an “important step in the ongoing efforts towards a developed and progressive J&K”. While committing to strengthen grassroots democracy, he called for quick delimitation of constituencies, after which legislative polls could be held. Home Minister Amit Shah insisted the restoration of Statehood will follow delimitation and elections. Not surprisingly, many participants were not convinced by this sequence suggested by the Centre. But the positives are that the long meeting was freewheeling, without rancour and all parties were united in the demand for the restoration of Statehood. Most participants also sought an assurance to return the domiciliary rights concerning land and State services, but considering the BJP’s strident position, this might be difficult. As Mr. Modi argued, the focus must be on the future, but this will have to be built on the trust and cooperation of the people of J&K. Decades of turmoil have created unique problems of governance and mistrust. The NC and the PDP, with all their deficiencies, remain India’s best messengers to the people of the Valley. In deciding to engage them, and other parties, the Centre has made a departure from its earlier position. By seizing the opportunity, these parties also showed maturity. Global and domestic factors might have nudged the Centre towards what appears to be a tentative accommodation of other viewpoints. But the political challenge to its decision to hollow out Article 370 is all but fading. The restoration of Statehood has been placed so far down the path that any discussion on special status is unthinkable in the near future. In that sense, the Centre and the BJP have irreversibly reset the conversation on J&K. That success should not blind them to the resentment among the people. Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah will have to look forward to the future rather than being bound by their past rhetoric on Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/future-state/article34981941.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Top play||Conservative play is often international football’s bugbear. National team players spend very little time together for attacking structures and synchronous moves to develop, and a safety-first approach always seems around the corner. Ahead of Euro 2020, there were fears that players will be less on the front foot because of the physical and mental toll the COVID-19 pandemic had exacted. By that yardstick, Euro 2020 has thus far proved to be an entertaining fare, with the enthralling play matching the energy of the returning fans. Compared to the previous edition’s group stage, there have been 25 goals more (94 to 69) and four fewer matches with one goal or less (10 to 14), with just two goalless draws (down from four). Overall, 15 of the 16 countries in the knockouts have a better group stage record than champion Portugal five years ago. Top sides such as the Netherlands, Italy, Belgium and Spain have not moved away from their lively, pressing style of football, despite the tournament coming at the fag end of a long and tiring season. World Champion France has not been swashbuckling, but seems efficient, while Portugal is always a threat with Cristiano Ronaldo around (five goals and one assist). Denmark’s has been the feel-good story, recovering from talisman Christian Eriksen’s on-field collapse owing to cardiac arrest in its opening match, to make it to the next round. Eriksen is now out of danger and Denmark has quickly become the neutral’s choice. However, it remains to be seen how much of the positivity spills over into the round-of-16, which begins in Amsterdam on Saturday with the Denmark-Wales clash. If ever there was a time for cautious play, it is now, with the competition essentially a single-elimination, winner-take-all affair. France, having won the 2018 World Cup, knows a way around such situations, and with midfielder Paul Pogba in imperious form, it remains the favourite. Italy has been the stand-out team, with its young and energetic outfit coached by the astute Roberto Mancini expected to go far and bury the ghosts of 2018 when it did not qualify for the World Cup. Belgium’s golden generation, led by Eden Hazard, Kevin De Bruyne and Romelu Lukaku, seems well-placed to realise the dream of a first major trophy. But its shaky defence needs some shoring up, first against Ronaldo’s Portugal. The most-anticipated pre-quarterfinal clash will however be between England and Germany at Wembley. But both sides have been middling so far, with their halos significantly dimmed. Germany, in particular, was minutes away from elimination, before Leon Goretzka’s deflected goal against Hungary saved the day. But the weight of history can hang heavy on England, for it has won just three out of 11 competitive fixtures against Germany, the last coming 20 years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/top-play/article34981942.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. can cut fuel cess by Rs. 4.5’||The Union government has room to cut the cess levies on petrol and diesel by Rs. 4.5 per litre to ease inflationary pressures without a net loss in revenue, rating agency ICRA said on Friday. Stressing that consumer sentiment had been singed by the second COVID-19 wave, ICRA said that the record retail fuel prices were ‘weighing upon disposable incomes and consumption’ and feeding into inflationary pressures. Retail inflation crossed the central bank’s comfort zone at 6.3% in May. The revenue loss entailed by the cess cuts would be offset by an expected increase in fuel consumption making this a revenue-neutral measure, ICRA’s chief economist Aditi Nayar pointed out. “Benefitting from the anticipated rise in mobility and economic recovery aided by an acceleration of vaccine coverage, ICRA has forecast the YoY growth in the consumption of petrol and HSD (high-speed diesel) at about 14% and about 10%, respectively,” Ms. Nayar wrote. “Our forecasts suggest that consumption this year will be 6.7% higher for petrol and 3.3% lower for HSD.” Aggregate revenue from fuel taxes is expected to rise by about 13% to Rs. 3.6 lakh crore this year, with additional revenue of Rs. 40,000 crore. Foregoing the Rs. 40,000 crore can support a reduction of Rs. 4.5 per litre, ICRA estimated in a note. Room for RBI “Such a cut in the cess rates would offer some relief to household budgets and ease the inflationary pressures related to the rising global crude oil prices,” Ms. Nayar emphasised, stressing that this would also give the central bank more room to focus on growth imperatives rather than fret about accelerating inflation. In the three monetary policy reviews since February, the Monetary Policy Committee, chaired by Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das, has reiterated concerns about inflationary pressures created by the higher cess and VAT rates announced by the Centre and State governments on fuel last year, and the need to unwind them to ease cost push pressures. While global crude oil prices were on an upswing since January, riding on expectations of a rebound in the global economy, India’s record retail fuel prices were also driven by a weaker rupee and the higher domestic imposts levied by the Centre and States, said ICRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-can-cut-fuel-cess-by-rs-45/article34982265.ece
26 June 2021||MUMBAI,||SBI to continue digital agenda, looks to slash NPAs in FY22||State Bank of India (SBI) will continue its digital agenda in FY22 and focus on recovery of stressed assets, chairman Dinesh Khara said on Friday. “The current financial year has begun with unexpected second wave of COVID-19 infections,” Mr. Khara told shareholders at the bank’s 66th AGM. “Although the containment strategy this time included avoiding complete lockdown and managing the situation through micro-containment zones, the impact on the economy will nevertheless be felt,” he added. “In the current financial year, the bank will continue to accelerate its digital agenda. The scope and reach of YONO will be expanded further,” he said. “With the roll-out of pre-package insolvency for resolution, resumption of courts and formation of National Asset Reconstruction Company, efforts will be in full force to keep the momentum in stressed asset recovery in the current financial year,” Mr. Khara added. He said the bank was comfortably placed in terms of growth capital. “Opportunities for lending in promising sectors will be explored to diversify the portfolio and contain risk.” He said the bank adjusted to the challenges posed by the pandemic and was now better positioned to tackle any subsequent wave. “I am cautiously optimistic that the performance trajectory of FY21 will continue in FY22 as well,” he added. He said over the last two financial years, the bank was dealing with a steep rise in stressed assets. All-round efforts in managing stressed accounts initiated in FY19 continued in FY21 as well. “The corporate segment saw the largest reduction in NPAs at Rs. 18,530 crore,” the chairman added. “The gross NPA ratio of the bank declined to 4.98% from 6.15% in the last year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-to-continue-digital-agenda-looks-to-slash-npas-in-fy22/article34982262.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,||ALL eyes used vehicle market||Commercial vehicle (CV) maker Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) is exploring the possibility of entering the used-vehicle market. It also plans to unveil Bada Dost LCV offshoots from the Phoenix platform, a top official said. “Yes, we are planning to enter used-vehicle market such as the one for trucks and have already started talking to our channel partners,” Vipin Sondhi, MD & CEO, told The Hindu . “Details can be disclosed only after things take a final shape.” Going forward, ALL would continue to grow exports, defence, power solutions, LCV and parts business even as it expands the product reach of its core medium and heavy CVs. “We will intensify our efforts in Central Asia and African countries to strengthen our presence,” he added. While trucks, LCVs, aftermarket and power solutions posted good growth during FY21, the bus segment contracted in the absence of public transport and long periods of school closures. The bus sector would revive when the lockdown situation completely eased. ALL is also betting on fleet replacement by various State governments planning to replenish old fleets. On rising raw-material prices, he said ALL had raised product prices during the third and fourth quarters of last fiscal and keeping a close watch on costs. Mr. Sondhi also signaled that output may be raised in July, with an increase in the number of shifts depending on the relaxation in curbs. “With India’s GDP poised to grow at 9.5% in FY22, it augurs well for the CV industry. We are confident that we will come out stronger once demand picks up,” he said. ALL is planning to invest Rs. 750 crore in FY22, against Rs. 670 crore in FY21. The money would mainly be invested in debottlenecking LCV plants, routine investments in other plants and safety, said CFO Gopal Mahadevan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/all-eyes-used-vehicle-market/article34982267.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 relief up to Rs. 10 lakh to be tax-free for victims’ families||The Centre on Friday announced income tax relief for COVID-19 affected taxpayers who had to rely on financial aid for their treatment costs. It also exempted ex-gratia payments of up to Rs. 10 lakh from employers and other well-wishers to the families of those who had passed away. “In order to provide relief to the family members of such taxpayers, it has been decided to provide I-T exemption to ex-gratia payment received by family members of a person from the employer of such person or from other person on the death of the person on account of COVID-19 during FY 2019-20 and subsequent years,” the finance ministry said in a statement. Similarly, no income tax liability would arise on financial aid received from employers and well-wishers for meeting COVID-19 treatment costs, effective from financial year 2019-20. “This brings much-needed tax relief to taxpayers, who have suffered from COVID and received monetary help from their employer, friends and extended families, either for treatment or on account of a family member’s death from COVID,” said Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia & Co LLP. “Though the relief is granted retrospectively from 2019-20, since the due date for filing that year’s I-T returns has already expired, it would be important to see whether the government revives the time limit for filing those tax returns,” he pointed out. Deadlines extended The Central Board of Direct Taxes has extended the last date for linkage of Aadhaar with PAN from June 30 to September 30, 2021, while granting more time for several other compliances under the I-T Act of 1961.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-relief-up-to-rs-10-lakh-to-be-tax-free-for-victims-families/article34982263.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||ONGC reports Rs. 6,734 cr. net profit in Q4||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) reported a net profit of Rs. 6,734 crore in the March quarter on the back of higher oil prices and exceptional income. ONGC had reported a net loss of Rs. 3,214.41 crore in the January-March 2020 period, the company said in a statement. In an investor call, Chairman and MD Subhash Kumar said the company realised $58.05 for every barrel of crude oil produced and sold in January-March as compared with $49.01 a barrel realisation a year ago. The firm had reversed impairment losses, recording an exceptional gain of Rs. 2,613 crore in the quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ongc-reports-rs-6734-cr-net-profit-in-q4/article34982269.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Policybazaar.com forays into insurance brokerage, opens 15 retail stores||Leading web aggregator Policybazaar on Friday said it had embarked on its insurance broking journey with 15 outlets and aims to expand to 100 locations. Recently, IRDAI had approved the company’s insurance broking licence.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/policybazaarcom-forays-into-insurance-brokerage-opens-15-retail-stores/article34982268.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit, Adhiban, Gukesh and Arjun in elite field||With one-fourth of the 16-player field comprising Indians, the Goldmoney Asian Rapid online chess tournament promises to trigger unprecedented interest amongst the country’s chess lovers when action commences on Saturday. Vidit Gujrathi, B. Adhiban, D. Gukesh and Arjun Erigaisi will also be trying to break the ‘hoodoo’ and enter the quarterfinals of this elite competition. Meanwhile, World No. 1 Magnus Carlsen will be eyeing a third straight title in the $1.5 million Champions Chess Tour. The maiden presence of four-time women’s World champion HouYifan, currently the top-ranked female player, has added to the interest. Eighth seed Vidit faces Anish Giri (Nederlands), Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Poland), Daniil Dubov, Vladilslav Artemiev (both Russia) and Adhiban on the first day. Interestingly, Adhiban plays the other three Indians on the opening day after taking on Levon Aronian (Armenia) and Ding Liren (China). Gukesh, the youngest in the field, plays Arjun and Vidit in the first two rounds on Saturday, when Arjun is due to face Vidit in the eighth round. The preliminary stage involves a three-day round-robin league after which the top-eight players advance to the knockout stage. The rapid time-control is 15 minutes for each player plus a 10-second increment for every move made.  The players: Magnus Carlsen (Nor), Ding Liren (Chn), Levon Aronian (Arm), Anish Giri (Ned), Wesley So (USA), Alireza Firouzja (FIDE), Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol), Vidit Gujrathi, Daniil Dubov (Rus), Peter Svidler (Rus), Vladislav Artemiev (Rus), Salem Saleh (UAE), B. Adhiban, Hou Yifan (Chn), D. Gukesh, and Arjun Erigaisi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-adhiban-gukesh-and-arjun-in-elite-field/article34982443.ece
26 June 2021||Cuiaba,||Uruguay labours into the quarterfinals||An own goal in the first half and a late second from Edinson Cavani gave Uruguay a 2-0 win over Bolivia on Thursday and guaranteed its place in the last eight of the Copa America. Goal and assist Miguel Almiron got a goal and an assist as Paraguay beat Chile 2-0 and confirmed its place in the last eight. Bolivia, meanwhile, is eliminated. Uruguay has won this tournament more than any other country but it has laboured so far this year, losing 1-0 to Argentina, drawing 1-1 with Chile and failing to shine against a Bolivian side whose last away win was 32 games ago in Myanmar. Uruguay huffed and puffed through the first half and needed a stroke of luck to take the lead five minutes before half time when Jairo Quinteros and Carlos Lampe combined to put through their own goal. A low cross came into the six-yard box and Quinteros — stranded between Cavani and Luis Suarez — was forced to take action but could only knock the ball onto the legs of Carlos Lampe and into the net. Uruguay hadn’t won since beating Colombia in a World Cup qualifier last November. But Cavani guaranteed all three points with his first international goal since that game when he converted a sumptuous cross from Facundo Torres with 11 minutes remaining. Ends winless streak The result ended a five-game winless streak for Uruguay and ensures its place as one of the top four teams in Group A alongside the already qualified Argentina. Braian Samudio gave Paraguay the lead after 33 minutes after heading in a corner from Almiron, who then completed the scoring with a penalty 13 minutes into the second half.  The results: Group A: Bolivia 0 lost to Uruguay 2 (Lampe 40-og, Cavani 79); Chile 0 lost to Paraguay 2 (Samudio 33, Almiron 58-pen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uruguay-labours-into-the-quarterfinals/article34982286.ece
26 June 2021||PATIALA,||Men’s 4x400m quartet sets meet record||The Indian men’s 4x400m relay team had been holding on precariously to the last qualifying spot for Tokyo Olympics for a long time now. On Friday, the quartet broke the three minute two second mark at the National inter-State championships, bettering the meet record and lifting itself up the rankings to be assured of an Olympic spot. Anchored by Noah Nirmal Tom and comprising Mohd. Anas Yahiya, Arokia Rajiv and Amoj Jacob, the team clocked 3:01.89 in the heats, a timing which is likely to lift it to 13th place on the Road to Tokyo. Running in an almost empty stadium at the National Institute of Sports under floodlights, with part of the track in darkness, the competition was all but over when Jacob pulled away in the second leg before Tom accelerated in the last few metres. They now have a chance to further improve in the final. It was the only highlight on the opening day of the tournament that saw middling to mediocre performances in the few finals held even as the women’s 4x100m failed to make any progress in its quest for an Olympic spot. The foursome of Hima Das, Dutee Chand, Archana Suseendran and Dhanalakshmi managed 43.50 seconds to win its heat but not good enough to improve from the current 20th position.  The results:   Men: 10000m: 1. Vikram Bangriya (MP, 30:16.44s), 2. Kartik Kumar (UP, 30:25.79), 3. Dinesh (Mah, 30:50.74); Pole vault: 1. Shekhar Pandey (UP, 4.80m), 2. Dhirendra Kumar (UP, 4.50m), 3. Parveen Kumar (Har, 4.50m).   Women: 5000m: 1. Parul Chaudhary (UP, 16:04.07s), 2. Komal Jagdale (Mah, 16:26.89), Ankita (Utk, 16:58.07); 100mH: 1. Kanimozhi C (TN, 13.66), 2. Agasara Nandini (Tel, 13.70), 3. WVL Sugandi (SL, 13.90); Triple jump: 1. Renu (Har, 13.23m), 2. Sonam (UP, 12.96m), 3. Athira Surendran (Ker, 12.55m); Hammer throw: 1. Manju Bala (Raj, 61.08), 2. Sarita Singh (UP, 56.13m), 3. Surabhi Vedpathak (Mah, 54.77m) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mens-4x400m-quartet-sets-meet-record/article34982224.ece
26 June 2021||Chennai,||Defiance and belief were the hallmarks of Watling’s game||Bradley-John Watling takes us to the heart of New Zealand cricket — fight, absorbing pressure, changing scripts. Wellington, 2014: Watling addresses the media after the second day’s play. It has been a productive outing for him with five catches with the big gloves. However, New Zealand, 24 for one after conceding a massive lead of 246, is staring at a certain defeat against India.  Speaking to the press, Watling is typically defiant. “I like such situations. It gets the best out of me. This is the reason we play Test cricket.” These were not empty words. New Zealand was reduced to 94 for five in the second innings and the Indian scribes were making plans for two free days with the Test heading for an early finish. Then Watling joined skipper Brendon McCullum. And India was wicketless till the post-tea session on day four. McCullum (302) and Watling (124) were involved in a record 352-run stand for the sixth wicket, frustrating the visitor. McCullum displayed typical flair and Watling was rock solid. And the Test ended in a draw. And now Watling has bid adieu to international cricket after the Kiwis conquered the Test peak at Southampton. The respect for Watling, pushing 36, is enormous within the New Zealand team. No wonder he was among McCullum’s favourite cricketers for his never-say-die attitude. Belief was the cornerstone of Watling’s game. In fact, Watling began his Test career as a specialist opener against Pakistan at Napier in 2009. And it was McCullum’s decision to only ’keep in shorter duration matches that opened the path for Watling to be a wicketkeeper-batsman in Tests. He grabbed the opportunity. Watling figured in 75 Tests, scoring 3,790 runs at a commendable 37.52 with eight centuries and holding 267 catches and pulling off eight stumpings. Priceless quality For New Zealand, this South Africa-born cricketer was a man for crisis situations in the middle-order. He had the priceless quality of soaking in the pressure and using it as a motivating factor. The super-fit Watling evolved as a ’keeper and airborne catches on both sides of the wicket were commonplace as his career wore on. And now when he leaves the international stage to spend more time with family, he does so knowing he has given it his best shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/defiance-and-belief-were-the-hallmarks-of-watlings-game/article34982228.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Intra-squad games for India in Durham: ECB||The Indian cricket team will play two intra-squad games at the Riverside ground in Durham before the five-match Test series against England as Virat Kohli’s men are unlikely to get any warm-up First Class games against county sides. Displeasure India captain Virat Kohli had expressed his displeasure at not being given any First Class games before the England series, starting in Nottingham on August 4. “Due to COVID-19 protocols, they will play two intra-squad four-day matches before the first Test in August,” an ECB spokesperson said on Friday. While it is understood that BCCI had requested ECB for a few practice games, the COVID-19 situation won’t allow any such plan to go ahead. Asked if there is any chance of a game against county sides, the spokesperson said, “No”. In England, cricketers from various counties are regularly being tested for COVID but are not being kept in any bubble. The Indian team, once it assembles in London on July 14 and moves to Durham, will be once again be in a bubble. “The domestic cricketers of England not being in a bubble is an issue for sure. That’s why the games in Durham will be intra-squad ones,” a BCCI official said on conditions of anonymity. India is currently travelling with 24 players — 20 in the official squad and four reserves — which will allow them to play intra-squad games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/intra-squad-games-for-india-in-durham-ecb/article34982234.ece
26 June 2021||PATIALA,||Indian men target Olympic podium||The Indian men’s hockey team knows there are expectations of ending an Olympic medal drought and coach Graham Reid fancies his boys’ chances but insists that the team would do well to keep focus on the present. “There are 11 teams other than us at the Olympics and if you see in the last two years, we have played and beaten all except Canada, who we haven’t had a chance to play. That’s an important point and we will definitely be trying to jump onto that podium but our primary target will be to first qualify for the quarterfinals and then move forward from there,” Reid said at a virtual interaction on Friday. He did admit that the absence of competitive matches would be a factor but denied reading too much into it. “Honestly, no one knows how much it might affect the team’s preparation. But we did have two very good tours coming into this year after a long period of playing internal matches and one of the things we have been talking about is the strength of the daily training environment and how important it is to play those internal games at the competitive level of intensity,” he explained. Downplaying it With questions being raised on the lack of experience in the team’s attack, Reid tried to downplay the issue. “There have been training environments around the world, like ours, where we have been together for 15 months and things are going to happen and players will develop unbeknown to the rest of the world. I come from a culture where youth and the ability to bring exuberance and freshness to a group is very important to us.” In fact, he insisted that the lockdowns and extended periods of training would be an advantage for the team at Tokyo. “We have spent a lot of time building and understanding the mentality of the players, which normally doesn’t happen. “I got to know their stories and everything and what everyone has been through in their lives and in this period which has been a very powerful thing. I am sure it will be important when the chips are down in Tokyo,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-men-target-olympic-podium/article34982236.ece
26 June 2021||London,||Defending champ Halep pulls out with injury||Defending champion Simona Halep pulled out of Wimbledon with a calf injury as Novak Djokovic learned on Friday he would face Britain’s Jack Draper at the start of his quest for a 20th Grand Slam title. Romanian Halep, who beat Serena Williams in the final in 2019, tore her left calf muscle in Rome last month and was forced to miss the French Open. She travelled to London earlier this week but announced her withdrawal minutes before the draw for The Championships, which returns on Monday after it was cancelled last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Halep’s withdrawal follows that of four-time Grand Slam champion Naomi Osaka. World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty, who was forced to retire from her second-round match at Roland Garros with a hip injury, opens her campaign against Spain’s Carla Suarez Navarro, who is playing her final Wimbledon before retirement after recovering from cancer. French Open champion Barbora Krejcikova takes on Dane Clara Tauson, with the Czech star bidding to win the one Grand Slam singles title her late former coach and idol Jana Novotna won, in 1998. Milestones Serena Williams is seeking to equal Margaret Court’s record of 24 Grand Slam singles titles after missing out on equalling the mark several times in recent years. The 39-year-old American, seeded sixth, takes on Aliaksandra Sasnovich in the first round and could play German Angelique Kerber, to whom she lost in the 2018 final, in the third round. The men’s draw is also missing some big names, with two-time winner Rafael Nadal and US Open champion Dominic Thiem also absent. Eight-time winner Roger Federer, beaten in the 2019 final by Djokovic, and two-time champion Andy Murray are in the draw but there are fitness doubts over both players. World No. 1 Djokovic arrives at the All England Club after winning his 19th Grand Slam at Roland Garros and will first face 19-year-old Draper. One more Major for the 34-year-old Serbian, who has won Wimbledon five times, will pull him level with Federer and Nadal. Vulnerable? Federer, who is set to play experienced French campaigner Adrian Mannarino in the first round, is seeded sixth this year but has avoided Djokovic’s half of the draw. The Swiss master looks vulnerable after losing in the second round of Halle, his traditional Wimbledon warm-up tournament, which he has won 10 times. Zhang’s record Meanwhile, on Thursday, Zhang Zhizhen became the first Chinese man in the Open era to enter the Wimbledon main draw. The 24-year-old defeated Argentina’s Francisco Cerundolo 6-0, 6-3, 6-7(4), 7-6(6) in the final round of qualifying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/defending-champ-halep-pulls-out-with-injury/article34982232.ece
26 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Clippers pull one back against Suns||Paul George scored 27 points and grabbed 15 rebounds to power Los Angeles Clippers over Phoenix Suns 106-92 on Thursday. Reggie Jackson added 23 points and Croatian Ivica Zubac had 15 points and 16 rebounds as the Clippers made it 2-1 in the best-of-seven Western Conference finals. It was a crucial victory for the Clippers as no team in NBA history has ever won a best-of-seven series after losing the first three games. But for the third playoff series in a row, the Clippers won game three after dropping the first two. The Clippers were without star Kawhi Leonard, out with a sprained right knee. George played 43 minutes and with Leonard sidelined, he has stepped up to lift the Clippers. Bahamas big man Deandre Ayton led the Suns with 18 points while Chris Paul had 15 points and 12 assists in his return after 11 days out while in COVID-19 safety protocols.  The result: Western Conference finals: Los Angeles Clippers 106 bt Phoenix Suns 92 (Suns lead series 2-1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clippers-pull-one-back-against-suns/article34982277.ece
26 June 2021||Melbourne,||Absentee Aussies could miss T20 WC: Finch||Australia limited-over skipper Aaron Finch on Friday said several short-format players have a “very realistic” chance of being overlooked for T20 World Cup selection after opting out of the upcoming tours of West Indies and Bangladesh. Seven cricketers — David Warner, Pat Cummins, Glenn Maxwell, Jhye Richardson, Kane Richardson, Marcus Stoinis and Daniel Sams — who recently played in the IPL have pulled out of the twin tours while Steve Smith has been rested to fully recover from an elbow complaint which flared during the BCCI’s high-profile T20 tournament. In genuine danger Finch said the absentees are in genuine danger of missing out on the showpiece event in October-November as others stake their claims. “Yeah, very realistic (to miss out of T20 World Cup). You have to go on current form, and you pick guys who are playing well. For guys to be on this tour, to get the first opportunity to really put their hand up and take a spot is what it’s about,” Finch said. “It’s tough to ignore really good international performances. So yeah, absolutely, there’s going to be opportunities for guys to put their hand up and take spots,” he was quoted as as saying by cricket.au.com. Australia will on Monday fly out to the Caribbean for the July 10-25 tour with an 18-man squad short of up to seven frontline T20I players. Finch last week said it had been a “long-term plan” for all-format stars Warner and Cummins, both among Australia’s highest-paid IPL players, to miss the 10 T20Is and three ODIs in the Caribbean and Bangladesh after that (pending confirmation). But he had termed the absence of Maxwell, Jhye, Stoinis and Kane as “surprising”.  Chairman of selectors Trevor Hohns had also hinted that there is no guarantee that some of the IPL returnees who have opted out of the squad for the white-ball tours of West Indies and Bangladesh would get an automatic spot in the T20 World Cup. Blurry vision Finch also said he had experienced “blurry vision” during last year’s IPL in the UAE and had a surgery on his left eye recently. So far, the surgery has been a success, yet the 34-year-old believes the true indication will come when playing under lights, which Australia are set to do in all eight of their fixtures in the Caribbean.  For guys to be on this tour, to get the first opportunity to really put their hand up and take a spot is what it’s about||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/absentee-aussies-could-miss-t20-wc-finch/article34982445.ece
26 June 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Eriksen incident showed how football can unify the world’||The Christian Eriksen episode showed football’s great ability to unify the world feels top Indian defender Sandesh Jhingan. “The Christian Eriksen incident also showed how football promotes solidarity. Not many sports in the world have this power and vitality to bring the world together. “That was evident when the Finland fans were chanting Christian and the Denmark fans saying Eriksen. The whole world instantly came in support and prayed for his recovery. “That is how football brings the world together in harmony and appreciation,” said Jhingan about the Denmark midfielder who collapsed in the middle of the action during their Euro 2020 match. Return of fans Jhingan was also ecstatic about how the Euro is seeing a return of the fans in big numbers. “Euro has brought a lot of smiles to the whole world. It is definitely about top quality football and a display of fantastic skills and tactics. What it has also done is bringing the fans back to the stadiums. “That was one big thing that everyone was waiting for since the pandemic started,” Jhingan, who is covering the Euro 2020 for Sony Ten 2, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eriksen-incident-showed-how-football-can-unify-the-world/article34982449.ece
26 June 2021||Mumbai,||India’s young guns are raring to go in Sri Lanka||Rookie left-arm pacer Chetan Sakariya says he has done his workouts properly during the hard quarantine period here and is raring to go for the limited-overs series against Sri Lanka starting on July 13. The Indian players, led by Shikhar Dhawan, started their quarantine on June 14 and will continue till June 28. However, their hard quarantine period is over. “Everybody is now used to quarantine... it is good to come out of the quarantine and meet other players and everybody has done work out as per the needs. I am feeling very good,” the 23-year-old Sakariya, who has earned his maiden India call-up, told bcci.tv . “When I got out of the room, I was constantly looking at myself, I was feeling good wearing the jersey, but once I came to the gym, I started doing my normal workout,” said the Saurashtra pacer, who recently lost his father due to COVID-19. Attacking Delhi top-order batsman Nitish Rana, who also got his first call-up in the national team, echoed similar sentiments. “The first seven days were difficult for me as I was waiting to meet my teammates and I was waiting to wear the jersey. That time was a bit tough for me as each hour was feeling like a year,” said 27-year-old. Rana is looking forward to more intense work-out sessions with a new trainer. Karnataka players Devdutt Padikkal and K. Gowtham, who too earned their maiden call-ups in the national team, also sounded pleased. “Yeah, it has been great. Even in quarantine, we were trying to do as much as possible in our room, but it (training) is much better here in the gym and it is good to get out there and have a good session,” said Padikkal, himself a flamboyant batsman. Gowtham, on his part, said that it was good to train with his Karnataka teammate. Dream come true Young Maharashtra batsman Ruturaj Gaikwad described his India call-up as a dream-come-true moment. “We were waiting for this for so many years, the place where you want to be, you work hard for that and when you get to know you are finally there, obviously it feels very nice,” said Gaikwad. Tamil Nadu’s new spin sensation Varun Chakravarthy said representing the country is always a special feeling. “Because there have been lots of seasoned players in this tour and working out just next to them in the gym is a special feeling, it is definitely a dream come true for me,” the leg-break bowler said. The Shikhar Dhawan-led Indian team will play three ODIs and as many T20Is against Sri Lanka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-young-guns-are-raring-to-go-in-sri-lanka/article34982457.ece
26 June 2021||Spielberg,||It feels a bit premature, says Lewis Hamilton||Seven-time Formula One champion Lewis Hamilton voiced concern for fans visiting next month’s British Grand Prix, calling the decision to allow a full capacity crowd at Silverstone “a bit premature” amid the rising number of coronavirus cases. Feeling “split” Organisers announced on Thursday they received government approval to host up to 130,000 fans for the July 18 race, but Hamilton said he was feeling “split” about the decision. “I watch the news, so I hear about the cases going up in the UK. On that side I’m worrying for people, naturally,” Hamilton said. “There is less people being in hospital but it feels a bit premature to me. I hope we learn something from it, and I hope people stay safe and keep their masks on.”  Working with authorities The Silverstone team said it was working with health authorities in Northamptonshire on the specific conditions of entry that will enable the event to operate safely. It said visitors must show proof of full vaccination or proof of a negative lateral flow test taken within 48 hours of arrival. Silverstone will host the second Grand Prix with a full capacity crowd since the start of the pandemic, after next week’s Austrian GP. Hamilton said he did not want to “turn it into a negative” and that he was excited “to see people, and firstly to see the British crowd … to be out to see them and feel the energy that they bring into a weekend.” Hamilton main’s challenger for the F1 title this season, championship leader Max Verstappen, called a packed Silverstone “simply lovely.” “To have a full crowd in Silverstone is what you want, that is what creates the atmosphere and what makes F1 special,” the Red Bull driver said. The drivers spoke at a news conference ahead of the Austrian GP on Sunday.  I hope people stay safe and keep their masks on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-feels-a-bit-premature-says-lewis-hamilton/article34982462.ece
26 June 2021||Cardiff,||England seals series||Liam Livingstone saw England to a series-clinching win over Sri Lanka as the hosts overcame a batting slump in a rain-affected second T20I here on Thursday. England appeared to have the game sewn up after holding Sri Lanka to 111. But, chasing 112, England collapsed to 36 for four. The target was then reduced to 103 from 18 overs following a rain delay. Sam Billings (24) and Livingstone (29 n.o.) and Sam Curran (16 n.o.) saw England home.  Meanwhile, Jos Buttler will miss the rest of England’s white-ball series against Sri Lanka because of a small tear in his right calf.  The scores: Sri Lanka 111/7 in 20 overs (Kusal Mendis 39, Mark Wood 2/18, Adil Rashid 2/24) lost to England 108/5 in 16.1 overs (Liam Livingstone 29 n.o., Wanindu Hasaranga 2/20); target revised to 103 runs from 18 overs.   Toss: Sri Lanka; MoM: Livingstone; England won by five wkts., leads three-match series 2-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-seals-series/article34982271.ece
26 June 2021||Osijek (Croatia),||Women’s team wins air pistol bronze||The women’s air pistol team of Yashaswini Singh Deswal, Manu Bhaker and Rahi Sarnobat won the bronze in the team championship, as it beat Hungary 16-12 in the shooting World Cup here on Friday. The Indian trio had actually topped the first stage of qualification of the team event. However, it slipped to the third spot in the second stage of qualification behind Bulgaria and Germany. Thus, the team had to be content fighting for the bronze and winning it. The men’s air rifle team of Divyansh Singh Panwar, Deepak Kumar and Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar failed to win a medal.  The women’s air rifle team of Apurvi Chandela, Elavenil Valarivan and Anjum Moudgil placed 11th. With only two shooters in men’s air pistol, in Saurabh Chaudhary and Abhishek Verma, India could not field a team.  The results:   Men: Air pistol team: 1. Italy 16 (582) 1729; 2. Serbia 6 (575) 1732; 3. Iran 16 (572) 1729; 4. Russia 12 (575) 1743.   Air rifle team: 1. Russia 16 (631.4) 1881.7; 2. Hungary 8 (624.6) 1882.7; 3. Serbia 16 (623.7) 1876.1; 4. India 14 (624.4) 1878.7.   Women: Air pistol team: 1. Bulgaria (16 (576) 1711; 2. Germany 10 (575) 1713; 3. India 16 (573) 1727; 4. Hungary 12 (569) 1713.   Air rifle team: 1. Iran 16 (625.5) 1882.7; 2. Russia 2 (624.8) 1872.7; 3. Hungary 16(624.5) 1880.5; 4. Austria 10 (622.3) 1871.6; 11. India 1867.7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-team-wins-air-pistol-bronze/article34982279.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||WTC: Amarnath for neutral curators||Former India all-rounder Mohinder Amarnath wants the ICC to introduce neural curators and ensure a winner is decided in the next World Test Championship cycle. Amarnath said the games finishing in two days like the day-night Test against England in Ahmedabad is not fair competition. “You should play on quality wickets. When you play on quality wickets, it doesn’t matter where you are playing. Then it is a fair competition. “The ICC should form a panel of neutral curators like they have for neutral umpires. That team should follow the ICC guidelines and ensure the game goes into the fifth day,” Amarnath told PTI on Friday. No joint winner The WTC mace would have been shared if the final between India and New Zealand ended in a draw or tie. Amarnath feels this is another aspect the ICC must tweak in the next cycle. “A final means there can’t be any joint winners in any sport. Whether it is one game or a best of three final. They have to complete the final.” India is currently in need of a seam bowling all-rounder like Amarnath with Hardik Pandya being left out of the Test team due to his inability to bowl regularly. The 70-year-old said it is tough to produce that breed. “They don’t come just like that. They come once in a decade or once in 20 years. I am sure somebody will come but it will come from the longer version of the game,” he said. Meanwhile, former India captain Dilip Vengsarkar is ‘amazed’ at the news that Virat Kohli and his men will be on a “three-week holiday” before the start of England Test series after “poor preparation” cost them the WTC final against New Zealand. Vengsarkar, a former chief selector, feels India played well over the two-year WTC cycle but their preparation for the final was far from ideal. “I don’t know how we approach this kind of an itinerary. Where you go for a holiday in-between and then come back to play Test matches. One week break was enough post the WTC final. The thing is you need to play continuously. I am amazed this itinerary was approved.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wtc-amarnath-for-neutral-curators/article34982447.ece
26 June 2021||Sydney,||History beckons Hoy and Hanna||Veteran equestrian Anthony Hoy will compete in a record-extending eighth Olympics after being named on the Australian team on Friday, 37 years after his debut at the 1984 Los Angeles Games. The three-time gold medallist will stretch his own record of the most Olympic appearances by an Australian athlete, while at 62 he becomes the oldest male competitor ever from his country. “To represent Australia at international level over so many years has been the greatest privilege and honour of my life,” he said. “I have never set out to break records on my number of Olympic Games participations —I am just a country boy who loves his horses, has a huge passion for our sport and thrives on being competitive at the top end.” He will ride Vassily de Lassos, a 12-year-old gelding, in Tokyo to become just the 13th person in Olympic history to contest eight Games. Hoy will be joined by grandmother Mary Hanna, 66, aboard mare Calanta after qualifying for her sixth Olympics, the first Australian woman to do so and the oldest ever. Equestrian Australia chief Darren Gocher said the record-setting Hoy and Hanna were a testament to the longevity of the sport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/history-beckons-hoy-and-hanna/article34982452.ece
26 June 2021||TOKYO,||‘No spectator’ Games remain an option||A “no-spectator Games” remains an option for the Tokyo Olympics, which open officially in just four weeks, the president of the Tokyo Olympic organising committee said on Friday. The admission by Seiko Hashimoto comes only four days after she announced on Monday that up to 10,000 local fans would be allowed into venues — with numbers not to exceed 50% of venue capacity regardless of indoor or outdoor events. Organisers put off the decision on local fans for several months, and fans from abroad were banned months ago. The move to allow fans went against many medical experts who have said the safest Olympics would be with no fans due to coronavirus. “What I feel is that no spectating should remain an option for us as we look into things,” Hashimoto said at a news conference. “The situation is changing from time to time so that is why we need to remain flexible and prompt in responding to any change. A no-spectator Games is one of our options.” Resurgence in infections Organisers seemed to back down slightly on fans after a COVID-19 panel for the Tokyo Metropolitan Government reported on Thursday that “there’s a sign of resurgence” of infections in Tokyo. The panel said infections grew by 11% in the last week — based on the seven-day average — with more of the contagious Delta variant cases being detected. Organisers say they will take another look at fans after the current “quasi-state of emergency” ends on July 11. Olympic Minister Tamayo Marukawa delivered another wake-up call on Friday when she confirmed that a member of the Ugandan team who tested positive for the coronavirus upon entry to Japan last week was infected with the Delta variant. Despite extensive testing before and upon entry, cases like this seem certain to happen with 11,000 Olympic athletes and 4,400 Paralympic athletes entering Tokyo, along with tens of thousands of added staff, coaches, judges, and IOC and sports federations officials. “The Olympic organising committee is very much interested in finding out more from this (Uganda) example,” Hashimoto said. “We will pay detailed attention to get information as much as possible from this experience,” with operations refined accordingly. She added: “We cannot say everything is 100%. We will make a bubble as close to 100% as possible.” The head of Imperial Household Agency had on Thursday said Emperor Naruhito is “extremely worried” about the health risks presented by the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-spectator-games-remain-an-option/article34982463.ece
26 June 2021||ROME,||Srihari just misses out on breaching Tokyo mark||Srihari Nataraj came agonisingly close to securing the A-mark Olympic Qualification Time in 100m backstroke event, but fell 0.05 seconds short at the Sette Colli Trophy in Rome on Friday. In what was his last opportunity to get the A-mark, Srihari clocked 53.90s, a personal best and a Best Indian Performance, bettering his own timing of 54.45s set last week in Belgrade. But it wasn’t enough to breach the Tokyo 2020 mark (53.85s). The 20-year-old has been nominated by the Swimming Federation of India for the Olympics via universality quota but was keen to secure A-qualification. Fellow Olympic hopeful Sajan Prakash will make his final effort to clinch an Olympic spot on Saturday. Double delight for Page Elsewhere, Advait Page came up with the Best Indian Performance in the 1500m freestyle event by clocking 15:23.66s in Mission Viejo, California, on Thursday. En route to his gold, he bettered Kushagra Rawat’s previous best of 15:25.22s set last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srihari-just-misses-out-on-breaching-tokyo-mark/article34982230.ece
26 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam signs Krishnananda||Gokulam Kerala has signed midfielder Krishnananda Singh Khungdongbam. The Manipuri player, who began his professional career at TRAU FC, has played in two I-League seasons. He has to his credit three goals so far in the league. Interestingly, his maiden goal in the I-League was against Gokulam. Krishnananda has played 24 matches for TRAU. “I am glad to be part of the current I-League team,” he said. “The playing style of Gokulam was top-notch last season and I believe I can add strength to them. The club is very ambitious about its target and their philosophy aligns with mine. “I am looking forward to winning more titles with the Kerala side.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-signs-krishnananda/article34982628.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sananda holds top seed Sneha||Lower-rated R. Sananda held top seed Sneha Halder to cause the biggest surprise of the third round in the National girls’ under-12 online rapid chess tournament that began on Friday. Thirty two players shared the lead with three points in this 11-round competition. Sananda and Sneha were among those with 2.5 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sananda-holds-top-seed-sneha/article34982270.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Aditya Khanna to lead over-35 tennis team||Aditya Khanna will be the captain of the over-35 tennis team, selected by the All India Tennis Association (AITA) to compete in the Young Seniors World team championship to be held in Umag, Croatia, from September 12 to 17.  The teams: Over-35: Aditya Khanna (Capt.), Kannan Settu, Riyaz Ahmed, Manish Kulhary; Over-40: Krishna Kumar (Capt.), Swarandeep Singh Dhodi, Ashish Khanna, Daniel Vijay Anand.   Over-45: Jagdish Tanwar (Capt.), Rajesh Kumar, Ashish Parmar and Deepak Marwaha .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aditya-khanna-to-lead-over-35-tennis-team/article34982280.ece
26 June 2021||PARIS,||Women’s recurve team in final||Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat ensured another medal for India as the trio made it to the recurve women’s team final in the archery World Cup Stage-3 here on Friday. India, which got a first round bye, beat Spain and Turkey with an identical 6-0 margin to reach the semifinals. Second seed India defeated host France , consisting of Lisa Barbelin, Audrey Adiceom and Angeline Cohendet, 6-2 in the last-four stage to set up a summit clash with top seed Mexico. Deepika is already in the women's individual semifinals and the mixed team final (with Atanu Das). The Indian recurve and compound men’s teams lost in the quarterfinals. The compound women’s team was knocked out in the first round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-recurve-team-in-final/article34982284.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||T20 WC likely in UAE from Oct. 17||The 2021 men’s T20 World Cup is slated to start from October 17 in the UAE, two days after the Indian Premier League (IPL) final, according to a report in ESPNcricinfo . The final is scheduled for November 14. As per the report, the Board of Control for Cricket (BCCI) in India is yet to write to the International Cricket Council (ICC) officially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/t20-wc-likely-in-uae-from-oct-17/article34982225.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Reagan extends CFC contract||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) has given right-back Reagan Singh an extension of two years, which means he will be with the club till 2023 for the Indian Super League. The 30-year-old had joined CFC from NorthEast United ahead of the 2020-21 season in Goa. “I would like to thank the Chennaiyin family for believing in me. I feel proud to be part of one of the most successful teams in the country. My ambition now is to help the club lift their third ISL trophy., and the first of my career,” said Reagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reagan-extends-cfc-contract/article34982344.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sushila qualifies via continental quota||Indian judoka Sushila Devi has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics via the continental quota in 48kg, the sport’s international federation confirmed on Friday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sushila-qualifies-via-continental-quota/article34982278.ece
26 June 2021||DUBAI,||ICC congratulates NZ on winning WTC title||The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Friday congratulated New Zealand on clinching the inaugural World Test Championship title beating India in a riveting final. ICC acting CEO Geoff Allardice said: “I would like to congratulate the first ever World Test Champions, the Black Caps who displayed the skill and temperament required to be the best Test team in the world.”PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-congratulates-nz-on-winning-wtc-title/article34982226.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 07:37 IST,||Sudoku — June 26, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-26-2021/article34982923.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling a pandemic with bridge||Shridhar Nagalkar plays a game of pool on most evenings. On other days, the 76-year-old retired consultant general surgeon plays bridge with his new friends, all determined to beat the isolation and stress of the pandemic. “We have to learn to live with the coronavirus,” he says, speaking from Athashri Senior Living homes in Baner, Pune. Positive thinking is the way forward in any adverse situation, he adds. As soon as the lockdown was lifted in June 2020, he moved into the retirement commune along with his wife Swarupa, 72, “to a place where all amenities are provided for, including mobile ATM services,” he says. According to a 2018 study by CII-ASLI (Confederation of Indian Industry and Association of Senior Living India), of India’s roughly 13-14 crore senior citizens, 30% live in urban cities and 70% in rural areas. Only 2% of its seniors live in retirement communities. Though the global health crisis has affected people universally, it has pushed seniors into a more vulnerable position. Being more susceptible to the virus and prone to conditions like depression, this demographic faces specific challenges that the managements of retirement homes and communities were quick to respond to. They implemented total segregation from the outside world, and put in place the required health protocol. Most have begun tutoring seniors in the use of social media, as virtual interaction becomes the need of the hour. The pandemic has resulted in two significant outcomes: a change in the perception of communes for the elderly and the spirited response by seniors towards the crisis. Colonel A. Sridharan (retired), founder and MD, CovaiCare Active Living Homes, which has centres across Tamil Nadu, says, “The demand for senior homes has increased significantly, by almost 25% - 30% in the last one year. At roughly Rs. 30,000 per month, a couple has a safe and comfortable life in such centres.” Except for the distressing fact that the children of the seniors have not been able to visit as regularly, residents of such communities have rallied strong during the pandemic, to keep not only stress at bay, but also the virus itself. Kuruvilla M. George, secretary of Chacko Homes, Alwaye, Kochi, is pleased that so far, no one has taken ill. “Many of our residents are retired doctors and advised us on the safety protocols. Every month we hold talks, prayer meetings and general meetings so that everyone is in touch,” he says. Colonel Sridharan, who helped put in place a system of safety protocols and virtual entertainment programmes at CovaiCare, says, “We play badminton, table tennis, and pool with masks, and maintain social distancing.” At Athashri, every day, Savita Achyut Gokhale weaves garlands from the blossoms of the bakul trees. She keeps a few for herself and places the rest at the reception. “The other residents take the garlands for their hair or puja . This makes me happy and keeps me busy,” says the 70-year-old, adding that this has been her way to keep everybody’s spirits high. Savita, who lost her husband to COVID-19 two months ago, says about her outreach, “There are many here who are older than I am, and find it difficult to bend and collect the fallen flowers. I spread old dupattas under the trees, gather the flowers and weave them into garlands. Everyone likes to have one. It motivates them.” Meghali Khatdare, CEO of Athashri Homes that caters to nearly 1,900 seniors, backs Savita up by saying, “It was the psychological impact of the pandemic that posed a new challenge.” She adds, “We made sure that the residents’ every need — grocery, fruits, vegetables, ATM machines, medicines — was made available at their doorstep. To counter the isolation, we planned monthly virtual programmes designed for seniors.” Initially it was difficult to bring the older people together virtually, “as many seniors do not use the smart phones much,” but resident managers taught them to use it and familiarised them with video calls, text messaging and using social media. “This was another engaging and learning activity for the seniors,” Meghali adds. At 92, Captain Kunjipalu T.A. is the oldest resident of Chacko Homes in Kochi. Driving around the campus in his Honda City, the retired pilot chats with other residents and regales them with stories from his distinguished 37-year-long career in the Indian Airlines. “There should be no complaining. The sun is up. Everything is looking good. The day should start like this,” says the man who invested in a retirement home 23 years ago, and moved in seven years ago after his wife passed away. Despite being bedridden after a stroke last year, Swarn Mongia, 92, remains the centre of affection at the Senior Living Home, Godhuli, New Delhi. One of the first residents of the commune nearly 20 years ago, others visit to “seek her blessings”. Her daughter, Amita who lives in Maryland, USA, discloses that when her parents took the decision to move into a senior living commune, it was “social suicide. The act was frowned upon. My mother has been a very spirited woman, always an example to others at Godhuli. That’s why they continue to come to her for inspiration, more so in these tough times.” Colonel Sridharan points to the fact that the seniors at the centres are highly qualified retired professionals and very resourceful. “They have devised interesting ways to negotiate the prevailing times.” Game on He shares the example of 71-year-old Revathi Bhaskar, a former bank officer who quickly came up with a game of tambola for the residents. “In every elderly person, there is a child. This is our second childhood,” says Revathi, adding that she put the game together to prevent residents from falling into depression. Around 40 residents signed up immediately for the LockDown Tambola, as Revathi called it. She designed the tickets and preceded the game with a quiz, “as a warm up”. Though Revathi lost her husband during the pandemic, she says the tambola games are in his memory. She recalls him encouraging her by saying, “You spend one hour and bring joy to 50 people; so it is 50 hours of happiness. This is worth all the trouble.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tackling-a-pandemic-with-bridge/article34982708.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The cabinet of wonder||In Tamil Nadu’s most famous delta town stands the Thanjavur Maharaja Serfoji’s Saraswathi Mahal Library (TMSSML), a building that holds in its enfilade of historical layers cabinets filled with literary treasures. Considered among Asia’s oldest libraries, it was founded by the Nayaks in the 16th Century and fortified as a cultural citadel by the Marathas who captured the town in 1675, giving rise to the Tanjore Bhosle dynasty and the unique Tanjore Marathi community. Under the rule of Serfoji II a century later, the library became a treasure house of palm manuscripts and, today, holds nearly 40,000 volumes primarily in Tamil, Sanskrit, Marathi and Telugu. Art and rare photographs also reside in the bowels of the library, with only a miniscule collection, mostly digitised, on display. With COVID-19 barring entry to most physical museums, it has been left to curators and connoisseurs of art to keep alive interest in these places. Pratap Sinh Serfoji Raje Bhosle, 27, tries to draw the visitor into the annals of Tanjore history with his fourth book Rare Prints that brings alive 129 uncommon pictures from the library. “I was fascinated with the pictures of Indian kings, princes and British officials in bound albums from the 20th Century. These were stuck on rich handmade paper for reference, and the albums were made in Kot Radha Kishen (presently in Pakistan). I wanted to throw light on these pictures,” says Pratap Sinh, the sixth descendant of Serfoji II and grandson of Tulajendra Bhosle, who founded the Maharaja Serfoji II Memorial Hall, a museum in Sadar Mahal Palace, Thanjavur. Pratap Sinh is an Electronics and Communication Engineering graduate, but it is as the social media manager of the family museum and an author of three books, including Contributions of Thanjavur Maratha Kings, that he has come into his own. From the family album “I am interested in old photographs — both as markers of history and for restoration. I have posted many related to Thanjavur on my blog and Facebook and Instagram pages,” he says. “While going through the digital photo albums of the library’s programmes which my grandfather, Tulajendra Bhosle attended as a guest of honour, I recollected seeing pictures of dignitaries such as Indira Gandhi, Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar, Sarojini Naidu, Sharad Pawar, P.V. Narasimha Rao, Rajendra Prasad and Kamaraj. I requested the librarian for these photos and a search through many almirahs resulted in finding these albums that had been locked away for years,” says Pratap Sinh adding how he stumbled upon some of these pictures not published to date or not found on the Internet. Edited by educator and researcher Jeetendra Hirschfeld, Rare Prints is a tribute to the library. With forewords from political stalwarts and cultural aficionados, the first few pictures in the book are from an album of the 1900s. The first is a tribute to the great Maratha warrior, Chattrapati Shivaji, who sits astride a horse in black and white splendour. Colour pictures with added pigments give a real feel to the book. Each is accompanied by a brief text describing the mood and the moment. Pictures of two unique manuscripts also feature. Some of the pictures such as that of Venkoji, founder of the Bhosle dynasty of Tanjore, seated on a throne, jewelled scabbard by his side, and Sujan Bai Sahib, a queen, with bow grasped in hand and a quiver full of arrows on her back, offer an exhaustive tour of the centuries. Pictures published by the Chitrashala Press, Pune, have reproduced well, retaining the jewel-like tones. This is followed by digital prints of pictures from the early 20th Century, logo of the press established by Serfoji II, among the earliest to print the Devanagari script in South India, a case sheet of eye treatment given by Serfoji who is also credited with having performed cataract surgeries, paintings from the Aswa Sastra manuscript, sketches of the famed temples of Thanjavur by English landscape artists the Daniells, and visitors and celebrations at the museum. The e-book is a light ride through the socio-cultural history of the kingdom and the city it now is, but mostly it is a journey through Saraswathi Mahal Library, one that former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi describes in the visitor’s book as “a brief moment in this house of treasures”.  The e-book is available on bookganga.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-cabinet-of-wonder/article34982704.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Retired angels and turnarounds||I can’t breathe. These three little words ushered more change across the globe in months, than the last three decades could. Immortalised by George Floyd, these words encapsulate the lament of pretty much every marginalised person or race on this planet today. Ironically, it also includes a segment that represents half the planet’s population — women. As a result, brands that profit from sexist, ageist and colourist values have been forced to self-reflect. Victoria’s Secret is possibly the most dramatic case in point — for years, the lingerie major had supermodel ‘Angels’ trussed up in gossamer, underwire and fantasy, but last week saw a brand turnaround. When Floyd’s words echoed around the world, shining the light on prejudice and discrimination in public and workplaces, every brand on the planet was forced to ‘wake up’. Global conversations about Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DIE) sparked a growing social consciousness in the corporate sector. Consumers started aligning themselves to brands that mirrored their values. And Victoria’s Secret was reduced to a pile of singed wings and flaming halos. Dissonance between its brand values and the environment it inhabits today begged a total overhaul. A year’s introspection has yielded an entirely new executive team as well as an all-new board, most of them women. And of course, the Angels, God bless their tired souls, have been put to rest. Along with the angels, VS hopes to bury the flawed stereotype of the perfect woman it had perpetuated for decades, by partnering with accomplished women from diverse backgrounds, colour, size and sexual orientation. The newly minted Collective includes names like Megan Rapinoe, Priyanka Chopra, Valentina Sampaio, Paloma Elsesser, Eileen Gu and others picked for their accomplishments rather than their proportions. Raúl Martinez, the new creative director in charge of rebranding, confesses being persuaded by his 15-year-old daughter to join VS. “Dad, do it for us, the Gen Zs!” she’d said. Gay soccer champ Rapinoe was impressed by the willingness of the brand’s management to acknowledge and own their mistakes. Elsesser can’t wait to amp up the body positivity decibel, while Sampaio hopes to use VS to open doors for trans women like herself.  A clean-up exercise  In a post Black Lives Matter (BLM) world, not embracing DEI can cost a business its employees, investors, consumers and public trust. Marketers need to make an intrinsic change in the brand narrative to inspire credibility and be authentic in their initiative. The real change comes from inviting and validating the outliers and driving public conversations. Starbucks USA banned their baristas from wearing any BLM merchandise, but when the press reported this, the chain swung the other way and distributed BLM T-shirts to staff. Nike’s popular campaign about gender equality rang hollow when it refused maternity leave to one of its sponsored runners. Instead of hastily making commercials to raise awareness, brands would benefit from cleaning up their houses first and addressing in-house sexist, racist, homophobic and transphobic behaviours. It’s only when the intent permeates into their employment policy, corporate communication and brand values, that it is more than just a band aid for systemic problems, biases and issues. Online dating brands like Bumble, Tinder and OK Cupid have all started diversity conversations, which while seeming organic to the brand, may well be an opportunity to expand user bases.  Of beauty and inclusivity  Meanwhile, in the beauty and skin sector, Nivea and J&J immediately withdrew their whitening products in India, a market where colourism is rampant. The country’s loudest voice in this arena, Fair & Lovely saw a huge pushback on Twitter to follow suit. Its parent Unilever responded by changing the name of its Rs. 24 billon/year flagship brand to Glow & Lovely and announced that it would cast women of different skin tones in future campaigns. Titan Fast Track, the pulse of India’s youth has been ahead of the DEI curve in starting conversations about LGBTQI+ inclusivity. Proctor & Gamble initiated a subtly crafted series for Ariel, meant to close the gender gap in homes, by converting male intention into action. Not only did ‘Share The Load’ spark a movement, the pre-pandemic timing of the final communication proved prophetic, urging sons to help with domestic chores, just as daughters did.  Liberating corporates  While the pandemic liberated parts of us we didn’t even know were enslaved, it did the same to corporates. By confronting us with our vulnerabilities, it empowered us to rise above them. It pushed us to band together and drive positive change in our lives and that of the not so fortunate around us. For corporates and their brands, Floyd’s three transformational words blossomed into three new ones. Purpose before profit. Priya Mirchandani is Lowe and Ogilvy alumna, editor and content consultant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/retired-angels-and-turnarounds/article34982172.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Having a pineapple moment||As the world celebrates International Pineapple Day tomorrow, Mumbai-based Studio Beej is all set to launch Ananas, a clutch made of Piñatex. A fresh take on their evening clutch, Ditya, the new handmade variant is aimed at popularising the bio-textile made from the leaves of the pineapple plant. Globally, it is used by brands such as H&M, Paul Smith, and Hugo Boss. This is not the Studio’s first experiment with Piñatex. Last year, they used it in a cross body bag (Laya), a hobo bag (Ananta), and Ditya. With these offerings, the brand joins the list of international names like Chanel, H&M, Hugo Boss, and Nike — who recently launched the seven-sneaker Happy Pineapple Collection — that work with the plant-based alternative to leather. The startup launched in 2020 is the brainchild of Arundhati Kumar, who believes that being sustainable must go beyond being just eco-friendly. “There are other companies in India who are working with eco materials such as Arture [cork, Desserto or cactus leather], Aulive [Piñatex, cork], but we are the only company that dabbles in multiple sustainable materials. We were the first to bring cactus leather into the country,” says Kumar, whose line of wallets, clutches, bags, belts, laptop sleeves made of bio-based-materials marry the aesthetic of Indian craft with the ethical practices of conscious living. “We currently work with four main materials — cork from Portugal, Piñatex from Spanish company Ananas Anam [which sources from the Philippines], Desserto from Mexico, and Khesh from West Bengal.” Cork is the bark of the tree which is harvested responsibly every nine years, explains Kumar, adding that it is light because one-third of its cellular structure is air. “So a big bag, unlike one made of leather, will never weigh you down. It’s completely recyclable and comes with cotton backing. It’s also naturally antibacterial and antimicrobial.” While earlier bags were designed by her, the new launch has been crafted by their creative director, Abhijit Datta. Recycled zippers and handloom linings Kumar goes on to explain how Desserto is vegan leather derived from the Nopal Cactus of Mexico, and Khesh is made from old cotton saris torn into thin strips and re-woven to make a colourful fabric. “When we curate a product, while we do look at the hero material, we also try to minimise the impact of the accessories we use.” Bag linings are sourced from Bengaluru-based Khaloom, which creates handloom material from recycled yarn, and occasionally upcycled material from discarded umbrellas is also used. Zippers come from Japanese company YKK which makes them from recycled PET plastic, and logos are embroidered. “We live in a time when customers want transparency. We put out supplier and certification details on our website so they can decide whether the product fits into their conscious buying mode,” says Kumar, adding that their delivery packaging is made of jute and recyclable cardboard. Now exploring While these materials are the core of Studio Beej, she speaks of two other cutting-edge materials she’s currently exploring: Malai from Kerala, made from coconut waste, and Mirum from the US that combines natural fibres like corn and rice husk with rubber waste. While Kumar is keen on using homegrown materials, she says not much R&D is happening in India. So, will the worlds of luxury and sustainability meet easily? “Sustainable is going to be the new luxury. Luxury is going the conscious way. From Hermes to Fossil, and Nike, every brand is working on such materials,” she concludes.  Products are priced between Rs. 850 and Rs. 14,500. studiobeej.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/having-a-pineapple-moment/article34982178.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Space for you and space for me||In a 2017 interview, Nigerian author Chimamanda Adichie said, “A transwoman is a transwoman.” Taken by itself, it sounds reasonable — celebrating difference would mean not subsuming transwomen again within the man-woman binary. Unfortunately, the sentence was not a throwaway one — Adichie also said that transwomen start off life with “male privileges”, and later went on to support JK Rowling’s controversial views on transwomen. Despite Adichie’s clarifications, that she meant transwomen’s experiences are different from women’s, her stance has been suspect and she has been labelled a Trans Exclusionary Radical Feminist or TERF, someone wanting to exclude transwomen from women’s spaces. The essay Adichie published last week is mostly a defence against her critics, but it’s also a condemnation of the tenor of public debate. Although the piece has been criticised for shifting the spotlight away from transphobia and on to social-media hypocrisy, I believe there are two threads in it and each can be examined, without losing the other. Regarding transwomen, Adichie reiterates her support for their rights, and says, “We should be able to acknowledge differences while being fully inclusive.” How transwomen activists respond to this is for them to say. I will stick to the essay’s social media commentary. Adichie focusses on two of her detractors and her feelings of betrayal. Of one of them she says, “I had a personal relationship with her. She could have emailed or called or texted me. Instead, she went on social media…” One can dismiss this, ask if personal hurt is more important than the larger politics around the issue, but that would overlook the strident intolerance that passes for politics these days. Without personal integrity and adherence to smaller, individual truths and fidelities, one’s public political persona and credo become a largely dishonest construct. Calling someone out in public is easy and conspicuous, but choosing not to is a mark of grace, a quality conspicuously absent in public discourse. On social media, one is perhaps inured to what Adichie calls “the hostility of strangers,” but from friends and acquaintances it is not wrong to expect a call or email expressing frank disagreement. After that, one may part ways, but to willingly choose public attack over private argument signals less political conviction and more a grandstanding for visibility. Calm, private discussions are even more important when the issues are fraught, such as language and identity issues. One of Adichie’s severest critics is Nigerian novelist Akwaeke Emezi, who identifies as non-binary, neither male nor female. Given this, in which context would it be offensive to include Emezi as ‘woman’ and in which context not? Many of us don’t know, many are learning, still gathering the blocks to erect socially just structures. It is merely days since Kiwi weightlifter Laurel Hubbard has become the first trans athlete to be included in an Olympics contest. She will participate in the women’s team, but for that she had to first test with testosterone levels below 10 nanomoles per litre. Arriving here has taken years of negotiation, against prejudices but also against qualms that transwomen will have a physical edge over other women. Language and identity are contested spaces and constantly evolving. We need conversations around them, as around existential questions of rights and livelihoods of all marginalised groups. Social justice cannot be reached only via publicly performed outrage, even though, yes, this is a narcissistic age, and everything from love to lunches is put up on display. Some aspects trouble me especially about public outrage — one is how easily small, individual dishonesties are accepted in the support of a larger cause. I believe this corrupts the very heart of justice. Second, the annihilating language of rage and violence, whose primary goal is not to understand or be understood but to silence. If aggression is all we have to offer at a time when issues of social, gender, political and economic equity are at stake like seldom before, we are impoverished indeed. What Adichie calls “the false gauziness of ideological purity” covers an ulcer of intolerance ravaging social commentary today, its translucence failing to hide the festering lack of humanism underneath. But without empathy and compassion and ordinary, everyday kindness, we are nothing, less than nothing, and ideology alone is not going to make us whole again. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/space-for-you-and-space-for-me/article34982158.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Why Zumba when there’s Rambha?||Rejoice, young literary mitron . It is a golden time for aspiring writers who dream of contributing to India’s intellectual discourse. Suddenly, wonderful opportunities are raining from the sky like renegade petals from a pushpaka vimanam doing loops. Are you yearning to project our culture and literature globally? Then look no further, all you Saraswati seekers. Young scribes, use these copyright-free ideas as starting points and write many, many books that bring back our lost glory. Apsarobics for Heavenly Bodies  Everyone wants to be fit. Unfortunately, the lucrative fitness market has been cornered by the diabolical West. It is time to wrest it back with an unbeatable book on fitness that goes back to Vedic times. Why should one cross-train or do Pilates in unflattering tights when one can lose weight dancing like Rambha and her sister Apsaras in sequinned bustiers to a Raj-Koti tune? Imagine how strenuous it must have been for these ageless women to distract stubborn sages deep in penance. Share the six-pack secrets of our divine damsels in an unbeatable fitness book reeking of our culture. Sweet Dreams with Kumbhakarna They say health is wealth. And we know sleep is health. Today, almost everyone is sleep-deprived. And again the West has misled us into believing that sound sleep can be achieved only through evil allopathic medication. Let the world know about the very first sleeper cell in history, Kumbhakarna. Unveil the secrets of how this original Samrat of Somnology could sleep through palace remodelling work, bickering concubines, forest fires, and war with not a care in the world. Teach the world to snore without pills like our Vedic ancestors did. Maricha & Subahu’s Essential Guide to Disruption What do all the biggest businesses today — like, say, Netflix, Uber, Airbnb — have in common? They are all disruptors. The West, that villain again, has been pretending for far too long that the concept of disruption is somehow something they invented. We are the original disruptors. And the true brand ambassadors are Messrs Maricha and Subahu. A book on them is long overdue. Let the world learn from them. While the West has upstarts, we will have a fresh wave of start-ups. Organic Farming the Shakuntala Way Today, every morsel of food we put into our mouths is contaminated with toxic pesticides and foul antibiotics that have been introduced into them only because of faulty western thinking. What better way to detox than to follow Shakuntala’s Vedic Agri Tech. After all, any of our ancient books will tell you that during her apprenticeship at Sage Kanva’s ashram , she was in charge of the veggie patch. Young writers, let us show the West that nothing beats wholly organic deer dung and peacock urine when it comes to growing wholesome vegetables, not to mention mood-enhancing mushrooms. Bakasura’s Barbecue Recipes Other than Padma Lakshmi, who has been showing the West the power of curd rice (in her lovely food videos, attired in fetching gear), our culinary versatility has been sadly underrepresented. Bakasura, if you ask me, has got a bad rap. He wasn’t a gluttonous man-eater as purported. In today’s world, he’d be called a foodie. He’s like the guy who pushes you out of the way at the buffet queue to get his sixth helping of Nargisi kofta . Time we did a recipe book in his honour. If he was eating humans for all three meals, I’m sure he must have used some pretty interesting condiments, and techniques to spice things up. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/why-zumba-when-theres-rambha/article34982182.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Conscious content||I am told I’m an influencer. It’s odd because I didn’t really set out to be one — I just like sharing snippets of my life on Stories, Instagram’s 24 hour-only feature that allows users to upload images, GIFs or 15 second videos that are visible to one’s followers before they vanish into the ether. I wasn’t happy doing what I was — running a digital agency — and so I decided to take a break. I started making videos about skincare on Instagram while sharing bits of my daily life on the platform; fast forward to a year later and I’m enjoying it way more than expected. I’m meant to have a rate card — a media kit too, if possible. And a manager! Like I’m some kind of agency-quasi celebrity hybrid, which I suppose is not too far from the truth when it comes to influencers, considering they’re often expected to script, edit, produce and be the content. When I ran an agency, Jossbox, one of the things we did was work with brands to manage their marketing budgets, often set aside exclusively for influencers — or digital creators, as they’re sometimes known. Between 2013 when we launched and 2019 when I closed it, I saw a sharp rise in the budgets allocated by brands towards influencers. With Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) guidelines in place that state that all influencers must clearly disclose a paid partnership whether in cash or kind – along with a host of other rules detailed on the asci.social platform — it’s clear that the ecosystem is growing and needs regulation. It is a move I’d rather welcome. If anything, it seems to me that influencers have even more bargaining power than they did before — with me, for example, I am clear about not sticking to a brief and instead create content that’s more in keeping with my own style. I let brands know if there are certain things I will not highlight like scientifically dubious claims, for example. This is very different from the way it was even a couple of years ago, when influencers were expected to follow the exact script and messaging from the brand. This, to me, seems indicative of their lasting impact on the industry. There’s no doubt the influencer industry — and it certainly is an industry — will evolve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/conscious-content/article34982168.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Finding closure||Trisha Das’ debut novel, Ms Draupadi Kuru: After the Pandavas , was about Draupadi, Amba, Gandhari and Kunti deciding to leave heaven to live on their own in present-day Delhi. While it is now being developed for the screen (details to be announced), her second novel, a sequel, The Misters Kuru: A Return to Mahabharat (published by HarperCollins), takes the story to its logical conclusion, answering many questions and tying up many loose ends. In this book, some of the Pandavas decide to stay on Earth and Kunti apologises to Draupadi for putting her in a position where she had five husbands.  Read the full stories on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/finding-closure/article34982185.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||UB40’s India collab||UB40, the hitmakers who created emotive reggae versions of songs like ‘Red Red Wine’ and ‘Can’t Help Falling Love’, leverage their global popularity in their latest album, a collaboration-heavy offering called Bigga Baggariddim . Released on June 25, it features Jamaican reggae veterans like Winston Francis and Inner Circle, plus the newer wave of Caribbean artists like Leno Banton, Protoje, Koffee and Chronixx and Blvk H3ro. Where the scope of Bigga Baggariddim actually gets global is with their inclusion of New Zealand-based roots reggae band House of Shem and Indian vocalist-producer General Zooz aka Zorawar Shukla, part of the party-starting crew Reggae Rajahs. The latter leads the song ‘Roots Rock Reggae’, which released on June 18. Bigga Baggariddimsees UB40 hand the reins to their collaborators, letting them take over all vocal duties throughout 15 tracks. “It reflects that our career has been truly international. It’s a source of pure joy and we wanted to reflect that in this record,” says drummer Jimmy Brown.  Listen on Apple Music, Spotify, Pandora, and YouTube Music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ub40s-india-collab/article34982187.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Cookies and cookalongs||Add to all the focaccia, sourdough, and pan pasta experience you racked up last year with ITC Master Chef’s live cookalong,Recipes Made Easy. Hosted by chefs Kirti Bhoutika and Akanksha Khatri (winner and finalist ofMasterchef Indiaseasons 5 and 6 respectively). 5 pm, in.bookmyshow.com. But if you’d like to skip kitchen time, Ricky’s Cookies presents ‘Mango Binge’, with golden Imampasand in Sunny Days cookies (Rs. 90), a rice pudding (Rs. 210), and a baked custard (Rs. 200). Details: rickyscookies.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cookies-and-cookalongs/article34982180.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Advertising 2020-21||The last year saw dynamic experiments in this industry, even while tackling the pandemic and its fallouts. Think ‘The World’s Most Reported Trailer’ by Dentsu Webchutney, pegged on Taapsee Pannu’s filmThappad,that sparked a conversation about reporting domestic abuse. It picked up a silver Lion at Cannes Lions this week. In this issue,The Hindu Weekendexplores advertising’s pandemic pivot, in the digital space and with social consciousness in ads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/advertising-2020-21/article34982189.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Get your laugh on||Prepare for a comedy Sunday. Here’s the roster: actor-comic Vipul Goyal will ponder dreams, arranged marriage, and more inHumorously Yours(5 pm, Rs. 599); Parvinder Singh will take to Zoom withPunchliners. Expect his family and pandemic observations to star in his rib-ticklers (6 pm, Rs. 349). And finally, multi-lingual comic Vivek Muralidharan — who switches between English, Tamil, Hindi and Telugu — will bring his brand of socio-political humour inBits & Pieces(8 pm, Rs. 199). All tickets on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/get-your-laugh-on/article34982191.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Bajpayee teaches acting||He’s fresh offThe Family Man Season 2and raking up kudos for his role in Netflix’sRay(a series inspired by the works of filmmaker Satyajit Ray). But Manoj Bajpayee is still making time for his fans, to share some acting tips and anecdotes. His 2.5-hour masterclass, powered by learning and entertainment platform Unluclass, will cover everything from cracking auditions, breaking down the script, and improvising, to training your voice and even dealing with criticism. Sign up for Rs. 999, on unlu.io||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bajpayee-teaches-acting/article34982193.ece
26 June 2021||Spielberg and Netflix:,||Talking point||Two year ago, when Netflix distributed Martin Scorsese’sThe Irishman, Steven Spielberg spoke in favour of the theatrical experience. How time, and a pandemic, changes perspectives! Spielberg’s production company, Amblin, has just signed a deal with the streaming behemoth to produce several features a year. It’s another step towards a shift in consumption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34982195.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Off the loom||There’s a new handloom brand in the market. Founded by Mumbai-based Prachi Saraf — a designer who fine-tuned her skills at her family’s business house — Vyusti is just days old and is a for-profit social enterprise that works directly with weavers in Karnataka and Maharashtra. Withdhotis,duppattas, saris, shawls and stoles, the inventory is limited at the moment, but the Chitradurga, Karvat Kati, Paithani, Himroo, and Bagalkot weaves are tempting. From Rs. 2,700 (for a silkdupatta) onwards, on vyusti.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/off-the-loom/article34982197.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Cartoon hour||There’s no escaping screens, but you can introduce kids to a paper-and-pencil hour. HobbyStation is organising a doodling workshop for children. The Zoom workshop will teach fun sketches and help improve concentration, memory, and problem-solving skills.Rs. 250, 3 pm and 6.30 pm. Alternatively, there’s the Cartoon Classroom with Ajit Narayan, who’s worked with publishing houses such as Pratham Books. Learn to draw comic strips, animal cartoons, and more. 6 pm, Rs. 699. Register on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cartoon-hour/article34982199.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramen to that||Cool rainy days are best enjoyed with a steaming hot bowl of ramen. Bengaluru’s newest delivery service, NaruNoodle Bar, launched a few weeks ago with ex-Toit and Permit Room chef, KavanKuttappa (who’s also had stints at Eleven Madison Park, Le Bernardin, and Momofuku in New York). The ramen fan puts up the week’s menu for pre-orders every Thursday, with delivery on Sunday. The last couple of weeks have seen kits for a gorgeous Truffle Tori Paitan and a Green Chilli Miso. Approx Rs. 800 onwards on @eatnaru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ramen-to-that/article34982201.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Raise a toast||Dram alert. John Distilleries (of the internationally-acclaimed Paul John Indian Single Malts) has launched a new blended whiskey, Roulette. A balance of peated and unpeated malts, with a 42.8% ABV, it has been matured in ex-bourbon casks. Available in Goa at the moment. Rs. 850 for 750 ml. At jdl.in. Meanwhile, Diageo India will launch Epitome Reserve, the country’s first small-batch, craft 100% rice whisky, by the end of July. With 2,000 bottles, the woody spirit has notes of dried fruits, toffee caramel and vanilla. diageoindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/raise-a-toast/article34982203.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||stardom||In Vasan Bala’s Spotlight, part of Ray , the Netflix anthology adapted from Satyajit Ray’s short stories, a popular actor, Vikram Arora, played by Harshvarrdhan Kapoor, is crippled with artistic insecurity despite his career being on an upswing. His professional anxieties get progressively worse when the hotel that he’s staying at is pretty much hijacked by a religious leader, Didi (Radhika Madan), who commands outsized influence on politicians, business leaders, film producers, and the general populace. In the course of the film, Kapoor’s character must come to terms with the limitations of movie stardom and the realisation that between cinema and religion, two factions that enjoy a colossal hold over the Indian psyche, religion will always trump the former. While the film has an undercurrent of dark commentary, the treatment itself is lighthearted and Bala, who earlier directed the festival darling Mard Ko Dard Nahi Hota, peppers the narrative with a variety of inside jokes. For instance, Kapoor’s manager, played by an astute Chandan Roy Sanyal, takes a dig at Inlaks, a housing society in Mumbai’s Versova known for aspiring actors who are yet to break through, as well as Scrumptious, an eatery nearby largely frequented by the same crowd. In the film’s context, Sanyal’s dig is at the star who’s refusing a lucrative part that will bring in the money, the suggestion being that if he doesn’t take the gig, he may have to go back to the life of a ‘struggler.’ “It was a line improvised by Chandan,” Bala, whose last film too was seeped in cinephilia, says over a Zoom call. “All the cinephilia is almost like a personal trip for me. If nobody finds out [the references] it’s fine, the story will still hold on its own.” Which it does, except it’s a much more joyful experience once the jokes are understood. Kapoor, who plays an actor grappling with stardom, says that he was thrilled to have that experience, as it’s something that has, so far, eluded him. “He [Vikram Arora] has captured the imagination of the paying public in a way that I haven’t done. I enjoyed living in that world. Actors are an insecure lot. The job entails failure, rejection and insecurity. The call from Vasan came during the first wave when everybody was anxious about the future, grappling in uncertainty. So I ended up channeling that nervous energy into the part.” A little bit ofEntourage Kapoor points out two characters, Johnny Drama and Vincent Chase, from the show, Entourage — about the life of a Hollywood star and his coterie — which percolated into Spotlight. While the film draws parallels between a cult leader and a movie star, another aspect that runs through the narrative is the cost of fame and how debilitating it can be psychologically for those who live and die under the constant glare of the public eye. As an artist, does Kapoor crave that popularity? “Honestly, that power would just liberate me to do films like Spotlight, Bhavesh Joshi and AK vs. AK . I told Vasan this: I don’t only want to be an option for you when you’re making a film with a Rs. 5 crore budget. I also want to be an option when you’re making a Rs. 50 crore-plus film. If I’m lucky enough to achieve that kind of power, I’d want filmmakers to tell different kinds of stories at a bigger scale. That really can be the best by-product of stardom.” While that’s a noble aspiration to chase, the flip side could be that stardom could imprison the star, making them a victim of their own image. One of the reasons why we see a lot of top stars repeat what they’ve done in the past is because they chase stories that serve their stardom and not the other way round. “That’s a good point. Given the lineage that I come from, I have felt that weight. But I haven’t let that affect my choices, whether it was doing a film festival musical as my first film or a vigilante drama disguised as an action film as my second.” Sanyal says he did draw some nuances from Ari Gold, the agent character from Entourage , but his primary source was Asrani’s character from Hrishikesh Mukherjee’s 1973 film, Abhimaan , and Rabi Ghosh, the Bengali actor who did several films with Satyajit Ray. Great art vs fame Akansha Ranjan Kapoor, who plays Anuya, Kapoor’s partner, and acts as his moral compass and a voice of reason, says that Bala isn’t a director who rehearses too much. The idea is to be on set and react to the moment. Even their interpersonal dynamic reflected in the film is the way it really is. “Harsh knows so much about cinema and I’m pretty blank. I think that method found its way into the film,” she says. To this, Bala adds, “With Vikram and Anuya, what I really like is that one is trying to be an artiste but is popular and hence the problems in his life. Anuya doesn’t have such issues. She’s pragmatic, wants to earn her money, and live her life. She’s not even having those artistic battles. She sleeps better and he doesn’t.” Which brings us to a long unanswered argument that the film dabbles in. Does great art inherently come at the cost of sacrificing popularity and mental peace? “It’s a classic choice,” Bala says. “Till things are working for you, it’s great. There’s Barfi, there’s Rockstar. .. all happening at once. And then comes Bombay Velvet a nd people like me come in,” he laughs, referring to Ranbir Kapoor’s career that took a brief nosedive with the Anurag Kashyap directorial. Vasan was one of the writers of the 2015 film. “When you’re used to popularity and fame, the shift is difficult. It takes a lifetime to balance it out. Either you chase stardom or stardom chases you.”  Ankur Pathak is a writer based out of Mumbai, who was formerly the entertainment editor of HuffPost India.   Watch AnkurPathak   in conversation with   Vasan Bala and the cast on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/stardom/article34982166.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Redo that home office||Not so long ago, work-from-home (WFH) was a perk that companies offered employees. COVID-19 changed all that, making home offices and remote working the norm. A McKinsey report, What’s next for remote work , stated that quarantines, lockdowns, and self-imposed isolation have “pushed tens of millions around the world to work from home, accelerating a workplace experiment that had struggled to gain traction before COVID-19 hit”. The report, which did an analysis of 2,000 tasks, 800 jobs, and nine countries, revealed that the potential for remote work is “highly concentrated among highly skilled, highly educated workers in a handful of industries, occupations, and geographies”. That may be so, but the resurgence of the virus means that WFH isn’t going away any time soon. In such a scenario, many people will continue to work out of home, divvying up their time between office duties and family. Working at the dining table may have been fine for a while, but now it’s high time you dedicated a space to your home office. Creating an office set-up and making it comfortable ensures that you get your work done easily. So if you haven’t done it already, here’s how you can go about it: Bespoke furniture  Ergonomicsis extremely important if you’re planning to spend hours working. Sitting on a couch, laptop in hand, just won’t cut it. Go for a smart work desk and match it with a comfortable chair that is ergonomically sound. Investing in this can avert health problems in the future. Smart lighting  The right lightingis a must for a home office as improper lighting can lead to health issues and consequently a drop in productivity. If you don’t have enough daylighting, harness a mix of task and accent lighting. Simple storage  Less is alwaysmore on the work desk. So ensure you keep the desk surface clean and tidy at all times. Books, papers and files should be all put away. Even if you don’t want elaborate storage systems, opt for baskets, bins and boxes to keep your home office clean. Make it multi-purpose Most times a home office is not a dedicated space, and it doesn’t need to be. As long as you have a desk surface and ample storage, the setting can change with the time of the day. Homework area, craft nook, email counter, phone area — there’s a lot your work desk can be when you are not working. Move it if you can  If you can, an island on wheels that can be moved around the family space is ideal. It makes the home office playful and fun, and helps make the space multi-layered and multi-purpose. 50-plus shades of grey  Grey continues to rule the world of décor and it has also made huge inroads in the world of home office design. The many varied shades of grey allow you to use the neutral colour as a base and as an accent hue. Grey is ideal for small home offices as it doesn’t create any visual fragmentation. Writing on the wall  Why would you ignore the walls in a space where you sit down to work and earn a living? Use wallpaper to create an impact in the home office — it could be a bright colour, pastel or a beautiful texture. Modern prints can add a contemporary vibe.  The many varied shades of grey allow you to use the neutral colour as a base and as an accent hue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/redo-that-home-office/article34982209.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||India slips in Global House Price Index||As per realty consultancy Knight Frank’s latest research report — Global House Price Index, Q1 2021 — India  moved down 12 spots in the global home price index to the 55th rank in Q1 2021. This was against the 43rd rank in Q1 2020, with a decline of 1.6 % year-on-year (YoY) in home prices. India gained a spot, compared to last quarter (Q4 2020), where India ranked last globally amongst the 56 countries tracked by the Index. With respect to 6-month (Q3 2020 – Q1 2021) and 3-month (Q4 2020 – Q1 2021) changes, residential prices in India witnessed a growth of 0.6% and 1.4%, respectively. The report highlighted that the United States witnessed the highest annual price growth rate since 2005, with a 13.2% increase YoY.  The Global House Price Index tracks the movement in mainstream residential prices across 56 countries and territories worldwide using official statistics. As per the report, in the 12-month percentage change for Q1 2020 – Q1 2021, Turkey continues to lead the annual rankings with prices up by 32% YoY, followed by New Zealand at 22.1% YoY and Luxembourg with 16.6% YoY. Spain was the weakest-performing territory in Q1 2021, where home prices fell by 1.8% YoY, followed by India with -1.6%.  Mainstream residential prices averaged across 56 countries and territories in Q1 2021 grew by 7.3%, which records the fastest growth in prices since Q4 2006. According to the report, 7% (4 countries) of the surveyed global countries and territories registered a decline in yearly price growth, while 13 of the 56 countries and territories experienced a Y-o-Y double-digit growth in prices till Q1 2021. Shishir Baijal, Chairman and Managing Director, Knight Frank India, says, “In Q1 2021, India witnessed meaningful recovery in sales volumes, helping housing prices remain stable. In the preceding quarters the residential markets had been on a path of rebound with markets such as Mumbai and Pune achieving pre-Covid activity levels. However, with the onset of the second wave and the threat of new variants of the virus along with the fluctuation in vaccine roll out there could be a pressure on sales volumes as well as on price growth.” Key Findings India ranked 55th globally in-home price appreciation for Q1 2021 India witnessed a QoQ rise of 1.4% in house price in Q1 2021 Turkey leads the index for the fifth consecutive quarter with annual price growth of 32% 13 countries and territories experienced a YoY double-digit price growth in Q1 2021 Residential prices across 56 countries and territories increased by 7.3%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/india-slips-in-global-house-price-index/article34982212.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP demands arrest of Kejriwal, criminal case against Ministers||The BJP on Friday demanded that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal be arrested and criminal cases filed against other Delhi government Ministers for the loss of several lives due to the alleged mismanagement of oxygen in the Capital. The deaths of several innocent people during the second wave of the pandemic were due to the “pretended oxygen shortage” claimed by the Delhi government as pointed out in the report of oxygen audit by the Supreme Court, it alleged. “The Kejriwal government is responsible for the loss of thousands of lives and he should be arrested for the same. While only 209 MT oxygen was needed, it [the Delhi government] asked for 1,140 MT and it conspired to shift entire blame on the Centre,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri urged Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to register a case of murder against the CM, Deputy CM and Health Minister. Court’s seal “Even the managements of big hospitals of Delhi had held the State government responsible for not getting oxygen and now the court’s committee has also given its seal of approval on this,” Mr. Bidhuri said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana alleged that the Delhi government’s “toolkit” to defame the BJP-led Centre had been exposed which was why it was levelling baseless allegations for which it would be dragged to court by the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-demands-arrest-of-kejriwal-criminal-case-against-ministers/article34982520.ece
26 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers back at Ghazipur border||Farmers have once again started assembling at the Ghaziapur border in large numbers to protest against the contentious farm laws as the number of COVID-19 cases dipped in western Uttar Pradesh. On Friday, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Naresh Tikait led a tractor rally from Saharanpur via Muzaffarnagar and Meerut to Ghazipur border. On the completion of seven months of protests, farmers would present memorandums to Governors of different States on Saturday. Addressing the farmers, Mr. Tikait said that the Central government has become arrogant. “Farmers are on road for seven months but the dumb and deaf government has not responded to their demands. 10% people can’t afford to ignore the demand of 90% people,” he said. ‘Ministers powerless’ Taking the Union Agriculture Minister to task, the BKU president said had he done his job properly, the issue would have been resolved. “In this government, the Ministers have not been given any powers,” he alleged. “Farmers have once again assembled at the Delhi border. It is time that the government stop making it a matter of ego and listen to the annadata (food providers) of the country,” Mr. Tikait said. Unlike his younger brother Rakesh who has been talking about teaching the BJP a lesson at the hustings, Mr. Tikait is said to be a follower of the middle path. On Friday, he once again reiterated that farmers were not against the present dispensation.  ‘Nothing to lose’ “Accepting the demands of the farmers doesn’t mean that the government would lose something. We want both the farmers and the government to be winners. In fact, it is the farmers who have put this government on the saddle. So the matter of victory and defeat doesn’t arise,” he underlined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-back-at-ghazipur-border/article34982495.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Reply sought on plea for FIR against Jaipur Golden Hospital||A Delhi court on Friday sought a status report from the police on a plea seeking registration of an FIR for the offence of murder against Jaipur Golden Hospital management for deaths of COVID patients allegedly due to oxygen shortage. As many as 21 critically-ill COVID-19 patients had died at the hospital on the night of April 23-24 as the hospital allegedly awaited the oxygen supply to be replenished. Six family members of the deceased have approached the court claiming that the hospital management should be punished but police, with mala fide intention, have neither arrested nor set up an inquiry against them. Hearing on July 13 Metropolitan Magistrate Vivek Beniwal has directed Delhi Police to submit the status report on the plea and posted the matter for July 13 for further hearing. The families have requested the court to take cognisance of the offences such as murder, criminal intimidation, death by negligence, cheating, criminal conspiracy and disappearance of evidence, summon and try the accused for these offences. In the petition filed through advocates Sahil Ahuja and Siddhant Sethi, the complainants have stated that the hospital management should have stopped admitting the patients or start discharging them if they were low on oxygen supply. “Keeping everyone in dark and thereby not providing the proper oxygen support which led to the death is an act of culpable homicide on their part all whilst the accused hospital minted money and raised invoices,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reply-sought-on-plea-for-fir-against-jaipur-golden-hospital/article34982510.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||1.5 lakh vaccinated, highest in a day||A whopping 1,56,636 doses of vaccines — the highest in a day till now — were administered in the city on Thursday, said AAP MLA Atishi, who presents a daily vaccination bulletin. “Yesterday [Thursday], more than 1.5 lakh doses of vaccines were administered. With this, Delhi’s total number of vaccine doses administered has reached more than 69.50 lakh. Out of the 1.5 lakh+ doses administered, 1.25 lakh were administered to youth. They either registered themselves on the CoWIN app or used the walk-in vaccination facility,” she said. “Delhi has 1.20 lakh Covaxin doses and 7.70 lakh Covishield doses, 13 days stock of Covaxin available for administering the second dose and five days stock for Covishield,” she added. Meanwhile, the Capital reported 115 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,33,590, according to the bulletin released by the Delhi government. Moreover, four deaths were reported, which takes the total count to 24,952. 77,477 tested A total of 77,477 tests were done and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.15%. Of the total cases, 14,06,958 have recovered and there are 1,680 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/15-lakh-vaccinated-highest-in-a-day/article34982522.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sushil to remain in jail as court extends custody||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar till July 9 in connection with the alleged murder of a young wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium here. Sushil was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Mayank Aggarwal at the end of the 14-day judicial custody. He is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping. According to the counsel of the accused, he has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail, where he was earlier lodged. Sushil, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Sagar (23) succumbed to the injuries later. The police have claimed that Sushil is the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Sagar. 10 arrested so far Sushil was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. Till now, he has undergone police and judicial custody of 10 and 23 days, respectively. A total of 10 people, including Sushil, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sushil-to-remain-in-jail-as-court-extends-custody/article34982512.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Two multimodal transit hubs part of New Delhi Rly Station redevelopment||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday chaired the fourth meeting related to the proposed redevelopment of the New Delhi Railway Station along the lines of the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport as part of a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country. Apart from solving a significant issue related to public transportation — 1,400 buses plying on 46 routes daily but without a single bus terminal in its vicinity — two multimodal transit hubs and an underground tunnel housing an Automated People Mover (APM) replete with travelators and electric vehicles are part of the proposal which The Hindu has accessed. Four-year project The project will, over the next four years, seek to redesign the largest and second-busiest railway station in the country with a daily footfall of approximately 4.5 lakh passengers, both from without and within, according to a senior government official. “Status of the project including grant of NOCs by various departments and preparation of influence zone plans was reviewed,” Mr. Baijal tweeted. According to Raj Niwas, several key components of the project including decongestion of traffic in the area, linking of greens for improved pedestrian experience, parking management and incorporation of adequate facilities for differently-abled persons were discussed during the meeting. Proactive measures While appreciating the progress, the departments were advised to proactively facilitate the approvals for timely implementation of the project, Raj Niwas said. As The Hindu reported on December 10, 2020, the project will see the height of the station being increased to 70 metres, the construction of twin towers 40 metres high, a hangar for trains, the creation of a passengers’ lounge similar to the airport, an underground parking for 2,000 vehicles and 40 buses in addition to a commercial area.  Status of the project including grant of NOCs by various departments and preparation of influence zone plans was reviewed Anil Baijal Lieutenant Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-multimodal-transit-hubs-part-of-new-delhi-rly-station-redevelopment/article34982518.ece
26 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan gets genome sequencing laboratory||The facility for genome sequencing to identify new variants of SARS-CoV-2 has been started at Sawai Man Singh Government Medical College here, making Rajasthan the first State in the country to have such a provision for complete sequencing at the State level. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here on Friday that the facility had been made available in the State at a cost of Rs. 1 crore for getting information about new variants of the virus. The samples from the State were so far being sent to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology’s laboratory in New Delhi. Ten samples per day, or 300 in a month, were being sent to the laboratory, set up for Rajasthan by the Indian Council of Medical Research, as per the fixed limit. Mr. Sharma said the reports were not being received from the lab on time. The machine installed at SMS Medical College has started functioning from June 15 with the capacity to test 20 samples a day, while the report is received in three to four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-gets-genome-sequencing-laboratory/article34982493.ece
26 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Ensure power to farmers, Punjab CM tells PSPCL||Amid protest by farmers against the Punjab government for failing to provide eight hours of uninterrupted power supply for paddy sowing, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to ensure supply. He asked the PSPCL to purchase deficient power from outside the State to prevent any supply disruption in the ongoing sowing season. Chairing a high level meeting to review the power supply to the farmers, the Chief Minister directed the Finance Department to release Rs. 500 crore to PSPCL to tide over the financial crunch faced amid the pandemic. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who was present at the meeting, assured that his department would release the funds without delay. ‘Financial crunch’ The PSPCL earlier informed the meeting that it was facing a financial crunch as a result of slowdown in consumption and revenue collection in the last one year due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ensure-power-to-farmers-punjab-cm-tells-pspcl/article34982494.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Chaos mars special CoWIN session for the homeless||Without an identity proof or a mobile phone, 46-year-old Sunil Thakur waited for four hours to get vaccinated at a special inoculation centre set up for homeless people at Yamuna Pushta night shelter here, while people who came from places like Baghpat and Ghaziabad and had IDs got jabs within minutes. “Confusion marred the pace of the vaccination drive for homeless people. Nobody knew how to register such people without an identity card or mobile number,” an officer at the centre said. The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board organised the vaccination camp in association with the office of the district magistrate (Central Delhi). One of the officers present at the camp said he got to know about the drive last night. In the absence of a mechanism to register homeless people on the CoWIN portal, those having an identity proof and a mobile number were vaccinated with Covishield first. “This drive was meant for homeless people; most of them do not have any identity proof or mobile number. So, they had to wait for hours while people from outside got themselves registered and took the jabs within minutes,” a member of an NGO present at the night shelter said. A special session, which allowed registration of “as many homeless beneficiaries as needed” was created on the CoWIN portal, Vaccination Officer Aftab Ahmed said. Around 100 homeless people were linked to an ID created with Aadhaar and mobile number of the night shelter’s caretaker, he said. A total of 150 people were vaccinated on the first day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chaos-mars-special-cowin-session-for-the-homeless/article34982514.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Parched throats||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/parched-throats/article34982516.ece
26 June 2021||Lucknow,||Guard fires at bank customer over face mask||A security guard working in a bank in Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh on Friday shot a customer in the thigh over an argument that allegedly started over the man not wearing a face mask as a COVID-19 safety measure. The guard was taken into custody, said police. The injured customer is in a hospital. Ravindra Kumar, Superintendent of Police, Bareilly, said the customer — Rajesh Kumar — had gone to the bank at 11:30 a.m. when he got into an altercation with the guard. The officer said only after the victim’s statement was recorded they would be able to ascertain the reason for the argument. A relative of the bank customer said that when he arrived at the bank, the guard stopped Mr. Kumar from entering as he did not have a mask on. Mr. Kumar wore a mask and returned but the guard still denied him entry and asked him to come after the lunch break, said the relative. The guard then pushed him and shot him, she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/guard-fires-at-bank-customer-over-face-mask/article34982492.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt to provide tabs to over 2,000 newly appointed teachers||The Delhi government has decided to provide tabs to over 2,000 teachers newly appointed by the Directorate of Education, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday. Mr. Sisodia, in an official statement, said the vision of the Delhi government is to provide excellent education to each child, and providing tablets to teachers is a step in this direction. Use of tabs by teachers will enable better teaching and learning, the Deputy CM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-to-provide-tabs-to-over-2000-newly-appointed-teachers/article34982513.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE optional exams in August||Students of Class 10 and 12 who are not satisfied with their marks assigned under the assessment formula of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will be given a chance to write their examinations in August, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Friday. However, Mr. Nishank cancelled his planned interaction with students, failing to answer their queries on private CBSE candidates, entrance examinations and the current CBSE syllabus. The Minister’s office said he could not directly interact with students as he was still in hospital due to post-COVID complications. The Minister posted a short audio message on Twitter detailing the decision by the Centre to cancel the Class 10 and 12 board examinations due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the tabulation policy which the CBSE is using to calculate the results based on internal marks and scores from previous exams. The board will declare results by July 31. “For those who are not happy with the assessment formula, there is no need to worry. Exams will be conducted for you in August,” Mr. Nishank said. He stressed that the health of the students was the top priority of the government. The CBSE has said that those who choose to write the exams will have to abide by the marks they score, and cannot revert to the assigned marks under its tabulation policy. Mr. Nishank had previously said he would be interacting with students, and invited them to send in questions, concerns, doubts and suggestions via Twitter and Facebook. A number of such queries poured in from students, especially private candidates registered with the CBSE, seeking clarity on their examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbse-optional-exams-in-august/article34982244.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Govt. to review re-introducing Karavali package for paddy||Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil said here on Friday that the State government will review re-introducing the Karavali package for paddy growers in the coastal region. Speaking to presspersons after a meeting, the Minister said that the government had been providing Rs. 7,500 per hectare as an incentive to growers for promoting paddy cultivation in the region. But the scheme was withdrawn later. Meanwhile, the MLAs, who attended the meeting in the office of the Deputy Commissioner here, urged him (the Minister) to re-introduce the scheme. “I will discuss the matter with the department officials in Bengaluru and will later take a decision on re-introducing the scheme,” the Minister said. Mr. Patil said that Dakshina Kannada has 8,000 acres of paddy land left uncultivated. The department will examine whether they can be brought under farming through cooperative model. Minister for Welfare of Backward Classes and in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that about 651 acres of fallow paddy land is being brought under cultivation in the district in this kharif season. Of these, 200 acres each are in Bantwal and Moodbidri Assembly segments, 150 acres in Mangaluru City North Assembly constituency and 51 acres in Puttur Assembly segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-review-re-introducing-karavali-package-for-paddy/article34982538.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Experts look at the way ahead for Tamil Nadu||There has been a slow and steady fall in fresh COVID-19 cases over the past few weeks in Tamil Nadu. As the State gradually gets on track towards normality, experts outline the measures that should be among the focus areas in the coming months. These should include introduction of rapid antigen testing (RAT) for large clusters, genomic surveillance, improving the quality of patient care and ensuring adherence to the safety protocols. The Health Department has planned to increase sero-surveillance across the State, step up genomic sequencing to ensure early detection of new variants of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, and early identification of cases and initiation of the protocol-based treatment at the primary care level, according to a presentation by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Prabhdeep Kaur, Deputy Director of the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology, said, “We need to become self-reliant in oxygen [production], which was a big challenge in the second wave. We need to strengthen hospitals in smaller districts, while overall Intensive Care Unit (ICU)-capacity needs to be improved.” Continuous audit The quality of care needs to be improved, said Jayaprakash Muliyil, epidemiologist and former principal of the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore. “COVID-19 is a painful disease for many, though a large percentage of persons had sub-clinical infections. I think there should be a continuous audit of the quality of care... For instance, in an ICU, there should be constant monitoring whether the correct quantity of oxygen is given and whether the steroid dosage is right,” he said. Is the emergence of new variants a cause for concern? Dr. Kaur pointed out, “We know that the virus is constantly mutating. As it continues to spread, it will continue to mutate. What we have learned is that new variants will keep emerging, for which we need to have surveillance.” Genomic surveillance would be one way, she said. “As of now, 80% of the cases are of the Delta variant and a few cases are of the Delta Plus variant. We need to see if the new variant is replacing the older one. So, we need to test a fixed number of samples every week. We should look for unusual patterns or sudden increases in cases and do genomic sequencing of samples from such clusters.” Dr. Muliyil added that all variants had so far respected immunity. As for the third wave being predicted by some, he explained, “In a place like Chennai, a high percentage of the population has already been infected. A large percentage of susceptible population is required for a wave to occur. There may be clusters, but a wave is unlikely.” T. Jacob John, retired professor of clinical virology, CMC, said a third wave would be very unlikely for epidemiological reasons. “I am not saying do not prepare for any eventuality. The State is already on alert. People should follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, wear masks, keep others at arm’s length and avoid crowding. If a meeting is held indoors, ensure that the place is well- ventilated,” he said. Vaccination should be as fast-paced as it could be, he added. Dr. Kaur said for better containment, rapid antigen testing should be introduced, especially in large clusters, so that immediate testing and isolation could be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/experts-look-at-the-way-ahead-for-state/article34982384.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi CM, deputy attack PM, BJP over oxygen report||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a broadside at Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, said he was making arrangements for oxygen in Delhi when the latter was busy participating in rallies in poll-bound States. His statement came in the backdrop of a report submitted by a Supreme Court-appointed oxygen audit team, which said the Delhi government “exaggerated” its oxygen requirement by four times during the peak days of the second COVID-19 wave. BJP leaders had been attacking the Kejriwal-led government over the report since Friday morning. “My crime – I fought for the lives of 2 crore people of Delhi. When you were doing election rallies, I was awake all night making arrangements for oxygen. I fought, pleaded with people to get oxygen. People have lost their loved ones due to the lack of oxygen. You shouldn’t call them liars, they will feel really bad about it,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a tweet. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who was appointed as the point man for COVID-19 management in the Capital on April 16, denied the existence of the report altogether. “From today [Friday] morning BJP is abusing Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on the basis of a so-called report on oxygen. No such report exists. BJP is lying,” he said in a video statement. “The Supreme Court had formed an oxygen audit committee. We talked to many members of this committee. They all said that they have not signed any such report, they said they have not approved any report. Then which report is this?”  Sisodia’s challenge Mr. Sisodia said BJP leaders are alleging that the “so-called report” states that the oxygen demand in Delhi was inflated by four times. “I challenge you, get the report which has been approved and signed by members of the oxygen audit committee. BJP leaders should be ashamed. They sit in BJP headquarters and make a report and call it the oxygen committee’s report,” he said.  The report, authored by a team led by AIIMS Director Dr. Randeep Guleria, was annexed to an affidavit filed by the Health Ministry in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-cm-deputy-attack-pm-bjp-over-oxygen-report/article34982471.ece
26 June 2021||ONGOLE,||Govt. cancelled exams to comply with NEP: Minister||Education Minister A. Suresh on Friday said that the government had opted for cancellation of the Intermediate and SSC examinations, adhering to the Supreme Court verdict. “It is unfortunate that the TDP is trying to gain political mileage on the issue,” he told the media here. The apex court had wanted that the process of conducting the examinations should be completed by July 31 to comply with the National Education Policy (NEP). Had the NEP been evolved before, the government would have stuck to it in the first place. Maintaining that about 74% of the students wanted conduct of the examinations, he said the government had tried its best to protect the interest of students while taking precautions against COVID-19. “The government had no other option than cancelling the examinations as it is not in a position to complete the process within the deadline set for the purpose,” said Mr. Suresh. “The struggle spearheaded by Nara Lokesh in support of students has paid off,” said Telugu Nadu Students’ Federation Ongole Lok Sabha unit president T. Ravi Teja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-other-option-before-us/article34982215.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC lauds A.P. for scrapping Inter exams||The Supreme Court on Friday lauded the Andhra Pradesh government’s “pragmatic stand” to cancel its Class 12 (Intermediate) exams, saying it will be “very harsh” and “very unpredictable” to expose students to the dangers of the pandemic. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Andhra Pradesh, said the State did not want to do anything that would later “weigh heavy” on its heart, especially when nobody is being held accountable for Kumbh Mela and the West Bengal elections. These two events were reported to be super-spreaders. Appearing before a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, Mr. Dave said he had directly contacted Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy about the “sentiments” expressed by the Supreme Court on the conduct of the exam. Mr. Dave said Mr. Reddy had “gracefully agreed” to cancel the exams as done by other States across the country. “If the entire country is going in one direction, there is no point going in another direction,” Mr. Dave submitted. Court warning On Thursday, the Supreme Court had pulled up the Andhra Pradesh government for its insistence on conducting the exam amid the pandemic. The court had warned that the State would be held responsible even if there was one fatality and even ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 1 crore as compensation. The Bench had asked whether the State was “trying to prove it was different” by holding the exam when young lives were at stake. “You could have taken this stand yesterday… We were pushed to say some things which could have been avoided,” Justice Khanwilkar addressed Mr. Dave and advocate Mahfooz A. Nazki, for the State government. Mr. Dave said the State would form a High-Powered Committee which would consult with experts and decide the internal assessment scheme for evaluating the marks of Class 12 students. The State assured the court that it would adhere to the timelines given by the court. The court had ordered States to finalise their respective assessment schemes in 10 days and declare their results by July 31, in time for University Grants Commission admissions to colleges. Closing the proceedings, Justice Khanwilkar said “all is well that ends well”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-lauds-ap-for-scrapping-class-12-exam/article34982025.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||CM tells DGP to probe ‘custodial death’||Taking a serious note of the death of a Dalit woman while in police custody, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy to inquire into the incident and take stringent action against those found guilty. The police inquiry should bring out the facts and the personnel responsible for the incident should be removed from service if need be, the Chief Minister said. He termed the death of Mariamma, a Dalit woman from Chintakakani of Madhira constituency in Khammam district, as highly painful and said the government would not tolerate such incidents. The Chief Minister asserted that the government would help the son and daughters of the deceased. Mariamma’s son Uday Kiran would be provided a government job and a house along with exgratia of Rs. 15 lakh. He directed the officials concerned to provide ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh each to her two daughters. The DGP was instructed to visit Chintakakani to know first hand about the custodial death and console the family members of the victim. Mr. Rao gave the instructions after interacting with a delegation of Congress MLAs who called on him at Pragati Bhavan and submitted a memorandum seeking justice to Mariamma’s family and action against those responsible for the incident. CLP leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka led the delegation which comprised senior leaders D. Sridhar Babu, K. Rajagopal Reddy, T. Jayaprakash Reddy and TPCC SC cell chairman Pritam. The Chief Minister expressed his anger over the manner in which the police behaved in the incident. He wanted the local Minister P. Ajay Kumar, MP Nama Nageswara Rao and senior officials to accompany the CLP leader to the village on June 28 to meet the affected families. Mr. Rao underscored the need for police department to develop a positive approach towards Dalits and poor. It was painful that such incident occurred in a State where there was qualitative improvement in the law and order situation. The government would not tolerate such incidents and it was firmly against allowing atrocities against n Dalits. “There will be immediate action. Stringent steps will be initiated against those responsible for the custodial death. Officials should not delay the inquiry into the incident and that should be followed by action in accordance with law,” the Chief Minister said directing the DGP to take necessary steps with immediate effect. Ministers Mohd. Mahmood Ali and Vemula Prashanth Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar, Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-tells-dgp-to-probe-custodial-death/article34982575.ece
26 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||Structures in unauthorised residential layout cleared||Officials of the Hubballi -Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) carried out a demolition drive under police cover in an unauthorised residential layout that had come up on Kalghatgi Road on the outskirts of Dharwad on Friday. Using earthmovers, the authorities, with the help of workers, removed illegal structures and boundary stones installed in a 13-acre unauthorised layout that had come up at Rajeev Gandhi Nagar on Kalghatgi Road near Someshwar Temple on the outskirts of Dharwad. The demolition drive was carried out based on information about the layout that it was developed without any requisite permissions from the competent authorities. Chairman of HDUDA Nagesh Kalburgi told presspersons that the authority had served notice to land owners thrice and as there was no response from them, the drive was carried out. During the drive, drains, temporary roads and electricity poles were razed. Mr. Kalburgi said that because of the COVID-19-induced lockdown, HDUDA had temporarily suspended the drive against unauthorised layouts. And, now with the lockdown restrictions being relaxed, it had resumed the drive. He said that gullible people hoping to construct their own houses were being duped by such developers. He said that the authorities had warned the land owners against developing the illegal layout and they had failed to respond to notice. The objective of the drive is to send a strong message to those cheating people promising sites that are developed without any permissions. “I will also appeal to the people to think twice before investing in such unauthorised layouts. They should get documents checked thoroughly by consulting legal experts before purchasing any residential plots,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/structures-in-unauthorised-residential-layout-cleared/article34982536.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala University courses attracting global students||The COVID-19 pandemic has done little to lessen the interest among foreign students for the courses offered by the University of Kerala. As many as 1,042 students from 35 countries, including 550 from Afghanistan, have applied through the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) for various undergraduate (UG), postgraduate (PG), MPhil and PhD programmes. Preferred destination The university, which has been striving to position itself as a preferred destination for higher education among students from developing countries, hopes to enhance its global image by absorbing as many applicants as possible. According to Sabu Joseph, director of the university’s Centre for Global Academics which handles international students’ affairs, the number of applications is possibly the highest in the university’s history. Last year, the university had approved admissions for 105 students, of which 20 joined various courses. The count would be higher this year, he said. Besides Afghanistan, there were applications from Bangladesh, Nepal, Syria, Iraq and various African countries, including Uganda, Botswana and Kenya. The university received one application from the United States for a UG programme. There were 611 applications for various PG programmes, including 170 for MBA alone. Foreign students have also shown interest in pursuing Master’s in Computer Science, Political Science, Public Administration, Economics, English, Sociology, MCom, MCA, Mathematics and Environmental Science. 283 applications As many as 283 applications have been received for UG courses. There were also 148 applications submitted for PhD in 25 subjects such as Management Studies, Political Science, Computer Science, Chemistry, Sociology, English and Education. The university has recommended admitting 70 applicants among the PhD aspirants. Mr. Joseph said that while those who gained admissions would be given priority in the hostel facilities on the university’s Karyavattom campus, efforts were on to establish a separate hostel for foreign students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-university-courses-attracting-global-students/article34982738.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Third COVID-19 wave unlikely to be as severe as second’||A potential third wave of COVID-19 would unlikely be as severe as the second wave, as per a modelling study by a team of scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Imperial College London, U.K. For it to be as devastating, at least 30% of the population that had been infected earlier must entirely lose their immunity, or an emerging variant of the virus must have a reproductive rate (R) over 4.5, and these must occur almost immediately after the second wave ends. The authors, who include Balram Bhargava, Director-General, ICMR, and Samiran Panda, Head, Infectious Disease Unit, ICMR, suggest that these scenarios are implausible. “...For a virus to cause a major third wave in the face of this pre-existing immunity, extreme scenarios for the abrogation of that immunity are required, or for that matter, for the transmission fitness of any novel virus,” they report in their article that appears in the in-house Indian Journal of Medical Research as a pre-print. The scientists modelled a potential third wave under several scenarios: a complete loss of immunity from previous waves; emergence of a variant that was more infectious and capable of thwarting immunity than the ones observed; the impact of moving out of lockdowns; and the role of a highly infectious variant in case of a certain percentage of people getting vaccinated. Expanding vaccination Results showed that under all these situations, the peak infections remained much lower than in the second wave, unless the R rate exceeded 4.5, or those previously susceptible exceeded 30%. The emergence of a third wave could be buffered by expanding vaccination, they say. The authors calculate that were vaccines rolled out in a way to cover 40% of the population with two doses over a period of three months following the end of the second wave, it could reduce symptomatic incidence by around 55%. Less than 20% of Indians have received at least one dose of the vaccine and only 4% are fully vaccinated. The Centre proposes to vaccinate all adults — about 94.4 crore — by the end of 2021. However, Dr. Panda told The Hindu that while several factors needed to converge for a third wave as devastating as the second, complacency in observing safety could be dangerous. This is the first time that the ICMR’s scientists have attempted a formal forecast of a future wave. In spite of several modelling experts, no group estimated or warned of the severity of the second wave that saw new infections rise to nearly 400,000 a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-covid-19-wave-unlikely-to-be-as-severe-as-second/article34982468.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala ‘excess deaths’ 1.6 times official toll||After registering a lower number of deaths overall in 2020 compared to 2019, Kerala witnessed a significant increase in the overall death count due to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021, resulting in an estimated 15,222 “excess deaths” till May 31, month-wise data from the Civil Registration System show. The overall “excess deaths” for the period April 2020-May 2021 were 13,868, which is 1.6 times more than the official COVID-19 death toll of 8,816 during this period. Not all excess deaths will be related to COVID-19, but a bulk of them will be during the pandemic. Kerala’s estimated undercount factor of 1.6 is lower than what The Hindu estimated for Karnataka (5.8) and Tamil Nadu (6.2) for the same period. The undercount factor for 2021 alone (2.7) is also much lower than that of Karnataka (4.7), Tamil Nadu (6.5), Andhra Pradesh (33.8) and Madhya Pradesh (42.3). It is also the same as the World Health Organization estimate for the Americas and Europe in 2020 — 1.6 times the recorded COVID-19 death toll. The “excess deaths” were estimated by calculating the difference between the overall death count registered each month during the pandemic years and the average death tally in the pre-pandemic years (2015-2019).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-excess-deaths-16-times-official-toll/article34982248.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Public notices issued for cutting 2,340 trees for KIA metro link||The proposed Namma Metro link to Kempegowda International Airport will be built at a huge environmental cost and loss of Bengaluru’s green cover. Of the estimated 4,400 trees that will ultimately have to make way for the 58 km line, the tree officer has issued public notices for the removal of 2,340 trees on two stretches. As per the notices seeking objections from the public issued by the Deputy Conservator of Forest, who is also the tree officer, 1,507 trees have been identified for removal on one stretch, and the remaining 833 on another stretch. The public have ten days to file objections. Environmentalists and citizen activists are up in arms over the loss of green cover. As per the notice issued, 1,507 trees will be removed to build the metro line between the proposed Kasturinagar and Kempapura stations on Outer Ring Road. The distance between the two stations is 10 km and is a part of the phase II B of Namma Metro from K.R. Puram to KIA. On this stretch, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. has proposed to build stations at Kasturinagar, Horamavu, HRBR Layout, Kalyan Nagar, HBR Layout, Nagawara, Veerannapalya and Kempapura. The trees are mostly located on the median of the road required for building elevated line, and for entry and exit points of the stations. On the second stretch for which a public notice was issued, 833 trees have been identified for removal along the proposed elevated line between Central Silk Board and Kadubeesanahalli. This is part of Phase II A metro line from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram. The trees identified for removal include akash mallige, rain trees, honge, gulmohar, dali chandra, subabul and kadamba, among others. More may face the axe In the coming days, the tree officer is likely to issue public notices for the removal of trees on the remaining stretches. These include the stretch from Hebbal to Trumpet flyover as well as the construction of a depot. The ORR-Airport line is estimated to cost Rs. 14,788 crore. The tender has been already awarded for the construction of the elevated corridor from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram in two packages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/public-notices-issued-for-cutting-2340-trees-for-kia-metro-link/article34982293.ece
26 June 2021||Kolkata,||This Kalighat artist’s characters live in modern world||Bhaskar Chitrakar, 42, claims to be the last of the Kalighat painters, the community that originated in the 19th century around the Kali temple of Kalighat: “If you show me one more person in my neighbourhood engaged in the art, I will give up my profession”. He could be right, for modern Kalighat paintings shown off by popular online stores invariably bear his signature. “Art is not everybody’s cup of tea. One needs to be interested in art in order to learn art. I love my art more than I loved my parents,” Mr. Chitrakar, who lives in a modest home in the neighbourhood of Patua Para — close to the Kalighat temple as well as to the residence of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee — tells The Hindu . The central figures of a Kalighat painting are usually the Bengali babu and bibi (mostly depicted in comical situations) and the various Hindu gods and goddesses. “Traditionally, there have been political depictions too, but I try to keep away from politics because I happen to be living too close to the residence of a political figure,” says Mr. Chitrakar. But he more than makes up for the lack of political depictions with other contemporary issues — such as COVID-19. He has made about half-a-dozen paintings related to the pandemic so far. One of them shows Lord Shiva, clad in traditional Bengali attire, thrusting his trident into the virus. Another shows Goddess Kali targeting the virus (also clad in traditional Bengali attire) with light emerging from her third eye. Yet another shows a mask-wearing babu fleeing the virus. Even though the attire of his characters is always traditional, their lifestyle depicted is often modern. For example, there is a babu surrounded by Twitter birds; and there are also several depictions of the babu and bibi clicking selfies. One of his creations include his version of the Statue of Liberty, resembling a Hindu goddess, one half of her face white and the other black. This painting, created in response to the Black Lives Matter movement in America, was immediately purchased by an Indian collector living in Minneapolis. “My art is my response to contemporary events; I guess that is what art is all about. I read the newspaper every morning and that’s where I get most of my ideas,” says Mr. Chitrakar, who studied up to Class VII and was, for some time, fascinated by idol-making before he learned Kalighat-style painting from his grandfather and father. “I am a fourth-generation artist, and I am also the last,” he says. Mr. Chitrakar makes eight to 10 paintings a month — each takes about four days to complete — and a majority of his buyers happen to be Indians living abroad. When asked how exactly he feels when he finds his works being sold online for prices higher than he might have sold them for, he says: “I am not in this profession for money. I feel good that my work is selling because of the internet. I consider myself fortunate.” And when asked how easy it is for him to think of ideas in these uncertain times, when there was very little news other than those related to COVID-19, Mr. Chitrakar replies: “As long as there is the newspaper, I will get my ideas. And as for COVID-19, do you think it is going to last forever? One day, everything is going to be fine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/this-kalighat-artists-characters-live-in-modern-world/article34982711.ece
26 June 2021||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),||Officials sound alert as the flood level in the Godavari rises||With the flood level rising in the Godavari, the officials sounded an alert on Friday and shifted many tribal families residing in Polavaram and Velerupadu mandals to safer places. The rise in the flood level was attributed to overflowing rivulets as a result of rains in the catchment areas and stagnation of water due to closure of the coffer dam. A few families trekked up the nearby hilly areas to protect themselves from the floods. “The water level is increasing due to complete closure of the coffer dam,” they said. River bunds were being strengthened by placing sand bags to prevent breaching. District Collector Kartikeya Misra and SP K. Narayan Naik were monitoring the situation. “As of now, there is no flood threat,” Mr. Kartikeya Misra told The Hindu . K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer Y.V. Prasanna Lakshmi and Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Latha Kumari visited some of the affected areas. “As the water is stagnating in the river, we have cautioned the villagers. The VROs, the ITDA officials and police personnel are camping in the villages and monitoring the situation,” said Ms. Latha Kumari. It is feared that communication to 19 villages will be affected if the water level rises further and overflows from the Kothuru causeway. The overflowing Yedla Vaagu is a cause for concern for the tribal people at Yedlapalli. Ration stocks “The GCC is maintaining ration stocks in the depots enough for three months. Officials have distributed PDS rice, sugar, oil, dal, and vegetables to the affected families,” Ms. Lakshmi said. Authorities released 19,000 cusecs into the canals downstream for agriculture purpose, the ITDA Project Officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribals-in-ap-shifted-as-level-in-godavari-rises/article34982214.ece
26 June 2021||MADURAI,||Cultivating paddy, with all help from machines||The faculty members of Agricultural College and Research Institute in Madurai are cultivating paddy with complete mechanisation on 100 acres on the college premises with an aim to create awareness of mechanised rice cultivation among farmers. The project, taken up under the guidance of Dean V.K. Paulpandi, involves machines right from raising nurseries to harvesting the crop. Head of the Department of Agronomy R. Durai Singh is leading the project. Explaining the functions of the machines used by them, he said reversible mould board plough was used for summer ploughing which ensured that nutrients found under surface soil were brought to the top layer. Duck-foot cultivators were used for tilling the field and pulverising the soil before sowing. Tractor-drawn laser leveller levelled the field with accuracy. “This is widely used in Punjab and Haryana. In paddy cultivation, it is important to maintain water level. This can be achieved only if the entire field is of uniform level,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . Bund trimming of the field was important to maintain water level in the field. However, there was labour shortage to perform this task. “But, bund-trimming machines help to trim and plaster the bunds of the field. This also prevents any possible crop damage by rodents,” he added. Pre-germinated seeds could be placed inside a paddy drum seeder for sowing. Once the seedlings were ready, the six-row rice transplanter could be used for transplantation. “This helps to maintain proper distance between each plant and row. Around 20 combinations are achievable with the machine,” said Mr. Singh. Weeding was one of the most labour-intensive and highly expensive tasks. “Power weeders are faster and cost-effective,” he added. In recent years, most farmers were opting for machine harvesting of paddy crop. The mechanised cultivation helped farmers get higher yields, said Mr. Singh. “Usually young seedlings ensure higher yield. But, agricultural workers cannot plant them, and this can be achieved through machines,” he said. Complete mechanisation was also cost-effective and helped in water conservation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cultivating-paddy-with-all-help-from-machines/article34982761.ece
26 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||First NDA Cabinet in Puducherry to be sworn in on Sunday||The first NDA government in the Union Territory of Puducherry, led by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, is set to be sworn in on Sunday after the list of the Council of Ministers received the Presidential assent on Friday. The Cabinet will have A. Namassivayam and Sai Saravanan Kumar of the BJP and K. Lakshminarayanan, S. Chandira Priyanga and ‘Theni’ C. Djeacoumar of the All-India N.R. Congress. Gazette order issued Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar issued a gazette order republishing a notification from Govind Mohan, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, declaring the Presidential assent for the appointment of the five nominees as Ministers from the date of their swearing in. The swearing-in has been scheduled for 2.30 p.m. A make-shift pavilion is being put up to host the function in front of Raj Nivas. Mr. Rangasamy submitted the list to Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on June 23. As per procedure, the Lt. Governor forwarded it to the Ministry of Home Affairs to obtain ratification from the President. Apart from being the first NDA government in Puducherry, a largely Congress bastion which the AINRC-BJP-AIADMK alliance breached in the April 6 election, there are a few other stand-out aspects to Mr. Rangasamy’s Cabinet. It marks a record fourth stint as Chief Minister for Mr. Rangasamy, accommodates a woman after a gap of four decades, and strikes a balance between long-time loyalists and turncoats. Longest delay On the flip side, the swearing-in of the Cabinet on June 27, due to the differences over power-sharing between the BJP and the AINRC and the hospitalisation of the Chief Minister for COVID-19 treatment, also marks the longest delay of over seven weeks in constituting a Ministry since the declaration of results (on May 2). Mr. Rangasamy will preside over the government in his fourth stint as Chief Minister. He was a Congress Chief Minister during 2001-2006 and 2006-08. When he was ousted mid-term in 2008, he floated a break-away party and romped home in the 2011 election to return to the top post. By picking Ms. Chandira Priyanga, the legislator from Nedungadu (SC) in Karaikal, Mr. Rangasamy has made a calibrated choice that restores gender representation to the Cabinet after over 40 years and accommodates a voice for the Karaikal region in governance The daughter of the late M. Chandirakasu, veteran politician and former Agriculture Minister in the 2011 Rangasamy government, Ms. Chandira Priyanga is the first woman to sit at the high table of governance after the late Renuka Appadurai, the Congress leader who was the Education Minister in the 1980 DMK-Congress government. She is also the first woman from the Scheduled Castes in the Cabinet. A balancing act The composition of the Cabinet also represents a balancing of experience and new energy, newly arrived defectors and long-time party loyalists. A. Namassivayam, who as PWD Minister was also second-in-command in the previous Congress government led by V. Narayanasamy before moving to the BJP, K. Lakshminarayanan, five-time Congress legislator and former Education Minister before he switched to the AINRC, and Mr. Djeacoumar, a former Local Administration Minister, bring vast experience to the table. Mr. Saravanan Kumar, who is a first-timer, has been rewarded for his long game in building the BJP’s base in Oussudu (SC) — incidentally, he was also the only BJP leader not to lose his deposit when the party contested all 30 seats in 2016. In 2021, the BJP begins an innings in the governance-legislative domain of the Union Territory with the Speakership, two Ministers, six elected legislators and three nominated MLAs, a clear two decades after its candidate A.M. Krishnamurthy became an MLA in 2001.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-nda-cabinet-to-be-sworn-in-on-sunday-in-puducherry/article34982392.ece
26 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Television serial cast and crew heave a sigh of relief||Vinod Kovoor heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday when Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced during his daily briefing that the shoot of television serials could now be resumed. Actors and others associated with the television industry had become jobless when the shoot of television programmes had to stopped because of the State-wide lockdown induced by the spurt in COVID-19 cases. For an industry that gives livelihoods to thousands, a longer lockdown would have been disastrous. “I am looking forward to facing the camera once again,” says Vinod, who is one of the main actors in the popular comedy show Marimayam on Mazhavil Manorama. “All my colleagues are relieved and happy that we can return to work.” Main income For most of the cast and crew of Marimayam , he says, the show has been the main source of income for the last 10 years. “We joke that the payment from Marimayam is our monthly salary,” he says. “We have five days of shoot every month. Everything else, such as stage shows, we do is a bonus.” There has hardly been any show for artistes like Vinod for over a year, now. While he is eagerly waiting for the shoot of Marimayam to begin, some other serials are already back on the floor. The shoot of Santhwanam resumed in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. Its producer M. Renjith said he could not have afforded a further delay. “We were all waiting for the relaxation of the lockdown guidelines,” he says. “Making serials is a business that gives low margin to the producer; so it is imperative that we need to work on a regular basis.” Means of entertainment Renjith adds that on a given day about 40 Malayalam serials are shot. “So one can imagine how many lives depend on them,” he says. “Serials are also the main source of entertainment in most households. Many people ask me when Swanthanam will be back on air.” Their wait will end on July 5, when the latest episode will be screened on Asianet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/television-serial-cast-crew-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/article34982672.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,||Ex-member of DYFI involved in Karipur gold case, says accused||A Malappuram native who was arrested in connection with the Karipur gold smuggling case has given a statement before the Customs Department stating the role played by Arjun Ayanki, a former member of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), and others involved in it. Mohammed Shafeeque Melathil, who was held for smuggling 2.3 kg of gold worth Rs. 1.11 crore concealed in a coffee-maker on arrival from Dubai on June 21, said the gold seized from him was arranged through a man named Saleem. As directed by Saleem, two men approached him in Dubai and handed over a carton and a trolley bag containing the coffee-maker in which the gold cylinder was concealed, said the petition submitted by the Superintendent of Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate before the Ernakulam Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offence) on Friday, seeking custody of Shafeeque for 10 days. Shafeeque told the Customs that he was introduced to Saleem by a man identified as Mohammed, who in turn was introduced to him by Arjun. The accused admitted that he was offered Rs. 40,000 and an air ticket to Karipur for the smuggling act, according to the petition. Customs notice The Customs said the accused had connections with interstate smuggling rackets. The Customs has issued a notice to Arjun to appear for questioning on June 28. Five Palakkad natives were killed at Ramanattukara in a suspected case of car chase involving two smuggling rackets connected to the case. Since the accident, Arjun had switched off his phone and gone into hiding. He later posted on Facebook that he would cooperate with the investigation.  (With inputs from Kasaragod bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-dyfi-member-involved-in-gold-case-says-accused/article34982673.ece
26 June 2021||MADURAI,||Alarming that none booked three years after police firing: HC||“It is somewhat alarming that the State through its police fired at unarmed protesters and no one is booked some three years after the incident,” the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed on Friday on the Thoothukudi police firing incident, in which 13 anti-Sterlite protesters were killed in May 2018. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam observed, “It may not augur well for a civilised society governed by the constitutional principles that we have to merely throw money at the families of the victims [as compensation] and give closure to an incident of possible brutality and excessive police action.” The court made the remark while hearing a petition filed by advocate Henri Tiphagne who sought a direction to the National Human Rights Commission to reopen the case and furnish the report of the investigation team of the NHRC. The judges directed submission of the NHRC’s report and Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission’s interim report. The court took note of the fact that the NHRC had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident based on news reports that the victims’ Right to Life was grossly violated. The Commission’s initial observation referred to the police having resorted to firing on unarmed protesters without following the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). A team of NHRC’s investigation division conducted a spot inquiry and submitted its report. The Judicial Commission was set up to conduct an inquiry into the cause and the circumstances leading to the incident. The NHRC had taken note of the fact that compensation was being provided to the victims’ families and Thoothukudi district administration was taking adequate steps to restore normalcy. The Commission closed its proceedings considering these aspects and also the fact that the Judicial Commission was conducting an inquiry. During the course of the hearing, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted that the Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission submitted an interim report to the government on May 14, 2021. The petitioner said the interim report was submitted only after the government sought it. The court observed that there were two aspects. One was the riot and the State remedied the nuisance. But the greater aspect was why there was a riot and what was the punishment deserved for doing it. The court orally remarked, “Can we kill people and throw money at them and say our job is done? Is that the society that we want to build ? Just throwing money at some people and everything is hushed up.” Issuing notice to the NHRC and the State, the court said the State’s stand must be clearly spelt out in the counter affidavit. The NHRC could submit the report in a sealed cover if it felt that it was delicate at the moment, the judges said. Given that the matter was of importance, the Chief Justice said it would be taken up at the Principal Seat in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alarming-that-none-booked-three-years-after-police-firing-hc/article34982757.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IT Minister slams Twitter for blocking his account, taking ‘arbitrary’ action||Microblogging platform Twitter on Friday briefly blocked the account of Union Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad after receiving a complaint for violation of U.S. copyright law. After his account was unblocked, Mr. Prasad lashed out at Twitter, accusing it of violating the new Information and Technology Rules by not giving him prior notice of the action, and of taking “high-handed and arbitrary” action against those who do not suit its agenda. Mr. Prasad said his account was blocked for almost an hour. He shared a screenshot of Twitter’s notice which said that it had received “a compliant Digital Millennium Copyright Act notice for content posted on your account”, and warned that “accruing multiple DMCA strikes could lead to a suspension of your account”. The incident comes in the midst of a tussle between the Central government and Twitter over the company’s failure to comply with the new IT Act Rules which came into effect a month ago. Last week, the Uttar Pradesh Police filed an FIR against Twitter for the circulation of videos related to an attack in Ghaziabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-minister-slams-twitter-for-blocking-his-account-taking-arbitrary-action/article34982469.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Shopping complexes, malls to open in Chennai, neighbouring districts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday announced several relaxations even while extending the COVID-19 lockdown till 6 a.m. of July 5. Shopping complexes and malls will reopen in Chennai and surrounding districts (category 3) and intra- and inter-district bus transport will resume in 23 districts (category 2) from Monday. Additional relaxations have been offered in 11 districts in western and central Tamil Nadu, where a stricter lockdown is in force because of a higher infection rate. In Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, private offices can function with 100% workers, and shopping complexes and malls can function between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. Clothing and jewellery shops will be allowed to function without air-conditioning and with 50% of customer capacity between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. Eateries and shopping complexes and malls will be allowed to offer only takeaways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shopping-complexes-malls-to-open-in-chennai-neighbouring-districts/article34982346.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IT Minister slams Twitter for blocking his account||Microblogging platform Twitter on Friday briefly blocked the account of Union Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad after receiving a complaint for violation of U.S. copyright law. After his account was unblocked, Mr. Prasad lashed out at Twitter, accusing it of violating the new Information and Technology Rules by not giving him prior notice of the action, and of taking “high-handed and arbitrary” action against those who do not suit its agenda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-minister-slams-twitter-for-blocking-his-account/article34982246.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUPATI,||Delta Plus variant surfaces in Tirupati||The first case of a Delta Plus variant surfacing in Tirupati has sent shock waves among the medical fraternity as well as the general public. The sample belonging to a 56-year-old man was reported at SVR Ruia Government General Hospital and when sent for random analysis, was confirmed as ‘Delta Plus’ by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad. Though the incident was not in public domain when the patient was admitted for treatment, the announcement by Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Friday brought focus on the issue. According to Ruia sources, the patient was normal during diagnosis and was cured without any complications. On their part, the authorities carried out contact tracing and enhanced surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delta-plus-variant-surfaces-in-tirupati/article34982242.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan to remain on FATF greylist||Pakistan was retained on the greylist, or the list of countries under “increased monitoring”, by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), as the Paris-based UN watchdog judged it deficient in prosecuting the top leadership of UN Security Council-designated terror groups, including Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e Mohammad, Al Qaeda and Taliban. Announcing the decision at the end of its latest plenary session held virtually from June 21-25, the FATF said despite completing 26 of the 27 tasks it had been handed, Pakistan’s failure to complete the last task on convicting terrorists and terror entities meant it would not be delisted for now. In addition, the FATF handed down another six-point list of tasks, mainly on money laundering actions. “The FATF encourages Pakistan to continue to make progress to address as soon as possible the one remaining Countering Finance of Terrorism-related item by demonstrating that Terror Financing investigations and prosecutions target senior leaders and commanders of UN-designated terrorist groups,” the FATF president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakistan-to-remain-on-fatf-greylist/article34982249.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready for action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-for-action/article34982759.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||On cloud nine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-cloud-nine/article34982582.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||ED raids five places linked to Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted searches on five premises linked to former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur in connection with a money laundering case. The premises of Mr. Deshmukh’s chartered accountant was also searched. His private secretary was later taken to the ED’s Mumbai office for questioning. In April, the CBI had carried out searches in Mumbai and Nagpur after registering a corruption case against Mr. Deshmukh and others. The case alleges attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-raids-five-places-linked-to-deshmukh/article34982466.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready to serve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-serve/article34982475.ece
26 June 2021||KALABURAGI,||Agriculture staff go on mass leave||Staff of the Agriculture Department in Bidar went on mass leave and staged a protest outside the office building against Joint Director of Agriculture, Bidar, G.H. Taramani. The employees, including Assistant Directors of Agriculture of various taluks and Agriculture Officers, went on mass casual leave and gathered in front of the Agriculture Office and raised slogans against their Joint Director, demanding that she be immediately transferred. Assistant Director for Agriculture Humnabad taluk Mallikarjun held Ms. Taramani responsible for the shortage of soyabean seeds in the district. Kalyana Karnataka Agriculture Officers Association president Shivakumar Hugge said that the office worked smoothly under different Joint Directors who were posted to Bidar earlier. The officer demands employees to arrive earlier than office time and work till 8 p.m. She also threatened employees with transfers and is making adverse remarks in their service records. Mr. Hugge said, “If the government failed to transfer Ms. Taramani from Bidar immediately, the staff of Agriculture Department across the Kalyana Karnataka region will boycott duty.” Department employees across the region were asked to wear black ribbons to work on Friday as a sign of protest against the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/agriculture-staff-go-on-mass-leave/article34982534.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready to serve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-serve/article34982790.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Marriage halls to open from Monday||Further easing the COVID-19 restrictions, the State government on Friday decided to allow wedding ceremonies in choultries, halls, hotels, and resorts from Monday, not involving more than 40 people. As per the notification issued, those organising marriages should obtain prior permission from the concerned local authority, Joint Commissioner of the BBMP Zone in case of Bengaluru, or the concerned tahsildar at the taluks. The officer is to issue only 40 passes per marriage by name of attendees. Only people with passes will be allowed to attend the function and passes are not be transferable. Adhering to COVID-19 guidelines is mandatory, said the release issued by Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/marriage-halls-to-open-from-monday/article34982287.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. to attach Baig’s assets||After being repeatedly hauled up by the High Court of Karnataka, the State government has finally decided to attach both movable and immovable properties of former minister R. Roshan Baig in connection with IMA scam. It has now asked the Commissioners of BBMP and the Deputy Commissioners of Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts to provide the details of Mr. Baig’s property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-attach-baigs-assets/article34982288.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready to serve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-serve/article34982714.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||In a new role||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-a-new-role/article34982740.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,||CM convenes all-party meet on Dalit project||Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao has convened a meeting of all political parties to discuss about the implementation of Chief Minister's Dalit Empowerment programme to be launched in the State. The Chief Minister extended invitation to MPs, MLAs and MLCs, irrespective of political affiliations, to attend the day-long meeting on Sunday. In addition to elected representatives hailing from Dalit communities, floor leaders of MIM, Congress and the BJP have been invited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-convenes-all-party-meet-on-dalit-project/article34982577.ece
26 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||Protesting farmers back at Ghazipur border||Farmers have once again started assembling at the Ghaziapur border in large numbers to protest against the contentious farm laws as the number of COVID-19 cases dipped in western Uttar Pradesh. On Friday, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Naresh Tikait led a tractor rally from Saharanpur via Muzaffarnagar and Meerut to Ghazipur border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protesting-farmers-back-at-ghazipur-border/article34982473.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Former councillor murder case cracked||The police on Friday cracked the murder of former city councillor Rekha Kadiresh, who was hacked to death outside her office at Cottonpet on Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-councillor-murder-case-cracked/article34982290.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Tourism places in State to be opened next week||All tourism places in Karnataka, which are closed owing to the pandemic, will be opened for visitors from next week. Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar on Friday said the tourism sector had suffered a lot, and with number of cases declining, it was decided that spots could be opened for the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tourism-places-in-state-to-be-opened-next-week/article34982291.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,||IAC will be commissioned next year: Rajnath||The first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) being built at the Cochin Shipyard will join the naval fleet next year, coinciding with the 75th year of India’s Independence, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Friday after reviewing the progress of its construction. He said in a statement, after visiting the aircraft carrier at the Cochin Port Trust, that the combat capability, reach and versatility of the IAC would add formidable capabilities in India’s defence and help secure its interests in the maritime domain. On his Karwar visit on Thursday to review Project Seabird, the largest upcoming naval base, he said it would provide the facilities and infrastructure to support the Navy’s operations in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) and beyond. “Our impetus on modernisation, harnessing India's indigenous industry and know-how, is a key priority. That 42 of the 44 warships on order are being built at Indian shipyards is a testimony to this. The IAC boasts nearly 75% indigenous content, from design, to steel used in construction, to key weapons and sensors,” he said. The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) recently approved requests for proposals (RFP) of Project 75-I [for the construction of another line of diesel-electric submarines] under the strategic partnership model, which he said would give a fillip to indigenous development of niche manufacturing technologies. The Navy, he added, remained poised and combat-ready to tackle any challenge. Its proactive forward deployment during the Galwan standoff signalled India’s intent that though it sought peace, it was ready for any eventuality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iac-will-be-commissioned-next-year-rajnath/article34981966.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||ED raids 5 places linked to Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted searches on five premises linked to former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur in connection with a money laundering case. The premises of Mr. Deshmukh’s chartered accountant was also searched. His private secretary was later taken to the ED’s Mumbai office for questioning. In April, the CBI carried out searches in Mumbai and Nagpur after registering a corruption case against Mr. Deshmukh and others. The case — alleging attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty — was instituted following a preliminary inquiry initiated on the directions of the Bombay High Court on April 5. An inquiry revealed that now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze had been reinstated into the police force after being out of service for over 15 years. He was entrusted with most of the important cases of the Mumbai City Police and the then Home Minister was in the know of these facts, as alleged by the CBI. Param Bir Singh’s charge A petition of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in the High Court also alleged that the then Home Minister and others exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of police officers. Earlier, it was alleged that some police officers had been told to collect Rs. 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Mr. Deshmukh, who has refuted the charges, had resigned from the post following the High Court order for a CBI inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-raids-5-places-linked-to-deshmukh/article34981990.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||India records nearly 50 Delta Plus variant cases||India has so far reported almost 50 cases of the Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2, with Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu leading with the maximum number of cases, the Union Health Ministry said at a press conference on Friday. Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said in India, COVID-19 ‘variants of concerns’ were found to be distributed in 174 districts in 35 States. The highest numbers were reported from districts in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat. “Variants of Concerns with public health importance detected in community samples in India include Alpha [3,969], Beta [149], Gamma [1] and B.1.617, Delta and Kappa were detected in 16,238 samples,” said Dr. Singh. High proportion The proportion of cases with ‘variants of concerns’ had risen from 10.31% in May 2021 to 51% on June 20, 2021.  Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, said in the last couple of months, the first variant of concern was the one announced by the U.K., where it was identified. “Subsequently, we now have four of these, which the World Health Organization has called Alpha, Beta, Gamma & Delta. “Delta is the one that was identified in India,’’ she noted. Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Balram Bhargava, warned that India was still not out of the second wave of the pandemic. The reason why SARS-CoV-2 mutated includes random error during replication, immune pressure after treatments (Convalescent Plasma, Vaccination etc), and uninterrupted transmission due to lack of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, which allowed the virus to transmit more and acquire fitness, Dr. Bhargava pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-nearly-50-delta-plus-variant-cases/article34982014.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||India, China plan 12th round of talks on Ladakh stand-off||Agreeing on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, India and China on Friday agreed to hold the 12th round of military commander talks at an early date to achieve “complete disengagement” from “all the friction points” along the LAC in the Western Sector. This was agreed at the 22nd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs held virtually. “In this regard, the two sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through the diplomatic and military mechanisms to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points so as to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity to enable progress in the bilateral relations,” a statement from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. They also agreed that in the interim, the two sides will continue to ensure stability on the ground and “prevent any untoward incident”, the MEA said in a reference to the violent clash at Galwan valley last June. The Indian delegation was led by Additional Secretary, East Asia, from the MEA, while the Chinese delegation was led by the Director General of the Boundary and Oceanic Department of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A statement by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said that the two sides agreed to “consolidate the achievements” of the disengagement of border troops from both sides and “properly resolve the remaining issues” along the western section of the Sino-Indian border. “The two sides will continue to work to promote further de-escalation of the border situation, avoid any recurrence of the situation on the ground and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area,” the MFA statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-plan-12th-round-of-talks-on-ladakh-stand-off/article34981987.ece
26 June 2021||Mumbai,||Study links air pollution to COVID-19 cases and deaths||A first-of-its-kind pan India study says Mumbai and Pune are among hotspots where high air pollution from the transport and industrial sectors is related to a higher number of COVID-19 cases and deaths. The study is titled ‘Establishing a link between fine particulate matter (PM2.5) zones and COVID-19 over India based on anthropogenic emission sources and air quality data’. The study was conducted by Dr. Saroj Kumar Sahu and Poonam Mangaraj from Utkal University, Bhubaneswar; Gufran Beig, senior scientist, and Suvarna Tikle, scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology-Pune; Bhishma Tyagi, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela; and V. Vinoj, Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar. In the study, COVID-19 cases were observed from March to November 2020, while national PM2.5 emissions load was estimated from the base year 2019. Of 16 cities across 36 States, Mumbai and Pune were evaluated in Maharashtra. “Our findings suggest a significant correlation between district level air pollution data and COVID-19 cases. We found that regions using huge amounts of fossil fuels such as petrol, diesel and coal by combustion in transport and industrial activities also experience a far higher number of COVID-19 cases,” said Dr. Sahu, adding, “Maharashtra recorded the second highest emission load in India — 828.3 gigagram per year (Gg/Yr) of PM2.5 — based on the National Emission Inventory developed by us. Uttar Pradesh had the highest.” Among the 16 cities captured in the study, Mumbai and Pune recorded the third- and fourth-highest number of “bad air quality days”, respectively. Delhi and Ahmedabad stood first and second, respectively. “Through our analysis, it has become clear that the rising pollution load is a catalyst in aggravating COVID-19 cases,” Dr. Sahu said. He added that polluted hotspots are also triggering long-term effects, and more studies are needed to understand this better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/study-links-air-pollution-to-covid-19-cases-and-deaths/article34982010.ece
26 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Congress flays Haryana govt. for ‘anti-farmer’ decision||The Congress leaders on Friday said the Haryana government’s decision to increase the market fee and rural development fee on paddy had yet again revealed the “anti-farmer” attitude of the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party coalition. The party’s national general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala has demanded immediate withdrawal of the decision. He said the government’s move is a short sighted decision. “The farmers will be compelled either to sell off their crops in the neighbouring States or to traders at a lower price,” he said. Mr. Surjewala said, on one hand the government insists that the grain markets are not being abolished, but on the other hand such decisions in the name of reducing the losses of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board were clearly indicative of its intention to eliminate mandis and “push the farm business to big private players”. The Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, said after inflation, recession and the massive increase in petrol and diesel prices, the government had placed another burden on the farmers. “The fee is much higher as compared to the neighbouring States. Traders would prefer to do business in other States instead of in Haryana and this would lead to a direct loss to the market system and farmers of the State,” he said. Congress State president Kumari Selja said the decision would hit the farmers badly. She said even the rice traders would suffer a big blow. Such decisions make it evident that the State government was not concerned with securing the interests of anyone, she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-flays-haryana-for-anti-farmer-decision/article34982532.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Publishers give details under ethics code||Information and Broadcasting Ministry Joint Secretary Vikram Sahay said on Friday that over 1,500 publishers had so far submitted information in the formats prescribed under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The formats were released on May 26. “Several bodies/associations have sent communication regarding constitution of self-regulating body,” he said at a virtual interactive meeting organised by the Press Information Bureau (South Zone), Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, in association with the Film Federation of India. The session on Digital Media Ethics Code-2021 was attended by representatives of various digital media and film associations. Mr. Sahay said although many forms did not have details about self-regulating bodies, the publishers should nevertheless furnish the rest of the basic details. The bodies would come up in due course. The publishers could come together at the State or regional level to form such bodies headed by persons of eminence, if not retired Supreme Court/High Court judges, he said. Several entities in Kerala, Patna and Jammu & Kashmir had already expressed interest in forming small bodies. He clarified that digital media platforms that were part of traditional media outlets were not required to join a separate self-regulating body. “The concern is only one that once you are a news publisher, you are expected to adhere to the Code of Ethics. Anyone can get into this profession... there is no pre-registration, no prior permission required,” he said. The Joint Secretary said anyone who was into a casual enterprise of placing some news on intermediary platforms, or putting out non-news contents, was not a publisher. Such a person was required only to adhere to the due diligence part under the intermediary platform framework. The Code of Ethics for online news publishers essentially covers the norms of journalistic conduct under the Press Council Act, Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Rules), and non-transmission of prohibited contents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/publishers-give-details-under-ethics-code/article34981969.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||India ‘politicising’ FATF process: Pakistan||Pakistan’s Energy Minister Hammad Azhar on Friday accused India of attempting to “politicise the process” at the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), after the Paris-based UN watchdog decided to retain Pakistan on its greylist of countries under “increased monitoring”. “Whether [India] admits it or not, everyone at FATF knows that India’s goal is to make the technical forum a political one [by targeting] Pakistan. This is something we have raised with FATF officials in Paris as well,” he said. The MEA did not respond to Mr. Azhar’s accusation, but has in the past, dismissed all such charges. Confident of relief In the weeks leading up to the FATF plenary, Pakistan had been fairly confident of being let off the greylist during the June 21-25 plenary session. During the FATF proceedings, Pakistan is believed to have provided documentation that it has prosecuted around 30 UNSC designated terrorists and their associates, charging them in 70 terror financing cases, of which convictions were granted in about 50 cases. Unlike the next level “blacklist”, greylisting carries no legal sanctions, but it attracts economic strictures and restricts a country’s access to international loans. Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi had estimated a loss of $10 billion annually to the economy for every year Pakistan has been on the greylist. He had said earlier this week that there was “no justification” for retaining Pakistan on the list, now that it had been adjudged compliant on 26 of 27 points. However, when asked on Friday whether Pakistan was treated fairly, given it had only one outstanding task, FATF President Marcus Pleyer was firm about the decision. “Our rules and procedures are very clear, all deficiencies must be addressed,” he said, adding that the FATF “treats all countries equally”. Mr. Azhar, who has been overseeing the FATF process, said the new combined action list of seven points was “relatively less challenging” than the previous 27-point list as it focusses largely on money laundering and that he was hopeful that Pakistan would be found compliant “within a year”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-politicising-fatf-process-pakistan/article34981981.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||President and First Lady embark on special train ride||President Ram Nath Kovind, accompanied by First Lady Savita Devi Kovind, boarded a special train from the Safdarjung railway station on Friday to travel to his native place Kanpur. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Chairman of the Railway Board Suneet Sharma were present at the station to see him off. “President Kovind boards a special Presidential train from Safdarjung railway station to Kanpur. The train will make two stop-overs, at Jhinjhak and Rura of Kanpur Dehat, and will reach Kanpur Central in the evening,” the official handle of the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted. The two stops have been organised to facilitate Mr. Kovind’s interaction with his old acquaintances from his schooldays, a statement from Rashtrapati Bhavan said. “On June 28, the President will board the train at Kanpur Central railway station to reach Lucknow for his two-day visit to the State capital. On June 29, he will a return to New Delhi on a special flight,” a statement said. After a gap of 15 years, Mr. Kovind has revived the tradition of the Head of State travelling in a presidential saloon. The last time an incumbent President used a presidential saloon was in 2006 when A.P.J Abdul Kalam travelled from Delhi to Dehradun to attend a passing out parade of cadets at the Indian Military Academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-and-first-lady-embark-on-special-train-ride/article34981999.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC allows Mamata, Minister to file fresh affidavits in Narada case||The Supreme Court on Friday annulled a Calcutta High Court order of June 9 refusing to consider the affidavits filed by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Law Minister Moloy Ghatak and the State government countering allegations about their role on the day of the arrest of four TMC leaders by the CBI in the Narada sting tape case. A Vacation Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari allowed Ms. Banerjee, Mr. Ghatak and the government to apply to the High Court again for permission to file their affidavits. It requested the High Court to consider their applications afresh on June 29, the next date of hearing. It asked the High Court to consider their applications first before going further into the merits of the case. The Supreme Court did not get into the merits of the case, but went to the extent of opining that the petitioners (Ms. Banerjee, Mr. Ghatak and government) ought to have first applied to the High Court, urging it to take their counter-affidavits on record, “especially when the arguments were going on [in the Narada case] and had progressed substantially”.  The CBI had objected to the filing of counter affidavits by the petitioners and argued that the High Court’s June 9 order was fully justified. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had argued that the petitioners had “fully participated” in the hearings and they had “waived their right” to file their replies. Senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Vikas Singh, for the petitioners, said the High Court, instead of refusing the affidavits, should have taken them on record in the normal course of the hearings. Mr. Singh said the CBI did not have to file an application before submitting its affidavits. Mr. Dwivedi said the affidavits were “essential” to the case and provided the truth about the events of May 17, day of arrest of four TMC leaders. The separate plea by Ms. Banerjee in the Supreme Court contended that the CBI was trying to malign the State Ministers without any proof to substantiate its allegations against them. She said it was essential to allow her to file an affidavit to counter the agency’s claims that she “terrorised” them by protesting outside their office. Mr. Dwivedi countered the CBI’s claims that Mr. Ghatak was present in the courtroom with a mob when the four TMC leaders were produced after their arrest. He said the Minister was in an official meeting at the time. Even CBI officials were not present at the spot as the hearing was held virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-allows-mamata-minister-to-file-fresh-affidavits-in-narada-case/article34981973.ece
26 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||274 people in Odisha study found COVID-19-positive after two jabs||The Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar, an Indian Council of Medical Research institute, has examined 274 persons infected with COVID-19 two weeks after receiving two doses of the vaccines. From March 1 to June 10, nasopharyngeal swab and serum samples of vaccinated individuals were collected from various healthcare facilities in Odisha and sent to RMRC. Individuals who tested positive in RT-PCR test 14 days after taking both doses of either Covaxin or Covishield were considered breakthrough cases. 361 samples A total of 361 samples of vaccinated individuals were referred to RMRC. All the 361 samples were found positive in RT-PCR test, but 87 were excluded as they were either not fully vaccinated or had not completed 14 days after the second dose. “Out of the 274 samples with confirmed breakthrough infection, 35 (12.8%) had received Covaxin and 239 (87.2%) received Covishield,” said RMRC in its report. Meanwhile, the State reported its first case of the Delta Plus variant from the Deogarh district on Friday. “Contact tracing of the infected person will be carried out diligently,” said C.B.K. Mohanty, Director of Medical Education and Training, Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/274-people-in-odisha-study-found-covid-19-positive-after-two-jabs/article34982012.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Third wave may not be as severe as second’||A potential third wave of COVID-19 would unlikely be as severe as the second wave, as per a modelling study by a team of scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Imperial College London, U.K. For it to be as devastating, at least 30% of the population who had been infected earlier must entirely lose their immunity, or an emerging variant of the virus must have a reproductive rate (R) over 4.5, and these must occur almost immediately after the second wave ends. The authors, who include Balram Bhargava, Director-General, ICMR, and Samiran Panda, Head, Infectious Disease Unit, ICMR, suggest that these scenarios are implausible. “...For a virus to cause a major third wave in the face of this pre-existing immunity, extreme scenarios for the abrogation of that immunity are required, or for that matter, for the transmission fitness of any novel virus,” they report in their article that appears in the in-house Indian Journal of Medical Research as a pre-print. The scientists modelled a potential third wave under several scenarios: a complete loss of immunity from previous waves; emergence of a variant that was more infectious and capable of thwarting immunity than the ones observed; the impact of moving out of lockdowns; and the role of a highly infectious variant in case of a certain percentage of people getting vaccinated. Expanding vaccination Results showed that under all these situations, the peak infections remained much lower than in the second wave, unless the R rate exceeded 4.5, or those previously susceptible exceeded 30%. The emergence of a third wave could be buffered by expanding vaccination, they say. The authors calculate that were vaccines rolled out in a way to cover 40% of the population with two doses over a period of three months following the end of the second wave, it could reduce symptomatic incidence by around 55%.  However, Dr. Panda told The Hindu that while several factors needed to converge for a third wave as devastating as the second, complacency in observing safety could be dangerous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/third-wave-may-not-be-as-severe-as-second/article34982015.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.P. ranked best under Smart Cities Mission||Uttar Pradesh was on Friday ranked the best State, and Indore and Surat were jointly named the best cities by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry for their work under the Smart Cities Mission. At a virtual event to mark the sixth anniversary of the launch of the Smart Cities Mission, the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U), the Ministry announced that Uttar Pradesh had been ranked one, Madhya Pradesh was second and Tamil Nadu third in the India Smart Cities Awards 2020. The Ministry said in a statement that 22% in terms of the total value of the projects proposed and 52% in terms of the total number of projects proposed by the 100 Smart Cities had been completed so far. “It is also noteworthy that the average monthly expenditure in the Smart Cities Mission has almost doubled in the last year,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-ranked-best-under-smart-cities-mission/article34981968.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,||Carrier will be the Navy’s most potent platform||The first indigenous carrier (IAC) is expected to have its maiden entry into the sea for a series of trials before September this year, and delivery to the Navy is slated for early 2022. Basin trials of the vessel being built by Cochin Shipyard were completed in November 2020, but travel restrictions put the brakes on its preparations for sea trials. The vessel, to be named Vikrant after the decommissioned maiden carrier of the Navy, will have an air component of 30 aircraft, comprising MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 airborne early warning helicopters and the soon-to-be-inducted MH-60R multi-role helicopter, besides the indigenous Advanced Light Helicopters. With an overall length of 263 metre and a breadth of 63 metre, it is the largest vessel made in India and carries a price tag of about Rs. 20,000 crore. The towering vessel has a total of 15 decks and a displacement of 40,000 tonnes. It is expected to have a top speed of 30 knots (approximately 55 kmph) and is propelled by four gas turbines. The shipborne weapons include Barak LR SAM and AK-630, while it has MFSTAR and RAN-40L 3D radars as sensors. The vessel has a Shakti EW Suite.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/carrier-will-be-the-navys-most-potent-platform/article34981971.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||CBSE optional exams in August, says Minister||Aspirants of professional entrance examinations such as JEE and NEET also wanted to know if and when their examinations would be held. The engineering entrance test JEE-Main is held four times a year, but two sessions scheduled for April and May had been suspended because of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The undergraduate medical entrance test NEET is scheduled to be held on August 1 as of now. There is also uncertainty regarding the Central Universities Common Entrance Test, with questions being raised whether it will apply to all central institutions this year, including those like the University of Delhi and the Jawaharlal Nehru University which have previously used Class 12 marks or their own entrance tests for admissions. Current students of Class 10 and 12 have raised queries regarding the syllabus for 2021-22, seeking clarity on whether the 30% reduction announced last year would continue, given that teaching and learning is still being disrupted by school closures due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-optional-exams-in-august-says-minister/article34981974.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||IT Minister slams Twitter for blocking his account||The incident comes in the midst of a tussle between the Centre and Twitter over the company’s failure to comply with the new IT Act Rules, which came into effect a month ago. Mr. Prasad said his account was blocked for almost an hour. He shared a screenshot of Twitter’s notice which said that it had received “a compliant Digital Millennium Copyright Act notice for content posted on your account”, and warned that “accruing multiple DMCA strikes could lead to a suspension of your account”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-minister-slams-twitter-for-blocking-his-account/article34981975.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala ‘excess deaths’ 1.6 times official toll||If instead of averages, a year-by-year growth rate of deaths is considered from 2015 to 2021, the 3,03,313 registered deaths in the State were still lower than the estimated 3,12,664 deaths between April 2020 and May 2021. Yet, as registrations for recent months are not fully complete, we utilised the averages method for better approximation. Among districts, while Thiruvananthapuram registered the most COVID-19 deaths (1,745), the estimated excess deaths for the pandemic period was lower (941). Kannur (2,149), Palakkad (1,762) and Malappuram (1,634) recorded the highest number of excess deaths, with undercount factors 3.5, 2.9 and 2.4 respectively. Idukki (5.1) and Kasaragod (4.8) also recorded high undercounts but had fewer excess deaths (316 and 724 respectively). Kozhikode and Pathanamthitta also register fewer excess deaths than the actual COVID-19 tally. Rajan Khobragade, Principal Secretary (Health), Kerala, told The Hindu , “Since March-April 2020, we have followed a system where deaths occurring will be reported in the medical bulletin. Those who died after testing positive had been counted and reported. A State-level death audit committee looked at all deaths due to communicable diseases and accordingly the reports were updated. We may be the only State doing this properly by a multi disciplinary team of doctors.” The State government had taken into account concerns about possible omission of deaths due to COVID-19, especially in some cases where patients recovered from COVID-19, tested negative and then died due to health complications. Since June 15, following criticism about the manner in which Kerala was reporting COVID-19 deaths, the State government has introduced an online, real time COVID-19 death reporting system, wherein all deaths would be entered directly by doctors onto the WHO’s reporting format. The medical bulletins would be checked, the deaths compiled and the count released by districts. A reconciliation of the death figures in June with 3,766 COVID-19 deaths having been registered till date, could also reduce the undercount factor for the year as more data come in. Arun N.M., a consultant in Internal Medicine in Palakkad and one who has been closely studying the State’s COVID deaths, however, said, “It is too early to calculate excess deaths because even the deaths which occurred in 2020 are still being registered.” He added, “Kerala definitely fares well in comparison to other States because most COVID deaths happen in hospitals and our testing and case detection has been very good.” A Technical Paper released by the Department of Health & Family Welfare in March 2021 pointed to the fact that in 2020, despite the first wave, there was “a 5.5% reduction in absolute number of deaths in 2020 when compared to 2019. When converted to crude death rates it was 7. 5/1,000 population in 2019 and ..only 7.2 per 1,000 population in 2020”. It attributed this reduction to “preventive and curative health services” by the department. The lockdowns also contributed to a reduction in deaths due to fewer road traffic accidents, respiratory illnesses and food/water borne illnesses as people stayed indoors.   (With inputs from C. Maya in Thiruvananthapuram and data support from Sumant Sen)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-excess-deaths-16-times-official-toll/article34981983.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||DRDO tests enhanced range Pinaka rocket||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Friday successfully test fired the enhanced range versions of the indigenously developed 122 mm calibre rocket as well as the extended range version of indigenously developed Pinaka rocket from a Multi-Barrel Rocket Launcher (MBRL) at integrated test range, Chandipur in Odisha. “Four enhanced range version of 122mm rockets were test fired with full instrumentation and they met the complete mission objectives. These rockets have been developed for Army applications and can destroy targets up to 40 km,” a DRDO statement said. This enhanced rocket system would replace the existing 122mm Grad rockets. In a second statement, the DRDO said that 25 enhanced Pinaka rockets were launched in quick succession against targets at different ranges on June 24 and 25. “The enhanced range version of Pinaka rocket system can destroy targets at distances up to 45 kms,” it stated. Both the Pinaka and the 122 mm rockets were developed by Pune-based Armament Research and Development Establishment and High Energy Materials Research Laboratory with manufacturing support from Economic Explosives Limited, Nagpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-tests-enhanced-range-pinaka-rocket/article34981985.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||OFB federations threaten to go on indefinite strike||The three main recognised federations of defence civilian employees of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) have threatened to go on an indefinite strike against the Union Cabinet decision to split the organisation into seven corporate entities. They have jointly written a letter to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Secretary Defence Production Raj Kumar protesting against the “arbitrary, one-sided and biased decision” in violation of all the previous written agreements and assurances, and demanded it be withdrawn. “It is astonishing that when negotiations are pending, conciliation process is inconclusive, in the absence of the federations in the conciliation meeting held on June 15, 2021, the government has taken a hurried decision to corporatise the OFB into seven entities,” the federations said in the letter dated June 23. On June 16, the Cabinet approved the corporatisation plan to turn the OFB, which has 41 factories, into seven fully government-owned corporate entities for better management and improvement of efficiency. The letter stated that the Secretary DP had agreed to arrange a meeting with the Empowered Group of Ministers (EGoM) formed to oversee the corporatisation to discuss about the alternate proposals given by the federations. “It is a clear case of betrayal by the government, because Secretary, DP himself has asked the federations to give a viable alternate and robust proposal to MoD which would be submitted to the EGOM for a discussion with the federations, so that OFB could achieve the higher expectations of its customers, being in the government set up itself,” it said. The federations said that the entire process to corporatise the OFB is “stage-managed, hasty and taken in a hurried manner, without any application of mind about the impact of this decision on the defence preparedness of our country and also about the future and service conditions of 76,000 employees”. The letter noted that employees were recruited as Central government employees, and as per Article 309 of the Constitution, there was no mention in their appointment letters that their status would be changed during the service period and would have to work in Corporation or Public Sector Undertakings (PSU). The federations, as well as three other associations, have called for a joint meeting on June 27.  The decision is stage-managed, hasty and taken in a hurried manner Letter from OFB federations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ofb-federations-threaten-to-go-on-indefinite-strike/article34981988.ece
26 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Third body of trapped coal miner retrieved||Rescue workers on Friday afternoon retrieved the third body of the miners trapped in a coal mine in Meghalaya’s East Jaintia Hills district since June 30. The body of the first miner was fished out by a team of Navy personnel on June 16 and the second on June 24. The trapped miners were among a dozen workers who were operating illegally in a 500 ft deep rat-hole coal mine at Krem Ule in the district’s Umpleng area. District Deputy Commissioner Ethelbert Kharmalki said an inquest was conducted by an executive magistrate at the spot and the body was later transported to the civil hospital in district headquarters Khliehriat for post mortem. “We have informed the relatives of the victims from Cachar, Barpeta and Kamrup districts in Assam and North Tripura district through their respective Superintendent of Police to identify the retrieved bodies,” he said. No one has come forward to identify the bodies, he added. The Navy team is being assisted by the personnel of the National Disaster Response Force, the State Disaster Response Force and the local police. Officials said intermittent heavy showers and the tendency of interconnected mines to fill up with water have been hampering the operations to retrieve the bodies. The police had arrested the former and current owners of the Krem Ule mine. Both are out on bail while the contractor of labourers has been absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/third-body-of-trapped-coal-miner-retrieved/article34982530.ece
26 June 2021||Srinagar,||Afghan exit by U.S. may bring infiltrators: Army||The Army on Friday said the U.S. pull-out from Afghanistan this year may result in some militants moving into Kashmir. “Whatever happened 30 years ago has caused a huge distress to the people of Kashmir. Yes, there is a possibility that the U.S. forces’ pull-out from Afghanistan may push some militants into Kashmir, but the situation is not what it was 30 years ago,” General officer Commanding (GoC), 15 Corps, Lieutenant General D.P. Pandey, said on the sidelines of a passing out parade of a JAKLI regimental in Srinagar. Lt. Gen. Pandey said the Army was ready and fully geared to foil all infiltrations and face every challenge, whether on the Line of Control (LoC) or the hinterland. There had been zero infiltration this year. “Launch pads, however, are active,” he added. “A ceasefire or not, the Army’s eyes are set on our enemy. We are ready to face any misadventure. We are ready to respond at every level effectively,” he noted. ‘Balance of forces’ On the situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, he stated, “Given the Chinese situation on the LAC, a balance of forces is being maintained.” On Thursday, the GoC said all the parameters of violence in Kashmir have come down by 50% and the situation was very good with stability across the Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghan-exit-by-us-may-bring-infiltrators-army/article34981994.ece
26 June 2021||Mumbai,||SIT to probe fake camps for vaccination in Mumbai||After reports of fake COVID-19 vaccination camps being held in the city, the Mumbai Police on Friday said that it has formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the racket. A total of six instances in the city have been identified where fake vaccination drives were conducted and saw the attendance of more than 1,500 people. The racket came to light on June 17 after a camp at a residential complex in Kandivli, where many residents complained of not receiving vaccination certificates. “A Special Investigation Team under Deputy Commissioner of Police Vishal Thakur has been constituted,” said a Mumbai Police official. The other vaccination drives under a shadow were held at Aditya College, Borivali (225 vaccinations); Manasi Shares & Stock, Shimpoli, Borivali (514 vaccinations); Poddar Education Centre, Parel (207 vaccinations); Tips Company, Andheri (151 vaccinations), Tips Company, Khar (206 vaccinations) and Bank of Baroda, Malad (40 vaccinations). The police have arrested 10 individuals, including Shivraj Paratia and Nita Shivraj Pataria of Shivam Hospital, as the alleged fake vaccines were provided through this hospital to the society in Kandivli. Mahendra Singh, Sanjay Gupta and Karim Akbarali were arrested for organising the camp at Kandivli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sit-to-probe-fake-camps-for-vaccination-in-mumbai/article34982011.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Delhi govt. exaggerated oxygen needs by 4 times’||A report submitted by a Supreme Court-appointed oxygen audit team led by AIIMS Director Dr. Randeep Guleria said the Delhi government “exaggerated” its oxygen needs by four times during the peak days of the second wave of the pandemic. But the report also quoted the Delhi government’s version that the supply of oxygen from neighbouring States was “erratic and unreliable” at the time. The report is annexed with an affidavit filed by the Union Health Ministry in the Supreme Court. The Sub-group on Oxygen Audit Delhi, led by Dr. Guleria, recorded in its interim report that there was “gross discrepancy” in claims of oxygen consumption in Delhi. “There was gross discrepancy [about four times] in that the actual oxygen consumption claimed [1140 MT] was about four times higher than the calculated consumption based on the formula for bed capacity [289 MT],” the report said. However, the sub-group referred to the Delhi government’s version that the schedule for the supply of oxygen was awry during May. Delhi had required adequate liquid medical oxygen stock to treat COVID-19 patients. It had to replenish its oxygen supply and avoid an “SOS situation which the State had witnessed after April 24 on a consistent basis”. At one point, the report recorded, the Centre was “anguished” over the discrepancy in liquid medical oxygen data uploaded. The report said it was not clear “on what basis an allocation of 700 MT was sought by the Government of Delhi in the Supreme Court when the collected data had so many gross errors and it took an oxygen audit to point out the same”. On May 5, the court ordered the Centre to prepare a “comprehensive plan” for the supply of 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi on a daily basis.  But the sub-group report noted that the “Government of Delhi used a wrong formula and made exaggerated claims on April 30” in the court. “Some hospitals could not differentiate between KL and MT and the same was not examined while projecting 700 MT,” the report said. It was “obvious there was an excess supply of oxygen to Delhi … Tankers in Delhi could not offload oxygen and were lying idle as oxygen tanks in various hospitals were completely filled”, it said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-govt-exaggerated-oxygen-needs-by-4-times/article34982018.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra reports first fatality from Delta Plus||An 80-year-old patient from Ratnagiri district in the Konkan region became Maharashtra’s first fatality due to the Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus, Health Minister Rajesh Tope confirmed on Friday. District officials said the deceased, who was from Sangameshwar taluk, was also suffering from other age-related comorbidities. Mr. Tope said of the 21 Delta plus patients identified thus far in seven districts across Maharashtra, only one had succumbed to the infection; the others were stable and some had been discharged. However, urging people to observe COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, the Health Minister ruled out suggestions for an immediate stringent lockdown. “The Delta variant is not new … with one death, the remaining 20 cases are being closely monitored by authorities. While there are not a large number of patients at present, we are collecting more samples in each of the 36 districts and the National Center for Disease Control is assisting the State government in this,” he said. He observed that the proportion of the cases in which the Delta plus variants were detected was barely 0.005%. “So, while the Delta plus type has not yet grown significantly and not an immediate matter of concern, the variant’s properties are serious,” Mr. Tope said. The most cases have been found in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai, and one each in Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-reports-first-fatality-from-delta-plus/article34982023.ece
26 June 2021||Kolkata,||NHRC teams visit areas hit by post-poll violence||Officials of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) have started visiting areas in north and south Bengal affected by violence after the Assembly polls. Two separate teams arrived in the State on Thursday. On Friday one team visited Cooch Behar in north Bengal, while the other travelled to Harao and Sandeshkhali in North 24 Parganas. The members of the team spoke to villagers in these two affected areas. A five-judge Bench of the Calcutta High Court headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on June 18 urged the chairperson of NHRC to set up a committee to look into allegations of post-poll violence while hearing a writ petition on the issue. In its order, the court had asked the Committee to suggest “steps to be taken to ensure confidence of the people that they can peacefully live in their houses and also carry on their occupation or business to earn their livelihood” and point out “persons prima facie responsible for crime and the officers who maintained calculated silence on the issue”. The State government’s request to the high court to recall the order was turned down on June 21. On the same day the NHRC set up a committee led by Rajiv Jain, member of Commission, National Commission for Minorities vice-chairman Atif Rasheed, NHRC’s (director) investigation Santosh Mehra, and DIG (investigation) Manzil Saini. Raju Mukherjee, member secretary West Bengal State Legal Services Authority, and Pradip Kumar Panja, registrar of West Bengal Human Rights Commission, are also part of the committee. It is expected to visit South 24 Parganas and Birbhum, which reported incidents of post-poll violence. Earlier, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited Cooch Behar and Nandigram. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has maintained that “ stray incidents” of violence occurred before her government was sworn in and the administration was under the Election Commission.  Point out persons prima facie responsible for crime and the officers who maintained calculated silence on the issue Calcutta High Court order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-teams-visit-areas-hit-by-post-poll-violence/article34981978.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra tightens curbs||Amid concerns of the spread of the new Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus, the Maharashtra government on Friday issued new orders tightening curbs by imposing three levels of unlocking norms as opposed to the previous five levels which are to be applied to across the State. The first two levels, which permitted maximum relaxations for districts and cities have been removed till further orders, as per the notification issued by State Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. The new orders follow soon after the State reported the country’s first fatality of the new variant, an 80-year-old man who succumbed to the virus in Ratnagiri district. “Given that the virus causing COVID-19 is undergoing mutations in various geographies and that these mutations are displaying more transmissibility and potential reductions in monoclonal antibody response, a State Level Trigger mandating all the administrative units, irrespective of values of the indices of weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage to remain at a level not below 3 is to be in operation till withdrawn by the specific order of the State Disaster Management Authority,” reads the order. As per the new order, districts or municipal corporations with a weekly positivity rate of between 5-10% or oxygen bed occupancy over 40% will now be classified under level 3. In this category, shops selling essentials can stay open till 4 p.m. on all days and those selling non-essentials are allowed to operate only on weekdays. Malls and theatres will remain shut in these areas while section 144 of the CrPC will be in force and public movement after 5 p.m. must be minimal. Gyms, saloons will be open only till 4 p.m. with appointments and air-conditioners will not be allowed to run inside the premises. Restaurants can stay open till 4 p.m. only on weekdays with only takeaways permitted thereafter. Construction activities will be allowed with 50% staff. The order directs district authorities to make attempts to achieve at least 70% of the eligible population at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-tightens-curbs/article34982719.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ineffable ways of Devi||The stories in the Devi Bhagavata Purana illustrate how many have propitiated the excellent Goddess Devi and have been recipients of Her boundless grace. She is the Supreme, Parama Shakti who is the cause of creation and of all beings including the Trimurtis. In her Supreme State she is the Nirguna Shakti. She is not the object of jnana, but is the very essence of jnana and hence beyond the reach of even great yogis. But She is also manifest as Saguna Shakti, when it is possible for many of us to worship and serve her with full meditation and involvement. That is why many devout souls have become enlightened through Her grace, explains Vyasa to Janamejaya when he relates the story of one Sudarsana, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. In the case of Sudarsana, though he is the heir apparent of the kingdom of Kosala, circumstances had forced him to suffer exile even when he was a child. But he had the good fortune to obtain the powerful Kama Bija Mantra of Devi. Though he was not aware of its power and the method of meditation, he began to chant it with devotion. In course of time, when he lived with the rishis in their hermitage, he was initiated into the proper way of Devi upasana that led him towards the highest form of bhakti, Parama bhakti, believed to confer Darsana of the Goddess to the aspirant. So, when a situation arose in his life and he had to face his enemies, Devi personally intervened and fought on his behalf, killed them and bestowed the kingdom to him. Devi also is Maya Shakti that deludes people and immerses them in the ocean of samsara infected with crocodiles of lust, anger, greed, etc. But She alone is the boat to lead them out of this mess if only they worship her with devotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ineffable-ways-of-devi/article34982001.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul meets former Punjab PCC chief||The Congress leadership continued to seek feedback from Punjab leaders to end the bitter factionalism, with former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi meeting Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo on Friday. Mr. Dullo, a former PCC president, has been a long-time critic of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Dullo seemed critical of former Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu as well without naming him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-meets-former-punjab-pcc-chief/article34981977.ece
26 June 2021||Srinagar,||Militant killed in Shopian operation||One militant was killed and another surrendered in an anti-militancy operation in south Kashmir’s Shopian on Friday. Security forces also foiled an infiltration in north Kashmir’s Tangdhar the same day. A police spokesman said the encounter occurred in Hanjipora village of Kachdoora hamlet in Shopian. The operation, carried out jointly by the police, the Army’s 34 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF against some hiding militants, apparently followed a tip-off. The police did not identify the slain militant. “A terrorist of the Lashkar-e-Taiba surrendered along with an AK-56 rifle,” the police said. The police said an infiltration bid was stopped in Kupwara. “The Kupwara police, along with the Army’s 7RR and Border Security Forces’ 87 Battalion, foiled an infiltration bid at Tangdhar area,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militant-killed-in-shopian-operation/article34981997.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||Pawar flags ‘misuse’ of central agency||Hitting out at the Enforcement Directorate raids on senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh’s Mumbai and Nagpur residences, party chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said the sole objective of the investigations was to harass Mr. Deshmukh. “It is out of despair and frustration that the ED was set upon Mr. Deshmukh… This misuse of central agencies is a new pattern of the BJP-ruled Centre. Even prior to this, central agencies had their eye on businesses owned by Mr. Deshmukh’s son. At that time, too, they failed to unearth anything. Anil Deshmukh is not the first to face such action. So, we are not unduly worried by all this,” said Mr. Pawar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawar-flags-misuse-of-central-agency/article34982000.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NTF calls for 100 MT storage in metro cities||All 18 metro cities have to be made oxygen-independent, with at least 100 MT storage in each of them, the Supreme Court-appointed National Task Force (NTF) recommended. There should be a strategy to manufacture oxygen locally or in the neighbourhood of big cities to fulfil at least 50% of their Liquid Medical Oxygen demand as road transportation is vulnerable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ntf-calls-for-100-mt-storage-in-metro-cities/article34982019.ece
26 June 2021||Kolkata,||In Kolkata, antibiotic given as jab||Kolkata officials alleged that at several camps, instead of COVID-19 vaccine, people were administered Amikacin, an antibiotic. Medical teams have been sent to assess such people. Apart from the fake centre at Kasba, which was busted after Trinamool Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty raised an alarm earlier this week, two other centres have surfaced — City College in north Kolkata and Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas — where the accused, Debanjan Deb, vaccinated a few hundred people. Officials of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) have over the past two days sent medical teams to the areas to assess those who got jabs at these camps. Investigation has revealed that Mr. Deb posed as a Joint Commissioner of the KMC and defrauded people for several months. He not only forged documents of the KMC but also opened a fake account of the civic body. He was actively engaged in making transactions with medical suppliers. The 28-year-old is the son of a retired bureaucrat and his photographs with several leaders, including senior functionaries of the Indian Medical Association, have surfaced. Businessmen and those engaged as his staff said they did not suspect any wrongdoing as Mr. Deb had the necessary documents. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari has demanded a probe by a central investigation agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-kolkata-antibiotic-given-as-jab/article34982022.ece
26 June 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya sets condition for opening shops||Shopkeepers, vendors and passenger vehicle operators in Meghalaya can opt out of COVID-19 vaccination to resume business. But they will need to undergo tests every 10 days for the safety of others. The East Khasi Hills district administration issued an order directing the staff members of shops, business establishments and drivers to get tested periodically if they choose not to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-sets-condition-for-opening-shops/article34982491.ece
26 June 2021||Balrampur,||6 of family drown as car plunges into pond in U.P.||Six members of a family drowned after their car overturned and fell into a pond on Balrampur-Tulsipur road on Friday, police said. The car overturned while trying to save a motorcyclist, who was also injured in the mishap and referred to a hospital in Gonda town, police said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-of-family-drown-as-car-plunges-into-pond-in-up/article34982481.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||NIA files charge sheet against 7 suspected terrorists in J&K||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet against seven alleged Tehreek-ul- Mujahideen (TuM) terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. The accused have been identified as Mohammed Mustafa Khan, Yaseen, Farooq, Ibrar, Javid Khan, Sher Ali and Rafiq Nai. The case was initially registered in Poonch after the arrest of Mohammed Mustafa Khan and alleged seizure of six hand grenades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-7-suspected-terrorists-in-jk/article34981991.ece
26 June 2021||Lucknow,||News portal The Wire, journalist booked in U.P.||An FIR was lodged against news portal The Wire in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly spreading false information that religious scriptures of a particular community were thrown into a river and drain following the demolition of a mosque by the administration in Barabanki. The FIR was lodged over a documentary by the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/news-portal-the-wire-journalist-booked-in-up/article34981992.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC declines to stay release of film based on Sushant||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to stay the release of movie Nyay: The Justice , purportedly based on the late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, in cinema halls and on OTT platforms, saying there is no “unholy interest” in the story of the man’s life which was “exceptional”.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-declines-to-stay-release-of-film-based-on-sushant/article34981996.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||SII manufacturing first batch of Covovax COVID-19 vaccine, says Poonawalla||The first batch of Covovax, a COVID-19 vaccine developed by Novavax Inc, is being manufactured at the Serum Institute of India’s Pune facility, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Friday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-manufacturing-first-batch-of-covovax-covid-19-vaccine-says-poonawalla/article34982008.ece
26 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Kimin row: FIR against Arunachal CM||A youth organisation in Arunachal Pradesh lodged an FIR against Chief Minister Pema Khandu over the Kimin row. The All Arunachal Pradesh Abo Tani Students’ Union said in the FIR that Mr. Khandu connived with the BRO authority “to cede the Kimin-Potin portion of Arunachal Pradesh to Assam”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kimin-row-fir-against-arunachal-cm/article34982016.ece
26 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam home guard who refused bribe to be made constable||Borsing Bey, an Assam home guard who refused to take bribe from drug dealers and helped the police recover high-grade crystal methamphetamine worth Rs. 12 crore, would be appointed as a constable. The Himanta Biswa Sarma Cabinet took the decision on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-home-guard-who-refused-bribe-to-be-made-constable/article34982020.ece
26 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19 scare causes egret chicks’ deaths in Assam’s Tangla||A complaint over a “theory” that bird droppings spread COVID-19 led to the death of scores of egret chicks in Udalguri district of Assam. A notice was issued to five persons of Ward Number 1asking them to cut down their bamboo groves, where the egrets nested. It says: “Your neighbours have complained that the egrets nesting on your bamboo groves are destroying the environment with their urine and droppings. This can spread corona infection too. You are thereby asked to cut down the bamboo groves for a cleaner, healthier surrounding.” On Friday, a team was sent to chop the groves at a person’s land. But the nests came crashing down, killing about 300 chicks, said locals. Locals said the chicks died before wildlife activists could bring the gravity of the municipal board’s action to the notice of the district authorities. A severe crime “Destroying of habitat and nests of birds are treated as severe crime under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. If bird droppings threaten public health, then the Tangla Municipality Board should regularly clean the ground instead of threatening the landowners, who did not invite the birds. The birds are not pets either,” Dilwar Hussain, member of central Assam’s Laokhowa Burhachapori Wildlife Conservation Society in central Assam’s Nagaon district, wrote in an email to the Udalguri authorities. “Let the municipal board make alternative arrangements and serve notice to the birds to vacate the municipality area,” he said. Udalguri Deputy Commissioner P. Uday Praveen said he had asked the municipal authorities to stop hewing down any more trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-scare-causes-egret-chicks-deaths-in-assams-tangla/article34982021.ece
26 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||SI held for sexually assaulting minor girl||A sub-inspector of police has been arrested and remanded for sexual assaulting a 15-year-old girl in Madhavaram. The mother and aunt of the victim have also been arrested. Police identified the offender as Sathish Kumar, 37, a resident of Tiruvallur. He was working in a special team attached to the Kasimedu police station. During the period, he had been working in the Madhavaram Milk Depot area and had become acquainted with the victim’s 37-year-old mother while he was regulating crowds in a ration shop. He later visited her house frequently and started an illicit relationship. The girl found out about the relationship and threatened to disclose it to her father. However, Sathish allegedly kept her under control by threatening to kill her father and brother. The relationship continued for a year and during this time, the sub-inspector started making sexual advances towards the girl. Sathish managed to convince her mother and aunt to force the girl to agree to his demands. He tried to lure her with a birthday cake and a high-end mobile phone, and gave Rs. 1 lakh in cash to her mother and aunt to force the girl to fall in line. Unable to bear the harassment meted out by him, the girl told her father, who was threatened by the sub-inspector when he went to lodge a complaint with the police. Following the publication of the issue on a news portal, an investigation was ordered by high-level officers. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Madhavaram, E. Sundaravathanam held an inquiry and ordered Sathish’s arrest. A case was booked under Sections 9 (Aggravated sexual assault) (a) (Whoever, being a police officer, commits sexual assault on a child) and 10 (Punishment for Aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Sathish and the girl’s mother and aunt were lodged in prison after being produced in a court, the police said.  The accused gave Rs. 1 lakh in cash to her mother and aunt to force the girl to fall in line||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/si-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/article34982362.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||45% of cases from five western districts, Chennai||Five western districts, along with Chennai, accounted for 45% of the fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Friday. The State logged 5,755 cases and 150 deaths, taking the tally to 24,55,332 and toll to 32,051. Chennai reported fewer deaths than three districts — Coimbatore, Vellore and Tiruppur. There were 11 deaths in the city, while 26 people died in Coimbatore, 16 in Vellore and 13 in Tiruppur. The State has been registering a gradual decline in fresh cases over the past few weeks. As cases dipped below 6,000, 19 of the 37 districts reported fewer than 100 infections each. Among the western districts, Coimbatore recorded 698 cases, followed by Erode with 597. There were 398 cases in Salem, 361 in Tiruppur and 228 in Namakkal. In Chennai, 350 people tested positive for the infection. Three other districts had 200-plus cases — Chengalpattu (251), Thanjavur (277) and Tiruchi (220). The State’s active caseload stood at 47,318. Of these, 6,721 people are in Coimbatore, 4,695 in Erode and 3,611 in Chennai. A total of 8,132 people were discharged after treatment across the State. Of the 150 deceased, 125 had co-morbidities. They included an 18-year-old from Kanniyakumari, who had seizure disorder and cerebral palsy, and was admitted to the Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital on June 22. She died on June 24 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 23-year-old man from Ranipet died on June 22 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 1,71,117 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 3,20,17,144. Over 4 lakh vaccinated For the second day in a row, over four lakh people were vaccinated. A total of 4,29,001 people, including 2,57,859 in the 18-44 age group and 1,27,601 aged 45 to 59, received the vaccines. The overall coverage rose to 1,36,88,229.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-of-cases-from-five-western-districts-chennai/article34982378.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco resumes maintenance work after a gap of three months||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has started maintenance work on mission mode all over the city to prevent unscheduled power cuts. Maintenance work has been initiated in the backdrop of complaints being received from residents from various places about sudden disruption of electricity supply. The Assembly election and the announcement of the lockdown from May 10 had forced senior officials to stop all routine maintenance work. A senior Tangedco official said maintenance work was planned to be implemented after the Assembly election but with the announcement of the lockdown from May 10 to curtail the spread of COVID-19 infections during the second wave and based on the advice of Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji to provide uninterrupted power supply to residents, routine maintenance work could not be taken up for more than three months. The delay in carrying out maintenance — pruning of tree branches, tightening sagging overhead power lines, replacement of worn out conductors and switches and electrical equipment — had resulted in power outages caused by technical snags to transformers and junction boxes. Also, in several places the overgrowth of tree branches had resulted in the snapping of cables due to birds getting electrocuted. To overcome this, Tangedco has resumed routine maintenance in both the city’s north and south regions, covering several localities in Anna Salai, T. Nagar, Royapettah, Purasawalkam, Adyar, Taramani, Guindy, Kodambakkam, Ashok Nagar and the IT corridor of Sholinganallur, Thoraipakkam and Perungudi. Routine maintenance had resumed from May 19.  The official said previously, maintenance work was carried out from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. but now it had been curtailed till 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-resumes-maintenance-work-after-a-gap-of-three-months/article34982354.ece
26 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kattur village achieves 100% coverage with first dose of vaccine||All eligible residents of Kattur village in Tiruvarur district have been vaccinated against COVID-19, making it a model village for Tamil Nadu, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said. All 2,334 eligible beneficiaries of the village have received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccines. “The village in Koradacheri block has a total population of 3,332. A total of 998 people were excluded — persons aged less than 18 years, pregnant women and those who cannot take the vaccine on the basis of medical conditions. The remaining 2,334 eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated, and this is a model village for the State,” he told reporters on Thursday. He said that Tiruvarur MLA ‘Poondi’ Kalaivanan had taken up the initiative to achieve 100% vaccination and created awareness among the residents. This is the village where a memorial of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi is coming up. At the national level, Weyan village in Bandipora district in Jammu and Kashmir had earlier achieved 100% vaccination coverage, Mr. Subramanian said. The Minister said that in every district, the government had decided to prioritise vaccination of persons residing in villages near tourism destinations where public converge and places where there are memorials. “Accordingly, work to vaccinate all tribals and tea estate workers in the Nilgiris is in progress. All of them will be vaccinated in 10 days,” he added. Similarly, the government is aiming to achieve 100% vaccination in districts with less population, such as the Nilgiris and Ariyalur, he said.  On patients covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS), he said from March 23, 2020, to May 6, 2021, a total of 1,466 people were covered under the scheme with an approved amount of Rs. 6.95 crore. “After the DMK government took over on May 7, a total of 20,938 beneficiaries were covered under CMCHIS till June 23. The approved amount was around Rs. 266 crore. There was an appeal to include patients affected with mucormycosis under the CMCHIS. Accordingly, a total of 423 people affected with mucormycosis were treated under the scheme, with the approved amount being Rs. 1.27 crore,” he said.  The government has decided to prioritise vaccination of persons residing in villages near tourism destinations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kattur-village-achieves-100-coverage-with-first-dose-of-vaccine/article34982383.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation’s vaccination portal gets a good response||The online portal launched on Thursday by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to book slots for COVID-19 vaccination received an overwhelming response on day one with all slots getting booked in a few hours. People who tried to book early on Friday were in for disappointment as all the slots were full. Launching the portalgccvaccine.inon Thursday, the Corporation said that one-third of the doses allocated to each vaccination centre every day would be reserved for booking through the portal. The remaining two-thirds would be kept for walk-in beneficiaries. Apart from the portal, the Corporation announced two other modes of booking slots — by calling 044-46122300 or via WhatsApp on 9499933644. Of the total 17,300 Covishield doses that were available across 45 vaccination centres and 19 Urban Community Health Centres on Friday, one-thirds were reserved for online booking. Corporation officials said all the slots were booked soon after they opened. Late in the afternoon on Friday, 4,550 slots were opened for Saturday. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said more than 50% of these slots had been booked by Friday evening. “We are receiving very positive response for the portal. The idea is to ease the procedure and avoid queuing at the centres,” he said. He added that others who walk-in without appointments will be catered through a separate queue at the centre. Vishu Mahajan, Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance), said the slots would be opened a day in advance once the Corporation gets information on how many doses would be available for the following day. “The slots will be opened between 12 noon to 2 p.m. everyday,” he added. The Corporation has, however, opened the online booking at the moment only for Covishield. Mr. Mahajan said this was due to the special drive that was in progress until Saturday to administer the second dose of Covaxin to those who missed it. “Once that is over, Covaxin will also be available for online booking,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporations-vaccination-portal-gets-a-good-response/article34982350.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief handed over to kin of guard killed in robbery||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday handed over a cheque of Rs. 5 lakh as relief to the family members of an on-contract security guard at a temple who was killed by robbers. T. Babu was killed while on duty, when some persons attempted to rob the Arulmigu Theerthabaleeswarar temple. Mr. Stalin also handed over a cheque of Rs. 5 lakh as compensation to the family of Divakar, who was killed in a scaffolding collapse at the Arulmigu Nagappa Chetty Pillayar temple. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekar Babu, Commissioner of HR and CE J. Kumaragurubaran and Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-handed-over-to-kin-of-guard-killed-in-robbery/article34982357.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP condemns DMK’s usage of the term ‘union’ government||The State unit of the BJP on Friday condemned the usage of the term ‘union’ government instead of ‘Central’ government by the DMK. “The DMK thinks that it is demeaning the Central government by using the term when the Constitution only says, ‘India that is Bharat shall be Union of States’, and not as what [Chief Minister] Mr. Stalin keeps saying,” the party said at a meeting of its State executive committee. “The BJP considers that while there is no crime in saying union government, there is some other intention behind the DMK’s usage of the term,” a resolution adopted at the meeting said. The party said the government does not have any powers or rights to interfere in the day-to-day rituals of Hindu temples, selling temple land, appointingarchakasor office staff. Adopting a resolution to this effect, the party demanded that temple trustees be appointed immediately where there were none, but said this should be done based on guidelines framed by the judiciary. “Politicians should not appoint trustees,” the resolution said. The party demanded the removal of encroachments on temple lands and insisted that funds received from the use of such land must be used only for the temple’s expenses. The meeting was attended by Union Minister of State V.K. Singh, national general secretary in-charge for Tamil Nadu C.T. Ravi, national co-incharge Sudhakar Reddy and State president L. Murugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-condemns-dmks-usage-of-the-term-union-government/article34982385.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight more samples test positive for Delta Plus||Eight samples have returned positive for the Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus in Tamil Nadu. So far, this variant has been found in nine samples lifted from COVID-19 patients in the State. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said three samples sent from the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine and six sent by the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) had returned positive for the variant. While the DPH had sent nearly 1,150 samples to InStem, Bengaluru, for genomic sequencing to detect the SARS-CoV-2 variants, the NIE’s pool had a sample size of 457. Two days ago, the sample of a 32-year-old woman from Chennai had returned positive for the variant. Of the six samples sent by the NIE, three were from residents of Chennai and three from Tiruvallur. The samples were collected during the end of April and the first week of May and sent for analysis to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. All six of them had recovered from COVID-19. The remaining two samples — among those sent by the DPH — were from Kancheepuram and Madurai. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian told reporters on Friday that the person from Kancheepuram had recovered from COVID-19, while the Madurai resident had succumbed to the infection after which a sample was lifted. Their contacts were tested and found negative for COVID-19. “We will continue to send samples for genomic sequencing to InStem every month,” he said. The Minister pointed out that as of now, there were nearly 14 laboratories where genomic sequencing of the virus was being done in the country. All these laboratories came under the control of the Centre and followed ICMR guidelines, he said. “There are certain regulations and the need for approval to set up such a laboratory in Chennai. We have sought the Centre’s approval to set up a laboratory today. Equipment will cost around Rs. 2.5 crore... We are planning to complete the required processes in 20 to 25 days, and have identified two to three places... As of now, sending samples to Bengaluru and getting the results is taking a lot of time,” he said. Wards for the treatment of mucormycosis had been opened at all government medical college hospitals with a total of 7,000 beds. Thus far, 2,822 patients had been affected. On Thursday, the State vaccinated 4,32,044 people, the highest daily figure so far, Mr. Subramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-more-samples-test-positive-for-delta-plus/article34982372.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reiterates opposition to Mekedatu dam||The Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA), which met on Friday after six months, saw Tamil Nadu reiterating its position against the Mekedatu dam project of Karnataka. “We had strongly objected to anything to be done with regard to Mekedatu. The matter is sub judice. No clearance should be given [by the Central government],” said Sandeep Saxena, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS - Public Works) of the Tamil Nadu government. The 12th meeting of the authority, which lasted nearly 90 minutes, deferred the subject. Held online, the event was presided over by S.K. Haldar, Chairman of the Central Water Commission, with Rakesh Singh, ACS of the Water Resources Department of Karnataka; T.K. Jose, ACS (Water Resources) of Kerala; and A. Vikranth Raja, Secretary (Public Works) of Puducherry, being present. Representatives of the Union Ministries of Jal Shakti, Agriculture and Rural Development also took part. When the agenda was prepared for the meeting, the proceedings on Mekedatu were pending before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had, by then, issued notices to many, including the authority. This was why the subject had got included in the agenda. As a result, the matter came up in the meeting. [On June 17, the NGT closed the proceedings, pointing out that the Mekedatu issue had been raised by Tamil Nadu before the Supreme Court]. As the two riparian States — Karnataka and Tamil Nadu — opposed each other’s lift irrigation schemes, apart from the former objecting to the latter’s Cauvery-Gundar link project, the authority also decided to defer the subjects. Tamil Nadu had made it clear that all its schemes were “old”. The authority asked Karnataka to release water during June (9.19 thousand million cubic feet) and July (31.24 tmc ft) as per a schedule that was based on the Supreme Court’s judgment of 2018. Till June 23, Tamil Nadu recorded about 3.6 tmc ft, against its due of 7 tmc ft. By coincidence, the CWMA’s meeting took place on the day the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) delivered its interim award exactly 30 years ago. The interim award also had a larger significance than being a mere response to Tamil Nadu’s prayer for immediate relief then. For the first time in the country, a river water disputes tribunal gave an interim award which was, in turn, facilitated by a verdict of the Supreme Court. In 19 of the 30 water years, Tamil Nadu has realised more than its share of water as stipulated by the tribunal and later by the Supreme Court. On average, the State receives about 260 tmc ft annually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-reiterates-opposition-to-mekedatu-dam/article34982376.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. bags awards for COVID-19 management, waterbody clean-up||The Greater Chennai Corporation has won two awards for COVID-19 management and waterbody restoration at the national level contest organised by the Smart Cities Mission. The Corporation won the award for innovation in management of COVID-19, particularly for the use of tele-counselling for patients, home quarantine monitoring system, door-to-door surveillance, app for medical support and social media campaign.  Another award for the Corporation was announced for the restoration of waterbodies. The project has an estimated budget of Rs. 194 crore, including CSR funding. The city will get 0.87 tmc water and additional groundwater recharge of 4.35 tmc because of the restoration of 1,240 acres of water bodies, said Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. A total of 141 water bodies have been restored and 38 projects are under progress, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-bags-awards-for-covid-19-management-waterbody-clean-up/article34982358.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Goondas Act invoked against two persons||G. Rajagopalan, 59, the former commerce teacher of a city-based school who was arrested on charges of sexually harassing girl students, has been detained under the Goondas Act. He was arrested by the All-Women police, Ashok Nagar, last month, and has been lodged in the Central Prison, Puzhal. Social media commentator Kishore K. Swamy, held for derogatory content on social media, has been also detained under Goondas Act. City Commissioner Shankar Jiwal invoked the provisions to prevent the accused from indulging in further cyber offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goondas-act-invoked-against-two-persons/article34982359.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital uses new technology to carry out liver transplant||A 44-year-old man recently underwent a one-of-its-kind liver transplant. Nearly three months later, he is back to his normal self, said his wife Sakthi Devi. M. Ram Prabhu, who had liver cirrhosis, was listed for transplant in the State’s transplant registry for a year. The pandemic made it difficult to procure a cadaver organ for him. On two occasions, an organ was available from Chandigarh and Kolkata but the logistics of procuring it posed a hurdle. In March, when a patient admitted to MGM Healthcare died and his blood group (AB) matched with that of the donor, doctors prepared Mr. Ram Prabhu for transplant. But the donor liver’s condition was unstable owing to administration of high doses of blood pressure support drugs. A biopsy revealed that the liver had a fat content of 40%, said Thiagarajan Srinivasan, director of the Institute of Liver Diseases and Transplantation, MGM Hospital. “We kept it (the organ) in a dynamic cold perfusion for six hours. Normally, a liver, after retrieval from a brain dead donor, is perfused by static ice cold preservative solution,” he said. The surgeon used a hypothermic oxygenated perfusion (HOPE) liver pump that helped repair and improve the quality of the organ by pumping preservative fluid into the organ at a temperature of 4-6 degrees Celsius, and oxygen was further added to the fluid through a membrane oxygenator,” he said. The patient was prepared for surgery, and the organ was transplanted. Dr. Thiagarajan said around 20% of the liver was discarded because of its poor condition. He suggested that the State government set up perfusion centres in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai. These centres could help improve the quality of retrieved organs. Such organs can be perfused for as long as 24 hours. He said in western countries, hospitals retrieved donor organs and perfused them before finding a recipient. The cost of perfusion is around Rs. 3 to Rs. 4 lakh. Though some transplant centres in India had tried normothermic perfusion (using human blood to improve the quality of donor organs), the prohibitive costs had forced them to abandon the procedure, said Karthik Mathivanan, associate director of the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-uses-new-technology-to-carry-out-liver-transplant/article34982361.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR and CE helpline launched||For any complaint pertaining to temples being managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department, here is a helpline. Devotees can call 044-28339999 on all working days between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. and log in complaints relating to temple lands or ‘thiruppani’ works needed for temples or even allegations relating to the running of temples in their area. Minister for HR and CE P.K. Sekar Babu on Friday inaugurated the call centre located at the department’s headquarters in the presence of Secretary B. Chandramohan and Commissioner J. Kumaraguruparan. Already, the department had launched an online link, where devotees can post their complaints. “We have been getting complaints related to delays in conduct ofkumbhabhishekam, allegations against executive officers, trustees andthakkarsand even asking that Hindu temples be freed from the control of department,” said a source. The complaints would be sent to the respective Joint Commissioners and temples for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hr-and-ce-helpline-launched/article34982363.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Air France to introduce its Chennai-Paris link flight soon||Third time’s the charm for Air France, with the city all set to become the airline’s fourth Indian gateway. The French flag carrier will begin direct operations, once a week, from June 26 on the Paris Charles de Gaulle-Chennai-Paris sector. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent travel restrictions, the service, first scheduled for June 2020, was put off to October 26, and later rescheduled for this year. An airline spokesperson said the 9-hour-and-50-minute flight (AF108) will be operated with a 276-seater three-class configured Boeing 787-9, landing in Chennai at 11.45 p.m. For the inaugural flight (it will be a Boeing 777-200ER that day), the departure from Meenambakkam airport (AF107) will be on June 28 at 1.20 a.m. Thereafter, from July, the inbound flight will be every Thursday (from July 1) and the outbound flight every Saturday (from July 3). The official said the airline continues to fly to Bengaluru, Mumbai and New Delhi in compliance with the bilateral air bubble agreement. Operations to Chennai will be a part of this existing agreement. The once-a-week Air India Boeing 787 air bubble service (AI 180/179) on the same sector, which began on April 2, has been stopped following the second wave of the pandemic and the subsequent travel regulations that were put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-france-to-introduce-its-chennai-paris-link-flight-soon/article34982364.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MLAs to get tablets for a paperless budget||As part of its objective to achieve a paperless Legislative Assembly, the State government has decided to give tablets to all the 234 MLAs and the Finance Minister will present a paperless budget, Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj said on Friday. He said the government’s move would fully prepare all the MLA’s for e-governance. On Friday, Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd (ELCOT) called for tenders for supply of tablets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-to-get-tablets-for-a-paperless-budget/article34982387.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to chalk out tourism revival plan||The Tamil Nadu government has issued a government order, constituting a committee to come up with a revival plan for the tourism sector and suggest COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for tourists in the State. The Director of Tourism will be the chairperson of the 16-member panel. The Director of Museums, the Commissioner of the Department of Art and Culture, the Commissioner of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, the Director of Public Health, the Commissioner of Archaeology, the Regional Director of the Union Ministry of Tourism, and former city health officer of Chennai Corporation P. Kuganantham are among the members. Representatives from Travel Agents’ Association of India (TAAI), Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO), Tamil Nadu Travel Mart (TTM), South Indian Hotels’ and Restaurants’ Association (SIHRA), Tamil Nadu Tour Travel and Hospitality Association (TTTHA), FICCI, CII and South India MICE Association (SIMA) are also among the members. The Director of Tourism has been asked to immediately convene a meeting of the committee, come up with a revival plan for the tourism sector and also suggest SOPs for tourists and submit the same to the government. The government’s decision followed a proposal from the Commissioner of Tourism for constituting such a panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-chalk-out-tourism-revival-plan/article34982368.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras varsity stops M. Phil programme||The University of Madras has informed its affiliated colleges that the Syndicate, in its meeting on June 16, decided that the M. Phil programme will be discontinued from the current academic year 2021-2022. University Registrar in-charge N. Mathivanan further said no admission would be allowed or entertained for the programme in the current academic year in the university departments, affiliated colleges, research institutions and autonomous colleges, and they should strictly abide by the Syndicate’s decision. However, those students who had been admitted to the programme in the previous academic years shall be allowed to complete their studies within the time prescribed for awarding of the M. Phil degree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-varsity-stops-m-phil-programme/article34982352.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal to meet party cadres to discuss local body polls||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan is likely to meet office-bearers of the party via video-conferencing on Saturday to discuss and debate whether the party is ready to face the urban local body polls as and when they are held. The MNM did not contest in the rural local body polls in 2019, contending that it did not prefer to spend its limited resources fighting the two major Dravidian parties when the 2021 Assembly election was on the horizon. “Our leader would like to understand what the party cadres feel and how prepared they are. The battle-readiness of the party will be discussed,” said a senior office-bearer. “He wants to assess the party and speak to the office-bearers before that.” Asked whether Mr. Haasan would announce the structure of the ‘mutated’ version of MNM that he promised after the exodus of almost all key second-in-line leaders following the debacle of the Assembly election, the senior office-bearer said that it would take some more time. Another office-bearer said he expects Mr. Haasan to appoint a few members to key posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-to-meet-party-cadres-to-discuss-local-body-polls/article34982381.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retain people’s goodwill: Stalin||Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday asked party district secretaries to live up to the goodwill earned by the government in a short span of time. In a meeting at the party headquarters, he said the image of the DMK had improved after it assumed office and advised Ministers, MLAs and senior leaders to retain the goodwill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retain-peoples-goodwill-stalin/article34982388.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM gives away ration kits to migrant workers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday launched a scheme to provide dry ration kits to migrant labourers, who are facing hardships due to the lockdown in force in the State to curb the spread of COVID-19. He also launched a vaccination drive for construction labourers. The kit includes 15 kg of rice, 1 kg of tur dal and 1 kg of cooking oil. Over two lakh construction labourers, who have been registered as members of the Tamil Nadu Construction Labourers’ Welfare Board, will benefit during the first phase of the vaccination drive, an official press release said. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan, Rajya Sabha MP M. Shanmugam, Chennai South MP Thamizhachi Thangapandian and senior officials were present during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-gives-away-ration-kits-to-migrant-workers/article34982393.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bail denied to ex Minister||The Principal Sessions Court on Friday dismissed the bail petition filed by former AIADMK Minister M. Manikandan. Dismissing his bail petition, Principal Sessions Judge R.Selvakumar pointed out that the High Court discussed the case at length and held that the offence under Section 37 (punishment for rape) IPC was made out with available materials. A Malaysian-Indian woman, an actor, complained to police that the former Minister had cheated her after having been in a live-in relationship with her for a few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-denied-to-ex-minister/article34982772.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MLAs to get tablets||The State government has decided to give tablets to all the 234 MLAs and the Finance Minister will present a paperless budget, Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj said on Friday. He said the government’s move would fully prepare all the MLA’s for e-governance. On Friday, Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd called for tenders for supply of tablets. The tenders would be open on July 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-to-get-tablets/article34982764.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Operation launched to nab ATM thieves in Haryana||A special team of the Greater Chennai Police has launched a major operation with the help of the Haryana police to nab the main suspect and others involved in the SBI ATM thefts. Sources said the team, led by the Deputy Commissioner, T. Nagar, launched a major operation, assisted by the Haryana police. Over 100 police personnel from the State are part of the operation. They are conducting searches in several villages, where the suspects are believed to be holed up, and have appealed to the villagers to cooperate. Over 14 cases of theft at SBI ATMs with cash deposit facilities were reported in the city from June 15 to 18. Initial investigations revealed that the accused had come from the northern States and committed the offence. Around Rs. 45 lakh cash was stolen. The team nabbed one Amir Arsh, of Ballabhgarh, Haryana, on Wednesday. He was produced before a local court and brought to the city late on Thursday. He was interrogated by police personnel and remanded in judicial custody. Meanwhile, the police filed a petition in the court, seeking to order his custodial interrogation for five days. The special team is camping in Faridabad to arrest the remaining accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/operation-launched-to-nab-atm-thieves-in-haryana/article34982347.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bail denied to former Minister Manikandan||The principal sessions court on Friday dismissed the bail petition filed by former AIADMK Minister M. Manikandan. A Malaysian-Indian woman, who is an actor, complained to the police that the former Minister had cheated her after being in a live-in relationship with her for a few years. She alleged that he had promised to marry her, and she had become pregnant thrice. She also alleged that he had forced her to get abortions and threatened her family members in Malaysia when she insisted that he marry her. Dismissing his bail petition, principal sessions judge R. Selvakumar pointed out that the High Court discussed the case at length and categorically held that the offence under Section 37 (punishment for rape) IPC was made out with available materials. The petitioner was at large for about 20 days since the case was registered on May 29, and only after the dismissal of anticipatory bail, with great difficulty, was he secured from Bengaluru, the judge said, and added, “Manikandan is a powerful person, having political and financial clout. In case he is released on bail at this earliest point of time, there is every chance the investigation will be tampered with.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-denied-to-former-minister-manikandan/article34982348.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five held in Neelankarai for smuggling marijuana||Personnel from the Neelankarai police station on Friday arrested five persons, who had smuggled marijuana from Andhra Pradesh. The team, led by sub-inspector Selvakumar, intercepted an autorickshaw and a motorcycle on Thursday night. They found and confiscated 12 kg of marijuana concealed in the vehicles. The police arrested R. Ramkumar, 31, of Tiruvottiyur, R. Saravanan, 22, and three others, and seized the vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-in-neelankarai-for-smuggling-marijuana/article34982349.ece
26 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco’s maintenance works to continue till June 28||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) would continue maintenance works and trim tree branches in the district till June 28, said an official of the Corporation here. The Tangedco is taking up tree branch trimming and maintenance works such as attending to leaning poles and sagging lines across the State. “We have studied areas in the district where there are problems. Maintenance works were not taken up for nine months and so this work is taken up as an emergency now,” the official said. The works were done in a select area every day within three hours. If one area was identified for a particular day, the Tangedco would not return to the same area the next day. Works were taken up in a particular area only on one day. So the public should not believe rumours that there would be disruption in supply every day, the official added. In Coimbatore region, which covers Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts, the works were on in seven distribution circles. These had 1,135 electricity feeders of 161 sub-stations. Almost 1,600 personnel were engaged in the maintenance works. Since June 19 when the works commenced, tree clearance works had been carried out in 29,000 locations, resagging of lines at 330 locations, straightening of leaned poles at 100 locations, and replacement of damaged poles at 100 locations, the official added. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the Tangedco should look at shutting down sub-stations once a month or once in two months for maintenance works. Or it should take up the works regularly once in three months. Maintenance works were essential and the public should also understand the need for disruption in supply for such works. It would not be enough to take up the works just for three hours now. Similarly, if saplings were planted below the electricity lines, the Tangedco should ensure that such saplings were replanted away from the power lines. If the saplings had grown to a certain height, the branches should be cut so that the power lines were not disrupted, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedcos-maintenance-works-to-continue-till-june-28/article34982420.ece
26 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Relatives of COVID-19 patient booked for attack on hospital staff||The Podanur police registered a case against a group of relatives of a man, who died after testing positive for COVID-19, on charges of attacking a staff member of a private hospital, under the Coimbatore City Police limits, on Thursday. The police said that a 62-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the private hospital on Madukkarai Main Road in Sundarapuram, died after five days of treatment on May 29. Nearly a month later, over seven persons claiming to be the deceased’s relatives visited the hospital on Thursday and allegedly engaged in a verbal altercation with a doctor over the medical expenses. Following the spat, one of them allegedly snatched the doctor’s mobile phone and ran outside. The hospital’s public relations officer K. Balasubramanian (45) followed him and was allegedly assaulted by four men. Before leaving the spot, they threw the doctor’s phone on the road, according to the police. Based on the PRO’s complaint, the Podanur police registered a case invoking section 4 (Cognisance of offence) of the Tamil Nadu Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2008 along with sections 294 (b) (Uttering obscenities), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (1) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Police sources said on Friday that the relatives accused the hospital of not providing proper treatment to the man and allegedly refusing to produce certain documents regarding the treatment cost, which led to the altercation with the doctor at the hospital on Thursday. Further inquiries are on and efforts to nab the accused using the CCTV footages are under way, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relatives-of-covid-19-patient-booked-for-attack-on-hospital-staff/article34982412.ece
26 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police organise vaccination camp||Over 400 persons, including police personnel, got their COVID-19 vaccine shots in the vaccination camp organised by the Coimbatore District Police here on Friday. District Collector G.S. Sameeran and Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam inaugurated the camp on Police Recruits School (PRS) Grounds in the city. Sources said that 405 persons, including police personnel, their relatives and ministerial staff, were vaccinated in the camp. Two medical teams from a private hospital were involved in this camp, which began at around 10 a.m. and ended at 2 p.m. As per the availability of vaccine doses, the camp would be organised again, the sources said. The Coimbatore District Police have also been organising vaccination drives at the sub-division level to ensure maximum coverage of police personnel. Separate camps for the police personnel working in hilly regions such as Pollachi and Valparai will be held soon, according to the police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-organise-vaccination-camp/article34982415.ece
26 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani demands reopening of temples||Members of Hindu Munnani on Friday staged demonstrations outside various temples demanding the reopening of temples which were closed by the State government as part of the COVID-19 lockdown. In Coimbatore, the members led by district president K. Dasarathan gathered outside Siddhi Vinayagar temple in Gandhipuram and burnt camphor tablets outside the closed gates of the temple as part of the demonstration. Following this, they raised slogans condemning the State government for reopening Tasmac outlets prior to temples. C. Dhanapal, district public relations in-charge of Hindu Munnani, claimed that the demonstrations were held outside 150 temples across the district. In a statement, he alleged that it is a “matter of shame” that Tasmac outlets have been allowed to operate in 27 districts as part of lockdown relaxations while temples still remain closed for the public. Urging Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu to announce the reopening of temples at the earliest, Mr. Dhanapal warned that the Hindu Munnani will continue its protests, if the temples remain closed. In Salem, the protests were held in front of major temples including Kottai Mariamman Temple, Sugneshwarar Temple, and Ellai Pidariamman temple. Similar protests were held in Namakkal district too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-demands-reopening-of-temples/article34982413.ece
26 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies in road accident||A woman was killed after she was run over by a truck near Perur on Friday. The police said that Balamani (55) was riding pillion on a two-wheeler with her relative Muthukumar (44)when the accident took place. Around 12.30 p.m., both fell off the two-wheeler after the rider lost control of the vehicle and a truck that was coming from behind ran over the woman, killing her on the spot. Perur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-in-road-accident/article34982429.ece
26 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Plea for lift at Collector’s office||Members of Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-Abled and Caregivers have urged Chief Minister M K Stalin to construct a lift at the Collectorate here. Its president P Selvanayagam said that thousands of people including differently-abled persons and senior citizens used to visit the Collectorate daily. As many offices and departments function in the first and second floor, persons with disability cannot reach officers including the Collector. When the DMK’s senior leader M Durai Murugan visited the district recently in his capacity, he came to know about the absence of lift. He told the officials then that as and when the DMK comes to power, the lift would be installed here, they recalled and expressed the hope that the building would have a lift soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-lift-at-collectors-office/article34982765.ece
26 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power loom owners seek permission to operate units||With power looms in the district halting production for over seven weeks affecting the livelihood of thousands of workers, power loom unit owners urged the district administration to permit them to run their units at the earliest. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, over 50,000 power looms were functioning only in one shift from the last week of April to the first week of May. Workers were given jobs only for three days a week instead of six days. Due to new restrictions imposed by the State government to control the spread of virus, all the units halted production from May 7 making the workers jobless. Power loom unit owners were expecting relaxations from the government to resume operations which did not happen so far. L.P. Balasubramanian, secretary, Lakkapuram Power Loom Owners Association, said about 3,500 power looms were functioning at Lakkapuram village providing jobs to over 1,000 people directly and indirectly. “Despite closure, owners have managed to provide essential commodities to the workers in the past seven weeks. But it is not possible to support them further,” he said. He said most of the units functioned within 2,000 sq feet with less than four workers a shift. “Since the workplace is not crowded and is not visited by outsiders, the administration should allow them to resume operations so that workers could fulfil their basic needs,” he said. Other owners wanted the government to open spare parts shops and workshops and help in smooth operation of the power looms. “If the situation continues, workers will be forced to borrow money at exorbitant rates making them debtors permanently,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-owners-seek-permission-to-operate-units/article34982431.ece
26 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 23,500 persons vaccinated in Erode||Over 23,500 persons were vaccinated at 111 locations during the second day of special camps being held across the district on Friday. During the first day of the special camps held at 113 locations on Thursday, a total of 12,884 persons were vaccinated. For Friday, the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine allotted 11,100 vaccine doses. However, with receipt of more vaccine stock, allocation was increased to 17,250 doses of Covishield and 6,600 doses of Covaxin. Each centre was allotted 200 to 250 doses and vaccination began at 8 a.m. People waited in long queues for over 12 hours to get tokens and get vaccinated both in rural and urban areas. Senior citizens faced hardship as they had to wait for long hours in queue to get the tokens. Also, persons who had registered in the app were not given priority as they were asked to wait in queue and get the tokens. Officials said vaccination camps would continue across the district on Saturday also as the present stock stood at 14,410 doses on Friday evening. They expected vaccines to arrive in the coming days and the special camps to continue. A total of 3,71,831 persons were vaccinated as of Friday morning, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-23500-persons-vaccinated-in-erode/article34982424.ece
26 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Woman, two children found dead||A woman and her two children were found dead at her parent’s house in Lakshmi Nagar, Thindal, here on Thursday. Police identified the deceased as Nithya (37), wife of Bhaskar (42), and their two children -- Magathi (11) and Yadav Krishnan (6). Bhaskar, who was working in Chennai, had died of COVID-19 on May 9. After his death, Nithya and the children returned to her parent’s house in Thindal. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Nithya was upset over the death of her husband and had reportedly ended her life along with the children. Erode Taluk police registered a case and are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-two-children-found-dead/article34982436.ece
26 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Essentials distributed||Administrators of E.K.M. Abdul Gani Matharasa Islamia Primary and High Schools, both government-aided schools, distributed essential commodities to parents of 360 students here on Friday. School Correspondent E.K.M. Mohammed Taj Muhaideen handed over the pack of rice and essential commodities to the beneficiaries, all worth Rs. 3.60 lakh to them. P. Moosa Raja Junaidhi, headmaster of primary school, Uthuman, headmaster of high school, and teachers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/essentials-distributed/article34982421.ece
26 June 2021||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Two murdered||The police are on the lookout for a gang that murdered two ganja peddlers here on Thursday. They said J. Jesuraj, 28, of Swaminathapuram near Kanniyakumari and D. Selwyn, 24, of Kattaiyanvilai, now living at Vadakku Kundal, were found murdered near Murugankundram here. Only when the associate of the deceased M. Sahaya Shaji Jenis, 26, of Tsunami Colony came to the hospital with stab injury in the abdomen, the crime came to light. He told the police that unidentified persons attacked them in which his friends were murdered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-murdered/article34982771.ece
26 June 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Collect only 75 % of tuition fee in instalments, schools told||Private schools in Karaikal have received instructions to collect only 75% of tuition fee for 2020-21, based on the Fee Committee recommendations for 2019-20. The school education department has informed the schools that the fee can be collected twice, preferably 40 % in the first instalment and 35 % in second instalment. Specific instructions have been issued not to collect annual fee, bus fee, uniform fee, fee for extra-curricular activities, library fee, lab fee, sports and fine arts fee, medical fee and fee for value added services until the offline classes commence. There has been no representation from parents on schools demanding excess fee from the State-board schools. However, parents of children in CBSE schools did have issues with fee payment last year. But, no parent is prepared to give a complaint in writing which is necessary for initiating action, Chief Educational Officer Alli said. The 62 private schools in Karaikal enclave will, as usual, conduct online classes for the students. As for the government schools, the teachers say the Puducherry Government has evolved a mechanism to keep the students engaged in teaching-learning activities at home on a daily basis under remote monitoring of teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collect-only-75-of-tuition-fee-in-instalments-schools-told/article34982807.ece
26 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Charges cast doubt over cause of death of COVID-19 patient in Krishnagiri GH||Claims and counterclaims on the cause of death have cast a shadow on the passing of a 30-year-old COVID-19 positive patient on non-invasive ventilator. His attender claimed that he died shortly after the ventilator ran out of charge during a power shutdown at the Krishnagiri Government Medical College Hospital on Friday. The patient’s brother-in-law and primary caretaker, C. Udhayakumar, has charged the COVID-19 care staff with negligence. He claimed they did not shift the patient before the battery ran out. However, the hospital has denied the allegation and claimed the patient was shifted on time and survived for sometime after the shift. Around forenoon on Friday, the patient died soon after he was taken by stretcher from the ground floor ventilator room to the 2nd floor to be connected to another ventilator, after the ventilator he was on shut down after it ran out of charge. This was during the two-hour power outage at the hospital. The ICU staff did not respond on time to shift the patient to a reserve ventilator even as the battery level continued to drop over a period of 1.5 hours, alleged Mr. Udhayakumar. “In the morning, I fed him two glasses of porridge and milk, and he was fine. When the power went, both of us got worried. He was reminding me to call the nurse or the doctor. I kept going to see the doctors, nurses, they repeated “power will be back’, ‘electricians will come’.” Incidentally, part of the ground floor wires had melted cutting it off from the generator support, says a hospital maintenance source. “Finally, they came after the ventilator shut down. When they shifted him to another machine, that machine was leaking,” claimed Mr. Udhayakumar. Speaking to The Hindu , a medical official at the hospital, denied that the man was “shifted late”, but accepted that the shifting was done due to power shut down. “All ventilators are supported by a separate power unit and more power. But this particular ventilator’s power unit was out of order. So, it was working on its own battery. “The doctor’s version is that the patient was shifted after the machine indicated low power alarm,” the source said. However, Dean B. Ashokan dismissed the allegations. All ventilators have necessary backup and the patient was alive after he was shifted to the second ventilator. “It was a non-invasive ventilator support and even if the ventilator is pulled out, the patient can still breathe.” In this case, the patient had underlying complications, he said. Earlier, members of the patient’s family sat on the road outside the government hospital blaming the hospital for negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/charges-cast-doubt-over-cause-of-death-of-covid-19-patient-in-krishnagiri-gh/article34982434.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: CBI moves HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday, challenging a trial court order that has not framed charges against the accused police personnel in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks under Section 120 B of the IPC (Criminal Conspiracy) for committing the offence. Justice Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup ordered notice to all accused lodged in the Madurai Central Prison. The case was adjourned till July 12. While framing the charges, I Additional District and Sessions Judge, Madurai, held that no materials were available to frame charges under Section 120 B of the IPC. Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri submitted that there were sufficient materials on record to prove the offence under Section 120 B of the IPC for committing the offence under Section 302 (Murder) and other offences of the IPC. Further, it was submitted that the trial court had not framed the charges for two counts against some accused. The CBI said the case was sensitive and if proper charges were not framed at the beginning stage of the trial, the accused police personnel could take advantage of the same. It could cause serious prejudice to the prosecution. The CBI sought a direction to set aside the order passed by the trial court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-cbi-moves-hc/article34982386.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Alarming that none has been booked 3 years after Thoothukudi police firing: HC||“It is somewhat alarming that the State through its police fired at unarmed protesters and no one is booked some three years after the incident,” the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed on Friday on the Thoothukudi police firing incident, in which 13 anti-Sterlite protesters were killed in May 2018. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam observed, “It may not augur well for a civilised society governed by the constitutional principles that we have to merely throw money at the families of the victims [as compensation] and give closure to an incident of possible brutality and excessive police action.” The court made the remarks while hearing a petition filed by advocate Henri Tiphagne, who sought a direction to the National Human Rights Commission to reopen the case and furnish the investigation report submitted by the investigation team of the NHRC. The judges directed that the NHRC’s and Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission’s interim report to be submitted to the court. The court took note of the fact that the NHRC had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident based on news reports that the victims’ right to life was grossly violated. A team of the NHRC’s investigation division conducted a spot inquiry. A judicial commission was also set up to conduct an inquiry into the incident. The NHRC had taken note of the fact that compensation was being provided to the families of the victims and the Thoothukudi district administration was taking adequate steps to restore normalcy in the district. The commission closed its proceedings considering these aspects and also the fact that the judicial commission was conducting an inquiry. During the course of the hearing, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted that the Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission submitted an interim report to the government on May 14, 2021. The petitioner pointed out that the interim report was submitted only after the government sought the report. The court orally remarked, “Can we kill people and throw money at them and say our job is done? Is that the society that we want to build? Just throwing money at some people and everything is hushed up. No conclusions need to be drawn yet before the facts come to light. But it is necessary that the facts come to light and be made public.” The court issued notice to the NHRC and the State. The judges said the State’s stand must be clearly spelt out in the counter-affidavit. The NHRC could submit its report in a sealed cover if it feels that it is delicate, the judges said. Given that the matter was of importance, the Chief Justice said it would be taken up at the principal seat in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alarming-that-none-has-been-booked-3-years-after-thoothukudi-police-firing-hc/article34982390.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||email leads to arrest of car thieves||An innocuous automated messaging service from an authorised four-wheeler workshop in Kappalur giving details to a customer owning an SUV that his vehicle had been taken for service led to the arrest of a seven-member gang that was involved in stealing vehicles. “Upon receiving the message on e-mail, Tamilarasan, 65, of Thanjavur, was perplexed as his SUV, registered in his wife’s name, was parked in his house. He immediately alerted the workshop that there was something fishy and also sent by post a complaint about the fraud to Madurai District Police,” Tirumangalam Deputy Superintendent of Police S. S. Vinothini said. Based on his complaint, the Austinpatti police started investigation and secured, one by one, the seven members of a gang. The police said that the original registration certificate of the SUV had been lost by Tamilarasan and he applied and got a duplicate RC. The people who had stolen it had used the same and matched it with a stolen vehicle of the same brand. “Since, the vehicle had changed hands several times, we are yet to find out the original owner of the vehicle,” the DSP said. All the seven, six from Chennai and one from Tenkasi, have been arrested and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/email-leads-to-arrest-of-car-thieves/article34982779.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to ease lockdown restrictions||The lockdown restrictions must be eased to allow industries, buses and restaurants to function with 100% capacity, in the wake of fall in COVID-19 positive cases, said Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) president B. Muruganantham. In a release, he said that it had been more than 50 days since the imposition of lockdown restrictions following the rise in COVID-19 positive cases in the second wave. The lockdown affected the production in industries and many of the workers had lost their jobs. The entrepreneurs also could not travel to other places to collect their dues. Hence, industries, commercial establishments, restaurants, textile shops, jewellery shops and buses must be allowed to function with no restrictions across the whole State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-ease-lockdown-restrictions/article34982780.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: CBI moves HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday challenging a trial court order that has not framed charges against the accused police personnel in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks under Section 120 B of the IPC (Criminal Conspiracy) for committing the offence. Justice Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup ordered notice to all the accused currently lodged in the Madurai Central Prison. The case was adjourned till July 12. While framing the charges against the accused, I Additional District and Sessions Judge of Madurai held that no materials were available to frame charges under Section 120 B of the IPC. Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri submitted that there were sufficient materials available on record to prove the offence under Section 120 B of the IPC for committing the offence under Section 302 (Murder) and other offences of the IPC. Further, it was submitted that the trial court had not framed the charges for two counts against some of the accused. That apart, certain other offences under the IPC were not framed against some accused in the case. The CBI said that the custodial death case was sensitive and if proper charges were not framed at the beginning stage of the trial, the accused police personnel could take advantage of the same. It could cause serious prejudice to the prosecution. The CBI sought a direction to set aside the order passed by the trial court and direct the trial court to add the charges under Section 120 B against the accused and also add the other charges for two counts against the accused. If the objection for non-framing of charges can be raised at an early stage, no one will be prejudiced. Otherwise it will affect the Right to Speedy Fair Trial, the CBI said. The CBI filed the chargesheet under Section 120 B (party to a criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), read with Sections 302 (murder), 342 (wrongful confinement), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 182 (false information), 193 (false evidence), 211 (false charge of offence), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. The charge sheet has been filed against the then inspector S. Sridhar, sub-inspectors P. Raghu Ganesh and K. Balakrishnan, head constables S. Murugan and A. Saamidurai and constables M. Muthuraj, S. Chelladurai, X. Thomas Francis and S. Veilumuthu. Special sub-inspector Pauldurai, an accused in the case, died after contracting COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-cbi-moves-hc/article34982778.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Elderly man ends life following wife’s death||Unable to tolerate the recent death of his wife K. Nagajothi, a 72-year-old man, C. Kannappan, ended his life in desperation near Sholavandan. Police said that the man from Mannadimangalam had gone missing from his house on Wednesday. Laterthe man’s body was found near Kattakulam junction on Thursday. The police said that the man had consumed poison. The Sholavandan police have registered a case and are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-man-ends-life-following-wifes-death/article34982783.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman robbed of gold chain||A clerk with Tirumangalam union, T. Hema Sudha, 44, was robbed of one sovereign of gold chain near Thoppur flyover on Tuesday late evening. When the victim was returning home from office, two unidentified persons followed her two-wheeler on a motorcycle and one of them pushed her down and yanked the chain. Part of the chain remained with the victim and one sovereign was snatched away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-robbed-of-gold-chain/article34982773.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Move to form Economic Advisory Council hailed||The Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry has welcomed the proposal of the State government to constitute an Economic Advisory Council to bail out the State from the economic crisis. Its president S. Rethinavelu has said in a press release that the initiative had infused hope that the State was on its way to become the ultimate investment destination. The white paper on the State’s finances, to be released by the Finance Minister, would reveal the true financial status of the government, he said. Mr. Rethinavelu thanked the Chief Minister for introducing a separate annual budget for agriculture. The announcement that more farmers’ markets would be established in the State was a proactive step, which would benefit both farmers and consumers. The announcement to constitute an expert committee with industrialists and bankers to offer suggestions for the revival of the MSME sector should also welcomed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-form-economic-advisory-council-hailed/article34982774.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Delta Plus variant reported||A 34-year-old man, who had died due to COVID-19 in the third week of April, had tested positive for the Delta Plus variant. Government Rajaji Hospital sources said the patient was admitted on April 10. Since he did not show any signs of breathlessness or other complications, he was shifted to Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur. But after two days he developed hemoptysis, faced difficulties in breathing and brought back to the GRH. His attendants shifted him to a private hospital on April 16. But he died after five days. His sample was sent to the DPH lab in Chennai, and further sent to InSTEM in Bengaluru for whole genome sequence studies. The results showed that he was infected with Delta Plus variant. Meanwhile, Madurai recorded 104 fresh cases on Friday, with which the district’s tally has risen to 71,894. A total of 112 persons were discharged and with one death, Madurai’s death toll stands at 1,078. For the second consecutive day, Virudhunagar district did not record any death. With an identical number of 79 new positive cases and discharged patients, the number of active cases stands at 784.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-plus-variant-reported/article34982776.ece
26 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 132.80 feet (permissible level is 142 feet), with an inflow of 783 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 65.49 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,595 cusecs and a discharge of 3,469 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,573 mcft. There was no rainfall in Madurai region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday. Tirunelveli Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 134.35 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 862.12 cusecs and a discharge of 696.25 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 81.95 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 180 cusecs and a discharge of 200 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34982782.ece
26 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man gets advance bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court granted anticipatory bail to a man from Tiruchi who along with his associates had abused police personnel when they questioned the group for not following COVID-19 protocol. They were not wearing face masks. The petitioner, Kaja Hussain, filed an undertaking affidavit to the court giving an unconditional apology for the incident. He undertook that he would not be involved in such offences in the future. He paid Rs. 10,000 to Advocate Clerks Welfare Association as directed by the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-advance-bail/article34982810.ece
26 June 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop shale gas exploration move’||The Anti-Methane Project Movement has urged the State Government to prevent Oil and Natural Gas Corporation from establishing a new well for shale gas exploration in the vicinity of a discarded well at Anjaruvarthalai in Tirumanancheri Panchayat in the district. “The ONGC is making preparations for drilling a new well by hydraulic fracking process under the pretext of carrying out cleaning works in the existing well. Paths were being created for movement of heavy vehicles and a pond has been created for holding the waste water generated in the process of deep drilling,” T. Jayaraman, Chief Coordinator, Anti-Methane Project Movement, said in a petition submitted to the Mayiladuthurai district administration on Friday. Prof. Jayaraman sought to know on what basis the ONGC was preparing to drill a new well to extract shale gas now that the State Government has made known its clear stand to the Centre that no new exploration activity will be permitted in the Cauvery Basin under the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020. In the backdrop of Tamil Nadu rejecting ONGC's application recently for establishing 15 hydrocarbon wells in Ariyalur and Cuddalore districts by taking a categoric position that exploration of methane or shale gas will not be permitted, “drilling of any new well was illegal and must be stopped”, Prof. Jayaraman said in his petition, a copy of which was addressed to the Chief Minister's office as well. Though the Union Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas had taken a policy decision in 2013 that exploration activity in already awarded acreages was permissible, it was irrelevant in Tamil Nadu as the previous as well as the new government in the State have been consistent in their decision not to permit ONGC and Oil India Limited to derive any leverage from the Central Government's permission in the nine shale blocks, Prof. Jayaraman pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-shale-gas-exploration-move/article34982816.ece
26 June 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||MSME units look for early execution of CPCL project||The MSME sector in Nagapattinam looks for early execution of CPCL’s (Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited) over Rs. 31,000 crore project to set up a grass-root refinery of 9 MMTPA (Million Metric Ton Per Annum) capacity in the district for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation in February. Start of the work for the mega project which is understood to have been delayed due to land acquisition issues, has to be facilitated by all stakeholders for betterment of the local economy. A lot of ancillary industries can be started for recyclng remnant chemicals once the project is implemented fully, V. Ramachandran, president of Nagapattinam District Small and Tiny Industries' Association, said. The initial unit was set up with a capacity of 0.5 MMTPA in 1993 and later revamped to 1.0 MMTPA. The new project under way on joint venture basis entails production of LPG, BS VI quality gasoline and diesel and Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF). The project also includes a polypropylene unit as part of petrochemical integration, with potential to further increase production of petrochemicals in future. As per the MoU signed by CPCL with the State government, the company will receive a structured package of incentives for the Cauvery Basin Refinery project to be carried out through a joint venture with IOCL and other financial/strategic/public investors. The project envisages utilisation of 130 million man hours during the execution phase, resulting in substantial socio economic benefit to the region. During the operation phase, it is expected to provide direct and indirect employment to over 7,600 persons. In addition to the project which is to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 31,580 crore, an investment of Rs. 4,000 crore is anticipated from other stakeholders on Build Own and Operate (BOO) basis. The refinery is to be set up on an area of about 1,300 acres, out of which 618 acres are already owned by the CPCL. A major extent of land acquisition proces has been completed and the hitch in acquiring a little over 20 acres of a temple land has to be sorted out for an early start of the work, Mr. Ramachandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-units-look-for-early-execution-of-cpcl-project/article34982806.ece
26 June 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Call for concerted efforts to protect children’s rights||The government and non-governmental agencies working for the children’s welfare should ensure better coordination among themselves so as to protect the children’s rights and well being whenever it was under threat, Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson Saraswathi Rangaswamy has said. Addressing a review meeting held here on Friday, she said better coordination among departments like education, social welfare, district child welfare committee, district child protection unit, the police and non-governmental organisations, must be ensured so as to take appropriate steps to protect the children’s rights. The stakeholders should have thorough understanding of the laws pertaining to protection of children and their rights so that immediate action to alleviate their problems could be taken. Any complaint pertaining to sexual harassment of the children should be viewed very seriously and immediate intervention and assistance should be ensured while the identity of the victim was guarded at all levels. The Chief Educational Officer should give unambiguous and stern instructions to heads of all schools to put in place every possible measure to protect the children from being sexually abused. Rehabilitation of the sexual harassment or assault victims should be ensured by the district administration through District Child Welfare Committee and the police. The Collector should be updated about the action taken on the complaints.  Awareness should be created among the parents before the ‘third wave’ of the pandemic strikes by involving anganvadi workers. “Special efforts should be taken to take care of the children who have lost their father or mother or both to COVID-19. The District Child Protection Unit should conduct field visits in every area to identify such children so as to ensure disbursal of assistance being given by the State and the Union Governments and the much-needed care for them,” she said. When she was informed that 10 child marriages in the district had been prevented in Kanniyakumari district ever since lockdown was clamped in 2020, the chairperson said awareness should be created among the parents about the legal consequences involved in arranging child marriages. Collector M. Aravind said the district administration had prepared proposals for giving relief to 109 children who had lost their mother, father or both to COVID-19. He informed that 740 of the 876 caretakers of 72 children’s homes in the district had been vaccinated. Superintendent of Police V. Badrinarayanan, District Revenue Officer R. Revathi, Member of Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights V. Ramaraj, Joint Director Raj Saravanakumar, District Child Protection Officer M. Jayaprakash, District Social Welfare Officer R. Sarojini and senior officials attended the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-concerted-efforts-to-protect-childrens-rights/article34982766.ece
26 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Comments on Jai Hind trigger a row||Thiruchengode MLA E.R. Eswaran, whose comments in the Assembly hailing the absence of the slogan Jai Hind in the Governor’s address triggered a row, on Friday said his remarks were based on the “two-language policy” and had nothing to do with patriotism. Participating in the proceedings of the Assembly session that concluded on Thursday, Mr. Eswaran had noted that unlike the Governor’s address last year, after the DMK government assumed office, Jai Hind was not said by the Governor while concluding his address. BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai tweeted that the political discourse in Tamil Nadu had hit a low. On Friday, Mr. Eswaran, leader of the KMDK, told journalists in Namakkal that his comments were language-based, but some people were trying to distort it. He said some individuals were trying to confuse the people and were linking it to [question his] patriotism. Mr. Eswaran said during the Governor’s address in the AIADMK regime, even though the speech would mention that the two-language policy would be implemented, it would conclude with Jai Hind . “Having mentioned the two-language policy, the Governor’s address [during the AIADMK regime] should have concluded with Bharatham Vazhaga  in Tamil,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/comments-on-jai-hind-trigger-a-row/article34982375.ece
26 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Mainatain high alert in anticipation of third wave’||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has advocated maintaining a state of high alert anticipating a third wave of the pandemic and the emergence of new highly transmissible variants of COVID-19. Ms. Soundarajan, who is also Telangana Governor, while chairing a video-conference to review the pandemic situation in Puducherry from Raj Bhavan in Hyderabad, told officials to act with the expectation that the third wave would be severe. Noting that amid reports of a third wave and emergence of a new variant Delta Plus that spread even more rapidly, the Lt. Governor underscored the importance of sustaining coronavirus prevention activities along with the vaccination programme. She also called for a regional survey on efficacy of curfew restrictions/relaxations and the vaccination situation, besides initiating research on samples of black fungus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mainatain-high-alert-in-anticipation-of-third-wave/article34982382.ece
26 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||261 new cases, 5 deaths recorded in U.T.||The active cases in the Union Territory dropped below the 3,000-mark as 261 new cases were reported against 363 recoveries on Friday. The Union Territory also recorded five COVID-19 deaths to take the cumulative toll to 1,739. Puducherry registered four deaths and Karaikal one. The cumulative toll by region is Puducherry 1,389, Karaikal 215, Yanam 102 and Mahe 33. Puducherry logged 225 new cases from 8,185 tests, followed by Karaikal (20), Yanam (eight) and Mahe (eight). The test positivity rate was 3.19 %, case fatality rate 1.5% and recovery rate 95.95%. The active cases stood at 2,970 with 493 patients in hospitals and 2,477 in home isolation. Meanwhile, 28 healthcare workers, 13 frontline staff and 6,886 members of the public took the COVID-19 vaccines in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/261-new-cases-5-deaths-recorded-in-ut/article34982394.ece
26 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Inflow to Mettur dam increases||The inflow to Mettur dam increased from Wednesday following rains in the catchment areas of the dam and discharge from Kabini and KRS dams in Karnataka. According to the Public Works Department officials, the water level at the dam on Friday was 88.98 ft against a total scale of 120 ft. The stored capacity was 51,493 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 8,035 cusecs. The discharge from the dam to River Cauvery was 10,000 cusecs. While the dam received an inflow of 2,376 cusecs on Wednesday, it increased to 7,492 cusecs on Thursday. Chief Minister M.K.Stalin raised the shutters of the dam for Kuruvai cultivation in delta region on June 12 this year. According to officials, 10,000 cusecs would be released during the month of June and it would be gradually increased to 16,000 cusecs in July. In the month of August, 18,000 cusecs would be released based on requirement from farmers. About 5,22,000 acres of land would benefit from the water discharge. In 2020, on the corresponding day, the water level at the dam was 94.33 ft and the stored capacity was 57,741 mcft. The dam received an inflow of 1,435 cusecs of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-to-mettur-dam-increases/article34982432.ece
26 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman petitions Collector alleging irregularities in husband’s death summary||A young woman, who reportedly lost her husband to COVID-19, petitioned the District Collector here on Friday stating that the reason for her husband’s death was not mentioned as COVID-19 in the death summary and requested the authorities to take necessary action. The petition submitted by S. Prabhadevi, a private college employee, stated that her husband Nandhakumar (34) died without responding to COVID-19 treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in May. Nandhakumar had a COVID-19 severity score of 14/25 in CT-scan and was undergoing treatment at home. He reportedly suffered from breathlessness and was rushed to GMKMCH for treatment. However, as there was no vacant bed, he was provided oxygen support at the out-patient ward and he subsequently died, the petition alleged. However, the death summary issued by the hospital mentioned the cause of death as some other illness. The petitioner said that she has a 6-year-old girl child and was dependent on the relief schemes announced by governments for the education of the child. She requested the district administration to take necessary action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-petitions-collector-alleging-irregularities-in-husbands-death-summary/article34982428.ece
26 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||133 vaccination centres in Salem||Vaccination drive will be conducted at 133 centres in the district on Saturday. Health officials said 16,020 doses had been allotted for vaccination. According to a release, 220 Covaxin doses have been allotted for differently-abled persons, 14,530 Covishield doses for the public and 1,270 doses for differently-abled persons. A total of 100 vaccination centres would be set up in rural areas and 33 centres in Salem Corporation limits, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/133-vaccination-centres-in-salem/article34982426.ece
26 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA to develop new device to ascertain blood glucose level||SASTRA Deemed University is all set to develop a device in collaboration with the industry, to ascertain blood glucose levels in the human body using the electrochemical biosensor invented by it. The Centre for Nanotechnology and Advanced Biomaterials (CeNTAB), School of Electrical and Electronics Engineering and the School of Chemical and Biotechnology of the University came together and undertook a research project in 2014 to identify biomarkers which could help decode the main cause behind the onset of the metabolic disorder – diabetes. The research led to the invention of an electrochemical biosensor for the rapid detection of methylglyoxal (MG) in blood plasma and correlation of its concentration with diabetes. MG has been considered as one of the emerging biomarkers in detecting the onset of diabetes mellitus and related complications. Subsequently, the University applied for a patent in the same year and received the patent certificate earlier this month for the Methylglyoxal Biosensor invented by it. In the meantime, the University submitted a project proposal to carry out clinical studies to detect MG in diabetic and pre-diabetic stages and this was sanctioned by the Science Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi. After two years of investigations, the research team comprising Dr. John Bosco Balaguru Rayappan of CeNTAB and Dr. Srinivasan Vedantham of the School of Chemical and Biotechnology, collected the data and validated the sensor performance concerning the ELISA data and submitted the report. As the results were encouraging, the University has decided to develop the biosensor as a point-of-care device for the rapid detection of MG levels in blood plasma in collaboration with the industry, according to official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-to-develop-new-device-to-ascertain-blood-glucose-level/article34982815.ece
26 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Deiva Tamizh Peravai’s plea||Deiva Tamizh Peravai has sought amelioration of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department so as to prevent intervention of politicians in its activities. Addressing the media here on Thursday, its coordinator P. Maniarasan said that it had become imperative to reform the department to safeguard properties and funds of temples and to ensure that the funds were utilised for charitable activities and for performing pujas and festivals in temples with lesser or nil income. Urging the government to constitute a committee headed by a retired Judge with exposure to the Tamil Hindu religion to suggest reforms to be effected in the department, he said that the panel’s suggestions must be implemented. Stating that separate training schools for Sanskrit ‘pusagars/archakgars’ should also be instituted, he said the 200 persons belonging to different castes who had been trained must be appointed in the temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deiva-tamizh-peravais-plea/article34982811.ece
26 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Chamber plea for further relaxations||The Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Thanjavur, has urged the State government to consider further relaxations of the lockdown restrictions with riders in order to help save the industrial and business establishments. Pointing out that business stocks are the capital reserve and keeping the units closed for a long time will make the units cash-starved and affect the debit and credit cycle, the chamber in a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister, M.K.Stalin has pleaded for further relaxation of lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-plea-for-further-relaxations/article34982817.ece
26 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||75 out of 89 petitions cleared immediately||Seventy-five out of 89 petitions received at the `jamabandhi’ held under the supervision of the Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver at Budalur Taluk Office on June 25 were settled immediately. According to an official release, the Collector cleared six petitions seeking name transfer in the priceless house site pattas and 69 petitions relating to social security schemes after verifying the supporting documents. He inspected the paddy procurement process at the `Pudhu Kariyapatti’ direct purchase centre in Sengipatti taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75-out-of-89-petitions-cleared-immediately/article34982818.ece
26 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘Transfer murder case to CB-CID’||The Director General of Police should transfer the murder case of Dalit activist of Cumbum here to the CB-CID, said A Kathir, executive director, Evidence, an NGO based in Madurai. He told reporters that a fact-finding team visited Cumbum where Thirunavukarasu, 35, was murdered by two persons. The police have registered a case against the two but there were attempts to dilute the issue. ‘The police were keen to project that the two had committed the murder in an inebriated condition.’ The team felt that the two might have been directed to kill Thirunavukarasu as he always stood for the welfare of Dalits. He did not prefer out of court settlements or other methods in cases of usury or abuse against girls or women. He believed in the judiciary. The government should examine the profile of the accused and take action. The victim’s family should be given Rs. 8.25 lakh as compensation under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. The government should give Rs. 15 lakh more to the family and take care of education of his 6-year-old daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transfer-murder-case-to-cb-cid/article34982767.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Women Help Desks set up in 32 police stations in three districts||Women Help Desks have been established in 32 police stations in Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts to provide emergency services to women in distress and deal with complaints relating to crimes against women. Sanctioned from the Nirbhaya Fund, each Women Help Desk has been provided with two women police personnel: one Woman Sub Inspector or a Woman Head Constable and a Woman Police Constable. The help desk in Pudukottai district has been created in 20 police stations, including five All Women Police Stations. The police stations in Pudukottai district where the help desks have been created include Pudukottai Town, Ganesh Nagar, Alangudi, Aranthangi, Ponnamaravathi, Viralimalai, Keeranur, Avudaiyarkoil, Vadakadu and Gandarvakottai. The help desk has been set up in eight police stations, including two All Women Police Stations in Ariyalur district. In Perambalur district, the help desks have been set up in three law and order police stations and one All Women Police Station. Every help desk has been provided with a two-wheeler for the women police personnel to visit the spot and conduct inquiry in case of receipt of information relating to crimes against women and initiate necessary legal action besides attending to those in distress and requiring emergency services. Separate orientation classes were organised by the police authorities for women police personnel attached with the help desk in the three districts by also involving other stakeholders connected with ensuring safety of women. The help desks would be the first point of contact for any affected woman approaching a police station seeking remedy, said a police officer. It would provide a conducive atmosphere for the victim to express their grievances to women police personnel, the officer added. Personnel of the help desk, which would function round-the-clock, would also attend to grievances received through the dedicated helpline numbers 181 and 112. It would coordinate with other stakeholders, including the Social Welfare Department, Health Department, Labour Department and Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women for providing emergency medical assistance to victims of violence, shelter and for providing skill development for rehabilitation depending on the requirement. The help desk would also provide counselling to the victims to help them in overcoming the trauma, the officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-help-desks-set-up-in-32-police-stations-in-three-districts/article34982823.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Enrolment of children in P.U. schools goes up||The Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Department that has sustained supply of dry rations and eggs for families of free noon meal beneficiaries in schools in view of the persisting pandemic situation will have to increase allotment for every school this year in all likelihood, teachers say. Enrolment of children in rural parts in panchayat union schools is on the rise as many parents, due to the setback caused to their economic conditions by the lockdown, are shifting their wards from self-financed institutions to the panchayat union schools, according to a senior teacher of a government school. The need for teachers to go on door-to-door canvassing has been obviated this year owing to the inclination of parents in villages to admit their wards in government schools, he said. Rajendran, secretary of the Tiruchi district unit of Tamil Nadu Noon Meal Workers’ Association, said that for the last one year, the family of each child had been provided with dry rations every month. Children in Classes I to V were given the dry rations on the basis of 40 grams of dal and 100 grams of rice per day. For those from Classes VI to VIII, 56 grams of dal and 150 grams of rice were given. Once a month, 10 eggs were given per child. The School Education Department would also have to provide freebies to higher number of students in view of the rise in enrolment, school heads said. According to a headmaster of a panchayat union school, the enrolment would witness a growth this year, also because parents have realised that there is no point in paying exorbitant fee to private schools for conduct of online classes. Government school teachers are also doing their part to keep the students engaged through WhatsApp groups. For once, the level-playing field caused by the COVID-19 pandemic is a heartening factor, he said.  Parents have realised that there is no point in paying exorbitant fee to private schools for conduct of online classes Headmaster of a school||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enrolment-of-children-in-pu-schools-goes-up/article34982805.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 900 fresh COVID-19 cases||The central districts on Friday reported 900 fresh cases of COVID-19. The number of deaths reported too witnessed a significant decline. As many as 24 patients died. All districts reported less than 10 deaths. Seven patients died in Tiruchi district. Nagapattinam recorded five deaths, while Tiruvarur and Thanjavur reported four each. Three patients died in Ariyalur district, while one died in Perambalur. No deaths were reported in both Karur and Perambalur districts. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region with 277 patients reporting positive. The district has continued to report a significant dip in numbers over the last few weeks and has reported less than 300 cases for the first time since April. In Tiruchi district, 220 patients tested positive, while Nagapattinam reported 97 fresh cases. Pudukottai reported 73, while Tiruvarur reported 72. Meanwhile, Karur reported 69 fresh cases. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had only 22 ICU beds vacant, and Pudukottai, 17. Karur had increased its ICU- bed vacancy to 71, Tiruvarur had 68, Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 271 and 199 beds vacant, respectively. Ariyalur recorded 59 fresh COVID-19 cases, while Perambalur district reported 33. Meanwhile, Perambalur had 40 vacant ICU beds, and Ariyalur 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-900-fresh-covid-19-cases/article34982821.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Meet this ‘garden doctor’||A city-based gastroenterologist has set an example by transforming the roadsides into gardens, thereby changing the outlook of the residential locality where he lives. When K. Sridharan, a native of Mayiladuthurai, moved to an apartment at State Bank Officers’ Colony on Lawsons Road in Cantonment about 13 years ago, the roadsides were barren with boulders, gravel and blue metal dumped by construction companies. Now the streets sport greenery and a pleasant look with the well-grown garden thanks to the hard work and commitment of Dr. Sridharan, 62. Besides raising about 100 pot plants around the apartment complex, he has raised a number of flower plants in two out of four streets in the colony. He tills the ground, clear weeds and supply water both in the mornings and evenings. He spends at least two hours on weekdays and four hours on holidays. “It gives me an immense satisfaction. Except my working hours, I love to spend time in raising the roadside gardens,” says Dr. Sridharan who works in a private hospital. He has raised ‘maramalli,’ ‘magizham,’ ‘Parijatham,’ ‘arali,’ ‘vilvam,’ ‘nandhiavittai,’ and other varieties. His meticulous and sincere work has earned him accolades among the residents of the colony. Some fondly call him ‘garden doctor.’ “I am happy that my passion has motivated other residents in my locality to raise plants. I am trying to raise roadside gardens on all streets,” Dr. Sridharan says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-this-garden-doctor/article34982813.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Student writes to Chief Minister seeking access to extra-curricular activities||A young student of the Panchayat Union Middle School, Koppampatti has written a letter to the Chief Minister and the School Education Minister seeking their intervention in conducting extra-curricular classes in rural government schools. These classes would provide an all-around development for the students, the child said. M.V. Mahapatanjali, a Class 5 student, took it upon himself to convey the needs of the students in Koppampatti, Thuraiyur after attending various Grama Sabha meetings. "My father is a regular attendee and I would accompany him to these meetings and see people voicing out their problems and seeking resolution. I realised that the Chief Minister is our representative and I could express our needs to him," he said. He wrote a letter addressed to the CM asking for smart classes in their classrooms and regular classes for music, dance, arts, and yoga among others. "These classes would create a happy environment and would allow us to learn things other than our syllabus," Mahapatanjali said. He said that it was the arts which would allow children to showcase their hidden talents. "While we all study well, each student might have a special skill which goes unrecognised," he added. Mahapatanjali hopes to receive a positive response from the ministers. His father, M. Venkatesan, a junior training officer at an Industrial Training Institute, encouraged Mahapatanjali to write to the CM. "I see parents taking hefty loans to enrol their children to private schools solely for access to extra-curricular activities. Why can't our government schools provide it to the children?" he asked. Through these classes, the students would learn how to interact with the outside world, Mr. Venkatesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-writes-to-chief-minister-seeking-access-to-extra-curricular-activities/article34982820.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||ACP envisages 5.61% rise in credit flow||The annual credit plan (ACP) for Tiruchi district envisages a credit flow of at Rs. 10,090.85 crore during 2021-22, an increase of Rs. 536.34 crore (5.61%) over the previous financial year. Agriculture and allied activities have been allotted the lion’s share of Rs. 5619.17 crore, while MSME’s have been earmarked Rs. 1,686.52 crore. The ACP envisages education loan advances to the tune of Rs. 490.71 crore and Rs. 1,335.09 crore for housing. Renewable energy sources has been allotted Rs. 91.67 crore and social infrastructure Rs. 170.14 crore. The other priority sector advances is projected at Rs. 697.55 crore. The ACP, prepared by the Indian Overseas Bank, the lead bank of the district, in tune with the Potential Linked Credit Plan of NABARD, was released on Thursday by Collector S. Sivarasu in the presence of K. Velayutham, Senior Regional Manager, IOB, and S. Gangadharan, Assistant General Manager. Mr. Sivarasu urged banks to allocate more for medium and long term agriculture credit, SHGs and MSME sector. R. Shankar, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency; N. M. Mohan Karthik, District Development Manager, NABARD; G.Sathiyanarayanan, Lead District Manager, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/acp-envisages-561-rise-in-credit-flow/article34982814.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||College teachers advocate 10-minute break between virtual classroom sessions||College teachers who are bracing up for conduct of online classes for the odd semester of 2021-22 advocate a 10-minute break in between virtual classroom sessions. The break is necessary since enormous strain is caused to the eyes fixated on the screens for both students and teachers, according to the college faculty. The break was necessary for getting over the discomfort caused by the continuous physical strain, David Livingston, Zonal Secretary of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers' Association, said. The TNGCTA, in its list of suggestions to the Higher Education Department for fine-tuning the online teaching-learning process, has mooted apportioning of 30 classroom sessions spread over six working days in a week. There should be a maximum of three virtual classrooms per day, totalling a maximum of 18 hours per week. The remaining 12 hours could be conducted through asynchronous mode: off-line teaching through digital means such as e-contents / videos / power points / study material / reference links to certified academic portals such as NCERT, e-Pathasala, etc., posted in students' learning portal (Google Classroom or College website or WhatsApp or other suitable platform), the TNGCTA has emphasised. As per its suggestions, the course teacher will provide the students with the relevant study material for e-resource based learning. The virtual classes for the entire odd semester could be conducted for 15 weeks (90 working days) which include conduct of tests, revision and related academic works. For effective implementation of online teaching-learning process, it is recommended to teach 60% of the syllabus through live online classes and 40% through e-resource-based learning. The practical component has been planned for completion using online live or pre-recorded demonstrations, YouTube Videos or using virtual lab software, according to the TNGCTA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-teachers-advocate-10-minute-break-between-virtual-classroom-sessions/article34982808.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Octogenarian researcher passes away||G. Ganapathy, 82-year-old physician who received his doctorate degree from National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi last year, over two decades after retiring from government service as Joint Director of Medical Services, passed away on Friday. Dr. Ganapathy's doctorate degree on 'Applications of Machine Learning Algorithms in Health Care' featured developing models for early and quick diagnosis of breast cancer and lower back pain. He investigated the applicability of conventional machine learning techniques and artificial neural networks as predictive tools for health care in any situation, especially during the current pandemic. He is survived by his 80-year-old wife G. Krishnaveni, son Gopinath Ganapathy, Registrar, Bharathidasan University, and daughter Booma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/octogenarian-researcher-passes-away/article34982809.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Trains extended to run||Southern Railway has announced that the Mysore - Mayiladuthurai daily festival special (Train No. 06232) has been extended to run from July 1 until further advice. The Mayiladuthurai - Mysore daily festival special (Train No. 06231) has been extended to run from July 2 until further advice, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-extended-to-run/article34982824.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Smart City work in Tirunelveli bags third place||The Tirunelveli Smart City Limited has bagged the third place in the entire country among the smart cities selected in the third round of the prestigious project being implemented by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. While Dehradun, capital of Uttarakhand, and Sagar of Madhya Pradesh have bagged the first and second places respectively, Tirunelveli has won the third place among the cities selected for the project. Apart from Tirunelveli, Erode is the only other city from Tamil Nadu in the entire list of winners, which was selected in the fourth round. Interestingly, Tirupur and Vellore that won all-India rankings in the past have not figured in the rankings released on Friday in Mumbai by Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri. Indore and Surat have become the overall winners by bagging the first and second places in the overall category comprising the cities selected in all four rounds. The Tirunelveli Corporation, which was selected as one of the 100 ‘Smart Cities’ in the country only in the third round, climbed up the ranking ladder to reach the 16th position in the entire country in 2019 following the third phase of assessment of the progress achieved on the projects getting executed under the scheme. The Tirunelveli Smart City Limited, the special purpose vehicle floated for implementing the smart city projects on an outlay of Rs. 940 crore for the holistic development of the city, proposed to construct a trade centre at the Exhibition Ground opposite the Corporation’s administrative office, reconstruct the Tirunelveli Junction bus-stand and create a truck terminal at Pettai. Since Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts, all fall under the ‘influence area’ around the upcoming project (influence area up to 100 km), do not have a spacious hall for organising conventions or expositions though they house good number of industries, the corporation has proposed to construct the trade centre on the 7.44-acre Exhibition Grounds on an outlay of Rs. 56.71 crore. More than 74% of the physical work of this project that was started in 2019 has been completed. Another outlay of Rs. 79 crore has been earmarked for recreating the 62-year-old Tirunelveli junction bus-stand with modern amenities. Since the corporation has proposed to construct an ultra-modern bus-stand at Tirunelveli Junction, the existing dingy structure has been removed. Besides having basement parking to accommodate over 106 cars and 1,629 bikes, the new bus terminus will have 27 bays and 144 shops in the ground plus three floor shopping mall. The new bus-stand, which is expected to generate annual net revenue of Rs. 1.87 crore after expenditures, will be completed within 18 months. Around 69% of this work has been completed. While more than 75% of the work of new bus-stand has been completed, the Palaayamkottai bus-stand will be handed over for operation in August this year while work on the construction of shops around this bus terminus will take some more time. Though work on the Nehru Open Theatre was started in belated fashion, more than 60% of this work has been completed. As the entry of heavy vehicles proceeding to destinations in Kerala from Thoothukudi and the trucks from Madurai to Nagercoil have to cross Tirunelveli in the absence of ring road on the western side of the city, a truck terminal was planned at Pettai. As the truck terminal has been commissioned, it has greatly reduced the entry of heavy vehicles in the city. Besides, the Tirunelveli Smart City Limited earmarked funds for modernising drinking water distribution, traffic regulation, streetlights, roads, technology-based infrastructure development etc. “This is a recognition given by the Union Government for our team effort. Though the pandemic-induced lockdown affected our work a lot, we are determined to show significant progress and complete the projects at the earliest,” said V. Narayanan Nair, Chief Executive Officer, Tirunelveli Smart City Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-work-in-tirunelveli-bags-third-place/article34982769.ece
26 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Sudanese national held for overstaying his visa||The Perumanallur police on Friday arrested a Sudanese national at Kanakkampalayam village here, in connection with visa term violations. Police said that Mohammed Al-Mamoon Khalid (22) from Khartoum, Sudan, had travelled to Coimbatore with a tourist visa in 2018. He allegedly overstayed his visa after its expiry in February 2019. On Friday noon, as he was returning to Coimbatore from Erode, he stopped near Perumanallur to refuel his two-wheeler, when some people informed the police about him. Upon confirming that his visa had expired, the police booked him. He was sent to Puzhal prison in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudanese-national-held-for-overstaying-his-visa/article34982435.ece
26 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Expert committee to decide on Rivaldo’s release||An eight-member expert committee, set up to decide on the fate of elephant Rivaldo, who is kept in a kraal (elephant shelter) for treatment, will decide whether the animal can be released into the wild. K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), on Friday said the committee, comprising veterinarians, conservationists and wildlife biologists, would decide on the future treatment of the elephant for its “general health, tackling trunk infirmity and eye problem,” as well as aspects relating to whether it could be released back into the wild. Mr. Kaushal said the panel had been given three weeks to submit its recommendations, and added that he was pushing for the report’s submission to be expedited. Request to CM BJP MP and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi has written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, calling for the elephant’s immediate release. Ms. Gandhi said there was nothing wrong with the elephant, and that he was “healthy”, and the campaign to capture him was started by a person from Bangaluru, who recently settled in the tiger reserve. She also added that the Madras High Court had passed orders to release the animal and not to take it into captivity permanently. The animal rights activist said that the elephant had been in captivity for 50 days, and the “harmless” animal, who had not injured anyone or had any problematic interaction with people in the area, was being needlessly subject to training for being turned into a captive elephant. Ms. Gandhi said 10,000 people living in the region had signed a petition calling for the animal’s immediate release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expert-committee-to-decide-on-rivaldos-release/article34982370.ece
26 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kumki ‘blinded’ by mahout’s assistant at Theppakadu||Cheran, a kumki elephant at the Theppakadu camp, was blinded by a ‘kaavadi’, or assistant to its mahout, on May 17. The elephant, aged around 35, has been used in many operations to capture or drive away wild elephants in the Western Ghats. It had already lost sight in one eye and depended on the left eye for vision, officials said. It has been alleged that Cheran was being given commands at the camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) when the injury occurred. Activists have alleged that mahout Ravi had informally handed over the responsibility of training the elephant to a person who was known to him, but not on the payroll of the Forest Department. But MTR Field Director K.K. Kaushal dismissed the charge. He said it was the assistant to the mahout that had inflicted the injury on the elephant. “The incident happened on May 17 and a report has been filed. Disciplinary action has been initiated against the forest staff in question, and strict action will be taken,” he said. It is unclear if the injury has rendered Cheran blind. “I will be conducting a thorough investigation, and veterinarians will also ascertain the severity of the injury and see if any course of treatment can be provided to restore eyesight to the animal,” Mr. Kaushal said. The injury has again raised questions about the treatment of captive elephants at Theppakadu. In September 2019, John, a captive elephant at the camp, was videotaped being hit by mahouts, who were seen throwing sticks and stones at the animal to control it. The Forest Department has maintained that it is one of the most humane elephant camps in the country, with captive elephants enjoying a much better quality of life than anywhere else. A conservationist from the Nilgiris said some force is required to keep any elephant under control. “At the end of the day, elephants are wild animals, which can only be controlled and trained by use of force... Kumkis, especially, are treated very harshly to obey complex commands so that they can be used in operations by the Forest Department. It is very important for people to remember that all captive elephants, which are in camps and temples, are kept in check with at least some kind of force, and at times, the use of such force can lead to injuries. These are moral and philosophical questions, which are connected to keeping elephants in captivity,” he said.  Activists have said that mahout Ravi informally handed over the responsibility of training the elephant to a person who was known to him, but not on the payroll of the Forest Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kumki-blinded-by-mahouts-assistant-at-theppakadu/article34982374.ece
26 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Q-branch SSI arrested for woman’s murder||The Nilgiris district police on Friday arrested a Special Sub-Inspector attached to the Q-branch CID police for the murder of a 51-year-old woman at Khandal in Udhagamandalam. The victim was identified as P. Mahi, a resident of Khandal. According to the police, Mahi had been recently discharged from a hospital after contracting COVID-19. The woman and the accused, Mustafa (55), had visited a guest house together on Thursday night. The two had reportedly consumed alcohol before an argument broke out between them. Mustafa is suspected to have assaulted Mahi resulting in her death. Sources said that Mustafa wrapped the body in a bedsheet and left it at her house on Friday morning, claiming that she died from COVID-19. The family of the deceased, suspecting foul play, informed the Nilgiris district police. A case of suspicious death was registered by the police on Friday and it was later modified to murder. Mustafa surrendered before the local village administrative officer and was arrested by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/q-branch-ssi-arrested-for-womans-murder/article34982437.ece
26 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine to be administered in the Nilgiris today||The Nilgiris district administration has released a list of hospitals and schools where Covishield vaccine will be available on Saturday. Schools Vaccines will be administered at the Shanthi Vijai school in Udhagamandalam, Breeks School (Ooty), Rex School (Ooty), St. Joseph’s School (Ooty), Saint Mary’s Higher Secondary School (Gudalur), Government Hospital in Pandalur, Government boys higher secondary school (Manjoor), and Saint Anthony’s School (Kotagiri). The vaccine will be administered in the Primary Health Centres in Cherambadi, Gudalur town, Nelliyalam town, Nilakottai, O-Valley, Masinagudi, Sholur Mattam, Aravenu, Theppakadu, Ayyankolli, Ambalamoola, Srimadurai, Kolapalli, Uppatty and Kodanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-to-be-administered-in-the-nilgiris-today/article34982425.ece
26 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||13,051 persons vaccinated||As many as 13,051 persons were inoculated in the district on Thursday. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine was administered to 3,12,530 persons till date and 74,138 of them have got their second dose. On June 22, 3,817 got vaccine and 6,743 persons got vaccine on June 23. This included vaccination at doorsteps of 233 differently-abled persons and 98 of their family members, 50 leprosy patients, 1,201 workers of various industrial units, 297 lactating mothers, one HIV-infected person, 426 persons involved in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Besides, 153 government employees, 175 teachers, 179 traders and 467 persons from crowded places were given the vaccination, he said. Based on supply of vaccine doses, more doses would be stocked in places where the demand is more and people would be inoculated through special camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13051-persons-vaccinated/article34982770.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shopping complexes, malls to open in Chennai and neighbouring districts||No permission has been granted for cinema halls and gaming centres. All places of worship in these four districts will be allowed to open in compliance with the Standard Operating Procedure. However, special prayers (‘archanai’), functions and consecration will not be allowed. Sports academies and training centres will be allowed to function on open grounds, but without any audience, between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. All shops and establishments already opened in these districts have been allowed till 7 p.m. In 23 districts under category-II, intra- and inter-district bus transport with 50% of seating and without air-conditioning will be allowed. All private offices will be allowed to function with 50% of their staff. Roadside eateries will be allowed for takeaways between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. Shops offering servicing and sale of mobile phones, computer hardware and software and spare parts of electronic appliances will be allowed between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. In all except 11 districts (Coimbatore, Erode, Karur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Salem, Thanjavur, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur and Tiruvarur identified as category-I districts), the following relaxations have been allowed. All government offices, other industries, banks and ATM services and insurance companies will be allowed to function with 100% of their staff. IT and ITES companies will be allowed only with 50% of staff. Gymnasiums and yoga centres will be allowed to open with 50% of their capacity but without air-conditioning. Entry into museums and protected monuments will be allowed between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Housekeeping and security services will be allowed without e-registration. In category-I districts, tea shops will be allowed but only for takeaways between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. In the case of eateries, restaurants, bakeries and e-commerce services, the timing will be between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. Beauty parlours and salons will be allowed without air-conditioning between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. but only with 50% of customers at a time. All essential government departments and sub-registrar offices will function with 100% of their workers. Schools, colleges, universities and training centres will be allowed to undertake admission activities. Government parks and those under the control of the local bodies and sports grounds will be allowed for training between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. Stationery, electrical, footwear, hardware and fancy shops and those offering video, photography and photocopy services will be allowed between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. Sweet and savoury shops will be allowed between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. E-Seva centres will function. Service centres for home appliances and those servicing vehicles will be allowed between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. Roadside eateries and establishments selling construction materials in these 11 districts will be allowed between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. All essential government departments will be allowed with 100% workers. All private offices and establishments will be allowed to function with 50% staff in these 11 districts. IT and ITES companies will be allowed only with 20% staff. “All kinds of construction activities will be allowed,” the order said. Shooting for films and television serials will be allowed after RT-PCR tests but only with a maximum of 100 artists. People will be allowed on all beaches between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shopping-complexes-malls-to-open-in-chennai-and-neighbouring-districts/article34982380.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 698 new cases, 26 deaths||Coimbatore district reported 698 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 2,16,506. The Health Department reported 26 more deaths taking the toll to 1,994. As many as 6,721 active cases were present in the district and 1,199 patients were reported to have recovered on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 361 new cases and the total number of cases touched 80,789. A total of 13 new deaths took the overall toll to 736. The district had 2,135 active cases and reported the recovery of 462 patients on Friday. Erode district reported 597 new cases, taking the tally to 87,110. While 865 persons were discharged, 4,695 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 566. The daily cases dropped below the 400-mark in Salem on Friday as 398 cases were reported. As per bulletin, nine deaths were reported. In Namakkal, 228 cases and six deaths were reported. Krishnagiri recorded 139 new cases and two deaths. The total number of cases in the district stood at 1,147 as of Friday. Dharmapuri recorded 102 fresh cases and one death. The total number of cases in the district was 817. In the Nilgiris, 132 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 27,858. The toll stood at 155 while 782 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-698-new-cases-26-deaths/article34982418.ece
26 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Priority is not to discuss CM candidate’||“Our priority is to defeat the BJP, not to fight over the next Chief Ministerial candidate,” Congress leader and MLC S.R. Patil said in Belagavi on Friday. ‘There is some talk of differences between Congress leaders over who will be the next Chief Minister. This is baseless. There are no differences among our leaders. Our first priority is to defeat the BJP in the coming polls and not to discuss about aspirants for the Chief Minister’s post,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priority-is-not-to-discuss-cm-candidate/article34982552.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Task force to be set up to look into resuming offline classes||The State government has decided to constitute a task force that will explore options for reopening classes on campus in schools . This was decided at a meeting held by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Friday with department officials, non-government organisations, and academicians. After much deliberation, it was decided that resuming physical classes should be the first priority. If that is not possible, the alternative will be to restart the Vidyagama programme for all schools in the State where teachers can meet with students in small groups in their neighbourhoods. Although everyone at the meeting batted for resuming offline classes in a phased manner, many suggested that the Vidyagama programme can be conducted in schools that do not have the infrastructure to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed. The department has also decided that State board schools will follow a Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) method where evaluation will be conducted every three months, six months, and on a yearly basis. Mr. Suresh Kumar said that the department officials met to discuss the recommendations made by the government appointed committee for the prevention and management of the third wave of COVID-19. “Many of the stakeholders said that there was a need to restart Vidyagama and several other opinions were received. We will be constituting a task force to decide about reopening offline classes,” he said. Some of the experts suggested unlocking schools in a phased manner, similar to how districts were unlocked based on the positivity rate of COVID 19 infections. However, Mr. Suresh Kumar added that before taking any decision to resume the offline classes, they would consult the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Department officials said that all this will be discussed at a videoconference scheduled by the Minister with District Commissioners, Chief Executive Officers, and District Health Officers next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/task-force-to-be-set-up-to-look-into-resuming-offline-classes/article34982319.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka sees huge rise in infected children during second wave||Karnataka has recorded a significant rise in the number of children infected since March 2021, when the surge in cases of COVID-19 began in second wave. According to data from the State COVID-19 War Room, 58,818 children between 0 and 9 years and 1,49,111 between 10 and 19 years tested positive from March 9 till June 23, 2021. The figures from March 8, 2020 till March 8, 2021 were 27,646 and 65,677, respectively. Regarding deaths , while 28 children between 0 and 9 years and 46 between 10 and 19 years succumbed to the virus between March 8, 2020, and March 8, 2021, the numbers from March 9, 2021 till June 23 is 34 and 42, respectively. Paediatric experts said although children can get infected and can transmit it to others, they are at a much lower risk compared to older adults. Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is the lowest in children in these age groups. A high-level expert committee set up to analyse, advise, and control the third wave of COVID-19 has estimated that around 3.4 lakh out of the total 2.3 crore population in the 0-18 age group might get infected during the peak of the third wave. The 13-member panel , headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty, has said that, based on projections by the IISc., 80%-85% of children are likely to suffer a mild infection (asymptomatic) and only about 2% may need intensive care. ‘Less likely to get infected’ Chikkanarasa Reddy, professor of Paediatrics at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, said children are less likely to get infected after contact with a COVID-19 patient as they have ACE2 receptors (the main receptor for the entry of the virus into human cells) with a lower affinity for SARS-CoV-2. “Even if they get infected, they do not develop a severe form of disease,” he said, adding that there were no deaths among the over 100 children in his hospital. ‘Added protective factor’ Asha Benekappa, former director of the State-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, said children do not tend to develop a severe form of the disease because their immunological system is intact and active. “Except for 5%-10%, children do not have comorbidities, which is an added protective factor. Moreover, as all childhood vaccines are live viral vaccines, they are more protected,” she said. “This pattern is strikingly different to that for infection with most other respiratory viruses, for which both the prevalence and severity are higher in children. However, the number of other infections too reduced in children during this pandemic. COVID-19 precautions helped check other infections,” said Dr. Benekappa, who now heads the Department of Paediatrics at Dr. Chandramma Dayananda Sagar Institute of Medical Education and Research. Need to upgrade V. Ravi, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and chairman of the State Genomic Surveillance Committee, said it is essential to upgrade government hospitals with paediatric facilities and train fraternity. “It is true that the number of children manifesting serious illness is low. But, we should not be caught unawares. What if there is a new mutation that can infect children the most?” he asked, cautioning that most district hospitals have no paediatricians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-sees-huge-rise-in-infected-children-during-second-wave/article34982323.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tourism places in State to be opened for public next week||All tourism places in Karnataka, which are closed owing to the pandemic, will be opened for visitors from next week. Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar on Friday said the tourism sector had suffered a lot, and with number of cases declining, it was decided that tourism places could be opened for the public. At a press conference here, he said Rs. 185 crore would be spent on providing better facilities for tourists at the world famous Jog Falls in Shivamogga district. Tenders had been called and Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. would execute works at Jog Falls. During government holidays, water at the rate of 200 cusecs would be released from the Linganamakki reservoir to Jog Falls so that tourists can savour the magic of the falls. A 35-km waterway would be developed for attracting tourists from Kerala and Goa. Two new hotels would be constructed. Mr. Yogeshwar said three star hotels would be developed at Belur, Hampi, and Badami and foundation stones for building them would be laid soon. On the lines of ‘Brand Mysuru’,tourism would be developed in 10 districts. Development of heli tourism and coastal tourism were other priority areas of the department, he said.Mr. Yogeshwarhas urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance portfolio, to allocate Rs. 1,000 crore for tourism sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourism-places-in-state-to-be-opened-for-public-next-week/article34982343.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||App for tree census to be launched soon||Soon, citizens will be able to download an app and input details of trees in their premises or private property. The Forest Department, which has developed the app, believes this will help hasten the much-delayed tree census in the city. Trees are often the first casualty following moderate rain and gusty winds, necessitating a survey. The tree census that was to begin in 2019 has been delayed for various reasons, despite repeated raps from the High Court of Karnataka. The outbreak of COVID-19 is cited as one of the reasons for the delay in the tree census by both the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is to survey trees on public property, and the Forest Department’s Bengaluru Urban division, which is to enumerate trees on the premises of government institutions and private property. Sources told The Hindu that so far, over 81,000 trees in the city of an estimated two crore have been surveyed — more than 63,000 by the Forest Department and over 18,000 by the BBMP. The Forest Department has released eight volumes of the trees already surveyed by its officials. Deputy Conservator of Forests (Bengaluru Urban) S.S. Ravishankar said the department had developed an app with the Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd. (Keonics) to hasten the survey. The app is likely to be launched soon. It, he said, has a feature that will allow citizens to input details of trees on their premises, which will later be verified by forest officials. “The citizens can upload photo, GPS coordinates, and other details into the app.” Meanwhile, the BBMP, which had tied up with the Institute of Wood Science and Technology (IWST) for the tree census, is now corresponding with the Gandhi Krishi Vignana Kendra, University of Agricultural Sciences. BBMP Deputy Conservator of Forests H.C. Ranganathaswamy said that IWST was citing a lack of manpower and COVID-19 as reasons for not being able to take up the survey again. As per the agreement, IWST was to complete the survey in three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/app-for-tree-census-to-be-launched-soon/article34982298.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccine testing centre set up at IISc||A COVID-19 vaccine testing centre has been established at the viral Bio Safety Level-3 (BSL-3) facility at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research (CIDR), Indian Institute of Science (IISc). The centre will test solutions to tackle the pandemic — from vaccines and antivirals to materials and equipment — with the help of academic and industry partners. Tests will be conducted via a fee-for-service model, said IISc in a release on Friday. The vaccine testing centre has been funded by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council under the Department of Biotechnology (DBT-BIRAC). The lab has been helping industry partners in evaluating COVID-19 antibodies. “The DBT-BIRAC support will allow augmentation of the existing facility with high-end equipment and initial support for personnel operating the facility. Research will also be conducted to develop high-throughput assays for evaluating antivirals and vaccines against SARS-CoV-2,” said the release. In addition to SARS-CoV-2, this facility will also support the development of antivirals and vaccines against other viral pathogens responsible for diseases such as influenza, dengue, chikungunya and HIV through similar fee-for-service collaborations with academic and industry partners. Before the COVID-19 pandemic hit, the Division of Biological Sciences at IISc had commissioned the establishment of a dedicated viral BSL-3 facility at CIDR with funding from DBT-IISc partnership, to support research into highly pathogenic human viruses, said IISc in a press release. The construction of the facility was completed in October 2020 and it became operational in January 2021 with all the necessary Standard Operating Procedures. It was made available to academic labs (within and outside IISc) and the industry for training personnel and carrying out antiviral research, the release stated. “By February, the lab, which studies emerging viral pathogens, began working on establishing cell culture and animal models to study SARS-CoV-2 in the viral BSL-3 facility,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccine-testing-centre-set-up-at-iisc/article34982305.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bhupender Yadav met CM?||A reported meeting between Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and key party strategist Bhupender Yadav, which was followed by B.Y. Vijayendra’s daylong trip to New Delhi on Thursday, have raised eyebrows in political circles. Political circles are abuzz with speculation over the reported development, seeing this as a “message from the high command” following the recent exercise carried out by Arun Singh, in charge of party affairs in the State. While the Chief Minister’s detractors continue to predict and set new deadlines for his replacement, sources close to him maintain that the outcome had been “positive” and rubbish all rumours. Reports suggest BJP national general secretary Bhupender Yadav, considered to be close to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, made an unscheduled brief visit to the city and met the Chief Minister at a resort in Devanahalli on Wednesday. While a source close to the Chief Minister indicated that the meeting did take place, party sources denied any knowledge of it. Hours after this reported meeting, Mr. Vijayendra flew to Delhi on Thursday morning and returned to the city late night, triggering further speculation. Mr. Yadav was reported to have made a similar visit to the State in December 2020 when he is said to have consulted senior RSS leaders on the political situation. Not even the State unit of the party was kept in the loop, sources said. Shortly after his visit, the party high command had cleared the decks for the much-delayed Cabinet expansion in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhupender-yadav-met-cm/article34982335.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Corporates in Bengaluru push for COVID-19 vaccination||With the second wave of COVID-19 appearing to be on the wane, the focus has moved towards preparations for a third wave through infrastructure augmentation and vaccination. While awareness, and in turn the demand for vaccines, has picked up, more so after the window was opened to people in the 18-44 age bracket, private companies are coming forward, along with residents’ welfare and apartment associations, to facilitate vaccination for their staff. Hitachi ABB Power Grids in India, for instance, said 88% of its employees aged above 45 have been given the shot under a voluntary vaccination drive, and the facility has been extended to the rest of the staff as well now. “We are in touch with hospitals to conduct mass vaccination at our offices and factory sites, and are conducting a multi-channel employee awareness campaign on the vaccination drive,” said N. Venu, CEO and managing director, Hitachi ABB Power Grids in India. Ride-sharing app Ola said administration of the first dose of vaccination to over 50% of its employees and their dependants above 45 was completed in April, and a drive to vaccinate the rest began after the government opened up vaccination for everyone over the age of 18 in May. “The vaccination drive is live in Bengaluru, where a majority of Ola’s employees are based, and will expand to other cities in the coming weeks as the vaccine supplies improve,” the company said in a statement. It has partnered with hospitals and set up a vaccination camps within the campus. “This helps people avoid unnecessary exposure during hospital visits and also makes it super convenient as there is minimal waiting time.” Real estate firms too have been organising vaccination camps. Embassy Group rolled out a free vaccination drive for its employees across India from June 1, through which the company aimed to inoculate all 1,867 employees located in its offices in Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai, and the NCR. Puravankara rolled out an on-site vaccination programme at its Bengaluru office on June 5. The inoculation drive offerS safe, free-of-cost access to vaccine to all its employees and contractual staff as well as their family members. “Puravankara has partnered with multiple health service providers for the ongoing vaccination programme in Bengaluru. All the processes within the programme are strictly aligned with the State-mandated health regulations and local guidelines. By building on our partnership with local health bodies, we aim to protect our employees from COVID-19 as well as contribute towards the nationwide immunisation efforts,” said Ashish R. Puravankara, MD of Puravankara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corporates-in-bengaluru-push-for-covid-19-vaccination/article34982313.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID effect: Traffic at KIA plummets||The pandemic, subsequent lockdowns, countries prohibiting or restricting flights, and the impact on tourism and fear of travelling have taken a huge toll on passenger movement and air traffic at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). In 2020-21, which Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL) described as “unprecedented”, KIA saw its passenger traffic fall by 66%. In 2019-20, around 32.3 million passengers passed through KIA. The number plummeted to 10.91 million the following year. International routes, which saw four million passengers in 2019-20, were the worst affected, with KIA recording a decline of 90%. In 2020-21, only 0.46 million international passengers passed through the airport. Domestic travel, too, was hit. In a press release issued this week, BIAL stated that 10.45 million passengers flew domestic routes last financial year, recording a 63% drop, as compared to 27 million in 2019-20. Last year, KIA resumed domestic flight operations on May 25 after a gap of two months because of the lockdown. While passenger movement gradually started to rise, it plummeted again with the second wave of COVID-19. “This is mainly attributed to the continued suspension of international flights and COVID-19 restrictions across the globe. After showing signs of recovery during the middle of the fiscal year, the traffic dropped significantly with the rise in COVID-19 cases in India starting February 2021,” the BIAL said in the release. ATM down In the same period, air traffic movement (ATM) dropped by 50% — to 1,13,993 from 2,31,051 in 2019-20. While domestic movement saw a reduction of 49%, international traffic saw only 11,192 air traffic movements — lower by 61% in the last 311 days of operations, said the BIAL. Incidentally, according to BIAL, the pandemic had only a “marginal” impact on cargo operations. Cargo processed during 2020-21 was 3,26,643 MT — 12.7% short of last fiscal’s 3,74,181 MT. The domestic tonnage of 2020-21 was 1,19,125 MT — 20% short of the previous year’s tonnage — while the international was 2,07,518 MT (7% short). “Bengaluru airport was the only major airport in the country to reach 100% of the previous year’s tonnage on a year-on-year basis from September 2020 through January 2021. In March, it regained momentum, recording 34,401 MT — the highest in the last 31 months,” said BIAL.  After showing signs of recovery in the middle of the fiscal year, the traffic dropped with the rise in COVID-19 cases in India starting Feb. Bangalore International Airport Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-effect-traffic-at-kia-plummets/article34982311.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Innovation award for Index App||The city’s Index App, which was developed following the outbreak of COVID-19, has been recognised for using technology to set up the COVID-19 war room. It has been adjudged the winner in the third round of the COVID-19 Innovation Award in the India Smart Cities Awards Contest (ISAC) 2020. The results of ISAC 2020 along with Climate Smart CitiesAssessment Results 2.0 were announced by Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri in New Delhi on Friday. Bengaluru bagged three stars with an overall score of 1,271 out of 2,800. It fared fairly well and bagged three stars each in the areas of energy and green building (330/600) and urban planning, green cover and biodiversity (244/500). The city also bagged four stars in waste management (395/600), but fared poorly in the areas of mobility and air quality (two stars; 187/500) and water management (one star; 115/600). Tumakuru’s Digital Library Solution also bagged third place in ISAC 2020 under the social aspects category. P. Rajendra Cholan, managing director of Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. (BSCL), told The Hindu that the Index App was the main driver of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s COVID-19 war room. During the second wave, the app was integrated with all other applications, such as the Central Hospital Bed Management System, contact tracing app, the monitoring of those under home isolation, apart from the State war room. “This ensured that there was end-to-end information available at a click of a button. The system will stand in good stead for COVID-19 management during the third wave when that happens,” he said, adding that the State war room was now looking at adopting the Index App technology. About the overall score of three stars under the Climate Smart Cities Assessment Results 2.0, Mr. Cholan claimed Bengaluru had performed better than other Smart Cities in the country. As many as 54 Smart Cities were assessed on various parameters by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Other initiatives He added that a nodal officer was appointed from BSCL to collect details, documents and records from various stakeholders, including the BBMP and Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board, and submit the same for the assessment. “While it is a fair assessment of where the city stands, there are a lot of initiatives that have been taken already by the respective stakeholders and the State government that did not fit into the assessment criteria,” he pointed out, citing initiatives and projects already taken up under BengaluruMission 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/innovation-award-for-index-app/article34982297.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Report documents pandemic woes of transgender persons||The transgender community was one of the worst hit during the pandemic. Not only did members struggle with loss of income, they also faced discrimination and stigma that jeopardised access to relief and healthcare. But the community organised relief work and helped several vulnerable groups, including their own. These were some of the findings of a report published by the Alternative Law Forum (ALF) In their report, ‘Asserting Dignity in Times of COVID’, authors Rumi Harish and Sunil Mohan documented how the transgender community was mostly left out of relief measures initially. They were included after the community impleaded in a PIL petition before the High Court in April 2020. But even with this, the community faced several problems in accessing relief. The report foundthat one of the main hurdles was the insistence of ID proof, both by government and private relief workers, which most transgender persons did not have. Meanwhile, People Living with HIV in the community had their ART treatment cycles disrupted and faced several hurdles in accessing medicines. The lockdown pushed them into isolation, forcing them to spend time with their families who may not be sympathetic to them, causing mental health issues, as per the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/report-documents-pandemic-woes-of-transgender-persons/article34982303.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3,310 new cases, 114 deaths reported in State||Karnataka on Friday reported 3,310 new cases of COVID-19 and 114 deaths, taking the total caseload to 28,26,754 and toll to 34,539. Bengaluru Urban logged 614 new cases and 17 deaths. While the positivity rate stood at 2.09%, the case fatality rate was at 3.44%. The Health Department bulletin showed that the day also saw 6,524 patients discharged, pushing the total recoveries to 26,84,997. Cumulatively, 3,35,08,382 samples have been tested in the State so far, of which 1,58,072 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3310-new-cases-114-deaths-reported-in-state/article34982309.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CD scandal: ‘Ensure no closure reports by SIT’||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday asked the State Advocate-General to ensure that no closure report is filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on the probes into the criminal cases registered related to the CD scandal involving the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued oral direction to A-G Prabjuling K. Navadgi during the hearing of PIL petitions questioning legality of setting up the SIT and seeking transfer of probe to an independent agency. Though the SIT on June 18 told the court that its investigation was not yet complete into the two criminal cases — one registered based on Mr. Jarkiholi’s complaint and another on the complaint of the woman — the Bench issued oral direction to the A-G as the woman’s advocate expressed apprehension about possibility of the SIT filling closure reports. Meanwhile, the Bench passed the order tagging on the two independent petitions filed by the victim — one questioning legality of setting up the SIT on the instruction of the Home Minister, who acted on the plea of Mr. Jarkiholi, and another seeking quashing of a case registered on Mr. Jarkiholi’s complaint of extortion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cd-scandal-ensure-no-closure-reports-by-sit/article34982336.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Need for caution as cases surge in other States’||Given the surge in cases in Kerala and Maharashtra, Karnataka needs to be cautious and conduct more tests in border areas, said Health and Medical Education Minister K.Sudhakar, speaking to presspersons here on Friday. “We have instructed the district administration to conduct more tests in border areas,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “It is not appropriate to close borders. We need to be cautions at bus and railway stations.” He also said that there is no need to panic about the Delta Plus variant. “There are two cases of this variant, in Bengaluru and in Mysuru. Both the patients are having mild symptoms. The one in Mysuru is completely recovered. There was no severity in both the cases. Primary contacts of these cases have tested negative. Therefore, there is no need to panic about these virus. Genome sequencing is being done everyday to detect nee strains,” said the Minister. There is some difference in treatment protocol for Delta and Delta Plus variants. All these will be discussed with experts in the meeting with Chief Minister, he added||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-for-caution-as-cases-surge-in-other-states/article34982314.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIA arrests man in 2018 counterfeit note case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a person from Malda, a district bordering Bangladesh in West Bengal, in connection with a fake currency case registered in Bengaluru in 2018. The accused has been identified as Jahiruddin S.K., who hails from Murshidabad district, West Bengal. The Bengaluru city police had unearthed the case in Madanayakanahalli, on the outskirts of the city, on August 7, 2018, and recovered fake currency notes with a face value of Rs. 6.84 lakh in denominations of Rs. 2,000. Four persons were arrested. With cross-border links from Bangladesh emerging in the case, the NIA took over the case and re-registered an FIR in September 2018, and since then two more have been arrested. The agency has filed three charge-sheets against the six accused till date. Jahiruddin had been absconding until recently. “The investigation has revealed that the absconding accused was a close aide of the arrested, Abdul Kadir and Sabiruddin, who had procured the fake currency notes from their associates in Bangladesh and supplied them to their associates in India for circulation,” the NIA said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nia-arrests-man-in-2018-counterfeit-note-case/article34982302.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 1,493 crore action plan for KK region||Governor Vajubhai R. Vala has approved an action plan of Rs. 1,492.97 crore for the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board. The amount will be utilised for development of the region during 2021–22. Funds will be released for both micro and macro projects. Funds will also be released for a few major projects, said Minister for Planning and Statistics and Youth Empowerment K.C. Narayana Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-1493-crore-action-plan-for-kk-region/article34982339.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 50.23 crore worth seized drugs to be destroyed||On International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, the State police will destroy 12 types of drugs seized during the last year, at district headquarters as per the prescribed procedures, on Saturday. An estimated value of the drugs would be Rs. 50.23 crore, said an official release.A total of 4,066 cases have been registered in the State under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.A total 5,291 people have been arrested for peddling drugs, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-5023-crore-worth-seized-drugs-to-be-destroyed/article34982341.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal water connections detected||A team that was formed by Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) to prevent water theft and to detect water connections that have bypassed water meters has detected 41 such “illegal” connections in the East zone and 50 in the West zone in the city. All these connections have been disconnected by the board and the consumers penalised. In a press release issued here recently, the BWSSB said that it would initiate legal action against those with such connections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-water-connections-detected/article34982295.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Basavanna’s bust to be installed at Vidhana Soudha||The Karnataka government has decided to install a bust of 12th century social reformer Basaveshwara on the premises of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru, according to a note by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Social awareness Basaveshwara spread social awareness through his poetry, popularly known as vachanas. Basaveshwara built the Anubhava Mantapa, often referred to as the ‘first parliament of the world’ at Basavakalyan in Bidar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basavannas-bust-to-be-installed-at-vidhana-soudha/article34982338.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru/ Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Relaxations in three more districts||With positivity rate of COVID-19 reducing to less than 5%, the State government has extended more relaxations in three districts — Chamarajanagar, Davangere, and Chikkamagaluru. In these districts, shops will be allowed to open till 5 p.m. till July 5. Mysuru, which was the sole district in the State under total lockdown because of its test positivity rate (TPR), was partially unlocked with effect from Friday following its inclusion under Category 2 district based on the weekly moving average positivity rate. The district was earlier included in Category 3 with no relaxation in lockdown curbs. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham told reporters here on Friday that the additional activities permitted under Category 2 districts (list of activities issued on June 19) would be permitted with immediate effect following the government’s order. “Friday’s positivity rate stands at 6%. It was 6.8% on Thursday,” he said. All production units, establishments and industries are now permitted to function with 50% of their staff strength adhering to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. However, units engaged in garment manufacturing are permitted to function with 30% of their staff. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, dairy and milk, and animal fodder are allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Street vendors are also allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relaxations-in-three-more-districts/article34982340.ece
26 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Film highlights plight of students, migrant workers during lockdown||Being witness to the plight of schoolchildren in rural areas and migrant workers, who returned from cities during the lockdown, 24-year-old Arochi N.D. has shot a movie on what he saw. The engineering graduate returned to his native place Harogolige in Tirthahalli last year after his studies, to prepare for competitive exams for civil services. He came across migrant workers, who were stopped from entering their village, and students of rural schools struggling to get Internet connection to attend online classes. With the experience he had acquired on making short films during his time in college, Mr. Arochi prepared a script and shot a movie with his Canon 700D camera. The story revolves around two students who get separated after the lockdown over COVID-19. While one goes to his uncle’s house in a city, the other stays in the village, waiting for his father, a migrant worker, to return home. The contrasting environments that the characters are exposed to is the crux of the movie. The city boy gets good internet connectivity, attends online classes, watches movies and listens to some lectures on his mobile phone. The village boy is busy with agriculture, listening to the radio. The boy in the village struggles to call his father over the phone as there is no network. He has to walk about five kilometres in search of better connectivity. Mr. Arochi told The Hindu that the film is based on what he saw. “I made use of resources available in the village to shoot the movie,” he said. With the support of his father Nempe Devaraj, a journalist and activist, and mother Y.M. Sudha, principal of government pre-university college at Tirthahalli, Mr. Arochi spent over Rs. 15,000 to make the short film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-highlights-plight-of-students-migrant-workers-during-lockdown/article34982317.ece
26 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Protest against price hike||Hassan district unit of CPI(M) staged a protest opposing the hike in the price of fuel and other essential things here on Friday. Party members staged the dharna at Hemavati Statue Circle, under the leadership of district secretary Dharmesh. They carried placards criticising the Union government in the wake of the hike in the price of petrol, diesel and LPG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-price-hike/article34982543.ece
26 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Probe sought into cash offer made to CMC members||Stating that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s political secretary N.R. Santhosh offered cash to Janata Dal(S) members of Arsikere City Municipal Council to shift party loyalty, Janata Dal(S) MLAs H.D. Revanna and K.M. Shivalinge Gowda have demanded a CBI inquiry into the issue. In a press conference in Hassan on Friday, the Janata Dal(S) leaders displayed Rs. 10 lakh in cash and stated that it was paid to M. Kalai Arasi, a Janata Dal(S) member of the council, forcing her to quit the party. “The Chief Minister’s political secretary is directly involved in the issue. He had sent his close associates Sikander and Harshavardhan to the residence of Kalai Arasi and left currency notes at her place on Thursday evening,” Mr. Revanna said. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s previous statement on the Janata Dal(S)-Congress coalition government as “10% government”, Mr. Revanna wanted to know from the Prime Minister, how the political secretary of the Chief Minister was getting so much money to lure Janata Dal(S) members. “You were calling our government corrupt, what would you call your own party rule in Karnataka now,” he wondered. The Janata Dal(S) leader also said that the Chief Minister should resign if he had morality left in him. In a council of 31 members, the Janata Dal(S) had won 21 seats in the elections held in 2018. The BJP won five seats. The council president’s post was reserved for the Scheduled Tribes category. The row over reservation has reached court. Recently, seven members of the Janata Dal(S) submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner of Hassan stating that they are coming out of the Janata Dal(S) and that they be recognised as independent members of the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-sought-into-cash-offer-made-to-cmc-members/article34982555.ece
26 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Heavy vehicles banned on Agumbe Ghat road||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner has prohibited the movement of heavy vehicles on the Agumbe Ghat stretch of National Highway 169A in view of heavy rain in the area. This order will be in effect till October 15. The alternative routes for heavy vehicles are: Shivamogga-Thirthahalli- Unturu Katte Kaimara-Mastikatte-Hulikal- Kundur and Shivamogga-Kammaradi- Sringeri-Kerekatte-Karkala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-vehicles-banned-on-agumbe-ghat-road/article34982544.ece
26 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Only shops selling essential items to remain open||As announced earlier, there will be weekend curfew in Dharwad district and the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad has clarified that there will be restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles and also on shops doing business. Weekend curfew, which came into force at 7 p.m. on Friday, will be in force till 5 a.m. on Monday (June 28). Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has issued order stating that the movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between till 5 a.m. Monday, except for essential and emergency activities. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, dairy and milk booths and animal fodder, PDS shops and liquor outlets (only parcel) can remain open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Street vendors can also operate from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Home delivery of all items is allowed 24 x 7. Restaurants and eateries can be open but they are allowed only selling take-aways and home deliveries. Dining-in is strictly prohibited. Movement of buses, trains and air travel is permitted. marriages already scheduled are permitted to be conducted in the respective houses of the parties concerned in a low-key manner involving only close family relatives up to 40 people and strictly adhering to pandemic appropriate behaviour. Cremation is also allowed with a maximum of five persons present. Patients and attendants requiring medical need and those intending to take vaccination will be allowed to go to hospitals and vaccination centres. The Deputy Commissioner has said that industries dealing with essential and emergency services are allowed to operate. He has clarified that all kinds of shops dealing with non-essential items should remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. Those violating the orders will be penalised, he has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-shops-selling-essential-items-to-remain-open/article34982549.ece
26 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Gulbarga University exams from July 15||With the second wave of the pandemic slowing down and the State government lifting restrictions in a phased manner, Gulbarga University has decided to start its pending examinations from July 15 for undergraduate and postgraduate courses for 2020-2021. Addressing a media conference at the university conference hall here on Friday, Vice-Chancellor of the university Dayanand Agsar said that examinations for I, III and V semesters of undergraduate courses and I and III semesters of postgraduate courses will commence on July 15 and those for II, IV and VI semesters of undergraduate and II and IV semesters of postgraduate programmes will start after September 20. He added that the classes for the academic year 2021-22 will start by November 2021. In the backdrop of discussions on whether Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) should be adopted for saving evaluation time, Mr. Agsar made it clear that the university will not opt for MCQ pattern but will continue with the descriptive questions as the former will adversely impact students. “It is true that MCQ model saves a lot of time as the answer sheets are evaluated by computers. But, that model of examination will adversely impact career of students and we will not opt for it. Whatever the gaps created due to the pandemic and resultant lockdowns in the academic year of 2020-21 will be covered in 2021-2022 by optimum utilisation of time. We will then be ready for an uniform academic calendar planned by the Department of Higher Education,” Mr. Asgar said. Four-year degree As part of the university’s commitment to implementing the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020), Mr. Agsar said that he is planning to replace the three-year degree course with a four-year one in a phased manner from the next academic year. “All the universities in the State have been asked to replace the three-year degree courses with four-year ones as envisaged in NEP 2020. Since this cannot be done uniformly in all universities at a time owing to various reasons involving infrastructure, manpower and other issues, the universities are asked to do it in a phased manner taking into account the specific issues pertaining to the individual university. We are making preparations and we will, to start with, introduce the four-year degree at least in a few courses from the next academic year,” Mr. Agsar said. He added that students who have completed their three-year undergraduate course can do a two-year postgraduate programme and those who completed their four-year degree course will have a one-year postgraduate degree programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gulbarga-university-exams-from-july-15/article34982554.ece
26 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police plan to intensify night patrolling in Kalaburagi||Taking incidents of theft and burglary being reported in Kalaburagi seriously, the police have planned to intensify night patrolling with senior officers being on the field throughout the night. “So far, lower-level police officers were on night patrolling duty. Now, I am fielding senior officers as well. An Assistant Commissioner of Police and three Circle Inspectors will also take up rounds in the city throughout the night monitoring the patrolling teams on the field,” Commissioner of Police Y.S. Ravikumar told mediapersons on his office premises here on Friday. Appealing to people to assist the police by calling emergency number 112 when in need of assistance, the officer said that there are 12 dedicated police vehicles to attend to emergency calls and they will reach such spots within 15 minutes. “After we adopted the emergency calling number 112 one-and-a-half months ago, we received 750 calls on a range of issues — right from people’s need for mere police presence to feel safe through quarrels between two groups to a murder. “We have successfully attended all calls,” Mr. Ravikumar said. Asked about criminal activities being on the rise in the city, the Police Commissioner said that his force will focus on identifying anti-social elements and curbing crime. “A considerable number of personnel of our police force were busy in COVID-19 lockdown enforcement. With restrictions being lifted, our focus will now be on anti-social elements. Apart from intensifying night patrolling, we will enhance day vigilance as crimes such as theft and burglary are planned and reconaisance carried out during the daytime,” Mr. Ravikumar said. To a question, the officer admitted that the number of CCTV cameras installed in important public places across the city is inadequate and he will shortly increase it. “Only a 1,000 CCTV cameras for a city having a population of 7.5 lakh are inadequate. We need at least around 5,000 CCTV cameras and we will increase them shortly,” he said. On the issue of staff crunch, Mr. Ravikumar said that the newly established commissionerate has only 600 staff — 500 civil police and 100 armed reserve — as compared to 1,100 sanctioned force. “Nearly 300 of the 600 personnel working are away for training. They will shortly report to duty,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police Adduru Srinivasulu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-plan-to-intensify-night-patrolling-in-kalaburagi/article34982547.ece
26 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Despite assurances to contrary, hoarding creates artificial scarcity of seeds||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil asserted at a press meet in Bengaluru recently that there is no shortage of either sowing seeds or fertilizer for kharif season in the State. The same day saw farmers thronging the Horticulture Department in Ballari to purchase chilli seeds being lathi-charged as shortage of seeds created a chaotic situation. A few days later, farmers inAurad taluk in Bidar district who tried to purchase soya bean seeds in vain dragged an officer at a local Raita Samparka Kendra out of his office and tied him up to the gate to vent their anger. Bidar has received good rain and farmers have prepared their land for soya bean cultivation. However, many of them have not been able to get seeds in time. “No Raita Samparka Kendra in our area has sowing seeds that farmers demand. After desperately visiting some kendras, I purchased seeds in the black market paying exorbitant price. There was no other way, as we could not afford to lose a season. For example, I purchased soya bean at Rs. 3,500 a bag of 30 kg as against Rs. 2,200 MRP,” Sunil Srimanth Kotre, a farmer from Bhosga village in Kalaburagi district, told The Hindu . State honorary president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Chamarasa Malipatil blamed the State government for allowing what he called a “chaotic situation” as hoarders have created an artificial scarcity. “The State government has failed to ensure adequate stock of sowing seeds before the onset of monsoon. No Raita Samparka Kendra in Ballari, Koppal, and Raichur districts has Syngenta 5531 variety of chilli seeds which farmers are demanding. But the same seeds are being sold at three times the original rate in the black market,” he said. Ballari administration has received a number of complaints of chilli seeds being sold in black.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-assurances-to-contrary-hoarding-creates-artificial-scarcity-of-seeds/article34982331.ece
26 June 2021||KARIMNAGAR,KARNATAKA||‘Pay Rs. 5 lakh to kin of COVID-hit’||Y.S. Sharmila, daughter of late Chief Minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy, has demanded that the government pay an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to those who died of Coronavirus in the State. She said that while Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had been getting treatment at a corporate hospital, people were left to government hospitals where facilities were not up to the mark or had to undergo treatment at private hospitals by spending lakshs of rupees. Ms. Sharmila visited several families including that of Sridhar of Almaspur in Rajanna Sircilla district and consoled those families. “Government has not spent any amount for the poor suffering from COVID. The family of Sridhar had spent about Rs. 19 lakh to get treated for corona for three members of the family. Late Chief Minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy had introduced Arogya Sri to help the poor. One could not understand why corona was not included in the list of this health scheme,” said Ms. Sharmila while consoling the families of corona-hit and speaking to reporters. She said the Chief Minister would know facts and prevailing conditions if he came out of farm house and moved among people. Earlier, she garlanded a statue of YSR at Vantimamidi and Pragnapur in Siddipet district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pay-rs-5-lakh-to-kin-of-covid-hit/article34982330.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Road structures hampering easy movement of locals||Residents of Kundapur town in Udupi district were longing nearly for a decade for the completion of the flyover on National Highway 66 by the National Highways Authority of India at Shastri Circle, work of which had been going on at a slow pace. Once the flyover was completed along with a vehicular underpass at Basrur Moorkai, about 1.5 km south of Shastri Circle last month, the residents are left cursing their fate, as both the structures, with their barricaded down and up ramps, have now formed a wall-like structure dividing the town and preventing people as well as vehicles from going to the other side for a stretch of about 2 km. Besides the old town, Kundapur has seen extensive development between Shastri Circle and Koteshwara on both sides of NH 66 on a stretch of about 4 km. Over 25 government offices, including sub-divisional police offices, LIC, Bhandarkar’s College, MESCOM, PWD, are situated on the western side of the highway very close to Bobbaryana Katte. Social activist Vivek Nayak told The Hindu that right from Shastri Circle till Basrur Moorkai, there is no pedestrian crossing allowed between the two flyovers. Consequently, people have to walk for long distances to reach their destination which otherwise is just a few hundred meters away. Thousands of people visiting over 25 offices near Bobbaryana Katte are finding it difficult to reach their destinations. Many jump the fence at the down ramps of the flyovers and cross the highway risking their life, Mr. Nayak said. The problem is not just confined to pedestrians. It has also severely affected vehicle users, said Kishore Kumar from Heddari Horata Samithi that had fought for completion of the flyover works. He said that people driving either from Udupi or from Bhatkal and intending to enter Kundapur town either have to take the congested service roads or drive all the way on the flyovers to take U turns to reach their destinations. According to Mr. Kumar, there is a proposal for entry and exit from the four-lane National Highway at Bobbaryana Katte in the original plan; but the National Highways Authority of India did not provide them. People’s representatives kept mum before the completion of the flyovers as well as after the completion in scant regard to the woes of the general public, he said. Udupi Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhana said that he would inspect the stretch in a couple of days and attempt to find solution with the help of the district administration and the NHAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-structures-hampering-easy-movement-of-locals/article34982542.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Video of event in MLA’s office goes viral||A person claiming in a video clip that Karkala MLA V. Sunil Kumar has violated COVID-19 guidelines by holding a meeting in his office in Karkala on Friday went viral on the social media. In the video taken from his car, the person shows many cars parked outside the office of Mr. Kumar in Udupi district. “Law is same for a common man and an elected representative. I urge Udupi Deputy Commissioner to take action against the MLA for holding an event in violation of COVID-19 protocol,” the person is heard as saying. Meanwhile, the MLA told The Hindu that the event in his office was related to observing black day to oppose the 1975 Emergency imposed on the country. Less than 50 persons attended the virtual event. “There is no bar on holding events in compliance with the norms,” he said and added that those who attended the event wore masks and social distancing was ensured. Some of the vehicles outside his office were of those who attended the event, he said. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha told The Hindu that he immediately instructed the local revenue officials to visit the MLA’s office. “The team reported that it was a virtual event in which (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader) Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat was among the speakers. They did not find any violation of norms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/video-of-event-in-mlas-office-goes-viral/article34982550.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ill-planned structure||The completed flyovers at Shastri Circle and Basrur Moorkai on National Highway 66 in Kundapur town are ill-planed without giving any respite to people, say town residents. Kishore Kumar from Heddari Horata Samithi said that though the vehicular underpass at Basrur Moorkai was ready, NHAI has not commissioned it yet, stating that a few speed breakers are to be erected. “Who has to erect the speed breakers?” asked Mr. Kumar. Similarly, NHAI has not erected any signboards at the entry and exit of the flyovers on both the sides leaving drivers utterly confused, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ill-planned-structure/article34982540.ece
26 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Walk-in appointments for vaccine at KMC hospitals||KMC hospitals in Mangaluru, Manipal, Udupi and Karkala will have walk-in appointments for paid vaccination of COVID-19 vaccine. People can also register their names on the Co-Win portal and go to these four hospitals for vaccination. A press release here said that walk-in appointments will be accepted at the vaccination centre in Mareena Indoor Sports Complex, Kaprigudda, in Mangaluru, between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. from Monday to Saturday. People can choose between Covaxin and Covishield. They have to bring their Aadhaar card or any other identity proof for vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/walk-in-appointments-for-vaccine-at-kmc-hospitals/article34982551.ece
26 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tribal haadis in Chamarajanagar district are now free from COVID-19||Tribals living in the forest fringes of Chamarajanagar district who had contracted COVID-19 recently and recovered from the infection are now returning to their ‘haadis’ (settlements), thanking the ZP and GP authorities for the healthcare provided to them. Thanks to the concern of the gram panchayat and the special attention given for their treatment, the Soliga haadis that had reported infection are now free from COVID-19. The State’s first COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) for tribals was set up at the ashram school in Jeerige Gadde village in P.G. Palya Gram Panchayat in the district. Tribals from Jeerige Gadde, Haavina Moole, and Bellave haadis who had tested positive were isolated at the CCC and all of them have recovered from the infection, a press release said here. The ZP CEO, Boyar Harshal Narayana Rao, who visited the haadis on knowing about tribals testing positive, gave directions for setting up the CCC at Jeerige Gadde. The timely intervention and treatment at the CCC helped control the spread of the infection. The tribal leaders, ASHAs and anganwadi workers, besides the GP officers and task force, collectively worked in freeing the haadis from COVID-19. As many as 30 tribals had tested positive and all of them have recovered.. The entire team also played a key role in removing misapprehensions about vaccines and convincing the tribals to get the doses. The tribals in B.R. Hills Gram Panchayat also showed interest in taking the vaccine. “The tribals who were reluctant to get vaccinated are now coming forward to take the vaccine. More than 500 have secured jobs under the MGNREGA. Today, the Soliga haadis are free from COVID-19 and many are coming forward for the jabs,” said the ZP CEO.  “The funds under the 15th Finance Commission were used to set up the CCC. More awareness drives were done and people were sensitised about the pandemic and the precautions to be taken. This helped us to free tribal haadis from COVID-19,” said P.G. Palya GP PDO Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribal-haadis-in-chamarajanagar-district-are-now-free-from-covid-19/article34982325.ece
26 June 2021||Mysuru/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ramesh Jarkiholi ‘disappointed’, but won’t resign from Assembly||The former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who resigned from the Cabinet after facing allegations in a sex CD scandal, on Friday said he had contemplated resignation from the Legislative Assembly, but had put off the decision for the next few days. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru and later in Belagavi, Mr. Jarkiholi admitted that he had decided to resign from the Assembly because he was emotionally hurt and disappointed. But, he added that some of his well-wishers had advised him against going public with his decision for the time being. “I will think over it for another eight to ten days because of the advice given by certain leaders and then talk about it,” he said. He sought to make it clear that he was neither lobbying to return to the Cabinet led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa nor would he return to the Congress. ‘Will remain in BJP’ He vowed to remain in the BJP till he retires from politics in view of the respect shown to him by the party’s national and State leaders, besides the Sangh Parivar. There is no question of betraying the BJP, he said. The former Minister admitted to having visited Mumbai alone to meet the former Chief Minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis, whom he described as his “godfather”. “I was hurt, so I went to him and told him so,” Mr. Jarkiholi said while clarifying that he had planned to resign alone and no other leader had accompanied him to Mumbai. He claimed that Mr. Fadnavis had assured him of his full support. He said Mr. Yediyurappa would continue as Chief Minister for the remaining two years of the Assembly’s term. “The party will go to the elections in 2023 under Mr. Yediyurappa’s leadership and return to power, but the party leadership will have to decide on the next Chief Minister,” he said. During his visit to Mysuru along with his brother Lakhan Jarkiholi, Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi called on Suttur Mutt seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami, who lost his mother recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramesh-jarkiholi-disappointed-but-wont-resign-from-assembly/article34982333.ece
26 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir admn. taking all steps to hold SSLC exam||The Education Department has made preparations to conduct SSLC examinations with necessary health precautions in Yadgir district as the examinations are expected to be conducted in the third week of July. The second wave of the pandemic has declined in the district. However, the department has been planning to ensure the maximum health care for students appearing for the examinations. Initially, it was decided to form a block for 24 students. But, considering the threat of a possible third wave, it was later decided to reduce the number of students to 12 in one block. Officials have identified a total 1,480 blocks in 96 examination centres across the district. Of these, 566 blocks in 36 centres are in Yadgir taluk followed by 468 blocks in 29 centres in Shahapur taluk and 446 blocks in 27 centres in Surpur taluk. And, each block will be supervised by superintendents. As many as 17,749 students have registered for the examinations this year. Of these, 6,790 students are in Yadgir taluk followed by 5,608 in Shahapur taluk and 5,351 students in Surpur taluk. “We have taken necessary initiatives for holding the examinations. Each centre will be sanitised. Students appearing for the examinations should undergo medical examinations such as fever check by Health Department officials who will be deployed for the purpose. Students must wear face masks and apply hand sanitisers,” Deputy Director of Public Instruction Shantagowda Patil told The Hindu . Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat Shilpa Sharma, who held meetings with the Education Department officials, has asked them to ensure that students are appearing for the examinations as per the guidelines issue, while maintaining social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-admn-taking-all-steps-to-hold-sslc-exam/article34982548.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers lend a helping hand to ASHAs||Described as unsung heroes, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) who are on the frontline in the battle against COVID-19 have received a helping hand from the farming community in Mysuru district. For, the farmers who have constituted a voluntary group to spread awareness on COVID-19 in rural areas through Grameena Janara Corona Seva Pade is distributing ration kits to ASHAs across the district. The Gramina Janara Corona Seva Pade was constituted by the Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators Association to provide telemedicine and consultation to COVID-19 patients in rural areas. In the process the members got in touch with the health authorities in the district and secured the list of ASHAs so as to extend this gesture in recognition of their tireless work. The distribution of ration kits is to express their thanks to the thousands of ASHAs who are working behind the scenes and outside the media spotlight in the battle against COVID-19. “As farmers we ourselves are in dire straits but the contribution of ASHAs in the fight against the pandemic is immense and hence our small gesture,” said Atahalli Devaraj of the Grameena Janara Corona Seva Pade. It is not only during the current pandemic situation that the ASHAs have struggled to bail out the society; they are the backbone in ensuring the functioning of the public health services in rural areas even during normal times, he added. “The ration kit may not amount to much but is intended to boost the morale of the ASHAs. Each kit contains rice, wheat flour, spice items, red gram etc., to last almost 15 days’’, according to Kurubur Shanthakumar, who conceived the idea of the Seva Pade with other likeminded farmers. In the district hinterland ASHAs walk from village to village not only counselling people on their physical health and providing vital information to doctors but also giving psychological strength to patients.  “The credit to ensure that the villages are free of COVID-19 goes in a large measure to the ASHAs and we intend to distribute kits to each one of them,’’ said Mr. Shanthakumar.  As farmers we ourselves are in dire straits but the contribution of ASHAs in the fight against the pandemic is immense and hence our small gesture Atahalli Devaraj, Grameena Janara Corona Seva Pade||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-lend-a-helping-hand-to-ashas/article34982324.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Renewal of tax exemptions sought for Mysuru airport||Stakeholders, including the Airports Authority of India (AAI), have sought a renewal of tax exemptions and other subsidies from the State government to Mysuru airport after they expired in September 2020. Coupled with plummeting air traffic and cancellations or suspension of flight services because of the lockdown and the pandemic situation, the withdrawal of tax exemptions is adding to the overhead cost of keeping the airport operational. Sources told The Hindu that theState government had extended concessions to Mysuru airport with regard to electricity and water, apart from exempting it from remitting property taxes to the local body. The concession was initially extended for a period of five years with effect from October 6, 2005, following an MoU between the Government of Karnataka andthe AAI. The concessions were renewed again with effect from October 1, 2015, for another five years. The tax waiver and free electricity and water charges were to help minimise the operational costs of the fledgling airport, which was developed by the AAI spending nearly Rs. 82 crore. Once this lapsed, the AAI wrote a letter to the government on October 7, 2020, to extend the exemptions for another five years, on the grounds that the revenue generated was less than the expenditure incurred to provide essential services at the airport, mainly because of the subsidies provided as per the Regional Connectivity Scheme and the challenges imposed by the outbreak of COVID-19. The State government rejected the proposal and issued an order in February this year to the effect, and decided not to extend the tax exemption and other subsidies. ‘A routine issue’ However, sources in the AAI said this was a routine issue consequent to the withdrawal of exemption and that fresh efforts were being made to secure another renewal. But so far, it has not yielded any results. Meanwhile, the monthly water and electricity charges besides other cess due to the local bodies are being remitted, adding to the operational cost of the airport, whose originating passenger traffic has dwindled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/renewal-of-tax-exemptions-sought-for-mysuru-airport/article34982307.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tree-cutting: Public notices issued||On the second stretch for which a public notice was issued, 833 trees have been identified for removal along the proposed elevated line between Central Silk Board and Kadubeesanahalli. This is part of Phase II A metro line from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram. The trees identified for removal include akash mallige, rain trees, honge, gulmohar, dali chandra, subabul and kadamba.  In the coming days, the tree officer is likely to issue public notices for the removal of trees on the remaining stretches. These include the stretch from Hebbal to Trumpet flyover as well as the construction of a depot. The ORR-Airport line is estimated to cost Rs. 14,788 crore. The tender has been awarded for the elevated corridor from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram in two packages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tree-cutting-public-notices-issued/article34982306.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Agriculture staff go on mass leave||Kalyana Karnataka Agriculture Officers Association president Shivakumar Hugge said that the officer demands employees to arrive earlier than office time and work till 8 p.m. She also threatened employees with transfers and is making adverse remarks in their service records, he added. Mr. Hugge said, “If the government failed to transfer Ms. Taramani from Bidar immediately, the staff of Agriculture Department across the Kalyana Karnataka region will boycott duty.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agriculture-staff-go-on-mass-leave/article34982545.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back to rightful place||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/back-to-rightful-place/article34982300.ece
26 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||30 pet pigeons dead, police begin probe||The police have launched an investigation into the death of 30 ornamental pigeons reared by an 11-year-old boy at Maruthorvattom in Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat in Alappuzha. The birds, belonging to Christy Devasiya, a Class 6 student of Pratheeksha Bhavan English Medium School, were allegedly killed by miscreants on June 3. “The pigeons were my best friends for the past two years. I painstakingly collected the birds from various places with the help of my parents. The culprits should be punished,” says Christy. The dead pigeons consisted of Bokhara Trumpeter, Modena, Hungarian Mix, among other varieties. In quarantine The incident came to light recently. Devasiya Benny, Christy’s father, said the family lodged a complaint with the police only two days ago as they were in quarantine. “The birds were found dead on the morning of June 3 when my wife, Minimol, went to feed them. At the time, I was in a hospital with my father who had tested positive for COVID-19 on the night of June 2. My father died a few days later and we all went into quarantine. After the incident, my son showed signs of depression and stopped eating. Members of Seva Bharathi who provided us food during the quarantine period asked us to file a police complaint,” Mr. Benny said. Act of revenge: RSS Seva Bharathi is associated with Sangh Parivar. Abhilash Maruthorvattom, shakha karyavah, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, said the pigeons were killed by CPI(M) activists in an act of revenge. “Devasiya’s family members are CPI(M) supporters. But the party did not help them when they were in quarantine. They were taken care of by Seva Bharathi. The killing of birds is a warning to the party members against associating with other parties,” Mr. Maruthorvattom said. Family’s rebuttal Mr. Benny, however, said he did not believe that the CPI(M) was behind the killing. “My wife is a CPI(M) activist. Yes, the party did not help us when we were in quarantine, and my wife expressed her displeasure at it recently. But the incident happened a few weeks ago. We are not blaming anyone,” he said. ‘No political angle’ Vijayan N., Circle Inspector, Muhamma, said a probe was on. “We have registered a case. The preliminary investigation has not revealed any political angle,” said Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-pet-pigeons-dead-police-begin-probe/article34982801.ece
26 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Statements of Suchitra’s parents taken||The police probing the death of Suchitra, a 19-year-old woman who was found dead at her husband’s house at Vallikunnam on June 22, recorded the statements of her parents on Friday. The police said her parents, Sunil and Sunitha, had alleged that their daughter was subjected to physical and mental torture in the name of dowry by her husband’s family, especially her mother-in-law. Though they had given Suchitra gold ornaments and a car, her husband’s family had demanded Rs. 10 lakh more, her parents said. Suchitra was tortured as her family did not give in to their demand for money. They alleged that their daughter was murdered. “We have launched a detailed probe into the death based on the statements,” said a police officer. The police said she was found hanging in her bedroom on Tuesday. The Vallikunnam police have registered a case for unnatural death. Suchitra, hailing from Krishnapuram, near Kayamkulam, got married to Vishnu, an Army man, in March 2021. Vishu returned to Uttarakhand in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/statements-of-suchitras-parents-taken/article34982684.ece
26 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rosewood ‘theft’ unearthed in Wayanad village||Revenue officials investigating the felling of rosewood at Krishnagiri village in Wayanad unearthed stumps of two huge rosewood trees on a revenue pattaya land in the village on Friday. A team of 12 officials, under the Sulthan Bathery tahsildar, on verifying a 3.5-acre coffee plantation with the tree register found that three rosewood trees had been stolen from the land. While logs of one of the trees were seized a few months ago and a case had been registered, a probe has been initiated in the case of the other two trees, officials said. The team was able to unearth the stumps of two trees that were covered with mud after felling it, Krishnagiri village officer Abdul Salam, a member of the team, said. He said cases would be registered against the land owner in this connection. As many as 20 of the 29 rosewood trees on the land had been identified with the tree register and the process of verification of the rest was on, Mr. Salam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rosewood-theft-unearthed-in-wayanad-village/article34982699.ece
26 June 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man found dead on track near Kasaragod station||A 34-year-old man was found dead, apparently after being hit by a train near the Kasaragod railway station on Friday morning. The deceased has been identified as Arul Raj, a native of Tamil Nadu. According to the police, Raj may have been hit by a goods train that had left for Mangalore around 5 a.m. Raj, a labourer, was staying with his friends in a rented house in Pallath. He had left the room on Thursday night saying that he was going to Kannur. The police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-found-dead-on-track-near-kasaragod-station/article34982647.ece
26 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Postwoman charged with swindling of money||A case has been registered against a postwoman on the charge of swindling money at the Pullur post office in Ambalathara in Kasaragod district. The Ambalathara police registered a case against K.S. Indukumari of Pallikkara Poochakatte on a complaint lodged by the Kanhangad subdivision postal inspector, K.E. Ismail. Complaint The action was taken after four women customers lodged a complaint with the postal department stating that the money they had deposited in the Sukanya Smriti Yojana scheme at the Ambalathara post office was missing. The alleged irregularities took place between August 20, 2016, and February 25 this year. The complaint by the women said they had been cheated of Rs. 1.46 lakh. ‘Not deposited’ The money paid by the investors was recorded in the book but was not credited into the post office account. The issue came to notice when two depositors went to withdraw money but found no funds in their accounts. Meanwhile, two others too have forward with a similar complaint. Based on the complaints, Indukumari has been suspended from service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postwoman-charged-with-swindling-of-money/article34982646.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cancel varsities’ offline exams, say students||A section of students in Kerala have stepped up their demand for cancelling the final-semester university examinations scheduled to begin offline on June 28. Many students have joined a campaign in Twitter with the hashtag #Canceluniversityexams. They are asking authorities to either cancel the tests or ensure vaccination of all aspirants before holding offline exams. The Kerala government gave its nod for the universities in the State to hold the final-semester exams offline as part of the partial relaxations that came into effect last week. The exams were postponed twice after the second wave of COVID-19. However, the students point out that the pandemic situation has triggered several emotional issues among the students and the best option to assuage their distress is to cancel the offline exams. Risk of disease spread Students said on social media platforms that many among them had not even received the first dose of vaccine. With a likely third wave round the corner, hundreds of students will be exposed to the risk of the disease spread while appearing for the exams. ‘Based on feedback’ However, the Higher Education Department authorities pointed out that the decision to hold the offline exams had been taken on the basis of feedback collected from universities. Any further delay in the conduct of exams will affect the higher studies of thousands of students. Directions have been issued to all universities to comply with the COVID-19 protocol and safety measures while holding offline exams||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-seek-cancellation-of-varsities-offline-exams/article34982661.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Operation Breakthrough: delay in commencing work irks HC||The Kerala High Court on Friday expressed displeasure over the delay in commencing the third phase of works under Operation Breakthrough, including the cleaning-up of the Perandoor canal. Hearing a case pertaining to flooding in the city, Justice Devan Ramachandran took note of a report filed by the District Collector on the delay in starting the third phase of Operation Breakthrough and observed that the primary reason for the delay was that no contractor had responded to the tender notification for the proposed works. This was owing to the fact that contractors’ bills pertaining to completed projects had not been paid. The court, therefore, directed the District Collector to ensure that the bills for completed works under Phase-II of Operation Breakthrough were processed with the concurrence of the finance wing of the Operation Breakthrough team without waiting for the permission of the Chief Technical Examiner of the State government. The court also directed the Southern Railway to initiate steps for reconstructing culverts under the railway line between the CBI quarters and Kammattipadam and asked the Kochi Corporation to clean up the stretch with the assistance of the railway authorities. It ordered the corporation to ensure that the stretch between the Reserve Bank quarters and Bhaskareeyam at Kaloor was cleaned. The court further directed the civic body to file a report on works being undertaken with respect to monsoon preparedness, including cleaning of stormwater drains. The High Court asked the State government to inform it of the action taken by the Irrigation Department to remove the temporary bund set up at Vaduthala which obstructed the flow of water in the Periyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/operation-breakthrough-delay-in-commencing-work-irks-hc/article34982664.ece
26 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Child with MIS-C recovers||An 11-year-old in Ernakulam with a severe case of post-COVID Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C) was rescued using ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation). Doctors who treated the child at Amrita Hospital said early diagnosis and intervention remained crucial in MIS-C cases. When the child was brought to the hospital, the inflammatory condition had already affected his heart muscles. Pumping of the heart was hit, and blood pressure was critically low, said Dr. Sajith Kesavan, head of the department of paediatric pulmonary and critical care at the hospital. Since the child had positive antibody titers to COVID in his blood, doctors suspected that he was exposed to the infection and might have had asymptomatic COVID-19. The team of specialists decided to put the child on ECMO to give the heart a chance to recover and time for steroids and IV immunoglobin to act. The ECMO machine pumps blood and oxygenates it, letting the heart rest. Three days later, he had regained enough heart function and could be taken off the machine. The child, who is well on the way to recovery, will be discharged soon. “Kids with MIS-C do well if they are diagnosed early,” Dr. Kesavan said at an online session where doctors elaborated on the 11-year-old’s case. The child’s parents said he had developed fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, and red eyes and was taken to the hospital on the third day after fever began. Symptoms MIS-C can have different presentations, though the heart is most commonly affected, said Dr. Suma Balan, paediatric rheumatologist at the hospital. Symptoms include severe fatigue, fever lasting more than a day, rashes, red eyes, abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhoea. The doctors clarified that not all fevers are a sign of MIS-C. There are no predictors for which the child might get MIS-C, since it is due to the inherent activation of one’s own immune system, Dr. Balan said. “Incidence of serious COVID infection in children is low,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-with-mis-c-recovers/article34982657.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Smart electricity meters in Kochi||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) is setting up 26,000 ‘smart electricity meters’ in the city. These are being installed in homes in divisions 1 to 5, and 62, 66, and 67 of the Kochi Corporation. A total of 8,039 meters have already been installed. CSML is replacing existing meters with the smart ones for the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), in the first such project for the State. There will be no change in the existing tariff even if the meter is replaced. Consumers will be able to gather meter readings on their own and can monitor consumption regularly. The smart meter can be connected to the consumer’s phone number, and an application will be launched for the purpose. Meter readers can get readings without visiting homes, and it will ensure that bills can be generated even if houses are locked up, or meter readers are unable to visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smart-electricity-meters-in-kochi/article34982659.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Assault: accused get anticipatory bail||The Kerala High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Abhilash Chandran, a civil police officer on probation attached to the Kochi Metro police station, and his cousin Amal Murali of Mavelikara, the first and second accused respectively in a case related to assaulting Rahul Mathew, a junior consultant surgeon at the Government District Hospital, Mavelikara. The prosecution case was that the petitioners had barged into the room of the doctor, attacked and abused the doctor, alleging delay in giving medical attention to Abhilash’s mother who succumbed to COVID-19 at the hospital. According to the petitioners, the incident occurred because their were shocked by the death of Abhilash’s mother. His mother did not get prompt medical attention at the hospital. By the time a doctor and nurse attended to her, she was dead. Justice K. Haripal ordered that if the petitioners were arrested, they be released on bail on their executing a bond for Rs. 50,000 each with two solvent sureties each to the satisfaction of the investigation officer. Arrest demanded Doctors at government hospitals in Ernakulam participated in the State-wide strike demanding the arrest of a police officer accused of assaulting a doctor in Mavelikkara. Specialty outpatient services were boycotted entirely, while general outpatient services were boycotted for an hour. Emergency and COVID-19 treatment services were not disrupted. Doctors of all government health care facilities, including primary and community health centres, all taluk hospitals, and the general hospital, participated in the strike, according to representatives of the Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-on-doctor-accused-get-bail/article34982665.ece
26 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,112 test positive in Ernakulam||Chellanam recorded the highest number of new COVID cases in Ernakulam district on Friday with 60 people testing positive in the area. This was out of a total of 1,112 people who tested positive in the district on Friday, leaving the test positivity rate (TPR) at 9.23%, when 12,043 tests were done. With 1,504 recoveries on the day, the active caseload is 12,938. As part of a special vaccination camp at TDM Hall here, 200 HIV positive persons who are registered with the Antiretroviral Therapy centre took the vaccine. Vaccination camps are also being organised for migrant workers in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1112-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article34982660.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Residents complain of contaminated water||Residents of many parts of Vyttila area in Kochi complained of getting contaminated drinking water which smelt like having traces of diesel from Kerala Water Authority (KWA) pipelines, on Friday evening. People fear to use the water, and the matter has been taken up with KWA officials. The water must be pumped out of pipelines, office-bearers of Aam Aadmi Party said in a release. Sent for analysis A KWA engineer said water samples had been collected from homes and sent for analysis. There is no alarming situation. More samples will be collected on Monday for examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-complain-of-contaminated-water/article34982662.ece
26 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC adjourns Sr Lucy’s plea for police protection||The Kerala High Court on Friday adjourned till next week the hearing on a writ petition seeking police protection filed by Sister Lucy Kalappurackal, who has been expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation. She also sought to restrain the Mother Superior of the convent at Karakkamala, Wayanad, from interfering with her life and the complete freedom she enjoyed in the convent. She also pleaded that she be provided with food and water. She contended that though she had lodged many complaints with the police, no action had been taken on therm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-adjourns-sr-lucys-plea-for-police-protection/article34982666.ece
26 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Resurvey works on time: Minister||The resurvey works in the State will be completed within the stipulated time using the Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS) technology, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. The Minister visited Kollam collectorate, Chathannur mini civil station and village offices in Chirakara and Kottapuram. He was accompanied by Land Revenue Commissioner K. Biju and District Collector B. Abdul Nasar. “Using ReLIS, a web application devised by the department for enabling online integration with Registration and Survey departments, an integral portal system will be introduced. All village offices in Chathannur constituency will be made smart offices as part of the 100-day action plan,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resurvey-works-on-time-minister/article34982798.ece
26 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Bodies of two women recovered from river||The bodies of Arya, 23, and Greeshma, 19, two Kalluvathukkal residents who went missing on Thursday, were recovered from the Ithikkara river on Friday. Reportedly, the women went missing after they were summoned by the police in connection with a case related to the death of a newborn. The Paripally police on Tuesday had arrested Reshma, a close relative of the deceased, after a DNA report confirmed her as the biological mother of a baby found abandoned in last January. The one-day-old infant had died the same day. As per Reshma’s statement, she had left the baby outside her house after the delivery, believing that the baby would not survive. She confessed to abandoning her newborn so that she could live with a friend she met on social media. The police said Arya was called to verify Reshma’s statements. “Reshma was living in a joint family and her claim that nobody was aware of her pregnancy was unbelievable. She and Arya were living in the same house. We wanted to crosscheck the incongruities in Reshma’s confession,” said the Paripally SHO. Arya, who left home with Greeshma on Thursday, did not return and the police started searching near the Ithikkara river following clues from CCTV footage and mobile tower location. The police also found a note left behind by Arya in which she blamed Reshma. She said she could not imagine getting arrested for the murder of a newborn. (Suicide prevention helpline: 0471-2552056)  Police summoned them to crosscheck statements of the accused in a case related to a newborn’s death||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bodies-of-two-women-recovered-from-river/article34982799.ece
26 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Diploma courses||The T.K.M International Centre for Training & Placement has invited applications for its diploma courses in Logistic Management and Airport Operation. Plus Two is the qualification required while internship and placement interviews are also part of the six-month course. For details, visit www.tkmictp.in or call 8089909343.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diploma-courses/article34982741.ece
26 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||The Kollam region centre of the LBS Centre for Science and Technology has invited applications for its Tally (Computerised financial accounting and GST) course. The last date for accepting applications is July 13. For details, visit www.lbscentre.kerala.gov.in or contact 0474 2970780||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article34982752.ece
26 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||North Kerala farmers face a double whammy||Farmers in north Kerala have been hit by the double whammy of COVID lockdown and non-payment of dues for produce auctioned at the Agricultural Urban Wholesale Market at Vengeri for over six months. Scores of them have not been reimbursed for the vegetables and fruits, especially banana and plantain, sold at the market since August last. “My payment of Rs. 4.75 lakh is pending for nearly 10 months. Now I am forced to take a loan and even pledge gold ornaments of my wife to carry on with farming,” said Saji Penakkavil, a farmer. About 200 farmers from Malappuram, Kannur, Palakkad and Kozhikode have registered with the Vengeri market to sell produce harvested on their land. The non-payment of dues has compelled many to sell their produce at low prices to local vendors or even leave vegetables rotting on farmlands because the Horticorp has stopped transport subsidy. The reimbursement due to each farmer varies. While P. Abdullakutty of Manjeri has to receive around Rs. 6 lakh, Roy Mathew of Puthuppady is waiting payment of Rs. 1.25 lakh. “We are not seeking any benefits from the government, but only asking to be paid our money. This is injustice done to farmers,” said Mr. Mathew. Farmers have been knocking on the doors of authorities for a long time, but to no avail. “Each time we received dusty answers from the officials. We are fed up with the excuses,” said Mohammed Haji, a 78-year old farmer from Mukkom who is yet to get about Rs. 1.75 lakh. “We have no choice but to stage a token protest next week,” said he, adding that the issue of non-payment of dues had been going on for many years. Kunnamangalam-based farmer Mohammed Ali said officials had been giving excuses that the payment would be done after the Assembly polls. “Sometimes they say the process is being carried out in Thiruvananthapuram,” he added. A farmer from Koodaranji, K.A. Roy, said he had to receive a payment of Rs. 1.35 lakh for bananas auctioned to Horitcorp. “Besides, the farmers are denied the floor price fixed by the government for vegetables,” said E.P. Babu of Karassery. Farmers have to be paid a minimum of Rs. 1.50 per kg for transportation of produce up to 25 km while the maximum allowance is Rs. 2.50 for a distance above 50 km for the auction markets every Monday and Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/north-kerala-farmers-face-a-double-whammy/article34982644.ece
26 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ambedkar Chair yet to be reality||A study Chair in the name of B.R. Ambedkar is yet to see the light of day at the University of Calicut over six years after a proposal was put forward by a private trust. According to sources, the proposal moved by Mahatma Ayyankali Cultural and Educational Trust was approved by the Syndicate on March 21, 2015. The university on February 16, 2016, wrote to the Trust to provide Rs. 25 lakh as corpus for the functioning of the Chair. The Trust functionaries expressed their inability to raise the amount, while pointing out that various other study chairs had been given relaxations. P. Velayudhan, a functionary of the Trust, claimed that despite sending various representations to the university thereafter, no step had been taken to set up the chair. “We are planning to move one more representation to the Vice Chancellor and the Syndicate. If there is no positive response, we will explore legal options, including approaching the judiciary,” he said. Sources in the Vice Chancellor’s office said the university was yet to get any fresh proposal. It is learnt that the university might explore the possibility of setting up an Ambedkar Chair on its own after holding discussions on appropriate forums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambedkar-chair-yet-to-be-reality/article34982656.ece
26 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,004 test positive in Kozhikode; TPR 10.02%||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) in Kozhikode has gone above 10% for the second day in a row on Friday, after it had fallen to less than 9% a week ago. Of the 10,186 people who were tested, 1,004 turned positive for SARS-CoV-2 and the TPR recorded was 10.02%. Meanwhile, 475 people have recovered from COVID-19. At present, there are 10,642 people under treatment in the district. Violations With more lockdown relaxations in place, the number of people violating the COVID-19 protocol has gone up in the district. There were 521 cases registered in the district in this regard on Friday. Ninety-two cases related to violation of physical distancing norms or not closing shops on time, while 429 cases were registered for not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1004-test-positive-in-kozhikode-tpr-1002/article34982645.ece
26 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Elephant electrocuted as power line snaps||An elephant was electrocuted at VRT Kava near Mangalam dam in Palakkad district on Friday afternoon. Forest officials said that the tragedy took place around 3 p.m. when a power line snapped and fell on the elephant at a private land. Necropsy The female elephant appeared to be eight years old. A forest veterinary surgeon will conduct a necropsy on Saturday morning. The carcass will be buried in the forest. Meanwhile, a group of local people protested against the forest authorities’ plans to bury the elephant near a stream. They complained that the burial would dirty the water in the stream. Forest officials said that they would bury the elephant in a safe place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-electrocuted-as-power-line-snaps/article34982649.ece
26 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Writers up against excluding Malayalam||Malayalam writers on Friday protested against dropping Malayalam from a language training programme meant for MPs and other officials organised by the Parliament Research and Training Institute for Democracies (PRIDE). PRIDE is conducting a 30-hour virtual language training programme for MPs, legislators from Union Territories, officials and their families with the objective of boosting the country’s language diversity. Six foreign languages and six Indian languages were considered in the first phase of training. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inaugurated the training programme on Tuesday. When French, Portuguese, Japanese, Russian, Spanish and German were selected among foreign languages, the six Indian languages chosen were Bengali, Gujarati, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu and Odia. Jnanpith laureate M.T. Vasudevan Nair inaugurated an online meeting that protested against dropping Malayalam from the list of Indian languages. He demanded that Malayalam being a classical language be given the priority it deserved. “PRIDE should give Malayalam the due consideration,” said poet Manambur Rajan Babu, who presided over the meeting. Among the writers who aired their concerns over non-inclusion of Malayalam included C. Radhakrishnan, Vaisakhan, Alankode Leelakrishnan, Chandramati, Anil Vallathol, P.K. Gopi, and K. Sreekumar. KDA protest The Kannada Development Authority (KDA) led by T.S. Nagabharana had raised a strong banner of protest against dropping Kannada from the list of languages. Former Karnataka Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for ignoring Kannada. Following protests, PRIDE clarified that training would be given in all Indian languages included in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. As many as 22 languages have been included in the Eight Schedule. . As per the PRIDE’s revised training schedule, classes of Gujarati, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Tamil, Telugu, Hindi and Sanskrit will be held from July 5. Classes of Assamese, Kashmiri, Sindhi, Urdu, Santhali, Nepali, Meitei (Manipuri), Bodo, Dogri, Konkani, Maithili and Punjabi will start from July 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/writers-up-against-excluding-malayalam/article34982687.ece
26 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||A cross-border sojourn in search of spirits||Hundreds of people from Tamil Nadu are crossing the Kerala borders everyday to procure liquor from the outlets of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) in Palakkad district. People in Coimbatore district are depending on Palakkad district as liquor outlets in Tamil Nadu are lying closed. The liquor outlets in Palakkad’s border panchayats such as Puthusseri and Vadakarappathi have witnessed huge crowding and endless queues in the last few days. With those local bodies directing the closure of Bevco outlets at Menonpara and Kanjikode, people from across the border began to spread out to various places in Palakkad. No choice The outlets in Palakkad town witnessed heavy rush on Friday. “We have no choice but to come here for liquor. None is causing any issue,” said Murugan, who refused to reveal his full identity. Hundreds of bikes with Tamil Nadu registration were seen parked by the roadside as the people stood in queue. Although the price of the liquor was higher in Kerala than in Tamil Nadu, it did not deter the buyers. Pandemic concerns Many of them, however, did not wear a mask and no physical distancing was maintained in queues. The pouring in of people from across the border has raised fears among the local people in Palakkad, especially as Coimbatore had a high COVID-19 infection rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-cross-border-sojourn-in-search-of-spirits/article34982439.ece
26 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Health Minister visits SLTC at Plachimada||Health Minister Veena George visited the COVID second-line treatment centre (SLTC) set up at the defunct Coca-Cola plant at Plachimada on Friday. The 35,000-sq.-ft plant was converted into a 550-bed COVID facility with the objective of strengthening the fight against the pandemic. The SLTC was set up jointly by Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages Limited and the government at a cost of Rs. 1.10 crore. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had inaugurated the centre a few days ago. Ms. Veena congratulated those who had worked overtime to set up the centre within a month. The SLTC began admitting COVID-19 patients on Friday. Of the 550 beds, 100 have oxygen facility and 20 ventilator facility. Fifty of the beds are in ICU. The centre has air-conditioned cabins, oxygen cylinder support for all beds, 1-kl oxygen tank which can be expanded to 2 kl, portable X-ray console, and round-the-clock COVID outpatient wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-minister-visits-sltc-at-plachimada/article34982652.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. staff pitch in to help students, weavers||Even as the public response has been less than enthusiastic to the city Corporation’s ‘Gift a Smile’ challenge to provide smartphones or tablets to students who do not have access to the same to attend online classes, Corporation workers and employees have been pitching in with all their might for the purpose. The employees, under the aegis of the Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Union (KMCSU) and the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation Workers’ Association (CITU), have been since the beginning of May organising a ‘mundu challenge’ to generate funds to purchase mobiles or tablets for students. Dhotis The employees’ and workers’ unions have procured dhotis from weavers in Balaramapuram, which are being sold at a small profit margin. This will be used for purchasing mobiles or tablets. As on Friday, the unions have made profits of Rs. 3.5 lakh from selling dhotis. “A majority of the Corporation’s workers and employees have become a part of the challenge, while a few from outside have also joined. We are selling dhotis at prices ranging from Rs. 300 to Rs. 1,500. The weavers in Balaramapuram were also struggling, and so this ‘mundu challenge’ was in a way helpful for them too. We started with an aim to raise Rs. 10 lakh from this. With the amount, which will be handed over to the city Corporation, phones or tablets can be bought for more than 50 students. Considering the demand for handloom saris, we have extended this campaign to be a ‘sari challenge’ too,” says Sureshkumar of the KMCSU. According to the Corporation, there are anywhere between 1,000 to 1,500 students at the school or college levels without access to phones or laptops. Mayor Arya Rajendran said steps were being taken to rope in more institutions to sponsor mobile phones or tablets, as the response till now to the ‘Gift a Smile’ campaign initiated by the Corporation had been cold. “Unlike after the first wave, there has not been a very enthusiastic response to this campaign. Until now, we have got 10 mobile phones and three tablets. Earlier this week, we opened a dedicated bank account for this. We are planning to write to various companies and institutions. We will be handing over all the devices to the education department,” Ms. Rajendran told The Hindu . Even though the contributions have been less, the demand has been steady. Councillors have been receiving calls from school and college students. According to some councillors, they have received as many as 50 calls from their respective wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-staff-pitch-in-to-help-students-weavers/article34982746.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||7-member panel to look into fishers’ safety||Increasing instances of fishing-related accidents at sea, particularly during the monsoons, and problems related to coastal security and illegal and unregulated fishing have prompted the State Fisheries Department to seek viable long-term solutions. The department has constituted a seven-member committee headed by P. Sahadevan, former Additional Director of Fisheries, to study and submit a report on methods to resolve issues pertaining to safety at sea, coastal security and vessel monitoring systems and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. The committee will analyse the “latest trends and internationally available options” as a part of its study, the department said. Report in a month “The committee has already met twice and we expect to submit the report within a month,” Anil Kumar S., Deputy Director of Fisheries, Kerala, and committee member, said. The committee also includes the Superintendent of Police (Marine Enforcement); Registrar, Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies; the Joint Executive Director, Agency For Development of Aquaculture; and the Joint Director and Assistant Directors (Projects) of the Fisheries Department. Overriding concern While it is essential to equip fishing vessels with sea safety equipment, fishermen seldom take it seriously, the Fisheries Department noted in a June 11 order constituting the panel. “At present, only fishing boats owned by entrepreneurs are equipped with electronic safety aids. Incidents of fishermen going astray across the ocean, pulled away by strong currents, and landing in neighbouring coastal countries such as Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan are not rare,” according to the department. Porous coastline Further, a porous coastline poses a threat from the perspective of national security. “The current discourse is to consider the vast coastline as a ‘border’ that needs to be protected as well as the land-locked frontiers. If such ‘broken windows’ continue to be unfixed, it would possibly be used by terrorists to mount symbolic attacks against nation’s assets in peninsular India, including Kerala. An effective vessel monitoring and surveillance system in the State would help to resolve the issue to a fair extent,” the department noted. Illegal fishing thrives when the State lacks the capability to effectively monitor and control such activities. Moreover, such practices rob bona fide fishers, especially traditional fishermen, of marine resources, it observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-member-panel-to-look-into-fishers-safety/article34982694.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Adieu to Anil Radhakrishnan||S. Anil Radhakrishnan, Chief of Bureau, Kerala, The Hindu , who passed away on Wednesday was cremated at the Shanthikavadom electric crematorium here on Friday. Earlier in the day, the body was kept at the Press Club for the public to pay homage. Several political leaders, including Speaker M.B. Rajesh, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, Transport Minister Antony Raju, KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, former Ministers M. Vijayakumar, V.S. Sivakumar and others paid floral tributes to the departed journalist. The press fraternity of the capital was also in attendance. Condolence meeting Speaking later at a condolence meeting organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists at the Kesari Hall, Mr. Balagopal said Anil Radhakrishnan had dedicatedly followed the developments in the finance beat. He reminisced how the late journalist had constantly kept in touch and was also present last week at a press meet attended by the Minister. Leaders pay respects Former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the State had lost a journalist who had the capabilities to contribute much more through his reports. He said Anil Radhakrishnan stood out with his incisive reporting skills. CPI(M) leader and former Speaker M.Vijayakumar said his writings had played a key role in the growth of the ‘Responsible Tourism’ programme. BJP State Secretary C. Sivankutty said that even while holding the heavy responsibilities of the bureau chief of The Hindu , he had involved himself with the local residents’ association and worked among the people. T. Nandakumar, Resident Editor, The Hindu , said Radhakrishnan had gained strong domain knowledge in finance in a short time with his strong work ethic. R.S. Babu, Chairman of the Media Academy, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adieu-to-anil-radhakrishnan/article34982745.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR yet to go below 10%||Kerala reported 11,546 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 1,08,867 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate is yet to go below 10% and was 10.6% on the day. With 11,056 patients reported to have recovered from the disease, the active case pool in the State now has 1,00,230 patients. The State’s active case pool is yet to register a significant dip, as the new cases reported daily and the daily recoveries have evened out. The cumulative case fatality in the State now stands at 12,699 with the State adding 118 deaths, which occurred for the past two or three days, to the official toll list on Friday. On Friday, 2,388 COVID patients were newly admitted to hospitals. The number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe infection in hospitals in the State now stands at 25,983. ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients, in both public and private hospitals, were 2,368 on Friday, with those patients requiring ventilator support dropping to 923. The cumulative case burden now stands at 28,65,871 cases. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,374, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,291, Kollam 1,200, Thrissur 1.134, Ernakulam 1,112, Palakkad 1,061, Kozhikode 1,004, Kasaragod 729, Alappuzha, 660, Kannur 619, Kottayam 488, Pathanamthitta 432, Idukki 239 and Wayanad 203.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-yet-to-go-below-10/article34982690.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Doctors boycott OP clinics in State||Doctors in Health Services across the State boycotted specialty OP clinics and elective surgeries and staged demonstrations in all government hospitals on Friday in protest against the police’s refusal to arrest a person accused of having assaulted a doctor while the latter was on duty Doctors also boycotted all OP clinics for an hour in the morning when they staged a dharna in protest . Patient-care services were not affected anywhere as emergency services and other service delivery were uninterrupted. The Kerala Government Medical Officer's Association (KGMOA) pointed out that though the assault on the doctor at Mavelikara Government District Hospital took place 40 days ago, the police were yet to arrest the accused, who happens to be a police officer. The protest at the State-level was inaugurated by KGMOA general secretary G. S. Vijayakrishnan at Mavelikara. He said the KGMOA will pursue the matter in court till justice is served.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-boycott-op-clinics-in-state/article34982691.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Projects to protect women’s rights launched||Three projects aimed at protecting the rights of women and children and to ensure fast redressal of issues have been launched in the district, District Women and Child Development Officer S. Sabeena Begum has said. Under the ‘Kathorthu’ project, women who are facing various issues can raise their complaints online at kathorthu.wcd.kerala.gov.in to get free counselling or legal support or help from the police. As part of another project ‘Rakshadooth’ being implemented jointly by the Department for Women and Child Development and the Postal Department, women and children who are facing domestic abuse can directly or through a representative contact the nearest post office and drop a complaint attached with their own address and contact number, along with the code ‘thapal’. Complaints These complaints will be sent to the women protection officer or the child protection officer, who will contact the complainant and take the necessary steps. For more information, contact 0471-2969101. The ‘Ponvakku’ project is being implemented to provide rewards for those who report instances of child marriage. An amount of Rs. 2,500 will be given as reward to those who make such reports. The personal details of the person who reports will be kept confidential. For more information, contact 9188969201, ponvakkutvpm@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/projects-to-protect-womens-rights-launched/article34982747.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 1,291 fresh cases, TPR at 9.9%||The COVID-19 case load in the district rose by 1,291 cases on Friday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 9.9%. In all, 11,036 people are under treatment for the infection in the district, as on Friday. The district has also reported 1,392 recoveries. Friday’s list also included 10 health workers. In all, 12,984 COVID-19 tests were carried out in the past 24 hours, according to the district administration. A little over 40,000 people are currently quarantined in the district as part of the precautionary measures to curb the spread of infection. This number includes 1,512 people who were quarantined on Friday. Stringent restrictions will be in place on Saturday and Sunday in the capital city as part of the weekend lockdown measures, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay has said. Only medical stores and shops selling milk, vegetables and essential food items will be allowed. Hotels and restaurants are permitted to make home delivery of food. Inspections will be carried out at entry points to the city. In all, 70 checking points have been arranged across the city, Mr. Upadhyay says, urging the public to avoid unnecessary travel over the weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-reports-1291-fresh-cases-tpr-at-99/article34982749.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lecture on Saturday||The Press Club Institute of Journalism Trivandrum’s (IJT) professional lecture series will be live-streamed on YouTube channel at 11 a.m. on Saturday. Justice Thottathil Radhakrishnan will deliver the lecture that will be on ‘Law, ethics and practice regarding journalists’ claim to non-disclosure of source identity’. Link The YouTube link for the professional lecture is https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCTIxo_YffmhWgL4kI1JvBJw||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lecture-on-saturday/article34982750.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||6 held for murder attempt||The Kovalam police have arrested six people for an alleged attempt to murder a youth few days ago. The accused were identified as Amal, 23, and Vimalmithra, 20, of Vellar; Inshad, 23, of Vizhinjam; Prakashan, 21, and Sumesh, 21, of Kuzhivilakam; and Nadirshah, 21, of KS Road. They have been accused of grievously injuring Akhil of Azhakulam in Kannancode around 10.30 p.m. on June 21. The gang attacked Akhil for having complained to the police earlier about their anti-social activities, the Kovalam police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6-held-for-murder-attempt/article34982743.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrangements for KU exams||As many as 435 students will appear for the final-semester exams to be conducted by the University of Kerala from 11 examination centres outside its jurisdiction. Undergraduate and postgraduate examinations will commence on June 28 and 29 respectively. The university will pay Rs. 5,000 to examination centres that will accommodate less than 500 students and Rs. 10,000 to those with more than 500 students. The university has prohibited COVID-19-infected students from appearing for the examinations. These students will be allowed to appear for a special examination later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrangements-for-ku-exams/article34982800.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrested on POCSO charge||The Kazhakkuttom police on Friday arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly raping a minor girl. The police identified the accused as Akhinesh Ashok of Vallakadavu. He was arrested on the basis of a complaint submitted by the victim two days ago. The accused purportedly befriended the victim through a social networking platform. He had claimed to be a philanthropist and allegedly sexually abused the victim since September last. The incident came to light when the victim was found to be pregnant. Booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the accused has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrested-on-pocso-charge/article34982742.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LPG line to be mandatory in flat complexes||A direct liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) line will be made mandatory in all flat complexes and apartments to be constructed henceforth, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan has said. In a press release here on Friday, he said such facilities should be arranged in existing buildings within three years. With the completion of the GAIL pipeline project, city gas distribution directly to houses has begun in Kochi and Kanhangad. Pipelines to more houses are being added now. This method of gas distribution will ensure safe and cost-effective supply of LPG. The required width for roads leading to buildings where LPG cylinders are stocked will be reduced from 7 metres to 6 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lpg-line-to-be-mandatory-in-flat-complexes/article34982693.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mary George opens farmers’ protest||Economist Mary George has said the three contentious farm laws that have been introduced by the Centre are bound to have widespread repercussions on the Indian economy. She has demanded the repeal of the laws. Dr. George was inaugurating a ‘Nilppu Samaram’ (standing protest) jointly organised by the Delhi Chalo Farmers’ Strike Solidarity Committee and Rashtriya Kissan Maha Sangh in front of Raj Bhavan here on Friday to mark seven months of the agitation in the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mary-george-opens-farmers-protest/article34982692.ece
26 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Balaramapuram handloom to be exported to U.S.||Handloom products from Balaramapuram will be exported to the U.S. under the auspices of the Centre for Innovation in Science and Social Action (CISSA) ahead of the upcoming Onam season. Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, addressing Non-Resident Keralities’ organisations and CISSA representatives at a virtual meeting on Friday, had urged them to help the Balaramapuram handloom industry survive the adverse impacts of COVID-19. Responding to the call, the organisations agreed to purchase the handloom products now held up at Balaramapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/balaramapuram-handloom-to-be-exported-to-us/article34982696.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Regulatory mechanism for digital media is citizen-centric’||The three-tier regulatory mechanism for digital media is citizen-centric rather than government-centric, according to Vikram Sahay, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Press Information Bureau, Southern region, on Friday, he said publishers were expected to adhere to the code of ethics, furnish information to the Ministry in requisite format as early as possible, and constitute a self-regulatory body. On queries regarding pre-censorship, he said the government had already invited comments from stakeholders regarding the amendment of the Cinematograph Act, 1952. As many as 240 representatives of online media, OTT platforms, film industry, production houses, distributors and theatre owners from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, and Andhra Pradesh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/regulatory-mechanism-for-digital-media-is-citizen-centric/article34982697.ece
26 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Collector reviews work on Kuthiran tunnels||District Collector S. Shanavas on Friday reviewed the progress of work on the twin tunnels at Kuthiran. Work to facilitate the opening of one of the tunnels was progressing, he said. Work on strengthening the tunnel wall, where there was a landslip during the floods, is going on. Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, who had visited the site recently, had asked authorities to complete work on one tunnel urgently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-reviews-work-on-kuthiran-tunnels/article34982655.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Resistance to the fore||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resistance-to-the-fore/article34982803.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Boiling fuel prices||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boiling-fuel-prices/article34982701.ece
26 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulance that can be drawn by an auto||The coronavirus pandemic has exposed the lack of health infrastructure in rural areas in tackling emergencies as many died unable to reach hospital having beds with oxygen support. Considering at the paucity of ‘108’ ambulances, with just one vehicle catering to an entire revenue mandal, owner of Munirathnam Travels N. Munirathnam Srinivasulu and his friends have designed an ambulance that can be drawn by an autorickshaw. The vehicle,what they call ‘Village Ambulances’ is equipped with an oxygen cylinder, life-saving drugs, first-aid kits, and enough space for two persons to accompany a patient. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has donated six oxygen cylinders for these ambulances. The team utilised the resources at their command and built three cabins akin to the interiors of an ambulance. Sponsored by M.R. Ramesh of Bengaluru-based M.G. Charities, three Village Ambulances have been built at a cost of Rs. 4 lakh in 15 days. The first one will be stationed at the village secretariat at Kalavapalli in Beluguppa mandal of Anantapur district. “The vehicle does not have any engine, but it can be drawn by an autorickshaw, tractor or a jeep, one of which is available in every village these days,” said Mr. Srinivasulu. The group is now ready to ready one such ambulance in the next three days. They will build more as and when they are able to collect donations to meet exigencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambulance-that-can-be-drawn-by-an-auto/article34982849.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases among children shot up post-March||Karnataka has reported a significant rise in the number of children infected with COVID-19 since March 2021, when the second wave began. COVID-19 War Room data show that, 58,818 children between 0 and 9 years and 1,49,111 between 10 and 19 years tested positive from March 9 to June 23. The figures from a year ago, March 8, 2020, till March 8 this year were 27,646 and 65,677, respectively. In terms of deaths, 28 children between 0 and 9 years and 46 between 10 and 19 years succumbed between March 8, 2020, and March 8, 2021. The numbers from March 9 till June 23 this year were 34 and 42, respectively. Paediatric experts said although children could get infected and transmit it to others, they were at much lower risk compared to older adults. Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was the lowest in these age groups. A high-level expert committee estimated that around 3.4 lakh of the total 2.3 crore population in the 0-18 age group might get infected during the next peak. The 13-member panel, headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty, said that, based on projections by the IISc., 80%-85% of children who contract the virus were likely to have mild infection (asymptomatic) and about 2% may need intensive care. Chikkanarasa Reddy, Professor of Paediatrics at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, said children were less likely to get infected as they had ACE2 receptors (main receptor for the virus to enter human cells) with a lower affinity for SARS-CoV-2. “Even if they get infected, they do not develop severe disease,” he said. Asha Benekappa, former director of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, said children tended not to develop a severe form of the disease because their immune system was intact. “Except for 5%-10%, children do not have comorbidities, which is an added protective factor. Moreover, as all childhood vaccines are live viral vaccines, they are more protected,” she said. Karnataka on Friday reported 3,310 new cases of COVID-19 and 114 deaths. Bengaluru Urban logged 614 new cases and 17 deaths. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 2.09%. Kerala reported 11,546 new cases on Friday, the TPR registered 10.6% on the day. The State added more 118 deaths to the toll. Telangana recorded 1,061 new cases and 11 deaths. Five western districts, along with Chennai, accounted for 45% of the fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Friday. The State logged 5,755 cases and 150 deaths, taking the tally to 24,55,332 and toll to 32,051. Chennai reported fewer deaths than three districts — Coimbatore, Vellore and Tiruppur. There were 11 deaths in the city, while 26 people died in Coimbatore, 16 in Vellore and 13 in Tiruppur.   (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-cases-among-children-shot-up-post-march/article34982027.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police crack ex-councillor murder case in Bengaluru||The police on Friday cracked the murder of former city councillor Rekha Kadiresh, who was hacked to death outside her office at Cottonpet on Thursday morning. The police team opened fire and shot at two men — Peter and Surya — who are believed to have stabbed the corporator. Both men were former associates of her late husband Kadiresh S. Incidentally, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had given his assurances on Thursday that the assailants would nabbed within 24 hours. Special teams that were formed after the brazen attack tracked the duo down to a wooded area in Sunkadakatte. However, the police shot at their legs when the duo allegedly tried to attack them and flee. They have been admitted to a private hospital, where they are recovering. “We identified them as the assailants soon after the murder. While the complainant in the case, Sanjay, nephew of the deceased and one of the first responders after the attack, identified Peter and Surya, we recovered CCTV footage from the area that showed them fleeing the spot after the murder,” said a police officer. The police have determined there were at least five members in the hit team. “We have detained some of them and are on the lookout for the others,” said the officer. The former councillor’s husband met a similar end in 2018, when he was stabbed to death in Cottonpet. Peter and Surya, who were his associates at the time, had rowdy-sheets against them that were recently closed. “They were upset with Rekha Kadiresh for sidelining them after her husband’s death,” a source said. Rekha, a BJP leader, had blocked a garbage contract to Peter and had stopped giving the duo money. “The duo recently had a bitter tiff with her over the matter,” said the police source. Larger conspiracy? However, according to the police, they were not acting alone. “We have reason to believe others who held a grudge against the councillor joined hands with the duo. We suspect an internal family tiff between Kadiresh’s family over Rekha taking over his legacy, both in terms of property and politics. This played a role in the murder. There are people aspiring to become a councillor from the ward in the BBMP elections. Rekha Kadiresh, as a two-time councillor, posed a clear hurdle,” the police officer said. Kadiresh’s elder sister Mala, also a rowdy-sheeter, has been questioned in connection with the case. The last rites of the councillor were held in the city on Friday with several city BJP leaders in attendance. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel also paid his last respects and gave his word that the government would uncover the entire conspiracy.  We have reason to believe others who held a grudge against the councillor joined hands with the duo. We suspect an internal family tiff over Rekha taking over her husband’s legacy, both in terms of property and politics a police source||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-crack-ex-councillor-murder-case-in-bengaluru/article34982222.ece
26 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will attach Roshan Baig’s assets in IMA scam case’||After three scathing orders passed by the High Court of Karnataka for not attaching properties of the former Minister R. Roshan Baig in connection with the IMA scam, the State government on Friday told the court that it had now decided to attach his properties prima facie terming him as one among the promoters of I Monetary Advisory (IMA) Group of companies. “The State government prima facie of the opinion that ex-MLA R. Roshan Baig has acted as a promoter, played a key role in promotion of IMA Group and its business activities, and has obtained financial gain from the said company,” stated the decision taken by the government on June 17, 2021. ‘Identify properties’ The government has also asked the Competent Authority in the IMA case to identify movable and immovable properties of Mr. Baig for the purpose of attaching them under the provisions of the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, 2004. Also, the government directed the Commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and the deputy commissioners of Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts to identify the properties belonging to Mr. Baig and submit their particulars for attaching them. The government informed the court that attachment orders would be issued soon after receipt of particulars from the BBMP Commissioner and the deputy commissioners. Meanwhile, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, before whom the government’s decision to attach properties of Mr. Baig was submitted, orally observed that the government decided to attach properties only after three orders by the court questioning non-attaching of properties even after intimation from the Competent Authority since March this year. When the Bench observed that the government could have straight away acted to attach properties based on Mr. Baig’s assets declaration made in his nomination papers filed while contesting elections, the government counsel said that proper boundaries and accurate details were required for attaching immovable properties and hence details were sought from the authorities. School development On the issue of Rs. 12.82 crore that the IMA Group had spent for redevelopment and maintenance of V.K. Obaidullah Government School at Shivajinagar, the Bench questioned the government’s stand that there was no need to return the money to investors as it was received as “donation” from the company. Asking what would have been the government’s action if the company had “donated” such a huge sum to a private school, the Bench said it would go into the legal issue on whether “donation” received from IMA would have to be returned to investors or not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-attach-roshan-baigs-assets-in-ima-scam-case/article34982028.ece
26 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four Maoists held in Telangana||Four Maoist militia members including three from Chhattisgarh were arrested by the Charla police on Friday. Police identified the arrested persons as Kunjam Devaiah, of Ramachandrapuram in Charla mandal, and K Suresh, Kovvasi Chukka and P Masaiah, hailing from Chhattisgarh, according to a press release. Combing operation During a joint combing operation, a combined team of local police and the CRPF men nabbed the four militia members of the banned outfit while they were moving in a suspicious manner in the Battinapalli-Ramachandrapuram forest area on Friday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-maoists-held-in-telangana/article34982842.ece
26 June 2021||BUTTAIGUDEM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Former ITDA PO arrested in tribal girls ‘exploitation’ case||Former K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer and Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana, who is facing sexual harassment charges, was arrested on Friday. Mr. Suryanarayana, who was relieved from the post of PO and surrendered to the government, was absconding for the last few days. He was produced in Jangareddygudem court, which remanded him for 15 days, said Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K. Latha Kumari. Police registered cases against seven persons, including the ITDA PO, for allegedly exploiting tribal women by promising jobs for them. Cases have been registered against the suspects under Sections 366 (Kidnap), 370 (Exploitation), 376 (Rape), 420 IPC (Cheating) and SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 2015 and Section 5 Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. Based on the allegations from two victims, police registered two separate cases on the sexual harassment charges, said Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik.“A detailed inquiry is on into the sexual harassment charges against the ITDA PO,” Collector Kartikeya Misra told The Hindu on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-itda-po-arrested-in-tribal-girls-exploitation-case/article34982845.ece
26 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases on the rise in Chittoor again||Chittoor district, which witnessed fewer than 500 cases per day in the past week, is now again witnessing an uptick with over 900 cases being reported on Friday. The district continued to top the State in the death toll as well, with nine casualties in the past 24 hours. Since March last year, Chittoor saw 1,575 COVID-related deaths. With the relaxation in curfew being extended from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m., public movement returned to normal even as COVID protocols were largely ignored. Heavy traffic was witnessed at many places in the district. Amid the threat of a third wave, the district medical and health administration has stepped up efforts to bring additional staff and medical equipment to COVID hospitals and care centres. Though the operation of APSRTC buses is yet to resume towards Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu, private vehicles are being freely allowed to cross the border. The report of a Delta-plus variant case emerging from Tirupati on Friday had put officials on edge, but they were relieved after knowing that the patient had fully recovered, and about 30 samples in the neighborhood also tested negative for the variant. District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) U. Sreehari said that the field staff of the medical and health wing were asked to be alert in the wake of growing cases in the past couple of days. “Compared to the 45% positivity rate in May, the present rate is at 5%. In spite of this, we are giving top priority to adherence to COVID protocols,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-cases-on-the-rise-in-chittoor-again/article34982832.ece
26 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notorious liquor offender, two aides arrested in Chittoor||Police on Friday morning nabbed a man named Kelvin ‘Black’ Vinodh (30), a resident of Mittoor locality in Chittoor who is wanted in several cases of liquor smuggling, and two of his accomplices, and seized an SUV with over 3,000 bottles of liquor manufactured in Karnataka, on the outskirts of Chittoor while the trio was on their way to Tirupati. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told reporters here that during the last couple of months, special surveillance was mounted on the movements of Vinod and his gang following large-scale smuggling of liquor bottles, ganja and other contraband from the neighbouring State. Acting on reliable information, the raid was conducted on the outskirts of Chittoor and the accused was nabbed. The Deputy SP said that police teams in the Chittoor sub-division had seized liquor worth over Rs. 3 crore in the past two months, and 30 offenders in various cases of inter-State smuggling of liquor were bound over before the mandal magistrates. Mr. Sudhakar Reddy said that as part of an action plan to tackle liquor smuggling, proposals were being readied to book the notorious offenders under the PD Act. Meanwhile, the Deputy SP organised special raids in Chittoor, Puthalapattu, Pakala, GD Nellore and Gudipala mandal, leading to the seizure of ganja sacks weighing 50 kg and arrest of 20 accused in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notorious-liquor-offender-two-aides-arrested-in-chittoor/article34982834.ece
26 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 vehicles seized from inter-State bike thieves||The Piler urban police arrested eight members of an inter-State bike-lifting gang, and seized 30 new motorcycles worth Rs. 45 lakh from their possession. A hunt is on for other gang members.  Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said that special teams took into custody a couple of youths on Thursday who were moving suspiciously on the outskirts of Madanapalle. On interrogation, it emerged that the duo was part of an inter-State gang of bike-lifters. Their modus operandi was to steal new bikes in Bengalaru and other places in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Preliminary interrogation led to the arrest of eight accused persons till Friday evening. Sumanth Babu alias Puli of Madakasira was identified as the kingpin of the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-vehicles-seized-from-inter-state-bike-thieves/article34982831.ece
26 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure medicines measure up to WHO standards, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to ensure that all medicines used in government hospitals measure up to the Good manufacturing practice (GMP) and World Health Organization (WHO) standards. The officials informed him that the number of coronavirus infection had come down and the recovery rate had increased significantly in the State. During a review meeting on COVID-19 control and vaccination at his camp office on Friday, the Chief Minister said that special attention should be paid to sanitation in hospitals and food provided to the patients, along with the hospital maintenance and health infrastructure by regular monitoring. He instructed the authorities to prepare a standard operating procedure (SOP) ensuring a proper mechanism in this regard. “A special officer must be appointed to ensure that all hospitals have the needed infrastructure and access to sanitation. The attendance of doctors, nurses, and other staff should be monitored,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Nadu-Nedu scheme Discussing on the Nadu-Nedu scheme being implemented at hospitals and in the health hubs, the Chief Minister said that maintenance should be prioritised in all works undertaken as part of the initiative. “The officials must ensure that patients receive quality healthcare services. All the Aarogyasri, 104 and 108 bills should be paid within 21 days,” he said. The officials submitted a report on the health hubs explaining that more people were going to other States for treatment of cancer, heart ailments and paediatric surgeries. The Chief Minister said the authorities must ensure that healthcare services for these ailments were available here, prioritising the establishment of such specialty hospitals in the hubs. Medical colleges “The construction of 16 new medical colleges, revamping the existing 11 colleges and setting up health hubs will strengthen the healthcare sector in State,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and asked the officials to complete the construction works of the new medical colleges on a war-footing. The officials informed the Chief Minster that the number of active COVID-19 cases had come down below 50,000, while the test positivity rate (TPR) had plummeted to only 5.23 %. “TPR is lower than 5% in six districts. The recovery rate has gone up to 96.67 %, higher than the national average. At present, 76.51 % of the beds in private hospitals are occupied by patients under the Aarogyasri scheme and the number of calls to 104 services, has dropped significantly, just 1,021 calls on June 25,” the officials said. Black fungus The officials said that there were about 3,148 black fungus cases, while surgeries had been performed on 1,095 patients and 1,398 patients had been discharged. Till date, black fungus has claimed 237 lives in the State. The government is setting up 134 oxygen plants (Pressure Swing Adsorption) in the state, focusing on establishment of the plants in hospitals with more than 50 beds. Officials said that 97 plants would be set up by September and 37 more were expected to be completed by March next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-medicines-measure-up-to-who-standards-cm-tells-officials/article34982851.ece
26 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NREGS: Guntur district achieves one crore man days in June||Digging up the earth with a shovel, Manikyamma is busy at the worksite on a drainage canal at Brahmanakoduru of Chebrolu mandal. She lives at Manchala village and works in farms during the harvest season. But the pandemic struck her hard. With no work and no means of livelihood, hunger and deprivation knocked on her door. She was staring at a very uncertain future, when the village sarpanch informed that work was available through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The mandate was to clear the weed in a drainage canal, so that waste water from the agricultural fields could flow unobstructed. She, along with 150 men and women, are engaged in clearing the weed, and each of them is paid Rs. 240 per day, and the wages are directly credited into their bank accounts once in 15 days. In keeping with the COVID-19 protocol, the men and women wear masks, follow social distancing and sanitise their hands with soap and water kept nearby. District Collector Vivek Yadav, who interacted with the workers, said that MGNREGS had proved to be the major source of livelihood during the pandemic. “During the most difficult times, the scheme has ensured direct employment to lakhs of men and women in the district. We are happy to announce that Guntur district has achieved the target of generating one crore person-days in June 2021, ensuring payment of Rs. 221.65 crore wage component directly into the their bank accounts. This has been made possible through regular monitoring with the staff of the District Water Management Agency, the Panchayat Raj and other line departments,” said Mr. Vivek Yadav. Manikyamma is among many men and women, whose lives have been sustained throughout the pandemic in the district through the scheme. Guntur district, with vast dry lands slicing through the Palnadu area, has achieved remarkable progress in generating one crore man-days by June 2021-22 and providing employment to 1.21 crore men and women, out of whom 42.73 lakh are women, 19.44 lakh SCs, 7.73 lakh STs, and 3.83 lakh BCs. ‘All-time high wages’ The achievement in the year 2020-21 is the highest in the last eight years. The wage component in 2020-21 is an all-time high at Rs. 242.83 crore, and the material component is Rs. 172.99 crore against Rs. 151.96 crore wage component and Rs. 19.99 crore material component in 2017-18. Project Director, DWMA, G. Srinivasa Reddy, said that the target was achieved in June itself. “The NREGS has ensured sustained livelihood to many people,” said Mr. Srinivasa Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nregs-guntur-district-achieves-one-crore-man-days-in-june/article34982253.ece
26 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu trying to politicise mango farmers’ issue’||Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu has said that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has only one agenda and that is to defame Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “Of late, Mr. Naidu and his son Lokesh have been talking about problems of mango farmers, and are trying to politicise the issue,” the Minister said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was firm in ensuring better prices for the farmers. The Chittoor Collector himself was monitoring the issue. The Commissioner of Horticulture was also monitoring. A MRO was placed as in charge of every processing unit, said Mr. Kannababu. Stating that the TDP government had paid only Rs. 2.5 more for every kg, the Minister said that Mr. Naidu was telling lies. “Mr. Naidu is beginning to enact a drama that the government is increasing the price only after he intervened. We have invited bids from entrepreneurs to start processing units in Chittoor,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-trying-to-politicise-mango-farmers-issue/article34982852.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘KCR silent on Seema project’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has to take the blame for Pothireddypadu as it was started by the Telugu Desam government when KCR was a minister in N. T. Rama Rao cabinet. At a press conference here, he said KCR had no moral right to blame Congress leaders on the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator as he had not opposed it as TDP minister then. In fact, it was Telangana Congress leaders who fought against the increase of water withdrawal from it. And it was Congress leaders who went to AICC president Sonia Gandhi seeking separate Telangana when KCR was enjoying power in Telugu Desam Party, he argued. Mr. Bhatti said Congress had been warning the government on the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation project at Sangameshwar for the last one year but KCR was silent worried over his financial relationship with AP leadership. On numerous occasions, Congress raised the issue that AP would take away 11 tmcft every day thus hitting inflows into Srisailam and subsequently into Nagarjuna Sagar projects but the TRS government was mum for reasons known to everyone. Now the Chief Minister woke from his slumber and started blaming the Congress. Was it not ridiculous to criticise the Congress that had built the projects on the Krishna which were being compromised by the TRS government, Mr. Bhatti argued. He said Congress governments irrigated 3.4 lakh acres under Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation; 3.7 lakh acres under SLBC, 2 lakh acres under Nettempadu in addition to 6.40 lakh acres under Nagarjuna Sagar Left Canal. Now irrigation in these 15.50 lakh acres was in danger due to the Rayalaseema project. All that KCR started was Dindi and Palamur-Ranga Reddy project, and despite spending thousands of crores on these not a single acre could be irrigated, he claimed. The Congress leader accused the Chief Minister of resorting to provocative sentiments yet again for political mileage after failing to react on time. “If he wanted he could have reacted and stopped the project last year itself. But he was silent when the GO was issued by the AP government due to his financial interests in it,” Mr. Bhatti alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-silent-on-seema-project/article34982622.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter second-year syllabus reduced to 70% in TS||Syllabus for Intermediate second-year students will be reduced to 70% for the academic year 2021-22 with the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) deciding to conduct physical classes on alternate days from July 1 when colleges reopen. If classes are held on alternate days for both first-year and second-year students due to COVID restrictions, the BIE fears that it may not meet the 220 mandatory instruction days. The instruction days will be effectively reduced to 110 and the syllabus also has to be reduced accordingly. A circular of the BIE sent to college managements said that “Since there is an uncertainty about the number of working days, 70% of the syllabus may be continued for teaching as well as for Intermediate Public Examination (lPE-2022) for the time being until there is clarity from the government or CBSE.” ‘Use technology’ The BIE does not expect an overwhelming response to physical classes from parents and realising this, it has asked colleges and teachers to use technology and social media platforms for effective teaching. It asked colleges to create WhatsApp groups with junior lecturers and students subject-wise and group-wise for first-year and second-year students separately. To make the online class interesting and effective, the BIE suggested to lecturers to integrate their lessons with the freely available educational resources like “PhEt” simulations, “Desmos” graphing tools and “animations” on the web. The groups should not be static and inactive and they must be dynamic in the sense that the principal, lecturers and students must actively engage in clearing the doubts or announcing the TV lesson schedules and online schedules. The groups should be utilised not only for doubt clearing sessions but also to elicit feedback from students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-2nd-yr-syllabus-reduced-to-70/article34982576.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||TRS govt. continues tirade against YSR||The Telangana government continued its attack on the late Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy accusing him of diverting water to the projects in the present Andhra Pradesh and also blaming him for the death of Congress leader P. Janardhan Reddy, who vehemently opposed the increase in drawing the water from Pothireddypadu Head Regulator. After Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashanth Reddy it was the turn of Excise Minister V. Srinivas Goud who said YSR had cheated Telangana and played havoc with the lives of people and also the political leadership here. He said YSR was also responsible for the death of Congress leader P. Janardhan Reddy who was his strong opponent. “Janardhan Reddy was humiliated and suffered a heart attack and medical experts in the ambulance meant for CM YSR did not come to his rescue. Or else he would have been saved,” he claimed in New Delhi. Mr. Goud also argued that YSR had killed Naxalites after they favoured a separate Telangana. “They were called for talks and those sympathetic to Telangana movement were killed in encounters,” he claimed, adding that even Congress leaders supporting the separate state demand were also humiliated. On being questioned over the overtly friendly relationship with Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister, YS Jaganmohan Reddy, he said it was with the belief that both the states should solve the issues amicably. However, Mr. Jagan turned out to be just like his father and diverting water illegally. “We thought he had changed. We are criticising him after realising that he had not changed.” Mr. Goud rejected the argument that the Telangana government was knowingly silent while the Andhra Pradesh government went ahead with the construction of the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation project. He accused the Central government of not doing enough to settle the differences. “It is for the Centre to intervene and settle the differences and they are not doing it,” he maintained.  Comments on Congress The Minister said Congress would continue to be relevant in politics and they should put pressure on its central leadership to approach the Bharatiya Janata Party government to resolve the issue. He advised Congress and BJP to oppose the Andhra Pradesh government projects even if there was no collective fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trs-govt-continues-tirade-against-ysr/article34982329.ece
26 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven held for theft cases in Kadapa||The Kadapa police on Friday arrested seven persons, including two minors, for their alleged involvement in several cases of burglary and robbery in Mydukur, Rayachoti and Proddatur police limits and recovered property worth Rs. 13 lakh. Two of a gang notorious for waylaying the public was arrested in Mydukur Rural limits. The two used to reportedly stop vehicles on highways seeking lift and steal mobile phones from the victims at knife-point. Since the accused were minors, they were sent to a rehabilitation centre. In Rayachoti Rural, two suspected chain snatchers were nabbed and gold chains weighing 81 gm worth Rs. 5 lakh were recovered from their possession, apart from two motorcycles. The accused Settipalle Siva Kalyan Reddy (27) and Shaik Shamir (33) were reportedly wanted in four cases. In Proddatur, police arrested Palle Dharma Tej (24), Putha Naveen Kumar Reddy and M. Vishnu Vamsi (23), wanted in various theft cases. About 120 gm of gold, two motorcycles and 25 gm of silver was seized. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan urged the public to utilise the Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS) app to keep criminals at bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-held-for-theft-cases-in-kadapa/article34982839.ece
26 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police appeal to Maoists battling COVID-19 infection to surrender||East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi on Friday appealed to the Maoists belonging to Galikonda Area Committee (Visakha agency), BK-East Godavari Division (Andhra-Telanga border), and Konta Area Committee (Chhattisgarh) to surrender before the A.P. police to get access to timely medical treatment for COVID-19 infection. Referring to the recent death of some Maoists owing to COVID-19 infection on the Andhra-Odisha and Andhra-Chhattisgarh State borders, Mr. Nayeem Asmi said the intelligence inputs had confirmed that many Maoists had been battling with the COVID-19 infection. “On the humanitarian ground, the police authorities have decided to guarantee timely medical treatment to the Maoists who are roaming in the tri-State borders for the medical assistance. We request the Maoists to surrender before the police,” said the SP. He appealed to the high command of the banned CPI (Maoists) to allow their cadre to surrender instead of pushing them to their death in the absence of medical treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-appeals-to-maoists-battling-covid-19-infection-to-surrender/article34982033.ece
26 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E.G. gearing up to tackle ‘third wave’||East Godavari Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Keerthi on Friday said that a total of 700 beds with medical oxygen facility would be provided in all the area hospitals, community and primary health centres across the district by mid of July. “Work will begin in one week to provide the beds as a part of preparing for the anticipated COVID-19 third wave. Tests will be conducted for pregnant women during the regular monthly checks-up,” said Ms. Keerthi. The district authorities have already arranged a paediatric ward comprising 200 beds at the Government General Hospital here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eg-gearing-up-to-tackle-third-wave/article34982254.ece
26 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sedition case against Aisha won’t stand: HC||Observing that prima facie the offences, including the sedition charge, alleged against Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana are not attracted, the Kerala High Court on Friday made absolute the interim anticipatory bail granted to her in a case registered by the Kavaratti police for making a remark about the Central government. A case under Sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Ms. Sultana, a native of Chetlat island, based on a petition filed by BJP’s Lakshadweep unit president Abdul Khader. The prosecution case is that on June 7, during a TV channel discussion, she had allegedly stated that the Centre had used ‘bioweapon’ against the natives of the islands. ‘No malice motive’ Justice Ashok Menon, while allowing her anticipatory bail petition, observed that prima facie the petitioner “did not have a malicious motive to subvert the government established by law by merely using the strong word 'bioweapon', to express her vehemence in disapproval of the subject under discussion. Her intention was explicitly in criticism of the modification of the SOP, introduced by the Administrator, forgoing the mandatory provision of subjecting the persons entering the islands to quarantine. This allegedly led to an exponential rise in the number of COVID-19 cases on the islands. The decisive ingredient for establishing the offence of sedition under Section 124 A of the IPC is the doing of certain acts which will bring the government established by law in India into hatred or contempt. In this case, there was not even a suggestion that the petitioner did anything as such against the Government of India.” Phone seized Akbar Kareem, Ms. Sultana’s lawyer, told The Hindu that the Lakshadweep police on Friday afternoon seized her mobile phone for the purpose of sending it for forensic examination. The action came in the wake of the Kerala High Court granting bail to her in a case of sedition registered against her, he said. In a video message, Ms. Sultana said she was not allowed to note down important contact details before the mobile phone was seized by the police. “That the phone was seized all of a sudden on the day the court granted me bail has come as a shock. I don't know how will I call my mother. Two of my uncles are hospitalised at two places and I am unable to contact them either,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sedition-case-against-aisha-wont-stand-hc/article34982032.ece
26 June 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village gets pedestrian bridge through crowd-funding||After their demand for a bridge across a rivulet did not get any response from the State government, like-minded people of a village in Dakshina Kannada district accomplished the task on their own. They built a pedestrian steel bridge through crowd-funding. The rivulet is on Edoni-Eranagudde-Mogra Road at Mogra village under the Guthigar Gram Panchayat in Sullia taluk. The road connects Balpa and Guthigar towns. Incidentally, the Balpa Gram Panchayat was selected by Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel as ‘ aadarsha grama ’ (model village). The steel bridge replaces a temporary bridge that was built using areca palm ahead of every monsoon by the Guthigar Gram Panchayat since decades. But the wooden bridge becomes weak in about two months owing to rains. “Whenever the rivulet was full due to heavy rain, students and women avoided using the wooden bridge,” said Mahesh Puchchappady, a journalist-cum-agriculturist who took the initiative of getting the steel bridge constructed throughcivil engineer Pathanjali Bharadwaj, son of Padma Shri winner Girish Bharadwaj who has built several hanging bridges for rural connectivity across India.Mr. Pathanjali Bharadwaj told The Hindu that the pedestrian bridge is 19.2 metre long and 1.2 metre wide. It was built in 20 days at a cost of around Rs. 1.25 lakh and can take the weight of a two-wheeler. “We used waterproof and durable plywood planks on an experimental basis to reduce the cost of construction with the consent of local peoplewho offered shramdaan [voluntary work]. Local construction materials were used to reduce cost,” he said. Mr. Puchchappady said 50% of the cost was borne by the villagers. The rest of the money was raised through contributions from some private companies. Use of the bridge on trial basis began on Thursday. It was expected to be ready for use by the public on the weekend after completing minor works, he said. The bridge would provide permanent connectivity to a government health centre and a school at Mogra. The project has brought a smile on the faces of about 80 families in the surroundings of the rivulet. Mr. Pathanjali Bharadwaj said this was probably a rare pedestrian steel bridge to be built through crowd-funding in recent years in the coastal and Malnad belts. People had been petitioning the local MLA (S. Angara, now Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport) for a regular bridge since 2006. In addition, they had submitted their request to all other elected representatives, like members of Parliament, zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat. As a last resort, they petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November 2020, Mr. Puchchappady said. “Following the petition to the Prime Minister, the Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat ordered work on assessing the feasibility and cost of construction of a regular concrete bridge,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-gets-pedestrian-bridge-through-crowd-funding/article34982031.ece
26 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJYM, AIYF stage protest over job calendar||Activsts of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and CPI-led All India Youth Federation staged separate demonstrations here on Friday in protest against the “disappointing” job calendar released by the State government. Police took 10 BJYM activists into preventive custody including its district president T. Ashok Reddy as they tried to obstruct the convoy of Education Minister A.Suresh, protesting over the announcement by the government that only 10,000 jobs would be filled this year. Police personnel posted at Prakasam Bhavan whisked the BJYM activists away to the police station. The activists were detained for violating prohibitory orders in force, said Ongole DSP K.V.V.N.V. Prasad. Leading the AIYF protest, its president Lakshma Reddy said the YSRCP government should come out with a revised job calender to fill over 2.35 lakh vacancies in various government departments. The meagre number of jobs announced by the State government came as a rude shock to the jobless youth who were toiling hard in their preparations for competitive exams, said AIYF district secretary Ramanjaneyulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjym-aiyf-stage-protest-over-job-calendar/article34982837.ece
26 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID graph declines in south coastal A.P.||The number of active COVID cases came down to a little over 8,500 in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh on Friday. Prakasam district reported zero deaths for the second day in a row while one patient succumbed to COVID in Nellore, taking the overall death toll in the region to 1,804. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by over 400. Prakasam district has accounted for 903 deaths so far while Nellore district has seen 901 deaths. The overall caseload rose to over 1.46 lakh in the wake of 212 persons from Nellore district and 335 persons from Prakasam district testing positive for the virus in the past 24 hours. As many as 578 patients in Prakasam district and another 365 patients in Nellore district made a recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-graph-declines-in-south-coastal-ap/article34982835.ece
26 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four major airports in A.P. in the red||Four major airports - Rajamahendravaram, Tirupati, Vijayawada, and Visakhapatnam - had suffered a whopping Rs. 119 crore loss during the 2018-19 financial year in Andhra Pradesh. As per the Airports Authority of India’s report on the ‘Loss-making airports (2018-19)’, the total expenditure on the four airports had exceeded Rs. 268 crore against their revenue of Rs. 148.35 crore. Since early 2020, the operations at these airports were halted at regular intervals due to the lockdowns during the first and second waves of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Tirupati airport suffered the highest loss of Rs. 42.70 crore. It had barely earned Rs. 21.72 crore against the expenditure of Rs. 64.42 crore. The Vijayawada airport had reported a loss of Rs. 41.70 crore against Rs. 73.24 crore expenditure with a meagre revenue of Rs. 31.54 crore. The Rajamahendravaram airport registered a revenue of Rs. 8.61 crore, the lowest among the four airports. Its expenditure was more than Rs. 41.45 crore, and the loss was a whopping Rs. 32.84 crore. The revenue earned by the Kadapa airport was Rs. 57 lakh, but the expenditure was more than Rs. 10.38 crore. The Visakhapatnam airport, however, managed to earn a revenue of Rs. 86.48 crore against an expenditure of Rs. 89.48 crore. Tourist attractions, international sports events, and international flight services remain the prime revenue sources for the airport. Privatisation threat MP and Member, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture, M. Bharat, had stated that strengthening the AAI was the need of the hour. Speaking at a meeting of the Standing Committee in New Delhi recently, Mr. Bharat feared that the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2021, would lead to privatisation of the loss-making airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-major-airports-in-ap-in-the-red/article34982855.ece
26 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Domestic air cargo terminal opened at Rajamahendravaram||The much-awaited domestic air cargo terminal was commissioned at the Rajamahendravaram airport in East Godavari district on Friday. The terminal will be operated by the Airport Authority of India Cargo Logistics and Allied Services Company Limited (AAICLAS), a subsidiary of the AAI. Rajamahendravaram Airport Director Manoj Kumar Nayak inaugurated the terminal in the presence of all the stakeholders and the officials from the AAICLAS, Visakhapatnam. “The first consignment of COVID-19 vaccine (Covaxin) was received on Friday and the automobile spare parts was despatched to Hyderabad. The cargo terminal facility will help boost the economic activity in the East and West Godavari districts,” said Mr. Manoj Kumar Nayak. Security clearance Meanwhile, the Bureau of Civil Aviation (BCAS) has issued the security clearance for the operation of the air cargo terminal. IndiGo Airlines will handle the cargo operations to various destinations from the Rajamahendravaram airport. Abraham Lincon, in-charge, AAICLAS, Visakhapatnam Branch, representatives from Indigo Airlines, Cargo Agents, and other stakeholders were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/domestic-air-cargo-terminal-opened-at-rajamahendravaram/article34982854.ece
26 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||United Breweries workers are a worried lot||The Andhra Pradesh government’s new liquor policy has turned out to be the bane of nearly 2,000 employees of the United Breweries unit at Ranasthalam in Srikakulam district. The company has reduced its production significantly because of lack of orders from the government. According to sources, the company used to produce six lakh bottles of the Kingfisher and other brands per day till 2019. The YSRCP government that had come to power later brought out a policy that aimed at imposing prohibition in a phased manner. New brands encouraging As a part of its policy, it has started encouraging new brands, which is proving to be disadvantageous to the products being rolled out by the UB. Representatives of the company had reportedly approached the government many a time to win back the orders in vain. With only a few orders from Odisha, Telangana and other States, the UB unit, with a view to minimising losses, has not only reduced its production but also laid off nearly 1,000 workers, which is causing consternation among others. Protests planned “The workers are now rendered ineligible for Provident Fund and ESI medical facility as they are hardly working for 10 days in a month,” said CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao. “All the workers, along with their family members, will stage protests from July 1 to 3 in a bid to draw the attention of the government to their plight,” said Ch. Ammannaidu, a CITU leader. Relay hunger strike He said the relay hunger strike being staged on the premises of the company for the last three days would continue. “The new policy has made our lives miserable. Earlier, we used to draw nearly Rs. 12,000 per month. But now, we are hardly drawing Rs. 4,000 per month, which is not sufficient even to pay house rent and power bills,” said Ch. Prabhkar, another union leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/united-breweries-workers-are-a-worried-lot/article34982255.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Josephine quits as Kerala women’s panel chief||Kerala Women's Commission chairperson M.C. Josephine has resigned. Ms. Josephine had drawn public ire for allegedly slighting a victim of domestic violence during a televised phone-in programme. The incident has unleashed a social media storm, with women activists, human right organisations and Opposition parties wading into the mele. The online anger manifested as street protests by women activists of the Congress and the BJP. The CPI(M) State secretariat, which met here on Friday, concluded that Ms. Josephine's continuation at the helm of the commission was politically untenable. The secretariat reportedly pointed out that Ms. Josephine's "needlessly strident tone" towards the petitioner was indefensible. The public had spurned the comment as high-handed and anti-egalitarian, it felt. The controversy erupted at an inconvenient moment for the CPI(M). It had planned a mass campaign, Sthree Paksha Keralam, to defend gender justice. The party had sought to occupy the political high ground by championing the cause of women at a time when domestic violence, imposition of dress and behavioural code, moral policing, honour killings, demonising interfaith marriage and dowry harassment were on the ascend. Gender equality The secretariat theorised that the rightward drift in society, catalysed by the rise of Hindu and Muslim fundamentalism, was the biggest threat to gender equality. Revanchist forces, seeking reinstatement of medieval values under cover of religion, had sought to relegate women to a subaltern position in society. Hence, the CPI(M) secretariat required the party to reinforce renaissance values that forged modern Kerala. Hence, the party did not want the controversy involving Ms. Josephine to turn into a drag on its ambitious socio-political campaign. CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said Ms. Josephine regretted the episode at the meeting. She expressed her desire to resign. The party backed her decision. “Society has realised the party's principled position,” he said. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said for seven days from July 1, CPI(M) members would fan out across the State to spread the message of gender equality. The campaign would conclude on July 8. It would stress the feminist narrative, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/josephine-quits-as-kerala-womens-panel-chief/article34982218.ece
26 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siby Mathews gets anticipatory bail||A court here has granted anticipatory bail to retired Director General of Police Siby Mathews in a “police frame-up” that led to the infamous “ISRO spy scandal” case in 1994. Last month, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had indicted Mr. Mathews for the alleged wrongful arrest and custodial torture of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan and others in the case. Mr. Mathews had headed the Special Investigation Team then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siby-mathews-gets-anticipatory-bail/article34982220.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 held for peddling black fungus drugs||The Tirupati Urban police arrested 10 persons for allegedly selling drugs to cure black fungus in the black market. The police got scent of a gang that was reportedly on the prowl to make a fast buck out of the people’s desperation to get drugs to cure black fungus. C. Gunasekhar, Neerugattu Guruvardhan, M. Purushotham, V. Naga Bhaskar, Maddela Sai Babu, K. Viswanath, Bandari Rangaswami, Kota Ramakrishna, Beeram Papaiah, all hailing from Chittoor, Nellore, Prakasam, Anantapur and Krishna districts, and P. Ramachandra Prabhu of Chennai were arrested at three different locations in Tirupati on Friday. Liposomal Amphotericin B Lambin, Amfolin, Ambisome drugs were seized from their possession. The modus operandi of the group was to get details on black fungus from social media, befriend attendants in corporate hospitals and gather information about patients needing the drugs. They used to create an artificial demand and sell the drug costing Rs. 7000 for anything between Rs. 18,000 and Rs. 30,000, depending on the patient’s condition and their kin’s desperation. “We request the public not to buy drugs out of panic and encourage such fake sellers”, said Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, producing the accused before the media. All the accused are related to the field of medical and health in one way or the other, which is the common thread linking them. “One is a medical representative based at Nellore, who is still at large, while there is a computer operator working at a government hospital in Chennai,” Mr. Naidu said. Shareef of Nellore, Rama Raju and Parameswari of Chennai are on the run. The department had also alerted the Drug Control and A.P. Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited authorities about the arrests. Cases have been registered against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-held-for-peddling-black-fungus-drugs/article34982216.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati Smart City bags five awards||Tirupati has bagged five awards in the India Smart City Contest-2020. Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri announced the awards on Friday, in which Tirupati participated in six of the 10 categories . MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha and Mayor R. Sireesha said the city came first in Sanitation (Bio remediation and biomining) and Social Aspect - e-health (health benchmark for municipal schools). It won the second place in the second round for the City Award (among 48 cities) and in Economy–Art district (boost local identity and economy through design studio). The third place was won in Urban environment for the 4MW floating solar plant under the ‘renewable energy generation’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-smart-city-bags-five-awards/article34982856.ece
26 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veteran scribe recounts memories of Emergency||A veteran journalist recounted his experience of the Emergency that was imposed by the Central government on June 25, 1975.  Narrating his experience to the BJP’s SC Morcha State general secretary S. Muni Subramanyam, , Mr. Ranga Rao explained how he had to go underground and evade police several times to avoid being caught. “However, I could not elude arrest for long, after which I was lodged in Musheerabad prison for eighteen months,” he recalled. After serving as a reporter for an English news agency, Mr. Ranga Rao went on to become the district general secretary of the Jana Sangh and later the BJP. The BJP leaders felicitated him with a shawl on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veteran-scribe-recounts-memories-of-emergency/article34982840.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 toll crosses 12,500 in State||The State reported 38 deaths due to COVID-19 and 4,458 new infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The toll crossed the 12,500-mark and reached 12,528 while the cumulative tally increased 18,71,475. The number of recoveries and recovery rate slightly increased to 18,11,157 and 96.78% respectively as 6,313 patients recovered in the past day. The total active cases came down to 47,790. The daily positivity rate of 91,849 samples tested in the past day was 4.84%, which is one of the lowest in the past several weeks. The overall positivity rate of the 2.15 crore samples tested so far was at 8.69%. Chittoor district reported nine moe deaths in the past day while Krishna reported eight. Guntur reported five and East Godavari reported four deaths, while Kurnool, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram reported two deaths each. Anantapur, Kadapa, Nellore and West Godavari reported one new death each and Prakasam reported no new death. All the districts reported less than a thousand new infections and East Godavari with 909 infections in the past day reported the highest daily tally. It was followed by Chittoor (708), West Godavari (591), Kadapa (370), Prakasam (335), Krishna (331), Guntur (239), Anantapur (224), Nellore (212), Visakhapatnam (198), Srikakulam (151), Kurnool (126) and Vizianagaram (64). The cumulative infection tally of the Krishna district crossed the one-lakh mark. The district has 3,697 active cases and a death rate of 1.09%, the highest among the districts. With this, all the districts except Vizianagaram witnessed more than one lakh infections. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,59,452), Chittoor (2,17,246), Guntur (1,60,888), West Godavari (1,59,390), Anantapur (1,53,168), Visakhapatnam (1,47,752), Nellore (1,26,383), Kurnool (1,21,413), Prakasam (1,19,625), Srikakulam (1,17,956), Kadapa (1,05,508), Krishna (1,00,123) and Vizianagaram (79,676).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-toll-crosses-12500-in-state/article34982847.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl assault case: efforts on to trace main accused||The Guntur Urban district police and the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate personnel investigating the alleged sexual assault case reported from the Seetanagaram Pushkar Ghat on the Krishna riverbank on June 19, are making efforts to find out the prime accused in the case. They reportedly paraded some suspects before the victim on Friday. Investigation officers suspect that more than two persons are involved in the crime.  “The abandoned place at the Pushkar Ghat is regularly frequented by ganja peddlers, blade batch offenders and rowdy-sheeters. Many gangs from Krishna and Guntur districts often resort to illegal activities there. There could be more than two accused at the scene of offence and abetted the crime,” said a police officer. A gang allegedly accosted the couple on Saturday night and threatened them with blades and pocket knives. They allegedly thrashed the boy and allegedly sexually assaulted the girl. “Rowdy-sheeters, ganja and blade batch gangs move on the tracks between Vijayawada railway station and KC Canal junction. They attack the passengers when trains slow down and rob them of valuables. Later, they consume liquor and ganja on the Krishna riverbank at Seetanagaram,” said a resident. Caution boards put up Meanwhile, the Tadepalli municipality and the Guntur Urban police have put up signboards cautioning the people not to move in abandoned areas on the riverbank. They have appealed to the women to install Disha App on their cellphones and alert the police in case of emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-assault-case-efforts-on-to-trace-main-accused/article34982250.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to develop secondary food processing units hailed||The Andhra Pradesh Food Processing Policy 2020-25 intends to develop secondary food processing ready-to-operate plug & play units in each parliamentary constituency and the proposed 42 product-specific units would create a continuous demand for the farmers’ produce, good sale price and adequate raw material for the industry, L. Sridhar Reddy, Chief Executive Officer, AP Food Processing Society, said on Friday. Speaking at an awareness session on ‘Food Processing Opportunities in Andhra Pradesh: Establishment of Secondary Food Processing Units’ organised by the State chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in the virtual mode, Mr. Sridhar Reddy said establishment of these units would help in building the required backward and forward integration and ensure remunerative price to the farmers’ produce. “The secondary food processing units are identified based on the availability of local raw material,” he explained. Win-win situation Society’s COO Bharath Thota said the move would create an ecosystem for value addition to various food products. It would create a win-win situation for the industry and for the government to accelerate growth in the food processing sector. Convener, primary sector panel, CII-Andhra Pradesh, P. Venkat Ram Reddy, highlighted the strength of Andhra Pradesh for the prospective investors. Seventy delegates representing the food processing industry participated and sought clarifications on various technical aspects of running the secondary food processing units. Chairman, CII-Vijayawada Zone, S. Narendra Kumar, participated in the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-develop-secondary-food-processing-units-hailed/article34982258.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP urges NCW to probe sexual assault case||Alleging that crimes against women are on the rise in the State, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has urged the National Commission for Women (NCW) to constitute a team for conducting an inquiry into such cases. In a letter to the NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday, Telugu Mahila (women’s wing of the party) State President V. Anita cited the case pertaining to the alleged molestation of a woman on the Krishna riverbank on June 19. “The place where the incident occurred is only 1 km to 2 km from the residence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and 2 km to 3 km from the State Police Headquarters. In another incident, a Dalit woman Malladi Mariyamma was found dead in suspicious circumstances in coconut fields at Tholukodu in Krishna district on June 22,” she pointed out and alleged that even as atrocities against women were on the rise, the government was not doing anything to take action against the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-urges-ncw-to-probe-sexual-assault-case/article34982857.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man killed in broad daylight||Rama Rao (35) of Kandriga was allegedly hacked to death in broad daylight by three persons at Durga Agraharam in the city on Friday. The accused reportedly chased the victim on a bike and hacked him to death on the main road and escaped. The victim and the accused reportedly had a quarrel after consuming liquor on Thursday night. Suspects in custody Police are trying to find out the exact reason for the killing. Based on the CCTV footage, a few suspects were taken into custody. Investigation is on, said the Suryaraopet police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-killed-in-broad-daylight/article34982251.ece
26 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||D.El.Ed results released||The results of Diploma in Elementary Education (D. El. Ed) first year have been released. In a statement on Friday, Director, Government Examinations, said details of the marks memo were made available on the website, www.bse.ap.gov.in. Candidates seeking recounting of marks can submit their application by July 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deled-results-released/article34982257.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision to levy user charges on garbage collection draws flak||The decision to levy user charges for garbage collection by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) council has been drawing flak from citizens, Opposition parties and various residential associations. The Opposition parties criticised the civic body for taking the decision during the pandemic. To implement solid waste management rules 2016, the GVMC officials have proposed for imposition of user charges as agenda No 100 during the recently held council meet. Though the Opposition parties, including the TDP, Left parties and the Jana Sena Party, opposed the proposal, the Mayor conducted the voting. As over 60 votes received in favour of the proposal, the Mayor passed it. According to the agenda, households need to pay Rs. 120 per month by seventh of every month as the user charges. Late fee of Rs. 15 would be levied if they fail to pay the charges. Similarly, restaurants and hotels need to pay Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,500 depending on the size. Bar and restaurants will be charged about Rs. 3,000, fast foods, roadside eateries/mess/juice shops will be charged Rs. 300. Function halls will be charged from Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 15,000 per month based on the size. GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao said that though the proposal was passed in the council, a signed order needs to be given by the Mayor. The State government is preparing a mobile application to monitor the garbage collection. The G.O is likely to be implemented from the next month, he said. According to a senior official, there are around seven lakh households, including apartments, in the GVMC limits. “Per month, through the user charges, the GVMC may generate around Rs. 15 crore,” he added on condition of anonymity. “The GVMC should understand that there are many families in suburban areas who are paying Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,000 as rents. Since more than one year, a lot of families, especially those who depend on daily wage works, are financially hit and are living by borrowing money. In this situation, how can the corporation seek Rs. 120 per month just to collect wastes. Is it really necessary when people are panicking about the COVID third wave?” said TDP floor leader in the GVMC, Peela Srinivasa Rao. CPI(M) leader and Corporator of Ward no. 78, B. Ganga Rao, said that the decision will impose burden on people. Even street vendors have to pay some amount, he said. He alleged that the government was trying to make money from the people by levying such charges to repay the loans that it had taken for various welfare schemes. Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Association vice-president K.S.R. Murthy said that already apartments have been paying Rs. 50, while about Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 is being collected from small houses. Now charging about Rs. 120 is expensive, he said. Visakha Apartment Residents Welfare Association secretary B.B. Ganesh also condemned the move and expressed fear that charges may soon be levied on other civic amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decision-to-levy-user-charges-on-garbage-collection-draws-flak/article34982861.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports two deaths, 198 new COVID infections||As many as 198 new COVID-19 infections were reported in the Visakhapatnam district in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning. The new cases take the cumulative tally to 1,48,264. The death toll has also increased to 1,018 after two more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. According to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the officials, 331 persons undergoing treatment for the virus recovered in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has reduced to 3,043, while the number of discharges/recoveries has increased to 1,44,203.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-two-deaths-198-new-covid-infections/article34982863.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release a new job calendar with 2.4 lakh posts: BJYM||A half-naked protest was organised by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists in protest against the scanty number of posts, announced in the job calendar released by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, near the Collectorate here on Friday. Addressing the participants, BJYM State president Kethineni Surendra Mohan said that a mere 36 posts were announced while five lakh candidates were preparing for the Group II examinations. This was causing anger and unrest among the candidates, he said. He sought increase in the number of posts and inclusion of Assistant Executive Engineer and Assistant Engineer posts in the calendar. He said that all the vacant posts in the State should be notified and filled and a new job calendar released with 2.40 lakh posts as was promised by the Chief Minister in the past. He said that the previous government was dislodged from power as it had failed to keep its assurances given to the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-a-new-job-calendar-with-24-lakh-posts-bjym/article34982860.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1.7 crore seized from private bank locker||During the course of a follow-up investigation, officers from the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Visakhapatnam, have seized cash worth Rs. 1.7 crore from the locker of a private bank in Guntur. The bank locker is related to an ongoing investigation against a bill trading mastermind who was earlier arrested for his involvement in running a massive fake invoice racket. During the course of investigation, the mastermind was found to have been involved in floating close to 90 shell companies to generate fake invoices valued at Rs. 425 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-17-cr-seized-from-private-bank-locker/article34982841.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police offer help to Maoists for COVID treatment||Assuring all help, the Visakhapatnam district police on Friday appealed to the Maoists to approach police and get treated for COVID-19. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao in a release on Friday said that they have information that several members of the banned CPI(Maoist) party have been suffering from body pains, cold, fever and other COVID-19 symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-offer-help-to-maoists-for-covid-treatment/article34982864.ece
26 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to make discussions on steel plant public||The Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee has demanded making public the discussions between the Steel Secretary, Chairman and Managing Director of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) and 45 officials at the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) meet organised in Delhi. Addressing the media here on Friday, the committee leaders demanded that the Centre revoke its decision to privatise the VSP failing which a strike would be held on June 29. They recalled that the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) had announced its decision on strategic sale of the VSP on January 29 this year. Advisors were appointed to hasten the sale of the plant, they said. The people of Andhra Pradesh have supported the agitation against the privatisation of VSP as they were against the sale of public assets to corporate groups, they said. Barring the BJP, all other political parties in Andhra Pradesh have directly participated in the agitation against privatisation of the plant. MPs have expressed their opposition to the privatisation of VSP both within and outside Parliament, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-make-discussions-on-steel-plant-public/article34982858.ece
26 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NEP will help students become multi-talented, says expert||The National Education Policy (NEP) will help India face the challenges in the future and enable it to meet the global academic standards, says T.V. Kattimani, NEP Implementation Committee member and Vice-Chancellor of Central Tribal University - Andhra Pradesh. “The NEP will help every student become multi-talented and ensure a decent career in different fields,” Dr. Kattimani told The Hindu here on Thursday. Dr. Kattimani, who hails from Karnataka, had worked as Vice-Chancellor of Indira Gandhi National Tribal University at Amarkantak in Madhya Pradesh. In 2016, he was taken on board the seven-member NEP drafting committee, and later included him in implementation committee as well. The committee has been eliciting the opinion of academicians, bureaucrats, parents and students over the implementation of the policy. Dr. Kattimani said the new policy would give the students the freedom to choose the subjects they were interested in instead of confining them to particular streams such as science, arts and commerce. “At present, students pursuing B.Sc. course cannot opt history and politics as one of the subjects of study even if they are interested in them. Similarly, students studying humanities and commerce cannot opt chemistry and physics as their subjects in the 10+2 education system,” Dr. Kattimani said. The NEP would, however, enable an engineering student to choose a subject related to medicine. The selection of subjects of various courses would help the youngsters excel in them. “Even if they could not make a mark in a particular field, opportunities will always be open for them in other streams,” explained Dr. Kattimani. ‘No fear of job loss’ There would not be any fear of job loss as the multi-talented students would be able to find opportunities in other fields, he said. Dr. Kattimani further said that introduction of pre-primary education system in the government sector would bring about remarkable changes in the future. “The introduction of 5+3+3+4 education system by replacing the existing 10+2 system will certainly pave the way for the overall development of the children right from their third year itself. Fortunately, many States, including Andhra Pradesh, are taking steps to adopt the NEP guidelines in letter and spirit,” Dr. Kattimani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nep-will-help-students-become-multi-talented-says-expert/article34982844.ece
26 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freedom fighter felicitated||The days of the Emergency imposed by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi 46 year ago would continue to haunt the people of the country, said BJP leader Bavireddy Shivaprasad Reddy on Friday. Speaking after felicitating freedom fighter U.A. Narasimham, Mr. Reddy alleged that the Congress government had suppressed the voice of the people in violation of the provisions of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/freedom-fighter-felicitated/article34982256.ece
26 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS crosses 1 crore COVID - 19 vaccine doses||With Telangana crossing the 1 crore COVID–19 vaccination doses mark on Friday, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said that the State could do this on account of its strategic approach, and emphasised that a larger number of people can be vaccinated once more doses are made available. According to data released by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare, as many as 1,00,53,358 doses were administered so far in the State, out of which 86,06,292 were first doses and were 14,47,066 second doses. Data also showed that the highest number of doses were administered in Hyderabad. While 19,19,324 were first doses, 3,11,331 were second doses, bringing the total number of doses administered in the State capital to 22,30,655. This was followed by Rangareddy district with a total of 12,78,287 doses. Of this 11,31,432 were first doses and 1,46,855 second doses. In Medak district, 11,86,140 vaccination doses were administered so far of which 10,17,204 were first doses and 1,68,936 were second doses. Describing the day as a ‘Red Letter Day’, the Chief Secretary said that as a part of its strategy adopted by the State, high risk groups and superspreaders were vaccinated first. They numbered around 26 lakh. He said that those under this group were prone to coming in contact with a large number of people, and that vaccinating one person was akin to saving many people. With educational institutions scheduled to reopen shortly, Mr. Kumar said that every teaching and non-teaching staff can get vaccinated at the nearest government vaccination centre. The beneficiary would only have to produce the educational institution-issued identity card before getting the shot. Mr. Kumar said that around 2 lakh persons are being vaccinated everyday and added that this number could be increased to 7 lakh to 8 lakh if the number of doses the State gets increases. He also opined that the State had issued global tenders but was unsuccessful on this front. Director of Public Health and Family Welfare G. Srinivasa Rao also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-crosses-1-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses/article34982600.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CV Anand reviews passing out parade||National Industrial Security Academy director CV Anand on Friday reviewed the passing out parade of constables of Fire Service Training Institute (FSTI)here. FSTI is a premier Fire and Disaster Management Training Institution of CISF, under the Ministry of Home Affairs. Mr. Anand presented trophies to the trainees who secured first position in Indoor, Outdoor and all round categories. Addressing the newly inducted officers, NISA director highlighted the important and unique role played by CISF Fire Wing in various fire-fighting and rescue operations and in saving precious lives and properties in the country. He recounted the fire accidents in recent times at ONGC Mumbai, LG Polymers at Visakhapatnam and Srisailam Dam where CISF fire personnel played a stellar role as first responder and controlled the fire while three personnel lost their lives in doing so. The senior IPS officer further praised the fire personnel deployed in 103 units out of the total of 350 installations covered by the CISF countrywide. “I request you all to maintain the highest standards of discipline and courtesy,” he said. After recruitment in CISF (Fire Cadre); apart from fire-safety subjects, constables are trained on different aspects such as physical training, weapon handling, security matters etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cv-anand-reviews-passing-out-parade/article34982607.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railway Board for total vaccination of staff by July-end||The Railway Board has instructed general managers of all the zones across the country to take necessary steps to vaccinate the entire railway workforce, including coolies, contract personnel and other stakeholders by July-end. It has called for more vaccination camps to be set up to increase the pace of vaccination with those needing the second dose to be prioritised. Suitable rewards are to be given to zones and divisions having high vaccinate rates, low wastage and good practices. However, that is easier said than done since the railways is totally dependent on the State governments for the supply of COVID vaccines and the latter too have been trying to vaccinate prioritised persons of varied age groups, though the supplies are likely to improve in the coming months. For instance, the South Central Railway (SCR) with about 2.5 lakh staff is dependent on the governments of Telangana (Hyderabad, Secunderabad divisions), Andhra Pradesh (Vijayawada, Guntur, Guntakal) and Maharashtra (Nanded) for vaccine dosages to be supplied, and personnel to be vaccinated. Vaccination of frontline staff like loco-pilots, ticket checking staff, security personnel and others was the priority in the last three months. It was done in phases depending on the vaccine supply, informed senior officials, pleading anonymity. Railway Board Chairman and CEO Suneet Sharma had informed earlier this month that about 6.5 lakh employees of 12 lakh got vaccinated and States were requested to provide the vaccines considering the important role railways is playing in movement of essential commodities and operating special passenger trains. Within SCR, close to 20,000-odd frontline staff were vaccinated and many others took independent initiative to get vaccinated either in government or private healthcare centres during the April/May months of change in vaccines policy of procurement/supply, and subsequent shortage. There were also apprehensions about vaccine availability since 16,000 staff had tested corona positive since March last year and there were 250 mortalities among the working staff. “In some divisions, we were able to vaccinate our employees helped by sufficient vaccine supply, like in AP,” they said. Vaccination camps have come up in Rail Nilayam apart from various divisions with the staff being told to get vaccinated, at the earliest. Thus far, 74,000 employees took the first dose and 20,000 the second dose with Covishield being the available vaccine. “No fee is being charged from the employees,” affirmed senior officials. Reimbursement Indian Railways has decided to reimburse the vaccination cost for the employees who had already taken the vaccine between June 9-21 in private hospitals at Rs. 780 per employee. This has been made applicable for only serving staff and the money will be credited into their respective salary accounts in July on submission of the vaccine certificate and payment receipt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/railway-board-for-total-vaccination-of-staff-by-july-end/article34982587.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Justice sought in lockup death case||Telangana Congress leaders met Governor, Tamilisai Soundararajan and sought her intervention in ensuring justice to Dalit woman Mariyamma, who died in police custody in Yadadri district. The delegation led by CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and consisting of MLAs D Sridhar Babu and T. Jayaprakash Reddy apprised the Governor of the issue and sought her help in ensuring stringent punishment to police officials involved in the incident. The woman died in Addaguduru police station in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district on June 18. An inquiry was launched already by the police. The Congress leaders’ contention was that the government was trying to shield the police officials involved in the incident. Mr Bharti said Mariamma had been tortured brutally along with her son and she died due to the physical torture. Mr Bhatti alleged that attacks on Dalits were on the rise and the government had rarely responded to punish the guilty despite repeated representations. He demanded that a case be filed under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act against police officers responsible for custodial death and inhuman torture of her son. The victim Mariamma, who was working as a maid at a pastor’'s house in Addagudur was picked up by the police after the pastor accused them of stealing Rs. 2 lakh from his house. She died in the police station on June 18 due to .the alleged police torture. However, the police claimed that she had suffered heart attack in the station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/justice-sought-in-lockup-death-case/article34982618.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kokapet to be role model for entire country: HMDA||Hundred feet road, underground electric cables, dedicated transmission and distribution substations, and exclusive drinking water pipeline are being touted as some of the special features for the upcoming e-auction of HMDA plots in the Kokapet layout on July 15. HMDA Commissioner and Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration & Urban Development, Arvind Kumar said the Kokapet HMDA Layout will be a multi-zone greenfield project without any zonal restrictions. He addressed representatives of real estate companies and developers at the pre-bid meeting conducted for the e-auction on Friday at Financial District. He said the project will have ultramodern infrastructural facilities, and will be a role model development zone for the entire country. Keeping in view the future development in coming two decades, an area of 5.3 acres has been allocated for power infrastructure, where a substation with 400/220/132/33 kV capacity will be constructed, Mr. Arvind Kumar said. A dedicated pipeline will be laid from Kollur for the drinking water needs of the area, while 9.3 acre land has been kept aside for construction of a pump house by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board. A trumpet road will be constructed from the ORR up to Kokapet so as to create unimpeded access to the area, keeping in view the future construction of multi-storeyed buildings, the increase in employee turnout, and floating population. Building permissions have been simplified through TS-bPASS and can be obtained within 15 to 21 days. There is no FSI regulation for the structure, Mr. Arvind Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kokapet-to-be-role-model-for-entire-country-hmda/article34982596.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two debit card offenders held||Two debit card offenders were arrested by the Cyberabad police here on Friday. The police seized Rs. 2.5 lakh, scanning/swiping machines, 319 debit cards, a bike and two mobile phones from Talla Srinivasula Reddy, 26, and Pilli Konda Reddy, 25, both residents of Shaikpet. The duo hatched a conspiracy to make a quick buck by cheating people. They later availed two Paytm POS machines in the name of Venkateswara Kirana and General Stores and Sri Lakshmi Kirana General Stores from the Paytm and devised a plan to commit theft of contactless mode debit cards from the ATM centres that were forgotten by the different bank clients. “After stealing such wifi enabled debits cards from ATM centers located at Kukatpally, KPHB Colony, Madhapur, Gachibowli, Golkonda, Ameerpet and elsewhere, they scan the stolen debit cards on the Paytm POS machines that they have purchased and have the money of the bank customers transferred to their bank linked saving accounts i.e. Kotak Mahindra and City Bank,” Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-debit-card-offenders-held/article34982604.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Military chief’ Damodar succeeds Haribhushan||The untimely demise of Yaapa Narayana, popular as Haribhushan, Central Committee member and State Secretary for outlawed CPI (Maoist) has dealt a body blow to the underground movement but the party leadership has quickly identified his successor in Damodar alias Bade Chokka Rao, who is the presently military commander. The state police particularly the Special Intelligence Branch are closely monitoring the emerging situation. Police are comparing the leadership styles of the departed naxalite and Damodar. In terms of leadership, the present military chief Damodar will be leading the force. “We have done a quick SWOT analysis. We are reworking our strategies, evolving them as new perceptions come in,” he said. A top police official said:“while Haribhushan was strategically pragmatic, Damodar is handicapped by analytical thinking. But, his strength is logistical prowess and quick military action.” A native of Tadvai in Mulugu district, 45-year-old Damodar was a close associate of Haribhushan and planned several naxal operations and cadre recruitments in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The police are anticipating that being a little aggressive, Damodar might try to commit some offences in the State. Even he was infected with COVID . “Now, with the death of their long-standing leader, the entire movement is in a state of shock. Many of them have tested COVID- positive and the senior leadership is violating human rights by not allowing them to come out of the jungle for better medical assistance and save their lives,” Bhadadri-Kothagudem Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said. Mr. Dutt has blamed that Central Committee members and other senior leaders for the death of Haribhushan, Madhukar and many Maoists. According to police, the State still has 139 Maoists operating from hideouts in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra.The intelligence inputs gathered from multiple sources made the police assess that there was not any formidable leadership for the Telangana State in the Maoist outfit, the scale of strength and penetration enjoyed by the leadership of Haribhushan. “We have grown from strength to strength in tackling Maoist offences. Gradually, we have enfeebled them,” said a top police officer . When asked if they were expecting more aggressive action from Maoists under Damodar, the officer said there was no movement after two Maoists were killed in an exchange of fire in Kumaram Bheem-Asifabad (district), September last. “Now, they don’t have any ground in Telangana. Our inputs suggest that Damodar might just fail to influence the cadre,” he said. What distinguishes Haribhushan, who was at top for more than two decades? A surrendered Maoist said, “Comrade Haribhushan had a mesmerising quality and a sharp wit. Whoever listens to him once cannot escape his spell, and inevitably joins the rank of Maoists. His understanding of social issues and knowledge of tribal deprivation was unparalleled, and his fight against the system sprung from his deep-rooted convictions.” He said Haribhushan was among the very few Maoists who rose through the ranks from the Koya community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/military-chief-damodar-succeeds-haribhushan/article34982613.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Postal ATMs help ryots withdraw Rs. 66 cr.||Department of Posts which has announced that farmer beneficiaries of ‘Rythu Bandhu’ can withdraw cash from their bank accounts in their villages at no extra cost has stated that about Rs. 66 crore has been distributed to 1.08 lakh farmers till June 23 across TS. Wanaparthy with 19,340 transactions and Rs. 11,98,02,032, Khammam 11,196/Rs. 5,79,06,267 and Suryapet 8,916/Rs. 67,13,398 were in the top three positions. For 21-22 kharif season, micro ATM services have been arranged at 5,794 post offices for making cash payment to farmers and these can be availed by farmers having Aadhaar-linked accounts of any bank from village PO, said a press release. A maximum amount of Rs. 10,000 can be withdrawn in a day. For using a micro ATM, farmers can visit the nearest post office with his/her Aadhaar card and mobile, linked to any bank account, and withdraw cash by impressing fingerprint and informing the OTP received on his/her registered mobile number to the post master. The micro ATM service is free of cost and is convenient to all farmers during the pandemic. The facility is very useful to the farmers not in a position to visit bank branch/fixed ATM for withdrawal of Rythu Bandhu money during current COVID-19 pandemic. An amount of Rs. 169 crore was distributed through postal micro ATMs during the 2020-21 rabi season. Farmers are requested to adhere to COVID-19 precatuions while taking cash at postal micro ATMs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postal-atms-help-ryots-withdraw-rs-66-cr/article34982615.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sub-standard seed seized||With the arrest of seven persons, the Cyberabad police on Friday busted two gangs supplying spurious and expired seed worth Rs. 2.07 crore. Acting on a tip-off, Special Operations Team of Shamshabad zone intercepted a goods vehicle at Shadnagar toll plaza and seized 1.5 tonnes of BG II cotton seed while their counterparts in Balanagar zone raided a house and seized 1.54 tonnes of spurious BG III cotton seed, Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said. Later, they raided Gubba cold storage and seized 14.4 tonnes of expired maize, paddy and bajra seed of Invicta Agritech tech India (Anjaneyulu) and Deccan core crops science (Subrahmanyam). The accused apprehended by the SOT Shamshabad are Kanala Mahesh (39), a farmer and raw seed supplier from Kurnool, and Gollapedda Doddanna (37), and Chakali Jayanna (35), both farmers and raw seed suppliers from Bingidoddi village of Jogulamba Gadwal district. While those apprehended by the Balanagar SOT are Shaik Kalesha Vali (35) ran seed business from Athvelly Medchal, Pulyala Ravi (43), Pedhi Purnachander (51), and Shaik Ghouse Lajam (39) are farmers from Chandrapur in Maharashtra. Mr. Sajjanar said Shaik Kalesha Vali would take rejected seed from companies through agents/organisers and package the seed in fake pouches of different companies which are having high demand in market and sells the same to farmers. Kanala Mahesh transports spurious seed and acts as a mediator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sub-standard-seed-seized/article34982619.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||24 officers graduate from MCEME||Engineering degrees to 24 officers of Technical Entry Scheme-35 (TES-35) course were awarded in a solemn convocation ceremony by Commandant MCEME & Colonel Commandant Corps of EME Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan, strictly adhering to all COVID-19 precautionary protocols at Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME), Secunderabad on Friday. Conferring of B.Tech degree empowers the officers to confidently undertake the challenging tasks of providing effective engineering solutions to the Indian Army during both peace as well as war. Lt Gen TSA Narayanan congratulated the graduating officers and extolled them to always lead ethical, professional lives and with a courage of conviction. DGEME Gold Medal was awarded to Lt. Akshaydeep Dwivedi for overall first in merit of TES-35 Course. GOC-in-C, ARTRAC trophy & book prize were awarded to Lt. Shubham Anandrao for best all round student officer of TES-35 Course. MCEME, functions under the aegis of Army Training Command Shimla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/24-officers-graduate-from-mceme/article34982588.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All ULBs to get building debris processing units||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao has announced that construction and demolition waste processing facilities will be set up in all cities in the State. Along the lines of the two commissioned in Hyderabad, more plants will be established for other urban clusters too, he said, after inaugurating the second such facility in the city at Fathullaguda of Nagole here on Friday. Mr. Rama Rao also announced a toll free number for shifting of construction and demolition debris to the processing facilities. Those seeking transfer of demolition waste by GHMC may call 18001201159, he said, after inaugurating the C&D waste processing unit at Fathullaguda. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rama Rao said this is the second plant in the city after the one at Jeedimetla for treatment of construction debris. Like Jeedimetla, the Fathullaguda plant too has been set up in Public-Private-Partnership model, and can process up to 500 metric tonnes of waste per day. Two more such processing facilities will be established in the city in the coming days, Mr. Rama Rao said, and urged people to shed the habit of dumping the debris in storm water drains and lakes. Garbage collection Speaking of solid waste management initiatives, Mr. Rama Rao noted that the collection of solid waste has increased to 7,500 metric tonnes from 3,000 MT, thanks to the multiple measures taken by GHMC to collect it more efficiently. Garbage collection points have been raised to 70, which will further be increased to 100 in future. Garbage transfer has been modernised by introducing 90 state-of-the-art transport vehicles. A 20 megawatt waste-to-energy plant has been established in Jawaharnagar dump yard, and one more 28 megawatt plant too will be established soon. Wet garbage is being used for production of compost, Mr. Rama Rao said. Flyovers built He reminded that flyovers and underpasses are being built in L.B.Nagar with an expenditure of Rs. 450 crore. In order to prevent flooding during heavy rains, administrative sanction has been given for nala development works to the tune of Rs. 858 crore. Legislators D.Sudheer Reddy, E.Mallesham, B.Dayanand and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-ulbs-to-get-building-debris-processing-units/article34982594.ece
26 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Microsoft donates UV boxes to police||Microsoft India Private Limited managing director Rajiv Kumar on Friday donated 135 units of Ultra Violet-C (UV-C) disinfection boxes to Hyderabad city police. The UV-C disinfection units will be sent to all police stations and officers in the Hyderabad Police Commissionerate. UV-C disinfection boxes are useful in all Police Stations for day-to-day routine work. It would help in sanitisation of documents, and reduce surface to human transmission of germs, bacteria, and viruses. Earlier in the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic too Microsoft India had come forward to help and support Hyderabad Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/microsoft-donates-uv-boxes-to-police/article34982590.ece
26 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||1,061 new cases reported in Telangana||The State recorded as many as 1,061 new COVID–19 cases on Friday. This brings to the total number of cases in Telangana to 6,18,837. According to the bulletin issued by the Office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare, 11 fatalities were recorded. The cumulative number of deaths recorded in the State now stands at 3,618. The total number of patients in treatment or isolation was recorded as 15,524. There were 1,556 COVID–19 recoveries. This brings the total number of recoveries to 5,99,695. The recovery rate in Telangana is 96.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1061-new-cases-reported-in-telangana/article34982601.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two chain snatchers held||Two chain snatchers were apprehended by the Cyberabad Special Operation Team of Balanagar Zone. In the process, four chain snatching cases reported at Dundigal, Alwal, Jagadgirigutta and Gowrama of Siddipet, were solved. The police recovered 16.3 tolas of old ornaments from the possession of Pala Santosh, 30, a private employee from Medchal, and Tenkampet Karunakar, 27, from Shamirpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-chain-snatchers-held/article34982605.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Extend R&R package to 79 senior citizens’||Telangana High Court on Friday passed interim orders instructing authorities not to demolish houses of 79 senior citizens living in Etigaddakishtapur and Vemulaghat villages who were displaced due to construction of Mallannasagar project. A division bench of Justices A. Rajashekar Reddy and P. Naveen Rao, hearing a couple of writ petitions filed by senior citizens of the two villages, instructed the government to extend full benefits of Rehabilitation and Resettlement package to them. The 79 men and women wanted the government to extend them complete benefits of the R and R package treating them as independent individuals as they were living separately from their families. The bench made it clear to the government that authorities should not resort to demolition of houses of the petitioners till they were given all benefits of R and R package for Mallannasagar project. It suggested that the petitioners approach the Siddipet district collectorate carrying their Aadhaar cards and avail the benefits extended under the package. The bench instructed the government to file compliance report by July 6. The matter was posted for July 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/extend-rr-package-to-79-senior-citizens/article34982616.ece
26 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM nod for aid to HMRL||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials of Finance and related departments to examine the options for extending assistance to Hyderabad Metro Rail which has reported losses in operations since the onset of Coronavirus pandemic. The Chief Minister responded positively to the request made by the L&T, the operator of metro rail services, seeking the State government’s help in view of the losses incurred. A delegation of the Metro Rail authorities led by L&T CEO and MD S.N. Subrahmanyam called on the Chief Minister at Pragati Bhavan on Friday. When the delegation said that service was running in losses since the incidence of COVID-19, the Chief Minister responded positively asking officials concerned to work out modalities to examine the extent to which the Government could help the metro rail operator within the ambit of the agreement and rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-nod-for-aid-to-hmrl/article34982620.ece
26 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ASI in ACB net||An Assistant Sub-Inspector with Gangahara police station in Karimnagar Commissionerate was arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau on Friday for accepting a bribe of Rs. 15,000. The accused officer, Patel Chandra Reddy, demanded and accepted bribe from Jurru Ramesh of Lingampally village of Gangadhara mandal for “not harassing the complainant” in a case in which the latter was accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asi-in-acb-net/article34982603.ece
26 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Engineer turns snake-rescuer||Aptly demonstrating social responsibility to protect the environment, Surya Pratap, a 35-year-old engineering graduate, turned into a full-time snake rescuer while maintaining a nursery in the fast-growing fort-town of Khammam to contribute his mite to help maintain ecological balance. Though an engineer by profession, Surya embarked on the path of channelling collective efforts to save snakes and prevent human-snake conflict by joining the Kothagudem-based Pranadhara Charitable Trust as a volunteer a couple of years ago. Nursery He learnt the skills of catching snakes from Santosh Babu, a nature enthusiast of Kothagudem in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, leader of a wide network of volunteers spread in several towns of the composite Khammam district. Surya moved to Khammam a few years ago and started a nursery at Naidupeta as a business venture in the town to pursue his hobby and further the cause of the environment. “I quit my job in a Bengaluru-based firm and returned to my native town to start a business venture,” recalls Surya. “My passion for wildlife conservation turned me into a full-time snake rescuer,” he adds, emphasising the significance of snakes in maintaining ecological balance. “I saved thousands of snakes by promptly responding to rescue calls on my mobile phone 9059004884 in the past few years,” he claims saying the mission of rescuing snakes and releasing them into the wild far away from human habitations was a service to society. “I have rescued two spectacled cobras after being alerted by the local residents at Srinivas Colony and Allipuram in the town in the past two days.” Every rescue mission ends after releasing the snakes in the forest region and educating local residents about the importance of snakes for ecological equilibrium, difference between venomous and non-venomous snakes and the precautionary measures including snake bite prevention and treatment aspects, Surya adds. The Pranadhara Charitable Trust has organised several awareness programmes on the significance of snakes in the ecosystem in various educational institutions in the Kothagudem coal belt region in the past, he notes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engineer-turns-snake-rescuer/article34982625.ece
26 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Tension at NSP canal area over demolition||Tension broke out at Nagarjunasagar Project (NSP) canal bund area in Division 20 of the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits on Friday when a group of BJP cadres tried to stall a demolition drive by the Revenue staff to remove what the latter called “illegal structures” on the Nagarjunasagar Project lands. A group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists led by the BJP Kisan Morcha State president K Sridhar Reddy along with some aggrieved local dwellers allegedly attempted to block a JCB machine from carrying out the demolition drive at the site. As mild tension gripped the area, the police whisked the protesters away to the three town police station and let them off later. In a statement, Mr Sridhar Reddy alleged that the demolition drive was arbitrary and uncalled for as it entailed rendering several poor families of the locality homeless during the COVID-19 pandemic. The aggrieved local dwellers had earlier approached the statutory bodies including the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) seeking regularisation of their houses constructed on NSP lands. The officials concerned did not heed to the requests of the poor families to spare roof over their heads, he alleged, reiterating his charge that a building constructed by a private educational institution on the Nagarjunasagar Project lands was regularised in the past. “This is nothing but double standards,” Mr Reddy charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-at-nsp-canal-area-over-demolition/article34982614.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Honour killing case: brother and cousin involved, alleges woman||For the first time in nearly a year, Vinay and his father spoke over the phone 10 days ago. “It was a 10-minute call. He asked me how I was and I said I was fine,” the father said before breaking into tears. In a suspected case of honour killing, the 23-year-old man, Vinay, was shot dead while his 19-year-old wife injured in a village in Dwarka on Thursday night, the police said on Friday. The woman, Kiran Dahiya, who sustained five bullet injuries, is said to be critical. Vinay’s 59-year-old father Om Prakash, who works at a post office, was at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital on Friday along with his brother and his son’s friend. He was waiting for his son’s body. The last time he had met the son was in August 2020, right before the couple left the village to get married. “They both belong to the same clan and lived in the same village. How could they get married? We have to live in the society and their marriage is an insult to us,” Mr. Prakash said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said Vinay and Kiran belonged from Sonipat’s Kharkhoda village. Vinay worked as a driver, he said, adding that the incident happened at the couple’s rented accommodation in Ambrahi village. Six men barged into their residence at 9 p.m. and shot at both of them multiple times, an officer said. Vinay succumbed to four injuries and Kiran is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Dwarka. Mr. Prakash said the couple got married on August 13 last year and they got to know about the marriage three days later. “They [couple] had a court marriage in Chandigarh. A lawyer from the village informed a family member, who further told us. I hadn’t seen my son since,” he said, adding that he doesn’t know if his wife ever spoke to Vinay. Though in tears, Mr. Prakash still holds a grudge against his son for marrying within the clan. “I was helpless because the police called me to come for post-mortem formalities. I wouldn’t have come otherwise,” he said, adding: “Vinay’s mother had fallen sick worrying about him in February and was hospitalised as well.” Mr. Prakash was informed about his son’s murder on Thursday night. On Friday, he went to the hospital to meet his daughter-in-law — for the first time after their wedlock. “She told me her brother and cousin had come along with a few others and shot at them. The police have picked up her family members to ask about the two,” he said. In a video captured in a CCTV close to the spot, the accused can be seen running. ‘Tea with couple’ Police sources said the accused didn’t shoot at the couple right after entering the house but first spoke to the woman and also had tea with the couple. Police teams are now looking for the woman’s brother and cousin and conducting raids at their suspected hideouts in Haryana.  They [couple] both belonged to the same clan and lived in the same village. How could they get married? We have to live in the society and their marriage is an insult to us Om Prakash Vinay Dahiya’s father||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/honour-killing-case-brother-and-cousin-involved-alleges-woman/article34982500.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shoe factory blaze: forensic team collects samples; six workers still missing||Four days after a massive fire broke out at a shoe factory in west Delhi’s Udyog Vihar, a forensic team on Friday collected charred human remains from the two-storey building. Meanwhile, six of the workers present at the godown during the incident are still missing. The officers added that they are conducting raids to nab the godown’s owner, Pankaj Garg, who has been on the run since the day of the incident. The police said the search operation will continue till all areas of the building have been scanned. The fire broke out in the building, where shoes were assembled and packed for sale, on Monday and 35 fire tenders and around 140 firefighters were pressed into service to douse the blaze. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said, “One set of human remains has been collected from the second-floor of the building by Forensic Science Laboratory experts. No identification has been possible. The remains have been sent to a mortuary for preliminary autopsy, pending further investigation.” Director of Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini, Deepa Verma, said: “Two forensic teams have been deployed at this site for finding and collecting biological evidence.” “From a forensic point of view, individual identification is a very challenging task in the case of a fire, especially when the body is highly decomposed or dismembered to deliberately conceal the identity of the individual. In such cases, various techniques of forensic biology are employed to identify individuals through bones or body parts. “In the current scenario, our forensic experts are involved in searching the body/skeletal remains at this scene of the fire,” she said. Crime scene examination in-charge (FSL), Sanjeev Gupta, said: “The burned material at the scene, including biological tissue, often ends up looking similar. Bones become discoloured, brittle, and highly fragmented. As a consequence, these remains are often disturbed, altered, or even destroyed during scene processing with the existing protocols.” DFS Director Atul Garg said, “Although it is dangerous to enter the building because of the heat. Some of its portions have already collapsed. Our priority is to search for the remains.” The SDMof Punjabi Bagh held a meeting on Thursday to discuss a further course of action to search for the missing workers, officials said. The SDM sought suggestions from the departments concerned, especially the NDRF, the DFS, the municipal corporation and the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation and police, regarding the extraction of the bodies, they said. During the meeting, the civic authorities said the building may collapse at any time as cracks have appeared in its beams. They suggested that a step-wise demolition be carried out, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shoe-factory-blaze-forensic-team-collects-samples-six-workers-still-missing/article34982503.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||CCTV technician held for blackmailing couple||The police arrested a CCTV technician from Bangalore for allegedly blackmailing a couple, an officer said on Friday. The accused — Rashid, is a CCTV technician, who worked with a company in Delhi — the police said. A few months ago, the company got a complaint of CCTV malfunction from one of their clients in south Delhi and they assigned Rashid to resolve the issue. “Rashid visited the couple’s house and while repairing the camera, he fraudulently took the access of their CCTVs on his mobile phone. After this, he left the house,” said the officer. Later, during the lockdown, he left the job and joined a new company in Banglore. ‘Accused seek Rs. 3 lakh’ “A few weeks back, the couple received their intimate video on their mobile phone. The sender demanded Rs. 3 lakh. He threatened to upload their videos on social media. Initially, the couple agreed to pay the amount but he started asking for more money,” said the officer. The couple filed a police complaint with Cyber Cell. The complainant said they had installed the CCTVs in their house, including the bedroom, to keep watch on their maid as their daughter stays alone with her when they go to work. Further probe is on to see if the accused blackmailed other people in a similar manner, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cctv-technician-held-for-blackmailing-couple/article34982501.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Israel Embassy blast: four students sent to 10-day police remand||The four students — arrested from Ladakh in connection with the blast near the Israel embassy in January this year — were produced before a Magistrate court, which sent them on 10 days police remand, officials said on Friday. The students were arrested from Kargil and brought to Delhi on transit remand, they said. The police said the four students — Nazir Hussain (26), Zulfikar Ali Wazir (25), Aiaz Hussain (28) and Muzammil Hussain (25) — are all from Thang village in Ladakh’s Kargil district. “They were presented before a Magistrate court on Thursday that sent them to police remand for 10 days,” a senior police officer said. They had come to Delhi in November last year and were preparing for competitive examinations, he said. All four of them were in Delhi on the day of incident and their phones were found to be switched off, an officer said, adding that five mobile phones have been recovered from them. The students were active in social media and used to comment on posts related to Israel, India and Palestine. They left the city just before the lockdown was announced, the police said. The police are likely to conduct searches at their locations of stay, including Mukherjee Nagar — they had been staying for a brief period. Further probe is under way, they said. A minor IED blast had taken place outside the Embassy of Israel in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi on January 29. There were no casualties. Some cars were damaged in the explosion that occurred about 150 metres away from the embassy on the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road. In a joint operation with a central intelligence agency and the Kargil police, the Special Cell of the Delhi Police detained the four persons from Kargil in connection with the conspiracy to plan and execute terror activities in the national capital, a statement quoting Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said. “They have been brought to Delhi for questioning,” he said. The Delhi Police Special Cell had registered a case of “conspiracy” behind the blast. The Ministry of Home Affairs had handed over the probe of the blast to the NIA on February 2. Recently, the NIA announced a reward of Rs. 10 lakh each for the identification of two people captured on CCTV camera.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/israel-embassy-blast-four-students-sent-to-10-day-police-remand/article34982502.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Students can now request confidential results: DU||The Delhi University on Friday announced that students will be able to request for “confidential results” before the results are officially declared to meet the deadline for applications to higher studies or jobs. Colleges will have to scrutinise the applications and send it to DU’s examination branch by July 6, said senior officials. DU Dean of Examinations D.S. Rawat, said: “Confidential results are the results which students often seek before the results are officially declared as they want to apply for higher studies or while seeking jobs. Last year the examination branch issued around 650 such confident results but the process usually becomes chaos. So this year we thought of streamlining the procedure.” In the notification issued, the university said, “...students are advised to send their request to the concerned department or college. Examination branch will try its level best to expedite the evaluation of those students’ scripts that requires confident result for the purpose of admission to higher studies or joining a job.” Mr. Rawat further explained: “The examination branch ends up getting hundreds of requests but incomplete applications and many times genuine applications get lost in the process. So I spoke to college principals as well. It is easier to screen out at the college level as the number of applications will be lesser. So by July 3 colleges will have to scrutinize the applications and by July 6 they have to send the same to the examination branch.” The notification further read, “Students are advised to talk only to the nodal officers of the respective colleges regarding confidential results or result-related queries. Merely applying for the confidential result will not guarantee the issuance of the confidential result.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/students-can-now-request-confidential-results-du/article34982507.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. announces contest for online window for public services||The Delhi government has announced a contest for suggesting the name of its new online single window portal for public services. The winner will be awarded a cash prize of Rs. 1,50,000 while 21 shortlisted entries will be awarded Rs. 10,000 each. The portal — https://edistrict.delhigov.nic.in — will have 400 services of all departments available online.The candidates can submit their entries to the portal —https://delhi.gov.in/newname. The last date for submission of entries is July 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-announces-contest-for-online-window-for-public-services/article34982496.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC slams AAP govt. on decision to limit non-PDS beneficiaries||Observing that providing ration is the obligation of the State and it cannot deny food to the hungry, the Delhi High Court Friday slammed the AAP government for putting a limit of 20 lakh beneficiaries for providing them dry ration under its non-PDS guidelines. “These are not issues on which you keep debating policy and say that file is under consideration. This is your obligation under the National Food Security Act." the high court said adding that the Delhi government has “randomly and arbitrarily” reduced the quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-slams-aap-govt-on-decision-to-limit-non-pds-beneficiaries/article34982497.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Civil work on Pink Line’s missing link completed’||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Friday said after repeated delays due to the pandemic, civil construction was completed in April on the missing Trilokpuri section of the Pink Line. The officials said the track laying work is expected to be completed by June end and preliminary trials expected to begin after that. To expedite work on the Trilokpuri section, steel girders were used instead of the conventional concrete ones, they explained. “A total of 40 steel girders have been placed on 10 spans for the 290-metre-long section. These steel girders have been fabricated and brought from a workshop in Ambala in Haryana. This has not only saved time but also there was no need to create a separate casting yard for the concrete casting of the girders,” said DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal. Civil construction on the stretch began in early 2020 and was affected by the pandemic leading to missed deadlines. “Work was repeatedly hampered by the pandemic induced lockdowns and issues such as non-availability of workforce. Now, track laying and other ancillary works have commenced on this stretch between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake following completion of civil work. In addition, overhead electrification work is also under progress,” Mr. Dayal said. Senior officials said the section will be made operational immediately after receiving mandatory clearances from authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civil-work-on-pink-lines-missing-link-completed/article34982504.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||SKM submits memorandum to President, urges him to direct Centre to repeal farm law||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him to direct the Centre to immediately repeal the three “anti-farmer laws”. Through its memorandum, the SKM said, it conveyed “anguish and deep anger” of crores of farming families to the president. Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the withdrawal of these three laws and that a new law be made to guarantee MSP for their crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/skm-submits-memorandum-to-president-urges-him-to-direct-centre-to-repeal-farm-law/article34982498.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shinjini- brief||The DDA on Friday said borewells lying dormant in 80 parks will be revived and used for water harvesting under the “Jal Shakti Abhiyan” campaign. “As part of these efforts to boost water table level and improve environment, it has been planned to revive borewells lying dormant in 80 parks to use them for water harvesting. Under the campaign, catchment areas have been identified and provision will be made to divert rainwater underground,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shinjini-brief/article34982505.ece
26 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||FIR against web portal in U.P.||An FIR was lodged against news portal The Wire in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly spreading false information that religious scriptures of a particular community were thrown into a river and drain following the demolition of a mosque by the administration in Barabanki. The FIR was lodged for a documentary titled ‘How a Mosque in U.P.’s Barabanki was Demolished’, which showed members of the committee of the demolished mosque terming the administrative act illegal and claiming that they had documents to prove the structure was legal. In May, the Barabanki administration, after carrying out the demolition, said an “illegal residential complex” was found situated opposite to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s residence in the Ramsanehi Ghat tehsil compounds. The Allahabad High Court recently issued notices to the administration on the demolition after petitions were filed before it terming the administrative act illegal and arbitrary. Adarsh Singh, District Magistrate, Barabanki, said the FIR against The Wire was lodged for allegedly spreading misleading and false information, trying to spread religious animosity and frenzy and spoiling communal harmony. Mohammad Anees; Mohammad Naeem; Seraj Ali, journalist of The Wire , who reported the documentary; Mukul S. Chauhan and The Wire were named in the FIR.  The Wire editor Siddharth Varadarajan said this was the fourth FIR filed by the U.P. police in the past 14 months against the portal and/or its journalists and “each of these cases is baseless”. The Yogi Adityanath government did not believe in media freedom and was criminalising the work of journalists who were reporting what was happening in the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fir-against-web-portal-in-up/article34982533.ece
26 June 2021||Mumbai,||SC verdict on OBC quota: Congress to protest today||As the row over the Supreme Court’s decision to scrap reservation for OBCs (Other Backward Class) in Maharashtra’s local civic bodies escalates, the Congress on Friday announced it would hold State-wide protests on Saturday against the Central government, claiming it had failed to provide empirical data on OBCs to present in the court. The Congress’s decision comes a day after the BJP announcement to hold similar protests across the State against the MVA government, of which the Congress is part. BJP leader Pankaja Munde on Thursday alleged that the State had failed to present the interests of OBCs in the Supreme Court, leading to the verdict against the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sc-verdict-on-obc-quota-congress-to-protest-today/article34982736.ece
26 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Police book 20,000 for protest in Navi Mumbai||The NRI Coastal police have booked around 20,000 people for unlawful assembly, not abiding by the orders, and taking out a protest march in Navi Mumbai on Thursday. The agitation over the naming of the Navi Mumbai airport saw participation of thousands of project affected people and members of political parties. While the stretch on Palm Beach Road from NRI Estate to Kill junction was blocked, the Sion-Panvel highway was closed from Uran Phata to Kharghar. The organisers also used a drone without permission to shoot the protest rally. Suresh Mengade, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, said they had sent notices and warning to leaders organising the protest. “We even enforced Section 144 of Cr.PC but the agitators did not abide by our orders. We will now send notices to all those who have been named in the FIR. Others would be identified by the video evidence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-book-20000-for-protest-in-navi-mumbai/article34982732.ece
26 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 death toll crosses 1.20 lakh||Maharashtra reported 10,138 recoveries as against a surge of 9,677 new COVID-19 cases on Friday as the State’s active case tally dipped to 1,20,715. A total of 511 deaths were added to the State’s progressive death toll of which 359 were part of the Health Department’s ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process. As many as 117 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and a further 39 were from the past week. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,20,370 with the State’s case fatality rate rising to 2%. The State’s total cases have reached 60,17,035 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 57,72,799 with the recovery rate standing at 95.94%. “Of a total 4,05,96,965 laboratory samples tested thus far, 60,17,035 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 14.82%) have returned positive with over 2.36 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported 1,139 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,49,568. As per the State Health Department figures, eight deaths were recorded as the toll touched 16,495. According to district authorities, the active cases rose above 9,000 while the fatality count has reached 17,693. Mumbai recorded 693 new cases to take its total tally to 7,18,962 while the active count stood at 14,182. Twenty fatalities took the city’s toll to 15,368. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra added more than 2,000 new cases — its highest in days — taking its total cases to 1,48,550 of whom 10,537 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-120-lakh/article34982733.ece
26 June 2021||Washington,||Ghani to meet Biden as U.S. exit looms||Afghan leader Ashraf Ghani faces the cold reality of the end of U.S. military presence in Afghanistan on Friday when he meets with President Joe Biden in the White House. Under increasing threat from an emboldened Taliban insurgency, Mr. Ghani will be hoping for a significant commitment of U.S. aid to his government, which will be without the on-the-ground support of U.S. forces for the first time in nearly two decades. But any hopes for a delay in America’s exit from its longest war are likely to be snuffed. Speaking in Paris on Friday, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the U.S. could no longer adhere to the same approach to Afghanistan of the past 20 years, despite the fresh Taliban gains on the ground. “The status quo was not an option,” he said. Mr. Biden has ordered the departure of all U.S. forces from Afghanistan by September 11, 2021, the 20th anniversary of the attacks that triggered the invasion. The final pullout, begun last year by then-president Donald Trump and confirmed by Mr. Biden in April, has moved fast. Some speculate the exit of some 2,500 U.S. troops and 16,000 civilian contractors could be mostly completed in July. “This visit is first about our ongoing commitment and support to the Afghan people and to the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces,” White House spokeswoman Karine Jean-Pierre said Thursday. “The President will emphasise the need for unity, cohesion, and for the Afghan government to focus on key challenges Afghanistan faces.” But the White House will also pressure the Afghan leader to strike a deal with the Taliban. “We believe that a negotiated political settlement is the best way to end the conflict,” Ms. Jean-Pierre told journalists. Possibly underscoring how uncomfortable the situation is for both sides, no press conference was planned. Taliban gains Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, who is in charge of stalled negotiations with the Taliban on a power-sharing deal, arrived in Washington on Thursday. The looming U.S. exit has left the country in a deep state of uncertainty, with many worried about the return to power of extremists who applied a brutal version of Islam to the population when they ruled from 1996-2001. The Wall Street Journal reported that a new U.S. intelligence report assesses that the Taliban could possibly capture Kabul within six months — though other experts downplay that scenario, at least in the short-term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ghani-to-meet-biden-as-us-exit-looms/article34981959.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Tibet gets first bullet train, links Lhasa to India border||China on Friday started operating the first bullet train line in Tibet, linking Lhasa to Nyingchi near the border with Arunachal Pradesh. The China State Railway Group said the 435-km line, on which construction began in 2014, has a designed speed of 160 km per hour and would connect the capital city of the Tibet Autonomous Region to the border city of Nyingchi with a travel time of three and a half hours. Over 90% of the track is 3,000 metres above sea-level, state media quoted the railway group as saying, and the line is the first electrified high speed rail (HSR) line, as China refers to bullet trains, in Tibet. China has the world’s longest HSR network. The Lhasa-Nyingchi rail is one among several major infrastructure projects recently completed in Tibet’s southern and southeastern counties near the Arunachal border. Last month, China completed construction of a strategically significant highway through the Grand Canyon of the Yarlung Zangbo river, as the Brahmaputra is called in Tibet. This is the “second significant passageway” to Medog county that borders Arunachal, the official Xinhua news agency reported, directly connecting the Pad township in Nyingchi to Baibung in Medog county. The Lhasa-Nyingchi rail is one section of the Sichuan-Tibet railway line connecting the two provincial capitals, another strategic project deemed important enough for President Xi Jinping to officially launch it and described by the Chinese leader as “a major step in safeguarding national unity and a significant move in promoting economic and social development of the western region”. This will be the second railway line connecting Tibet to the hinterland, following the already open Qinghai-Tibet rail. The first section of the new line, from Chengdu, the provincial capital of Sichuan, to Yaan, was finished in December 2018, while work on the 1,011 km Yaan-Nyingchi line will compete the entire railway line by 2030. Zhu Weiqun, a senior Party official formerly in charge of Tibet policy, was quoted as saying by state media the railway will help “transport advanced equipment and technologies from the rest of China to Tibet and bring local products out”. “If a scenario of a crisis happens at the border,” he said, “the railway can act as a ‘fast track’ for the delivery of strategic materials”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tibet-gets-first-bullet-train-links-lhasa-to-india-border/article34981957.ece
26 June 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka’s ‘Metoo’ moment sparks reflection on newsrooms||A flurry of sexual harassment allegations from Sri Lankan journalists this week has brought the country’s media industry in sharp focus, with many, especially women, calling for urgent reform of newsrooms. Identifying with the global #Metoo campaign, women journalists took to Twitter and recalled incidents in their newsrooms, where they said male colleagues sexually harassed them, including with rape threats. While similar allegations surfaced on social media in 2019 in Sri Lanka, the recent accounts included some specific details of the men accused of harassment, although the women stopped short of naming them. In a Twitter thread on June 18, journalist Aisha Nazim compiled distressing accounts shared by many women, of facing sexual harassment from male colleagues and bosses, in various Sri Lankan media outlets. Currently on a study break abroad, Ms. Nazim said her Twitter action was driven by the desire to put out the stories in public. “Especially since many of these perpetrators are still out there, in prominent positions, and can often be seen bullying young women online,” she told The Hindu . A section of Sri Lankan media reported on the development, when a Cabinet spokesman, responding to a question at the weekly press briefing, said the government would investigate the allegations made, that also included state-run media. Colombo-based portal Roar.lk ran an editorial calling for a “top-down change” of culture within Sri Lanka’s media industry. “If there was ever a time for industry-wide introspection and dismantling of informal structures that allow abuse of power within newsrooms, it is now,” it said, calling for formal structures and mechanisms, for all involved parties “to be heard, afforded fair inquiry, and adequate redressal.” Mandana Ismail Abeywickrema, editor of The Sunday Morning weekend newspaper, said change must begin within newsrooms. “We have told our staff that the paper takes the issue very seriously, and that they should feel free to raise any concern without fear. We also hope to have regular discussions with our teams on what in their view constitutes sexual harassment, and what action they think would be appropriate, so that we can collectively come up with an organisational policy,” she said. Stern response A strong anti-sexual harassment policy is one of the outcomes those like Ms. Nazim, who flagged the issue, are also hoping for. “It is very important that media houses put policies and systems in place, so that such incidents do not occur in future. We are talking to colleagues in other parts of the world,including India, and looking at laws and policies there, while we evolve our own in Sri Lanka,” she said. At present, Sri Lanka has only a criminal law to address sexual harassment. A person found guilty may be imprisoned for up to five years, or fined, or both, and may have to pay compensation. However, the criminal law is rarely used, according to Ermiza Tegal, lawyer with a practice in human rights and addressing gender-based violence. “Accessing justice, particularly on gender-based violence, is a harrowing experience for victims,” she told The Hindu , citing examples of complaints not being recorded, victims being ridiculed, intimidated, and threatened, a failure to initiate legal proceedings, lengthy court cases, continued exposure to the alleged perpetrator and possible reprisal because of prolonged court cases, and procedures such as in-person identification parades. Further, the demands on finances and time, not only of the victim but also of her support system, if she has one, also dissuades survivors from seeking justice. “I think we need to remind ourselves that criminal laws are not the only laws that we need,” Ms. Tegal said, pointing to other laws, policies and services required in providing support and protection to the aggrieved. Meanwhile, responses to past grievances that have come to light must be guided by what the women who shared their accounts want, in Ms. Tegal’s view. “Asking for their consent and giving them control over their own narrative is important. Public disclosure about a grievance can be for many reasons. In these cases, it is often also to break the silence about pain that has been privately endured for many years,” she said, adding some survivors experience “relief and release”, by asserting that they were wronged. “If they want legal acknowledgement of violence or harassment, this must be supported, but given the legal system, the personal costs to survivors are often high. Which is also why in the past perpetrators have preferred the narrow path of legal victories and defeats,” the lawyer noted. Ultimately, addressing a “pervasive, systemic and institutionalised” problem such as sexual harassment requires a focus on social change, acknowledgement from leaders, institutions, and professional bodies that a real problem exists, she said, so that practical and sensitive mechanisms for redress and support for victims are put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankas-metoo-moment-sparks-reflection-on-newsrooms/article34981956.ece
26 June 2021||Washington,||Infrastructure deal reached but key Republicans are not on board||U.S. President Joe Biden’s infrastructure plan appeared to be closer to fruition as a bipartisan group of Senators, on Thursday, reached an agreement that would cost $1.2 trillion over eight years, including more than half a trillion dollars in transport and infrastructure spending. Mr. Biden has asked the U.S. Congress for about $4 trillion in infrastructure and social spending in the American Jobs Plan and American Families Plan. Thursday’s agreement, which covers only a fraction of the $4 trillion, is tied to — according to Mr. Biden and several Democrats — budget resolutions being passed to cover the social spending priorities. This could put the Bill in jeopardy as key Republicans have expressed opposition to the linking. “We have a deal,” Mr. Biden said, as he stood with a bipartisan group of 10 Senators behind him. The Bill will invest a total of $579 billion in infrastructure — including some $312 billion in transport. This will include roads, bridges, public transit, railways, ports, waterways and airports. It will also include $15 billion for electric buses and transit and electric vehicle (EV) infrastructure to meet Mr. Biden’s goal of 5,00,000 EV chargers across the country. The remaining approximately $266 billion will be spent on water infrastructure, broadband, resilience and environmental remediation. The financing of this infrastructure had become a bone of contention — with Mr. Biden wanting to stick to a campaign promise of not raising taxes for anyone making less than $ 4,00,000 per year. Republicans plan to index a tax on petrol to inflation, something several Democrats opposed. Tax on petrol Increasing the tax on petrol would result in a higher tax for those earning less than $4,00,000 per year and was therefore not an option, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said on Monday. Democrats have been split broadly along moderate and progressive lines around the infrastructure Bill. In the evenly split Senate, Democrats intend to use a process called budget reconciliation to fund these priorities . Resolutions passed via the reconciliation route require only 51 of 100 Senators to pass and can therefore make it through the Senate without Republican support. Mr. Biden said that while the Democratic party was “divided”, it was “rational” and that the party would not vote against a “good” Bill. However, he said that the budget (reconciliation) resolutions would also have to be passed for him to sign the infrastructure Bill into law. “So, what I expect – I expect that in the coming months this summer, before the fiscal year is over [September 30] , that we will have voted on this Bill, the infrastructure Bill, as well as voted on the budget resolution,” Mr. Biden said.“But if only one comes to me — if this is the only thing that comes to me, I’m not signing it. It’s in tandem,” he said. Republican Senator Lindsay Graham said Mr. Biden’s threat of vetoing the Bill unless the budget measures were passed would be a “deal breaker “ for him. “Less than two hours after publicly commending our colleagues and actually endorsing the bipartisan agreement, the President took the extraordinary step of threatening to veto it,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said in the Senate.“It was a tale of two press conferences,” he said. “It almost makes your head spin,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/infrastructure-deal-reached-but-key-republicans-are-not-on-board/article34981964.ece
26 June 2021||Washington,||About 650 U.S. troops will remain in Afghanistan||Roughly 650 U.S. troops are expected to remain in Afghanistan to provide security for diplomats after the main American military force completes its withdrawal, which is set to be largely done in the next two weeks, U.S. officials told the Associated Press. Several hundred additional U.S. forces will remain at Kabul airport, potentially until September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/about-650-us-troops-will-remain-in-afghanistan/article34981962.ece
26 June 2021||Surfside,||Four dead in U.S. building collapse, 159 still missing||Four people are now known to have died in the collapse of an oceanfront building near Miami Beach, officials said on Friday, while the number of those unaccounted for has risen to 159 — fuelling fears of a much higher death toll. An unknown number of residents are feared to have been asleep in the 12-storey condominium in the town of Surfside, when one of its wings was reduced early on Thursday to a pile of debris. “We do have 120 people now accounted for, which is very, very good news. But our unaccounted for number has gone up to 159,” Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava told a news conference. “In addition, we can tragically report the death count is now four,” she said. Rescue teams with sniffer dogs again worked through the night despite heavy rain — clinging to the diminishing chance of finding additional survivors. President Joe Biden declared an emergency early on Friday in response to the disaster, ordering federal assistance for the relief effort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/four-dead-in-us-building-collapse-159-still-missing/article34981960.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||When Greyhounds struck in a fading red zone||On June 16, rain-bearing clouds loomed over Koyyuru mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency, about 170 km from Visakhapatnam city. The monsoon had set in. The entire mandal is thickly forested, with hillocks, deep caverns and perennial streams. Soon, there was a steady drizzle. A team of around 30 Maoists, including some senior leaders, from the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) were camping on a hillock about 800 m high in the middle of this jungle near a village called Theegalametta. At around 9 a.m., while one group of Maoists, sheltered under plastic tarpaulins, was busy cooking a meal, the others were reportedly gearing up for an important meeting. There are two versions of what happened a few minutes later. According to a letter from the Maoists, the unsuspecting group suddenly came under heavy fire from the elite anti-Maoist force of Andhra Pradesh, the Greyhounds. Surprised by the fire power and stealth attack, the Maoists took time to respond. The exchange of fire reportedly lasted for about 25 minutes and left six Maoists — three women and three top leaders — dead. According to the official version, the Greyhounds asked the group to surrender but was forced to retaliate when the Maoists opened fire. A serious setback Visakhapatnam Agency, located in Viskhapatnam district, is around 6,200 sq km and has 11 mandals. Koyyuru is one among them. The district administration and the police have declared all the 11 mandals as “Maoist-affected”. Among the dead were two Divisional Committee Members (DCM) and one Area Committee Member (ACM). The six were identified as Ranadev alias Arjun (DCM), Sande Gangiah alias ‘Dr’ Ashok (DCM), Santu Nachike (ACM), Lalitha, Madakm Chaite, and Paike. Ranadev and Nachike were from Odisha; Ashok was from Pedapalli in Telangana; Lalitha was from GK Veedhi, another Maoist-affected mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency; and Chaite and Paike were from Chhattisgarh. Ranadev was among the few committed Maoist leaders left in the region. He had been part of the movement for about 20 years and was known to be an elusive and fierce fighter. He had earlier led the Kalimela Dalam. (Dalams are Maoist groups which operate in particular areas.) Not too long ago, he was moved to Boipariguda in Koraput, Odisha, after the merger of the Kalimela and Koraput Area Committees. The killing of Sande Gangaiah alias ‘Dr’ Ashok is a serious setback to the group as he was leading the medical team in the region. Ashok was not a qualified doctor; he had learnt the rudiments of nursing from local Registered Medical Practitioners. It is said that he could even perform minor surgeries, including treating bullet wounds. He hailed from a family of committed Maoists. His older brother, Sande Rajamouli, was the mastermind behind the mine blast in Alipiri in 2003 in which former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu was injured. Rajamouli was killed in 2007 by the police. The security forces also recovered one AK-47 rifle, two carbines, two modified .303 Lee Enfield rifles, one country-made weapon, at least one single-barrel muzzle-loading gun, some ammunition, explosive materials, extremist literature, VHF sets, medicines and kit bags from the spot. Sources say that some senior leaders such as Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, Secretary of the CPI (Maoist) Andhra-Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee; Aruna, the next in command; and Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan, who is in-charge of the Galikonda area were present at the campsite, too. The attack A senior police officer as well as tribals in the nearby villages say that the police had been aware of the Maoists’ presence as barely 20 days ago, there had been an exchange of fire at another place in Koyyuru. This attack was made possible by specific intelligence inputs, sources say. During the monsoon, for at least two months, many villages in the interior parts of the district remain cut off from the mandal headquarters. Traversing the area, which has slippery red soil, and streams and rivulets in spate, is fraught with danger. Given the difficulty in negotiating the terrain, both the Maoists and the security forces normally let their guard down during this time. While the Maoists refrain from their tactical counter offensive campaign (when they carry out maximum attacks against security forces), the security forces scale down their combing and area domination operations. According to sources in the police, the Greyhounds trekked overnight for at least 15 to 18 km in pitch darkness and swam the last lap to reach the vantage point early in the morning. But the most difficult part was climbing the hill without getting noticed. Sources in the police say that initially, the security forces had asked the Maoists to surrender, but the Maoists opened fire and the Greyhounds team retaliated. There was no question of surrender, say the police, as all the senior Maoist leaders were reportedly present at the spot. Their surrender or death would have meant an end to the movement in the Andhra-Odisha Border region. “That is why they fired at us and escaped under cover fire. But six lost their lives,” says a senior officer engaged in anti-Maoist operations in the region. This attack was similar to the Ramaguda attack that took place in the cut-off region of the Andhra-Odisha Border, in October 2016. In that attack, over 30 Maoists, including some top leaders, were killed in a single operation. That operation too was led by the Greyhounds. Inhospitable terrain The Greyhounds was raised in 1989 by IPS officer K.S. Vyas as an elite anti-Maoist force. Seeing its successful operations, many States facing the Maoist problem have raised their own forces. Training for the Greyhounds is gruelling. Members of the force cannot be over 35 years. Once they cross 35, they are drafted into the civil police until retirement. “Being young gives us an edge in terms of agility, strength and stamina,” says a Greyhounds officer. During combat operations, each party of the Greyhounds has about 30 men who are trained to trek long distances. They can stay in the jungle at a stretch for over five to six days. At times, they live only on dry fruits, as lighting a fire to cook a quick meal can attract enemy fire or help the enemy detect their location. The members communicate with the base using satellite phones or VHF sets and use scramblers to avoid being intercepted by the Maoists. The Maoists have the expertise to intercept radio communication. The region is not kind to anyone, whether the Maoists or the Greyhounds. The forces and the rebels are prone to malaria fever. In recent times, COVID-19 has made its way into these remote areas too. Senior leaders such as Gajarla Ravi alias Uday and Central Committee member Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna alias RK, who is in-charge of the Andhra-Odisha Border, are down with severe diabetes, eyesight issues and arthritis. “Lack of sleep and good food has weakened us,” says a senior Maoist leader, who surrendered recently. Nachike, who was killed on June 16, had been diagnosed with COVID-19 and ‘Dr’ Ashok had recently recovered from the virus. The Maoists use old, stolen police weapons including AK 47s, 9 mm carbines, Lee Enfield .303 rifles, SLRs and country-made weapons or double- or single-barrel shotguns. The Greyhounds naturally have superior arsenal including SLRs, MP-5 carbines, AK-47s with under-barrel grenade launchers, 5.56 mm Insas, 9 mm pistols and Tavor rifles. While the Greyhounds have had many successes against the Maoists, they suffered a major setback in 2008 when 37 of their men were ambushed by the Maoists when they were crossing the Balimela reservoir in a boat. The birth of a movement In undivided Andhra Pradesh, the seed of the armed struggle was sown by the Telangana Rebellion of 1946. The peasant movement was led by communist leaders such as Ravi Narayana Reddy, Puchalapalli Sundarayya and Sulaiman Areeb. They rebelled against the feudal lords of the Telangana region in the princely State of Hyderabad. The armed struggle ended in 1951, when the last of the guerilla squads was subdued by police force. Though the Srikakulam movement, which began in 1967, was squashed, it inspired leaders such as Kondapalli Seetharamaiah and K.G. Satyamurthi in the early part of 1980s. The movement grew in parts of what is now called Telangana, in districts such as Warangal, Khammam, Adilabad and Karimnagar. It was during Kondapalli’s leadership that the current crop of Maoist leaders such as former General Secretary of the CPI (Maoist), Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathi, and the present General Secretary, Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavraj, joined the movement. The movement grew due to oppression by feudal landlords and attempts by zamindars to take over lands from tribals. It attracted young and educated leaders such as Lakshmana Rao, a science teacher, and Keshava Rao and Cherukuri Rajkumar alias Azad, both B. Tech graduates from Regional Engineering College, Warangal (now known as the National Institute of Technology). Azad also completed his M. Tech from Andhra University. He was shot dead by the Andhra Pradesh police in 2010. When the Greyhounds was formed and the police began to make inroads into Maoist strongholds, the rebels were forced to seek a safe haven. “That was when Kondapalli asked leaders such as Lakshmana Rao and Nambala to find safer areas in the Dandakarnya forest and the forests of the Eastern Ghats, which included the districts of East Godavari and Visakhapatnam,” says a former Maoist who rose to the post of State Committee member. Nambala Keshava Rao, the present General Secretary of the party, along with Bopanna, Ganti Prasad and Ganti Mohan entered Visakhapatnam district via the Chinturu and Rampa areas of East Godavari. For Nambala, getting a hold in the region comprising the districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam was easy as he is from Srikakulam. This group led the movement under the People’s War Group banner. The group continued with its struggle until the CPI (Maoist) was founded by the then General Secretary, Ganapathi, with the merger of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), People’s War Group, and the Maoist Communist Centre of India in September 2004. The initial base for the CPI (Maoist) was on the East Godavari and Visakhapatnam border that touched Koyyuru mandal. That is why the Maoists named the division, their first in this region, as East Division. It comprises Addateegala, Chinturu and Rampa in East Godavari, Koyyuru in Visakhapatnam (also called Galikonda area), Parvathipuram in Vizianagaram and some tribal tracts of Srikakulam. Koyyuru became a fertile ground for the Maoists as the area was backward. “Most of the villages were inhabited by the Kondhu tribals, a particularly vulnerable tribal group, who had migrated earlier from Odisha after the dams built across the Balimela reservoir had displaced them,” says Venkata Rao, DSP, Special Branch (Extremist), Visakhapatnam District Police. “Since most of the villages in the interior parts were inhabited by particularly vulnerable tribal groups, it was easy for the Maoist leaders, who were educated, well-informed and steeped in ideology, to mould them,” says a former Additional Superintendent of Police who served in anti-Maoist operations for over three decades. “Moreover, oppression by the police, forest and revenue department officials paved the way for gaining popular and mass support.” “Back then, the major issues in Visakhpatnam Agency were getting a good price for forest produce such as honey, rajma, bamboo pulp, neem and adda leaves. Coffee and pepper came later,” says Professor P.D. Satyapal from the Anthropology department of Andhra University. The Maoist even set the price for the forest produce to ensure that the tribals were not exploited by contractors and middlemen. With Koyyuru in their control, the Maoists expanded their base slowly to Chintapalli and GK Veedhi, known as Korukonda area. Once in control, they established the Galikonda Area Committee and Korukonda Area Committee, which are still functional. The earlier dalams such as Nagulakonda and Thandava were merged with them. From Korukonda area, they moved to Pedabayalu and Munchingput on the Andhra side and Malkangiri, Koraput and Chitrakonda on the Odisha side. The Pedabayalu and Kalimela Area Committees were formed on the Andhra-Odisha Border region that encompassed the cut-off area. From the first offence in 1981, in which a landlord was killed in Choudidibbalu in Galikonda area, the Maoists have committed over 500 offences, including arson, killing, and planning and executing landmine blasts. In 1993, they kidnapped MLA P. Balaraju and IAS officer Dasari Srinivasulu, and in 2011, they kidnapped IAS officer Vineel Krishna. Earlier, in 1987, they abducted 11 officers, including seven IAS officers, from Gurtedu village. All these officers were returned in exchange for the release of jailed Maoists and jailed tribals, compensation to the families of Maoist sympathisers killed in police custody, cancellation of projects in the area, among other things. From the early 1980s till date, there have been at least 100 “encounters” in which at least 60 policemen and over 100 Maoists have been killed. An unusual gathering Given this history and the state’s constant chase of the Maoists, why were all the Maoist leaders present at one spot in Theegalametta? One plausible explanation, according to the official version, is that the Maoists were trying to find a safe haven after the security forces on both sides of the Andhra-Odisha border stepped up the offensive over the last few years. On the Andhra side, four armed outposts under the CRPF have come up at Rallagedda in Chintapalli mandal, Rudakota in Pedabayalu mandal, Pedavalasa in GK Veedhi, and Nurmathi in G Madugula. In Odisha, about 25 company operating bases (COBs) of the Border Security Force and about 10 Indian Reserve Battalion (IRBn) bases have come up. Odisha has been successful in creating about six COBs in the cut-off region, a Maoist hotbed, in Badapadar, Jambai, Jantapayi, Vantalguda, Badapada and Gurasethu, and one IRBN base at Jodombo. The other reason may have had to do with motivating the tribals to join the movement. Recruitment has practically dried up now due to factors such as lack of tribal leadership and development activities taken up by the police, say police sources and former Maoists. Except for Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan, there is no tribal leader of standing in this region, says Officer on Special Duty Sateesh Kumar, who coordinated the operation. “The police have taken up a number of programmes. They have provided clean drinking water by sinking borewells, connected villages with roads, launched schemes to train the tribals in various skills, and coached them to join the police force and Central Armed Police Force. The tribals now want roads and cellphone towers, which the Maoists have been objecting to. This has distanced the tribals from left-wing extremism,” says B. Krishna Rao, Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam. The police say that with the security forces stepping up the offensive, the Maoists are on the back foot and are finding it difficult to keep the movement going. From a strength of around 500 cadres in mid-2000, the group has shrunk to a mere 30 now. The recent killings are a big setback to the Maoist movement, which, today, is at its lowest ebb in the Agency and in the Andhra-Odisha Border region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/when-greyhounds-struck-in-a-fading-red-zone/article34981954.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Prepare the ground for a ‘Naya J&K’||It is too early to conclude whether the all-party meeting held at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence to reduce the trust deficit between New Delhi and the leaders of Jammu and Kashmir will succeed in building the foundations of a ‘Naya Jammu and Kashmir’. That the meeting was held, remarkably without rancor, does signal a new beginning after the momentous events of August 2019, which included the dilution of Article 370 and the preventive detention of many of the leaders who attended the all-party meeting . There are also signals that a new minimal consensus could be forged between the mainstream of political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir and the central leadership that could lead to an early return of democratic governance and full Statehood. In its long and chequered history, there have been several and previous occasions during which federal relations have been rebooted and reset and this would not be the first time that a new, forward-looking political compact is executed. Centre’s policies, the world It is tempting, especially for out-of-work diplomats, to over-analyse New Delhi’s latest moves within a chessboard of a ‘great game’ being played out, reminiscent of 19th century British strategies in the region. Anyone who has studied New Delhi policies since the troubles of the 1990s will recognise that the Centre’s policies on Jammu and Kashmir rarely shift under international pressure, even while tactical gestures may be made to assuage the sentiments of what the establishment often describes as woolly-headed liberals. In the hostile atmosphere of the early 1990s, when India was confronted with a full-blown insurgency in the Kashmir Valley and India’s staunchest ally, the Soviet Union had collapsed, the United States Assistant Secretary of State for South Asia (and Central Asia), Robin L. Raphel (with direct access to U.S. President Bill Clinton) questioned Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India. Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s fragile coalition, within an economically precarious India, refused to concede ground in any substantial measure. Surely, it is surreal to believe that the Modi government would do so under pressure from the Joe Biden administration or gratuitous advice from its Acting Assistant Secretary for South Asia, even while the photo opportunity presented by the all-party meeting would, of course, be flashed by the media czars of the Ministry of External Affairs across the globe. Similarly, while the dangers to Afghanistan from the gradual takeover by the Taliban are real and present, it is difficult to find any evidence that the once-messianic students rooted in the madrassas of the Frontier will now turn their attention to Kashmir. Moreover, any backchannel that exists between India and Pakistan that led to a successful ceasefire on the Line of Control is reflective much more of Rawalpindi’s own internal fault lines and problems on multiple fronts, than any real concession toward India. To be sure, if Pakistan’s leadership wanted a face saver to stand down from its fierce reaction to the ‘Ides of August’, Mr. Modi has provided the very steps to down the ante. From a position of strength Counterintuitively, the Modi government seems to have acted unilaterally precisely because there is a window of opportunity where it can speak and act from a position of almost absolute strength. Even while there are stray incidents of violence, terrorism and militancy are at their lowest levels in recent years; there is little popular disquiet that is finding expression in the streets of the towns and the cities of Kashmir; and the separatists are either in jail or are surprisingly silent. The popular press, once a source of anxiety for the establishment, has either been arm-twisted into projecting good news or found it pragmatic to do so given the scrutiny of central law enforcement agencies on almost every private institution of importance and influence in the Union Territory. The mainstream of political parties, who had been derided by the Centre as the ‘Gupkar gang’ et al and detained for months, (who had taken an absolutist stand on the dilution of Article 370) seem to have found at least a modicum of accommodation with the Centre, at least good enough for all of them to respond positively to the Prime Minister’s invitation. In sum the employment of the entire spectrum of Kautilyan policies ( saam , daam , dand and bhed — persuade, purchase, punish, and exploit the weakness) have helped to create this new space; this is not to justify the Centre’s conduct, but merely find a convincing explanation for the remarkable degree of acquiescence to the Centre’s policies, admittedly within the convenient judicial cover provided by the Supreme Court of India having admitted but not heard the case on the legitimacy of the dilution of Article 370. As the Harvard trained legal ace, Muzaffar Beigh, apparently declared in the all-party meeting : any discussion on Article 370 could be tantamount to contempt of the Supreme Court given its sub judice status. In turn, the Centre also seems to have realised that there are limits to which Chaplinesque ‘little dictators’ from the bureaucracy, and their minions can deliver in terms of better public services or investment opportunities despite the laudable intentions of the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, Manoj Sinha. The state of delivery of public service has not improved significantly nor has promised investment from corporate groups translated into reality. The promise of Kashmir remains just that: the promise of Kashmir! Need for a local connect Moreover, the experience in Jammu and Kashmir has amplified the Sangh Parivar’s long-standing recognition that real leaders cannot be manufactured, but have to be connected organically to the grassroots and supported by a cadre of dedicated workers. The over-reliance on a new crop of shifty leaders, who were paraded into television studios or before visiting diplomats (and who zealously mouthed Bharat mata ki jai ) had the strong imprint of an intelligence operation, and was, in any case, counterproductive amongst even those already sympathetic to New Delhi’s narrative on Kashmir. The elections to the District Development Council demonstrated that the Bharatiya Janata Party, the National Conference, the Congress, Peoples Democratic Party, People’s Conference and the Apni Party — all of whom relied on the political leaders of the so-called Ancien Régime — still had a significant constituency amongst the voters of the State. Federal relations are dynamic even in countries with almost inviolable rights of the States, including the United States. For most of the 20th century, even much before India’s Independence, New Delhi’s policies towards this border region have moved between tight central control and a gentler federal grip that provided space for autonomous self-governance. When the British sold Kashmir to the Dogra ruler, Gulab Singh, they wanted to secure the frontiers, but not be responsible for governance. But the British Empire too realised, especially within the reign of Pratap Singh, that they could not firewall security from governance. Use the bedrock of the young Twenty-first century governance and empowerment requires a federal solution that is contemporary and built on best practices globally. The fresh consensus for a ‘Naya’ Jammu and Kashmir must capture the best practices of democratic governance globally, especially from a country such as Australia which I know best, and yet be reflective of the idea of India: a celebration of diversity in all its forms. The challenge before Jammu and Kashmir’s leaders, old and new, is to arrive at a compelling blueprint for good governance within a framework of healthy federal relations that will be rooted in a vision for peace, prosperity and real empowerment. The bedrock of such a vision must be the extraordinarily talented and gifted young people of the State, who have, despite the troubles, been able to carve out a niche for themselves across the world. Amitabh Mattoo is Professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, and Honorary Professor at the University of Melbourne||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/prepare-the-ground-for-a-naya-jk/article34981947.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Relevant advice for health care-givers, mothers-to-be||India’s demographic dividend is largely dependent on its high birth rate. The number of births in India is ~ 72,000 per day; taking into account the 10 month duration of gestation and pregnancy losses, the number of pregnant women on any single day will be much larger. Currently, the number of new cases of COVID-19 per day and the number of daily COVID-19 deaths in India are among the highest in the world. Maternity services in India, both public and private, already overburdened with large numbers even in pre-COVID-19 times, face a crisis situation with the conditions caused by the pandemic. A danger Recent reports from Kerala ( The Hindu , May 14, 2021) on pregnant mothers, have uncovered many serious medical problems faced by pregnant women who contract COVID-19 and their new-born — pre-eclampsia, pre-term labour maternal infections, increased caesarean section rates, fetal growth restriction due to placental insufficiency, still births, neonatal infections and respiratory distress. According to a recent publication in the Journal of the American Medical Association , maternal mortality is several-fold higher in COVID-19 positive pregnant mothers than in non-COVID-19 pregnant women. Many pregnant women need admission to the intensive care unit and prolonged hospitalisation. Of all the COVID-19 deaths in the paediatric age-group, neonatal deaths are the most common. All maternal and neonatal complications increase with maternal obesity and diabetes in pregnancy — problems that are common in pregnant women in India. These facts underscore the need for urgent action to minimise the impact of the coronavirus infection on pregnant mothers and new-born. There is an urgent need for action from professional bodies to avert a serious calamity; the Government, in consultation with these bodies, should immediately facilitate counselling and care for women in the reproductive age group and provide resources to health-care professionals involved in their care. Quite early during the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, we cautioned about the potential adverse effects of COVID-19 in pregnancy and urged pre-conceptional advice for women planning a pregnancy during COVID-19 times ( The Hindu , September 14, 2020; https://bit.ly/2U3Nghq) — a simple precaution that could have averted serious problems for large numbers of women in the reproductive age group. Steps to be taken With the massive increase in numbers of COVID-19 infections with the second wave of the novel coronavirus pandemic in India, and its effect on pregnant mothers, this important matter should be taken up on a war footing, alerting women in the reproductive age group and the medical profession. Two important steps must be considered immediately: Advise all women to postpone pregnancy till both partners are vaccinated; Offer vaccination to all un-vaccinated pregnant women Temporary and reversible contraception during COVID-19 times is a simple and effective way to postpone pregnancies and thereby decrease the number of women who would otherwise seek antenatal advice in crowded hospitals and risk exposure to infection. The demands on health-care personnel who provide antenatal care would decrease; they can be redeployed for COVID-19 care and the vaccination programme, public health measures that make huge demands on health-care professionals. Reduction in the number of antenatal visits, online consultations, protocols for ultrasonography, glucose tolerance test and antepartum fetal evaluation have been introduced by many institutions. This must be followed by all caregivers. Ultrasound scans are routinely done during pregnancy. Dedicated and safe ultrasound scan centres for pregnant women, manned exclusively by immunised personnel (either vaccinated or after recovery from previous COVID-19 infection) is a need of the hour. Pregnant women with fever should be considered to have COVID-19 unless proven otherwise and be taken care of in triage areas with all personal protective measures in place till COVID-19 test results are available.  At present, COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 pregnant women coming for delivery are not strictly segregated in many hospitals, it is high time that COVID-19 pregnancies and non-COVID-19 pregnancies are handled in different settings to prevent infecting susceptible mothers. Both types of facilities should be manned by immunised personnel, the first to prevent infections in health-care personnel and the second to prevent infections in susceptible mothers. Unvaccinated health-care workers providing care for pregnant women should be quickly vaccinated. Clear benefits of vaccination The health authorities in the United Kingdom and the United States have realised the benefits and the safety of vaccinating pregnant women and have approved vaccination of all pregnant women with mRNA vaccines (https://bit.ly/3xYZIxX). These COVID-19 vaccines have been found to produce a good immune response and, maternal antibodies, demonstrated to cross the placenta and enter the fetus, confer protection against maternal to fetal transmission of the virus. The benefits of vaccination far outweigh the risks. Pregnancy and the immediate postpartum period are pro-thrombotic states — they favour the formation of blood clots in veins. Of the two vaccines readily available in India, the vectored vaccine (Covishield) was found to be associated with rare but serious side-effects pertaining to thrombosis of the veins draining critical areas such as the brain and intra-abdominal organs, a feature shared by the single dose (Janssen) vaccine; indeed, this side-effect may be a feature of all vectored vaccines against COVID-19. In general, inactivated virus vaccines are safe during pregnancy and the World Health Organization has given a nod to the use of the inactivated Synovac vaccine (https://bit.ly/35WzIHa). Therefore, the inactivated vaccine available in India (Covaxin) may have advantages over the vectored vaccines (Covishield and Sputnik) for vaccinating pregnant women. The availability and advantages of the vaccine for pregnant women should be publicised and awareness should be created among the public. Vaccine hesitancy in pregnant women is likely to be much higher than in the general population — this should be addressed by information, education and effective communication. Professional bodies recommended to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare that vaccination be offered to pregnant women after providing adequate information and counselling — and the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Ministry of Health have approved this, welcome steps in the right direction (https://bit.ly/3xRBAgl). India will do well to enhance vaccination coverage of couples planning pregnancy and pregnant women on a priority basis in order to protect mothers and their new-born. Lakshmi Seshadri, a former Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, is currently Senior Consultant Gynaecologist, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu. M.S. Seshadri, a former Professor of Clinical Endocrinology, CMC, Vellore, is currently Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/relevant-advice-for-health-care-givers-mothers-to-be/article34981950.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Future State||Political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) who attended a meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday came away with a sense of optimism: restoration of Statehood is somewhere on the horizon, even if a total reversal of the withdrawal of the special status remains unlikely. The meeting itself was a surprise, and came at a time when expectations of any quick resolution were very low. But the fact that a spectrum of political leaders got the invitation from the Centre without any set pre-conditions had raised hopes of progress. Eventually, the meeting gave reason to Kashmir’s political class to believe in possibilities that did not seem to exist just a week earlier. But restoration of Statehood to J&K, which was reorganised as two Union Territories, should be the first step in the revival of the democratic political process and not the culmination of some elaborate negotiation strategy. Mr. Modi described the meeting as an “important step in the ongoing efforts towards a developed and progressive J&K”. While committing to strengthen grassroots democracy, he called for quick delimitation of constituencies, after which legislative polls could be held. Home Minister Amit Shah insisted the restoration of Statehood will follow delimitation and elections. Not surprisingly, many participants were not convinced by this sequence suggested by the Centre. But the positives are that the long meeting was freewheeling, without rancour and all parties were united in the demand for the restoration of Statehood. Most participants also sought an assurance to return the domiciliary rights concerning land and State services, but considering the BJP’s strident position, this might be difficult. As Mr. Modi argued, the focus must be on the future, but this will have to be built on the trust and cooperation of the people of J&K. Decades of turmoil have created unique problems of governance and mistrust. The NC and the PDP, with all their deficiencies, remain India’s best messengers to the people of the Valley. In deciding to engage them, and other parties, the Centre has made a departure from its earlier position. By seizing the opportunity, these parties also showed maturity. Global and domestic factors might have nudged the Centre towards what appears to be a tentative accommodation of other viewpoints. But the political challenge to its decision to hollow out Article 370 is all but fading. The restoration of Statehood has been placed so far down the path that any discussion on special status is unthinkable in the near future. In that sense, the Centre and the BJP have irreversibly reset the conversation on J&K. That success should not blind them to the resentment among the people. Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah will have to look forward to the future rather than being bound by their past rhetoric on Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/future-state/article34981941.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Top play||Conservative play is often international football’s bugbear. National team players spend very little time together for attacking structures and synchronous moves to develop, and a safety-first approach always seems around the corner. Ahead of Euro 2020, there were fears that players will be less on the front foot because of the physical and mental toll the COVID-19 pandemic had exacted. By that yardstick, Euro 2020 has thus far proved to be an entertaining fare, with the enthralling play matching the energy of the returning fans. Compared to the previous edition’s group stage, there have been 25 goals more (94 to 69) and four fewer matches with one goal or less (10 to 14), with just two goalless draws (down from four). Overall, 15 of the 16 countries in the knockouts have a better group stage record than champion Portugal five years ago. Top sides such as the Netherlands, Italy, Belgium and Spain have not moved away from their lively, pressing style of football, despite the tournament coming at the fag end of a long and tiring season. World Champion France has not been swashbuckling, but seems efficient, while Portugal is always a threat with Cristiano Ronaldo around (five goals and one assist). Denmark’s has been the feel-good story, recovering from talisman Christian Eriksen’s on-field collapse owing to cardiac arrest in its opening match, to make it to the next round. Eriksen is now out of danger and Denmark has quickly become the neutral’s choice. However, it remains to be seen how much of the positivity spills over into the round-of-16, which begins in Amsterdam on Saturday with the Denmark-Wales clash. If ever there was a time for cautious play, it is now, with the competition essentially a single-elimination, winner-take-all affair. France, having won the 2018 World Cup, knows a way around such situations, and with midfielder Paul Pogba in imperious form, it remains the favourite. Italy has been the stand-out team, with its young and energetic outfit coached by the astute Roberto Mancini expected to go far and bury the ghosts of 2018 when it did not qualify for the World Cup. Belgium’s golden generation, led by Eden Hazard, Kevin De Bruyne and Romelu Lukaku, seems well-placed to realise the dream of a first major trophy. But its shaky defence needs some shoring up, first against Ronaldo’s Portugal. The most-anticipated pre-quarterfinal clash will however be between England and Germany at Wembley. But both sides have been middling so far, with their halos significantly dimmed. Germany, in particular, was minutes away from elimination, before Leon Goretzka’s deflected goal against Hungary saved the day. But the weight of history can hang heavy on England, for it has won just three out of 11 competitive fixtures against Germany, the last coming 20 years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/top-play/article34981942.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. can cut fuel cess by Rs. 4.5’||The Union government has room to cut the cess levies on petrol and diesel by Rs. 4.5 per litre to ease inflationary pressures without a net loss in revenue, rating agency ICRA said on Friday. Stressing that consumer sentiment had been singed by the second COVID-19 wave, ICRA said that the record retail fuel prices were ‘weighing upon disposable incomes and consumption’ and feeding into inflationary pressures. Retail inflation crossed the central bank’s comfort zone at 6.3% in May. The revenue loss entailed by the cess cuts would be offset by an expected increase in fuel consumption making this a revenue-neutral measure, ICRA’s chief economist Aditi Nayar pointed out. “Benefitting from the anticipated rise in mobility and economic recovery aided by an acceleration of vaccine coverage, ICRA has forecast the YoY growth in the consumption of petrol and HSD (high-speed diesel) at about 14% and about 10%, respectively,” Ms. Nayar wrote. “Our forecasts suggest that consumption this year will be 6.7% higher for petrol and 3.3% lower for HSD.” Aggregate revenue from fuel taxes is expected to rise by about 13% to Rs. 3.6 lakh crore this year, with additional revenue of Rs. 40,000 crore. Foregoing the Rs. 40,000 crore can support a reduction of Rs. 4.5 per litre, ICRA estimated in a note. Room for RBI “Such a cut in the cess rates would offer some relief to household budgets and ease the inflationary pressures related to the rising global crude oil prices,” Ms. Nayar emphasised, stressing that this would also give the central bank more room to focus on growth imperatives rather than fret about accelerating inflation. In the three monetary policy reviews since February, the Monetary Policy Committee, chaired by Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das, has reiterated concerns about inflationary pressures created by the higher cess and VAT rates announced by the Centre and State governments on fuel last year, and the need to unwind them to ease cost push pressures. While global crude oil prices were on an upswing since January, riding on expectations of a rebound in the global economy, India’s record retail fuel prices were also driven by a weaker rupee and the higher domestic imposts levied by the Centre and States, said ICRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-can-cut-fuel-cess-by-rs-45/article34982265.ece
26 June 2021||MUMBAI,||SBI to continue digital agenda, looks to slash NPAs in FY22||State Bank of India (SBI) will continue its digital agenda in FY22 and focus on recovery of stressed assets, chairman Dinesh Khara said on Friday. “The current financial year has begun with unexpected second wave of COVID-19 infections,” Mr. Khara told shareholders at the bank’s 66th AGM. “Although the containment strategy this time included avoiding complete lockdown and managing the situation through micro-containment zones, the impact on the economy will nevertheless be felt,” he added. “In the current financial year, the bank will continue to accelerate its digital agenda. The scope and reach of YONO will be expanded further,” he said. “With the roll-out of pre-package insolvency for resolution, resumption of courts and formation of National Asset Reconstruction Company, efforts will be in full force to keep the momentum in stressed asset recovery in the current financial year,” Mr. Khara added. He said the bank was comfortably placed in terms of growth capital. “Opportunities for lending in promising sectors will be explored to diversify the portfolio and contain risk.” He said the bank adjusted to the challenges posed by the pandemic and was now better positioned to tackle any subsequent wave. “I am cautiously optimistic that the performance trajectory of FY21 will continue in FY22 as well,” he added. He said over the last two financial years, the bank was dealing with a steep rise in stressed assets. All-round efforts in managing stressed accounts initiated in FY19 continued in FY21 as well. “The corporate segment saw the largest reduction in NPAs at Rs. 18,530 crore,” the chairman added. “The gross NPA ratio of the bank declined to 4.98% from 6.15% in the last year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-to-continue-digital-agenda-looks-to-slash-npas-in-fy22/article34982262.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,||ALL eyes used vehicle market||Commercial vehicle (CV) maker Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) is exploring the possibility of entering the used-vehicle market. It also plans to unveil Bada Dost LCV offshoots from the Phoenix platform, a top official said. “Yes, we are planning to enter used-vehicle market such as the one for trucks and have already started talking to our channel partners,” Vipin Sondhi, MD & CEO, told The Hindu . “Details can be disclosed only after things take a final shape.” Going forward, ALL would continue to grow exports, defence, power solutions, LCV and parts business even as it expands the product reach of its core medium and heavy CVs. “We will intensify our efforts in Central Asia and African countries to strengthen our presence,” he added. While trucks, LCVs, aftermarket and power solutions posted good growth during FY21, the bus segment contracted in the absence of public transport and long periods of school closures. The bus sector would revive when the lockdown situation completely eased. ALL is also betting on fleet replacement by various State governments planning to replenish old fleets. On rising raw-material prices, he said ALL had raised product prices during the third and fourth quarters of last fiscal and keeping a close watch on costs. Mr. Sondhi also signaled that output may be raised in July, with an increase in the number of shifts depending on the relaxation in curbs. “With India’s GDP poised to grow at 9.5% in FY22, it augurs well for the CV industry. We are confident that we will come out stronger once demand picks up,” he said. ALL is planning to invest Rs. 750 crore in FY22, against Rs. 670 crore in FY21. The money would mainly be invested in debottlenecking LCV plants, routine investments in other plants and safety, said CFO Gopal Mahadevan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/all-eyes-used-vehicle-market/article34982267.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 relief up to Rs. 10 lakh to be tax-free for victims’ families||The Centre on Friday announced income tax relief for COVID-19 affected taxpayers who had to rely on financial aid for their treatment costs. It also exempted ex-gratia payments of up to Rs. 10 lakh from employers and other well-wishers to the families of those who had passed away. “In order to provide relief to the family members of such taxpayers, it has been decided to provide I-T exemption to ex-gratia payment received by family members of a person from the employer of such person or from other person on the death of the person on account of COVID-19 during FY 2019-20 and subsequent years,” the finance ministry said in a statement. Similarly, no income tax liability would arise on financial aid received from employers and well-wishers for meeting COVID-19 treatment costs, effective from financial year 2019-20. “This brings much-needed tax relief to taxpayers, who have suffered from COVID and received monetary help from their employer, friends and extended families, either for treatment or on account of a family member’s death from COVID,” said Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia & Co LLP. “Though the relief is granted retrospectively from 2019-20, since the due date for filing that year’s I-T returns has already expired, it would be important to see whether the government revives the time limit for filing those tax returns,” he pointed out. Deadlines extended The Central Board of Direct Taxes has extended the last date for linkage of Aadhaar with PAN from June 30 to September 30, 2021, while granting more time for several other compliances under the I-T Act of 1961.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-relief-up-to-rs-10-lakh-to-be-tax-free-for-victims-families/article34982263.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||ONGC reports Rs. 6,734 cr. net profit in Q4||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) reported a net profit of Rs. 6,734 crore in the March quarter on the back of higher oil prices and exceptional income. ONGC had reported a net loss of Rs. 3,214.41 crore in the January-March 2020 period, the company said in a statement. In an investor call, Chairman and MD Subhash Kumar said the company realised $58.05 for every barrel of crude oil produced and sold in January-March as compared with $49.01 a barrel realisation a year ago. The firm had reversed impairment losses, recording an exceptional gain of Rs. 2,613 crore in the quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ongc-reports-rs-6734-cr-net-profit-in-q4/article34982269.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Policybazaar.com forays into insurance brokerage, opens 15 retail stores||Leading web aggregator Policybazaar on Friday said it had embarked on its insurance broking journey with 15 outlets and aims to expand to 100 locations. Recently, IRDAI had approved the company’s insurance broking licence.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/policybazaarcom-forays-into-insurance-brokerage-opens-15-retail-stores/article34982268.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit, Adhiban, Gukesh and Arjun in elite field||With one-fourth of the 16-player field comprising Indians, the Goldmoney Asian Rapid online chess tournament promises to trigger unprecedented interest amongst the country’s chess lovers when action commences on Saturday. Vidit Gujrathi, B. Adhiban, D. Gukesh and Arjun Erigaisi will also be trying to break the ‘hoodoo’ and enter the quarterfinals of this elite competition. Meanwhile, World No. 1 Magnus Carlsen will be eyeing a third straight title in the $1.5 million Champions Chess Tour. The maiden presence of four-time women’s World champion HouYifan, currently the top-ranked female player, has added to the interest. Eighth seed Vidit faces Anish Giri (Nederlands), Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Poland), Daniil Dubov, Vladilslav Artemiev (both Russia) and Adhiban on the first day. Interestingly, Adhiban plays the other three Indians on the opening day after taking on Levon Aronian (Armenia) and Ding Liren (China). Gukesh, the youngest in the field, plays Arjun and Vidit in the first two rounds on Saturday, when Arjun is due to face Vidit in the eighth round. The preliminary stage involves a three-day round-robin league after which the top-eight players advance to the knockout stage. The rapid time-control is 15 minutes for each player plus a 10-second increment for every move made.  The players: Magnus Carlsen (Nor), Ding Liren (Chn), Levon Aronian (Arm), Anish Giri (Ned), Wesley So (USA), Alireza Firouzja (FIDE), Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol), Vidit Gujrathi, Daniil Dubov (Rus), Peter Svidler (Rus), Vladislav Artemiev (Rus), Salem Saleh (UAE), B. Adhiban, Hou Yifan (Chn), D. Gukesh, and Arjun Erigaisi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-adhiban-gukesh-and-arjun-in-elite-field/article34982443.ece
26 June 2021||Cuiaba,||Uruguay labours into the quarterfinals||An own goal in the first half and a late second from Edinson Cavani gave Uruguay a 2-0 win over Bolivia on Thursday and guaranteed its place in the last eight of the Copa America. Goal and assist Miguel Almiron got a goal and an assist as Paraguay beat Chile 2-0 and confirmed its place in the last eight. Bolivia, meanwhile, is eliminated. Uruguay has won this tournament more than any other country but it has laboured so far this year, losing 1-0 to Argentina, drawing 1-1 with Chile and failing to shine against a Bolivian side whose last away win was 32 games ago in Myanmar. Uruguay huffed and puffed through the first half and needed a stroke of luck to take the lead five minutes before half time when Jairo Quinteros and Carlos Lampe combined to put through their own goal. A low cross came into the six-yard box and Quinteros — stranded between Cavani and Luis Suarez — was forced to take action but could only knock the ball onto the legs of Carlos Lampe and into the net. Uruguay hadn’t won since beating Colombia in a World Cup qualifier last November. But Cavani guaranteed all three points with his first international goal since that game when he converted a sumptuous cross from Facundo Torres with 11 minutes remaining. Ends winless streak The result ended a five-game winless streak for Uruguay and ensures its place as one of the top four teams in Group A alongside the already qualified Argentina. Braian Samudio gave Paraguay the lead after 33 minutes after heading in a corner from Almiron, who then completed the scoring with a penalty 13 minutes into the second half.  The results: Group A: Bolivia 0 lost to Uruguay 2 (Lampe 40-og, Cavani 79); Chile 0 lost to Paraguay 2 (Samudio 33, Almiron 58-pen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uruguay-labours-into-the-quarterfinals/article34982286.ece
26 June 2021||PATIALA,||Men’s 4x400m quartet sets meet record||The Indian men’s 4x400m relay team had been holding on precariously to the last qualifying spot for Tokyo Olympics for a long time now. On Friday, the quartet broke the three minute two second mark at the National inter-State championships, bettering the meet record and lifting itself up the rankings to be assured of an Olympic spot. Anchored by Noah Nirmal Tom and comprising Mohd. Anas Yahiya, Arokia Rajiv and Amoj Jacob, the team clocked 3:01.89 in the heats, a timing which is likely to lift it to 13th place on the Road to Tokyo. Running in an almost empty stadium at the National Institute of Sports under floodlights, with part of the track in darkness, the competition was all but over when Jacob pulled away in the second leg before Tom accelerated in the last few metres. They now have a chance to further improve in the final. It was the only highlight on the opening day of the tournament that saw middling to mediocre performances in the few finals held even as the women’s 4x100m failed to make any progress in its quest for an Olympic spot. The foursome of Hima Das, Dutee Chand, Archana Suseendran and Dhanalakshmi managed 43.50 seconds to win its heat but not good enough to improve from the current 20th position.  The results:   Men: 10000m: 1. Vikram Bangriya (MP, 30:16.44s), 2. Kartik Kumar (UP, 30:25.79), 3. Dinesh (Mah, 30:50.74); Pole vault: 1. Shekhar Pandey (UP, 4.80m), 2. Dhirendra Kumar (UP, 4.50m), 3. Parveen Kumar (Har, 4.50m).   Women: 5000m: 1. Parul Chaudhary (UP, 16:04.07s), 2. Komal Jagdale (Mah, 16:26.89), Ankita (Utk, 16:58.07); 100mH: 1. Kanimozhi C (TN, 13.66), 2. Agasara Nandini (Tel, 13.70), 3. WVL Sugandi (SL, 13.90); Triple jump: 1. Renu (Har, 13.23m), 2. Sonam (UP, 12.96m), 3. Athira Surendran (Ker, 12.55m); Hammer throw: 1. Manju Bala (Raj, 61.08), 2. Sarita Singh (UP, 56.13m), 3. Surabhi Vedpathak (Mah, 54.77m) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mens-4x400m-quartet-sets-meet-record/article34982224.ece
26 June 2021||Chennai,||Defiance and belief were the hallmarks of Watling’s game||Bradley-John Watling takes us to the heart of New Zealand cricket — fight, absorbing pressure, changing scripts. Wellington, 2014: Watling addresses the media after the second day’s play. It has been a productive outing for him with five catches with the big gloves. However, New Zealand, 24 for one after conceding a massive lead of 246, is staring at a certain defeat against India.  Speaking to the press, Watling is typically defiant. “I like such situations. It gets the best out of me. This is the reason we play Test cricket.” These were not empty words. New Zealand was reduced to 94 for five in the second innings and the Indian scribes were making plans for two free days with the Test heading for an early finish. Then Watling joined skipper Brendon McCullum. And India was wicketless till the post-tea session on day four. McCullum (302) and Watling (124) were involved in a record 352-run stand for the sixth wicket, frustrating the visitor. McCullum displayed typical flair and Watling was rock solid. And the Test ended in a draw. And now Watling has bid adieu to international cricket after the Kiwis conquered the Test peak at Southampton. The respect for Watling, pushing 36, is enormous within the New Zealand team. No wonder he was among McCullum’s favourite cricketers for his never-say-die attitude. Belief was the cornerstone of Watling’s game. In fact, Watling began his Test career as a specialist opener against Pakistan at Napier in 2009. And it was McCullum’s decision to only ’keep in shorter duration matches that opened the path for Watling to be a wicketkeeper-batsman in Tests. He grabbed the opportunity. Watling figured in 75 Tests, scoring 3,790 runs at a commendable 37.52 with eight centuries and holding 267 catches and pulling off eight stumpings. Priceless quality For New Zealand, this South Africa-born cricketer was a man for crisis situations in the middle-order. He had the priceless quality of soaking in the pressure and using it as a motivating factor. The super-fit Watling evolved as a ’keeper and airborne catches on both sides of the wicket were commonplace as his career wore on. And now when he leaves the international stage to spend more time with family, he does so knowing he has given it his best shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/defiance-and-belief-were-the-hallmarks-of-watlings-game/article34982228.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Intra-squad games for India in Durham: ECB||The Indian cricket team will play two intra-squad games at the Riverside ground in Durham before the five-match Test series against England as Virat Kohli’s men are unlikely to get any warm-up First Class games against county sides. Displeasure India captain Virat Kohli had expressed his displeasure at not being given any First Class games before the England series, starting in Nottingham on August 4. “Due to COVID-19 protocols, they will play two intra-squad four-day matches before the first Test in August,” an ECB spokesperson said on Friday. While it is understood that BCCI had requested ECB for a few practice games, the COVID-19 situation won’t allow any such plan to go ahead. Asked if there is any chance of a game against county sides, the spokesperson said, “No”. In England, cricketers from various counties are regularly being tested for COVID but are not being kept in any bubble. The Indian team, once it assembles in London on July 14 and moves to Durham, will be once again be in a bubble. “The domestic cricketers of England not being in a bubble is an issue for sure. That’s why the games in Durham will be intra-squad ones,” a BCCI official said on conditions of anonymity. India is currently travelling with 24 players — 20 in the official squad and four reserves — which will allow them to play intra-squad games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/intra-squad-games-for-india-in-durham-ecb/article34982234.ece
26 June 2021||PATIALA,||Indian men target Olympic podium||The Indian men’s hockey team knows there are expectations of ending an Olympic medal drought and coach Graham Reid fancies his boys’ chances but insists that the team would do well to keep focus on the present. “There are 11 teams other than us at the Olympics and if you see in the last two years, we have played and beaten all except Canada, who we haven’t had a chance to play. That’s an important point and we will definitely be trying to jump onto that podium but our primary target will be to first qualify for the quarterfinals and then move forward from there,” Reid said at a virtual interaction on Friday. He did admit that the absence of competitive matches would be a factor but denied reading too much into it. “Honestly, no one knows how much it might affect the team’s preparation. But we did have two very good tours coming into this year after a long period of playing internal matches and one of the things we have been talking about is the strength of the daily training environment and how important it is to play those internal games at the competitive level of intensity,” he explained. Downplaying it With questions being raised on the lack of experience in the team’s attack, Reid tried to downplay the issue. “There have been training environments around the world, like ours, where we have been together for 15 months and things are going to happen and players will develop unbeknown to the rest of the world. I come from a culture where youth and the ability to bring exuberance and freshness to a group is very important to us.” In fact, he insisted that the lockdowns and extended periods of training would be an advantage for the team at Tokyo. “We have spent a lot of time building and understanding the mentality of the players, which normally doesn’t happen. “I got to know their stories and everything and what everyone has been through in their lives and in this period which has been a very powerful thing. I am sure it will be important when the chips are down in Tokyo,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-men-target-olympic-podium/article34982236.ece
26 June 2021||London,||Defending champ Halep pulls out with injury||Defending champion Simona Halep pulled out of Wimbledon with a calf injury as Novak Djokovic learned on Friday he would face Britain’s Jack Draper at the start of his quest for a 20th Grand Slam title. Romanian Halep, who beat Serena Williams in the final in 2019, tore her left calf muscle in Rome last month and was forced to miss the French Open. She travelled to London earlier this week but announced her withdrawal minutes before the draw for The Championships, which returns on Monday after it was cancelled last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Halep’s withdrawal follows that of four-time Grand Slam champion Naomi Osaka. World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty, who was forced to retire from her second-round match at Roland Garros with a hip injury, opens her campaign against Spain’s Carla Suarez Navarro, who is playing her final Wimbledon before retirement after recovering from cancer. French Open champion Barbora Krejcikova takes on Dane Clara Tauson, with the Czech star bidding to win the one Grand Slam singles title her late former coach and idol Jana Novotna won, in 1998. Milestones Serena Williams is seeking to equal Margaret Court’s record of 24 Grand Slam singles titles after missing out on equalling the mark several times in recent years. The 39-year-old American, seeded sixth, takes on Aliaksandra Sasnovich in the first round and could play German Angelique Kerber, to whom she lost in the 2018 final, in the third round. The men’s draw is also missing some big names, with two-time winner Rafael Nadal and US Open champion Dominic Thiem also absent. Eight-time winner Roger Federer, beaten in the 2019 final by Djokovic, and two-time champion Andy Murray are in the draw but there are fitness doubts over both players. World No. 1 Djokovic arrives at the All England Club after winning his 19th Grand Slam at Roland Garros and will first face 19-year-old Draper. One more Major for the 34-year-old Serbian, who has won Wimbledon five times, will pull him level with Federer and Nadal. Vulnerable? Federer, who is set to play experienced French campaigner Adrian Mannarino in the first round, is seeded sixth this year but has avoided Djokovic’s half of the draw. The Swiss master looks vulnerable after losing in the second round of Halle, his traditional Wimbledon warm-up tournament, which he has won 10 times. Zhang’s record Meanwhile, on Thursday, Zhang Zhizhen became the first Chinese man in the Open era to enter the Wimbledon main draw. The 24-year-old defeated Argentina’s Francisco Cerundolo 6-0, 6-3, 6-7(4), 7-6(6) in the final round of qualifying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/defending-champ-halep-pulls-out-with-injury/article34982232.ece
26 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Clippers pull one back against Suns||Paul George scored 27 points and grabbed 15 rebounds to power Los Angeles Clippers over Phoenix Suns 106-92 on Thursday. Reggie Jackson added 23 points and Croatian Ivica Zubac had 15 points and 16 rebounds as the Clippers made it 2-1 in the best-of-seven Western Conference finals. It was a crucial victory for the Clippers as no team in NBA history has ever won a best-of-seven series after losing the first three games. But for the third playoff series in a row, the Clippers won game three after dropping the first two. The Clippers were without star Kawhi Leonard, out with a sprained right knee. George played 43 minutes and with Leonard sidelined, he has stepped up to lift the Clippers. Bahamas big man Deandre Ayton led the Suns with 18 points while Chris Paul had 15 points and 12 assists in his return after 11 days out while in COVID-19 safety protocols.  The result: Western Conference finals: Los Angeles Clippers 106 bt Phoenix Suns 92 (Suns lead series 2-1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clippers-pull-one-back-against-suns/article34982277.ece
26 June 2021||Melbourne,||Absentee Aussies could miss T20 WC: Finch||Australia limited-over skipper Aaron Finch on Friday said several short-format players have a “very realistic” chance of being overlooked for T20 World Cup selection after opting out of the upcoming tours of West Indies and Bangladesh. Seven cricketers — David Warner, Pat Cummins, Glenn Maxwell, Jhye Richardson, Kane Richardson, Marcus Stoinis and Daniel Sams — who recently played in the IPL have pulled out of the twin tours while Steve Smith has been rested to fully recover from an elbow complaint which flared during the BCCI’s high-profile T20 tournament. In genuine danger Finch said the absentees are in genuine danger of missing out on the showpiece event in October-November as others stake their claims. “Yeah, very realistic (to miss out of T20 World Cup). You have to go on current form, and you pick guys who are playing well. For guys to be on this tour, to get the first opportunity to really put their hand up and take a spot is what it’s about,” Finch said. “It’s tough to ignore really good international performances. So yeah, absolutely, there’s going to be opportunities for guys to put their hand up and take spots,” he was quoted as as saying by cricket.au.com. Australia will on Monday fly out to the Caribbean for the July 10-25 tour with an 18-man squad short of up to seven frontline T20I players. Finch last week said it had been a “long-term plan” for all-format stars Warner and Cummins, both among Australia’s highest-paid IPL players, to miss the 10 T20Is and three ODIs in the Caribbean and Bangladesh after that (pending confirmation). But he had termed the absence of Maxwell, Jhye, Stoinis and Kane as “surprising”.  Chairman of selectors Trevor Hohns had also hinted that there is no guarantee that some of the IPL returnees who have opted out of the squad for the white-ball tours of West Indies and Bangladesh would get an automatic spot in the T20 World Cup. Blurry vision Finch also said he had experienced “blurry vision” during last year’s IPL in the UAE and had a surgery on his left eye recently. So far, the surgery has been a success, yet the 34-year-old believes the true indication will come when playing under lights, which Australia are set to do in all eight of their fixtures in the Caribbean.  For guys to be on this tour, to get the first opportunity to really put their hand up and take a spot is what it’s about||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/absentee-aussies-could-miss-t20-wc-finch/article34982445.ece
26 June 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Eriksen incident showed how football can unify the world’||The Christian Eriksen episode showed football’s great ability to unify the world feels top Indian defender Sandesh Jhingan. “The Christian Eriksen incident also showed how football promotes solidarity. Not many sports in the world have this power and vitality to bring the world together. “That was evident when the Finland fans were chanting Christian and the Denmark fans saying Eriksen. The whole world instantly came in support and prayed for his recovery. “That is how football brings the world together in harmony and appreciation,” said Jhingan about the Denmark midfielder who collapsed in the middle of the action during their Euro 2020 match. Return of fans Jhingan was also ecstatic about how the Euro is seeing a return of the fans in big numbers. “Euro has brought a lot of smiles to the whole world. It is definitely about top quality football and a display of fantastic skills and tactics. What it has also done is bringing the fans back to the stadiums. “That was one big thing that everyone was waiting for since the pandemic started,” Jhingan, who is covering the Euro 2020 for Sony Ten 2, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eriksen-incident-showed-how-football-can-unify-the-world/article34982449.ece
26 June 2021||Mumbai,||India’s young guns are raring to go in Sri Lanka||Rookie left-arm pacer Chetan Sakariya says he has done his workouts properly during the hard quarantine period here and is raring to go for the limited-overs series against Sri Lanka starting on July 13. The Indian players, led by Shikhar Dhawan, started their quarantine on June 14 and will continue till June 28. However, their hard quarantine period is over. “Everybody is now used to quarantine... it is good to come out of the quarantine and meet other players and everybody has done work out as per the needs. I am feeling very good,” the 23-year-old Sakariya, who has earned his maiden India call-up, told bcci.tv . “When I got out of the room, I was constantly looking at myself, I was feeling good wearing the jersey, but once I came to the gym, I started doing my normal workout,” said the Saurashtra pacer, who recently lost his father due to COVID-19. Attacking Delhi top-order batsman Nitish Rana, who also got his first call-up in the national team, echoed similar sentiments. “The first seven days were difficult for me as I was waiting to meet my teammates and I was waiting to wear the jersey. That time was a bit tough for me as each hour was feeling like a year,” said 27-year-old. Rana is looking forward to more intense work-out sessions with a new trainer. Karnataka players Devdutt Padikkal and K. Gowtham, who too earned their maiden call-ups in the national team, also sounded pleased. “Yeah, it has been great. Even in quarantine, we were trying to do as much as possible in our room, but it (training) is much better here in the gym and it is good to get out there and have a good session,” said Padikkal, himself a flamboyant batsman. Gowtham, on his part, said that it was good to train with his Karnataka teammate. Dream come true Young Maharashtra batsman Ruturaj Gaikwad described his India call-up as a dream-come-true moment. “We were waiting for this for so many years, the place where you want to be, you work hard for that and when you get to know you are finally there, obviously it feels very nice,” said Gaikwad. Tamil Nadu’s new spin sensation Varun Chakravarthy said representing the country is always a special feeling. “Because there have been lots of seasoned players in this tour and working out just next to them in the gym is a special feeling, it is definitely a dream come true for me,” the leg-break bowler said. The Shikhar Dhawan-led Indian team will play three ODIs and as many T20Is against Sri Lanka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-young-guns-are-raring-to-go-in-sri-lanka/article34982457.ece
26 June 2021||Spielberg,||It feels a bit premature, says Lewis Hamilton||Seven-time Formula One champion Lewis Hamilton voiced concern for fans visiting next month’s British Grand Prix, calling the decision to allow a full capacity crowd at Silverstone “a bit premature” amid the rising number of coronavirus cases. Feeling “split” Organisers announced on Thursday they received government approval to host up to 130,000 fans for the July 18 race, but Hamilton said he was feeling “split” about the decision. “I watch the news, so I hear about the cases going up in the UK. On that side I’m worrying for people, naturally,” Hamilton said. “There is less people being in hospital but it feels a bit premature to me. I hope we learn something from it, and I hope people stay safe and keep their masks on.”  Working with authorities The Silverstone team said it was working with health authorities in Northamptonshire on the specific conditions of entry that will enable the event to operate safely. It said visitors must show proof of full vaccination or proof of a negative lateral flow test taken within 48 hours of arrival. Silverstone will host the second Grand Prix with a full capacity crowd since the start of the pandemic, after next week’s Austrian GP. Hamilton said he did not want to “turn it into a negative” and that he was excited “to see people, and firstly to see the British crowd … to be out to see them and feel the energy that they bring into a weekend.” Hamilton main’s challenger for the F1 title this season, championship leader Max Verstappen, called a packed Silverstone “simply lovely.” “To have a full crowd in Silverstone is what you want, that is what creates the atmosphere and what makes F1 special,” the Red Bull driver said. The drivers spoke at a news conference ahead of the Austrian GP on Sunday.  I hope people stay safe and keep their masks on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-feels-a-bit-premature-says-lewis-hamilton/article34982462.ece
26 June 2021||Cardiff,||England seals series||Liam Livingstone saw England to a series-clinching win over Sri Lanka as the hosts overcame a batting slump in a rain-affected second T20I here on Thursday. England appeared to have the game sewn up after holding Sri Lanka to 111. But, chasing 112, England collapsed to 36 for four. The target was then reduced to 103 from 18 overs following a rain delay. Sam Billings (24) and Livingstone (29 n.o.) and Sam Curran (16 n.o.) saw England home.  Meanwhile, Jos Buttler will miss the rest of England’s white-ball series against Sri Lanka because of a small tear in his right calf.  The scores: Sri Lanka 111/7 in 20 overs (Kusal Mendis 39, Mark Wood 2/18, Adil Rashid 2/24) lost to England 108/5 in 16.1 overs (Liam Livingstone 29 n.o., Wanindu Hasaranga 2/20); target revised to 103 runs from 18 overs.   Toss: Sri Lanka; MoM: Livingstone; England won by five wkts., leads three-match series 2-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-seals-series/article34982271.ece
26 June 2021||Osijek (Croatia),||Women’s team wins air pistol bronze||The women’s air pistol team of Yashaswini Singh Deswal, Manu Bhaker and Rahi Sarnobat won the bronze in the team championship, as it beat Hungary 16-12 in the shooting World Cup here on Friday. The Indian trio had actually topped the first stage of qualification of the team event. However, it slipped to the third spot in the second stage of qualification behind Bulgaria and Germany. Thus, the team had to be content fighting for the bronze and winning it. The men’s air rifle team of Divyansh Singh Panwar, Deepak Kumar and Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar failed to win a medal.  The women’s air rifle team of Apurvi Chandela, Elavenil Valarivan and Anjum Moudgil placed 11th. With only two shooters in men’s air pistol, in Saurabh Chaudhary and Abhishek Verma, India could not field a team.  The results:   Men: Air pistol team: 1. Italy 16 (582) 1729; 2. Serbia 6 (575) 1732; 3. Iran 16 (572) 1729; 4. Russia 12 (575) 1743.   Air rifle team: 1. Russia 16 (631.4) 1881.7; 2. Hungary 8 (624.6) 1882.7; 3. Serbia 16 (623.7) 1876.1; 4. India 14 (624.4) 1878.7.   Women: Air pistol team: 1. Bulgaria (16 (576) 1711; 2. Germany 10 (575) 1713; 3. India 16 (573) 1727; 4. Hungary 12 (569) 1713.   Air rifle team: 1. Iran 16 (625.5) 1882.7; 2. Russia 2 (624.8) 1872.7; 3. Hungary 16(624.5) 1880.5; 4. Austria 10 (622.3) 1871.6; 11. India 1867.7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-team-wins-air-pistol-bronze/article34982279.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||WTC: Amarnath for neutral curators||Former India all-rounder Mohinder Amarnath wants the ICC to introduce neural curators and ensure a winner is decided in the next World Test Championship cycle. Amarnath said the games finishing in two days like the day-night Test against England in Ahmedabad is not fair competition. “You should play on quality wickets. When you play on quality wickets, it doesn’t matter where you are playing. Then it is a fair competition. “The ICC should form a panel of neutral curators like they have for neutral umpires. That team should follow the ICC guidelines and ensure the game goes into the fifth day,” Amarnath told PTI on Friday. No joint winner The WTC mace would have been shared if the final between India and New Zealand ended in a draw or tie. Amarnath feels this is another aspect the ICC must tweak in the next cycle. “A final means there can’t be any joint winners in any sport. Whether it is one game or a best of three final. They have to complete the final.” India is currently in need of a seam bowling all-rounder like Amarnath with Hardik Pandya being left out of the Test team due to his inability to bowl regularly. The 70-year-old said it is tough to produce that breed. “They don’t come just like that. They come once in a decade or once in 20 years. I am sure somebody will come but it will come from the longer version of the game,” he said. Meanwhile, former India captain Dilip Vengsarkar is ‘amazed’ at the news that Virat Kohli and his men will be on a “three-week holiday” before the start of England Test series after “poor preparation” cost them the WTC final against New Zealand. Vengsarkar, a former chief selector, feels India played well over the two-year WTC cycle but their preparation for the final was far from ideal. “I don’t know how we approach this kind of an itinerary. Where you go for a holiday in-between and then come back to play Test matches. One week break was enough post the WTC final. The thing is you need to play continuously. I am amazed this itinerary was approved.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wtc-amarnath-for-neutral-curators/article34982447.ece
26 June 2021||Sydney,||History beckons Hoy and Hanna||Veteran equestrian Anthony Hoy will compete in a record-extending eighth Olympics after being named on the Australian team on Friday, 37 years after his debut at the 1984 Los Angeles Games. The three-time gold medallist will stretch his own record of the most Olympic appearances by an Australian athlete, while at 62 he becomes the oldest male competitor ever from his country. “To represent Australia at international level over so many years has been the greatest privilege and honour of my life,” he said. “I have never set out to break records on my number of Olympic Games participations —I am just a country boy who loves his horses, has a huge passion for our sport and thrives on being competitive at the top end.” He will ride Vassily de Lassos, a 12-year-old gelding, in Tokyo to become just the 13th person in Olympic history to contest eight Games. Hoy will be joined by grandmother Mary Hanna, 66, aboard mare Calanta after qualifying for her sixth Olympics, the first Australian woman to do so and the oldest ever. Equestrian Australia chief Darren Gocher said the record-setting Hoy and Hanna were a testament to the longevity of the sport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/history-beckons-hoy-and-hanna/article34982452.ece
26 June 2021||TOKYO,||‘No spectator’ Games remain an option||A “no-spectator Games” remains an option for the Tokyo Olympics, which open officially in just four weeks, the president of the Tokyo Olympic organising committee said on Friday. The admission by Seiko Hashimoto comes only four days after she announced on Monday that up to 10,000 local fans would be allowed into venues — with numbers not to exceed 50% of venue capacity regardless of indoor or outdoor events. Organisers put off the decision on local fans for several months, and fans from abroad were banned months ago. The move to allow fans went against many medical experts who have said the safest Olympics would be with no fans due to coronavirus. “What I feel is that no spectating should remain an option for us as we look into things,” Hashimoto said at a news conference. “The situation is changing from time to time so that is why we need to remain flexible and prompt in responding to any change. A no-spectator Games is one of our options.” Resurgence in infections Organisers seemed to back down slightly on fans after a COVID-19 panel for the Tokyo Metropolitan Government reported on Thursday that “there’s a sign of resurgence” of infections in Tokyo. The panel said infections grew by 11% in the last week — based on the seven-day average — with more of the contagious Delta variant cases being detected. Organisers say they will take another look at fans after the current “quasi-state of emergency” ends on July 11. Olympic Minister Tamayo Marukawa delivered another wake-up call on Friday when she confirmed that a member of the Ugandan team who tested positive for the coronavirus upon entry to Japan last week was infected with the Delta variant. Despite extensive testing before and upon entry, cases like this seem certain to happen with 11,000 Olympic athletes and 4,400 Paralympic athletes entering Tokyo, along with tens of thousands of added staff, coaches, judges, and IOC and sports federations officials. “The Olympic organising committee is very much interested in finding out more from this (Uganda) example,” Hashimoto said. “We will pay detailed attention to get information as much as possible from this experience,” with operations refined accordingly. She added: “We cannot say everything is 100%. We will make a bubble as close to 100% as possible.” The head of Imperial Household Agency had on Thursday said Emperor Naruhito is “extremely worried” about the health risks presented by the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-spectator-games-remain-an-option/article34982463.ece
26 June 2021||ROME,||Srihari just misses out on breaching Tokyo mark||Srihari Nataraj came agonisingly close to securing the A-mark Olympic Qualification Time in 100m backstroke event, but fell 0.05 seconds short at the Sette Colli Trophy in Rome on Friday. In what was his last opportunity to get the A-mark, Srihari clocked 53.90s, a personal best and a Best Indian Performance, bettering his own timing of 54.45s set last week in Belgrade. But it wasn’t enough to breach the Tokyo 2020 mark (53.85s). The 20-year-old has been nominated by the Swimming Federation of India for the Olympics via universality quota but was keen to secure A-qualification. Fellow Olympic hopeful Sajan Prakash will make his final effort to clinch an Olympic spot on Saturday. Double delight for Page Elsewhere, Advait Page came up with the Best Indian Performance in the 1500m freestyle event by clocking 15:23.66s in Mission Viejo, California, on Thursday. En route to his gold, he bettered Kushagra Rawat’s previous best of 15:25.22s set last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srihari-just-misses-out-on-breaching-tokyo-mark/article34982230.ece
26 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam signs Krishnananda||Gokulam Kerala has signed midfielder Krishnananda Singh Khungdongbam. The Manipuri player, who began his professional career at TRAU FC, has played in two I-League seasons. He has to his credit three goals so far in the league. Interestingly, his maiden goal in the I-League was against Gokulam. Krishnananda has played 24 matches for TRAU. “I am glad to be part of the current I-League team,” he said. “The playing style of Gokulam was top-notch last season and I believe I can add strength to them. The club is very ambitious about its target and their philosophy aligns with mine. “I am looking forward to winning more titles with the Kerala side.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-signs-krishnananda/article34982628.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sananda holds top seed Sneha||Lower-rated R. Sananda held top seed Sneha Halder to cause the biggest surprise of the third round in the National girls’ under-12 online rapid chess tournament that began on Friday. Thirty two players shared the lead with three points in this 11-round competition. Sananda and Sneha were among those with 2.5 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sananda-holds-top-seed-sneha/article34982270.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Aditya Khanna to lead over-35 tennis team||Aditya Khanna will be the captain of the over-35 tennis team, selected by the All India Tennis Association (AITA) to compete in the Young Seniors World team championship to be held in Umag, Croatia, from September 12 to 17.  The teams: Over-35: Aditya Khanna (Capt.), Kannan Settu, Riyaz Ahmed, Manish Kulhary; Over-40: Krishna Kumar (Capt.), Swarandeep Singh Dhodi, Ashish Khanna, Daniel Vijay Anand.   Over-45: Jagdish Tanwar (Capt.), Rajesh Kumar, Ashish Parmar and Deepak Marwaha .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aditya-khanna-to-lead-over-35-tennis-team/article34982280.ece
26 June 2021||PARIS,||Women’s recurve team in final||Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat ensured another medal for India as the trio made it to the recurve women’s team final in the archery World Cup Stage-3 here on Friday. India, which got a first round bye, beat Spain and Turkey with an identical 6-0 margin to reach the semifinals. Second seed India defeated host France , consisting of Lisa Barbelin, Audrey Adiceom and Angeline Cohendet, 6-2 in the last-four stage to set up a summit clash with top seed Mexico. Deepika is already in the women's individual semifinals and the mixed team final (with Atanu Das). The Indian recurve and compound men’s teams lost in the quarterfinals. The compound women’s team was knocked out in the first round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-recurve-team-in-final/article34982284.ece
26 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||T20 WC likely in UAE from Oct. 17||The 2021 men’s T20 World Cup is slated to start from October 17 in the UAE, two days after the Indian Premier League (IPL) final, according to a report in ESPNcricinfo . The final is scheduled for November 14. As per the report, the Board of Control for Cricket (BCCI) in India is yet to write to the International Cricket Council (ICC) officially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/t20-wc-likely-in-uae-from-oct-17/article34982225.ece
26 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Reagan extends CFC contract||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) has given right-back Reagan Singh an extension of two years, which means he will be with the club till 2023 for the Indian Super League. The 30-year-old had joined CFC from NorthEast United ahead of the 2020-21 season in Goa. “I would like to thank the Chennaiyin family for believing in me. I feel proud to be part of one of the most successful teams in the country. My ambition now is to help the club lift their third ISL trophy., and the first of my career,” said Reagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reagan-extends-cfc-contract/article34982344.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sushila qualifies via continental quota||Indian judoka Sushila Devi has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics via the continental quota in 48kg, the sport’s international federation confirmed on Friday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sushila-qualifies-via-continental-quota/article34982278.ece
26 June 2021||DUBAI,||ICC congratulates NZ on winning WTC title||The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Friday congratulated New Zealand on clinching the inaugural World Test Championship title beating India in a riveting final. ICC acting CEO Geoff Allardice said: “I would like to congratulate the first ever World Test Champions, the Black Caps who displayed the skill and temperament required to be the best Test team in the world.”PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-congratulates-nz-on-winning-wtc-title/article34982226.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 07:37 IST,||Sudoku — June 26, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-26-2021/article34982923.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling a pandemic with bridge||Shridhar Nagalkar plays a game of pool on most evenings. On other days, the 76-year-old retired consultant general surgeon plays bridge with his new friends, all determined to beat the isolation and stress of the pandemic. “We have to learn to live with the coronavirus,” he says, speaking from Athashri Senior Living homes in Baner, Pune. Positive thinking is the way forward in any adverse situation, he adds. As soon as the lockdown was lifted in June 2020, he moved into the retirement commune along with his wife Swarupa, 72, “to a place where all amenities are provided for, including mobile ATM services,” he says. According to a 2018 study by CII-ASLI (Confederation of Indian Industry and Association of Senior Living India), of India’s roughly 13-14 crore senior citizens, 30% live in urban cities and 70% in rural areas. Only 2% of its seniors live in retirement communities. Though the global health crisis has affected people universally, it has pushed seniors into a more vulnerable position. Being more susceptible to the virus and prone to conditions like depression, this demographic faces specific challenges that the managements of retirement homes and communities were quick to respond to. They implemented total segregation from the outside world, and put in place the required health protocol. Most have begun tutoring seniors in the use of social media, as virtual interaction becomes the need of the hour. The pandemic has resulted in two significant outcomes: a change in the perception of communes for the elderly and the spirited response by seniors towards the crisis. Colonel A. Sridharan (retired), founder and MD, CovaiCare Active Living Homes, which has centres across Tamil Nadu, says, “The demand for senior homes has increased significantly, by almost 25% - 30% in the last one year. At roughly Rs. 30,000 per month, a couple has a safe and comfortable life in such centres.” Except for the distressing fact that the children of the seniors have not been able to visit as regularly, residents of such communities have rallied strong during the pandemic, to keep not only stress at bay, but also the virus itself. Kuruvilla M. George, secretary of Chacko Homes, Alwaye, Kochi, is pleased that so far, no one has taken ill. “Many of our residents are retired doctors and advised us on the safety protocols. Every month we hold talks, prayer meetings and general meetings so that everyone is in touch,” he says. Colonel Sridharan, who helped put in place a system of safety protocols and virtual entertainment programmes at CovaiCare, says, “We play badminton, table tennis, and pool with masks, and maintain social distancing.” At Athashri, every day, Savita Achyut Gokhale weaves garlands from the blossoms of the bakul trees. She keeps a few for herself and places the rest at the reception. “The other residents take the garlands for their hair or puja . This makes me happy and keeps me busy,” says the 70-year-old, adding that this has been her way to keep everybody’s spirits high. Savita, who lost her husband to COVID-19 two months ago, says about her outreach, “There are many here who are older than I am, and find it difficult to bend and collect the fallen flowers. I spread old dupattas under the trees, gather the flowers and weave them into garlands. Everyone likes to have one. It motivates them.” Meghali Khatdare, CEO of Athashri Homes that caters to nearly 1,900 seniors, backs Savita up by saying, “It was the psychological impact of the pandemic that posed a new challenge.” She adds, “We made sure that the residents’ every need — grocery, fruits, vegetables, ATM machines, medicines — was made available at their doorstep. To counter the isolation, we planned monthly virtual programmes designed for seniors.” Initially it was difficult to bring the older people together virtually, “as many seniors do not use the smart phones much,” but resident managers taught them to use it and familiarised them with video calls, text messaging and using social media. “This was another engaging and learning activity for the seniors,” Meghali adds. At 92, Captain Kunjipalu T.A. is the oldest resident of Chacko Homes in Kochi. Driving around the campus in his Honda City, the retired pilot chats with other residents and regales them with stories from his distinguished 37-year-long career in the Indian Airlines. “There should be no complaining. The sun is up. Everything is looking good. The day should start like this,” says the man who invested in a retirement home 23 years ago, and moved in seven years ago after his wife passed away. Despite being bedridden after a stroke last year, Swarn Mongia, 92, remains the centre of affection at the Senior Living Home, Godhuli, New Delhi. One of the first residents of the commune nearly 20 years ago, others visit to “seek her blessings”. Her daughter, Amita who lives in Maryland, USA, discloses that when her parents took the decision to move into a senior living commune, it was “social suicide. The act was frowned upon. My mother has been a very spirited woman, always an example to others at Godhuli. That’s why they continue to come to her for inspiration, more so in these tough times.” Colonel Sridharan points to the fact that the seniors at the centres are highly qualified retired professionals and very resourceful. “They have devised interesting ways to negotiate the prevailing times.” Game on He shares the example of 71-year-old Revathi Bhaskar, a former bank officer who quickly came up with a game of tambola for the residents. “In every elderly person, there is a child. This is our second childhood,” says Revathi, adding that she put the game together to prevent residents from falling into depression. Around 40 residents signed up immediately for the LockDown Tambola, as Revathi called it. She designed the tickets and preceded the game with a quiz, “as a warm up”. Though Revathi lost her husband during the pandemic, she says the tambola games are in his memory. She recalls him encouraging her by saying, “You spend one hour and bring joy to 50 people; so it is 50 hours of happiness. This is worth all the trouble.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tackling-a-pandemic-with-bridge/article34982708.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The cabinet of wonder||In Tamil Nadu’s most famous delta town stands the Thanjavur Maharaja Serfoji’s Saraswathi Mahal Library (TMSSML), a building that holds in its enfilade of historical layers cabinets filled with literary treasures. Considered among Asia’s oldest libraries, it was founded by the Nayaks in the 16th Century and fortified as a cultural citadel by the Marathas who captured the town in 1675, giving rise to the Tanjore Bhosle dynasty and the unique Tanjore Marathi community. Under the rule of Serfoji II a century later, the library became a treasure house of palm manuscripts and, today, holds nearly 40,000 volumes primarily in Tamil, Sanskrit, Marathi and Telugu. Art and rare photographs also reside in the bowels of the library, with only a miniscule collection, mostly digitised, on display. With COVID-19 barring entry to most physical museums, it has been left to curators and connoisseurs of art to keep alive interest in these places. Pratap Sinh Serfoji Raje Bhosle, 27, tries to draw the visitor into the annals of Tanjore history with his fourth book Rare Prints that brings alive 129 uncommon pictures from the library. “I was fascinated with the pictures of Indian kings, princes and British officials in bound albums from the 20th Century. These were stuck on rich handmade paper for reference, and the albums were made in Kot Radha Kishen (presently in Pakistan). I wanted to throw light on these pictures,” says Pratap Sinh, the sixth descendant of Serfoji II and grandson of Tulajendra Bhosle, who founded the Maharaja Serfoji II Memorial Hall, a museum in Sadar Mahal Palace, Thanjavur. Pratap Sinh is an Electronics and Communication Engineering graduate, but it is as the social media manager of the family museum and an author of three books, including Contributions of Thanjavur Maratha Kings, that he has come into his own. From the family album “I am interested in old photographs — both as markers of history and for restoration. I have posted many related to Thanjavur on my blog and Facebook and Instagram pages,” he says. “While going through the digital photo albums of the library’s programmes which my grandfather, Tulajendra Bhosle attended as a guest of honour, I recollected seeing pictures of dignitaries such as Indira Gandhi, Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar, Sarojini Naidu, Sharad Pawar, P.V. Narasimha Rao, Rajendra Prasad and Kamaraj. I requested the librarian for these photos and a search through many almirahs resulted in finding these albums that had been locked away for years,” says Pratap Sinh adding how he stumbled upon some of these pictures not published to date or not found on the Internet. Edited by educator and researcher Jeetendra Hirschfeld, Rare Prints is a tribute to the library. With forewords from political stalwarts and cultural aficionados, the first few pictures in the book are from an album of the 1900s. The first is a tribute to the great Maratha warrior, Chattrapati Shivaji, who sits astride a horse in black and white splendour. Colour pictures with added pigments give a real feel to the book. Each is accompanied by a brief text describing the mood and the moment. Pictures of two unique manuscripts also feature. Some of the pictures such as that of Venkoji, founder of the Bhosle dynasty of Tanjore, seated on a throne, jewelled scabbard by his side, and Sujan Bai Sahib, a queen, with bow grasped in hand and a quiver full of arrows on her back, offer an exhaustive tour of the centuries. Pictures published by the Chitrashala Press, Pune, have reproduced well, retaining the jewel-like tones. This is followed by digital prints of pictures from the early 20th Century, logo of the press established by Serfoji II, among the earliest to print the Devanagari script in South India, a case sheet of eye treatment given by Serfoji who is also credited with having performed cataract surgeries, paintings from the Aswa Sastra manuscript, sketches of the famed temples of Thanjavur by English landscape artists the Daniells, and visitors and celebrations at the museum. The e-book is a light ride through the socio-cultural history of the kingdom and the city it now is, but mostly it is a journey through Saraswathi Mahal Library, one that former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi describes in the visitor’s book as “a brief moment in this house of treasures”.  The e-book is available on bookganga.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-cabinet-of-wonder/article34982704.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Retired angels and turnarounds||I can’t breathe. These three little words ushered more change across the globe in months, than the last three decades could. Immortalised by George Floyd, these words encapsulate the lament of pretty much every marginalised person or race on this planet today. Ironically, it also includes a segment that represents half the planet’s population — women. As a result, brands that profit from sexist, ageist and colourist values have been forced to self-reflect. Victoria’s Secret is possibly the most dramatic case in point — for years, the lingerie major had supermodel ‘Angels’ trussed up in gossamer, underwire and fantasy, but last week saw a brand turnaround. When Floyd’s words echoed around the world, shining the light on prejudice and discrimination in public and workplaces, every brand on the planet was forced to ‘wake up’. Global conversations about Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DIE) sparked a growing social consciousness in the corporate sector. Consumers started aligning themselves to brands that mirrored their values. And Victoria’s Secret was reduced to a pile of singed wings and flaming halos. Dissonance between its brand values and the environment it inhabits today begged a total overhaul. A year’s introspection has yielded an entirely new executive team as well as an all-new board, most of them women. And of course, the Angels, God bless their tired souls, have been put to rest. Along with the angels, VS hopes to bury the flawed stereotype of the perfect woman it had perpetuated for decades, by partnering with accomplished women from diverse backgrounds, colour, size and sexual orientation. The newly minted Collective includes names like Megan Rapinoe, Priyanka Chopra, Valentina Sampaio, Paloma Elsesser, Eileen Gu and others picked for their accomplishments rather than their proportions. Raúl Martinez, the new creative director in charge of rebranding, confesses being persuaded by his 15-year-old daughter to join VS. “Dad, do it for us, the Gen Zs!” she’d said. Gay soccer champ Rapinoe was impressed by the willingness of the brand’s management to acknowledge and own their mistakes. Elsesser can’t wait to amp up the body positivity decibel, while Sampaio hopes to use VS to open doors for trans women like herself.  A clean-up exercise  In a post Black Lives Matter (BLM) world, not embracing DEI can cost a business its employees, investors, consumers and public trust. Marketers need to make an intrinsic change in the brand narrative to inspire credibility and be authentic in their initiative. The real change comes from inviting and validating the outliers and driving public conversations. Starbucks USA banned their baristas from wearing any BLM merchandise, but when the press reported this, the chain swung the other way and distributed BLM T-shirts to staff. Nike’s popular campaign about gender equality rang hollow when it refused maternity leave to one of its sponsored runners. Instead of hastily making commercials to raise awareness, brands would benefit from cleaning up their houses first and addressing in-house sexist, racist, homophobic and transphobic behaviours. It’s only when the intent permeates into their employment policy, corporate communication and brand values, that it is more than just a band aid for systemic problems, biases and issues. Online dating brands like Bumble, Tinder and OK Cupid have all started diversity conversations, which while seeming organic to the brand, may well be an opportunity to expand user bases.  Of beauty and inclusivity  Meanwhile, in the beauty and skin sector, Nivea and J&J immediately withdrew their whitening products in India, a market where colourism is rampant. The country’s loudest voice in this arena, Fair & Lovely saw a huge pushback on Twitter to follow suit. Its parent Unilever responded by changing the name of its Rs. 24 billon/year flagship brand to Glow & Lovely and announced that it would cast women of different skin tones in future campaigns. Titan Fast Track, the pulse of India’s youth has been ahead of the DEI curve in starting conversations about LGBTQI+ inclusivity. Proctor & Gamble initiated a subtly crafted series for Ariel, meant to close the gender gap in homes, by converting male intention into action. Not only did ‘Share The Load’ spark a movement, the pre-pandemic timing of the final communication proved prophetic, urging sons to help with domestic chores, just as daughters did.  Liberating corporates  While the pandemic liberated parts of us we didn’t even know were enslaved, it did the same to corporates. By confronting us with our vulnerabilities, it empowered us to rise above them. It pushed us to band together and drive positive change in our lives and that of the not so fortunate around us. For corporates and their brands, Floyd’s three transformational words blossomed into three new ones. Purpose before profit. Priya Mirchandani is Lowe and Ogilvy alumna, editor and content consultant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/retired-angels-and-turnarounds/article34982172.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Having a pineapple moment||As the world celebrates International Pineapple Day tomorrow, Mumbai-based Studio Beej is all set to launch Ananas, a clutch made of Piñatex. A fresh take on their evening clutch, Ditya, the new handmade variant is aimed at popularising the bio-textile made from the leaves of the pineapple plant. Globally, it is used by brands such as H&M, Paul Smith, and Hugo Boss. This is not the Studio’s first experiment with Piñatex. Last year, they used it in a cross body bag (Laya), a hobo bag (Ananta), and Ditya. With these offerings, the brand joins the list of international names like Chanel, H&M, Hugo Boss, and Nike — who recently launched the seven-sneaker Happy Pineapple Collection — that work with the plant-based alternative to leather. The startup launched in 2020 is the brainchild of Arundhati Kumar, who believes that being sustainable must go beyond being just eco-friendly. “There are other companies in India who are working with eco materials such as Arture [cork, Desserto or cactus leather], Aulive [Piñatex, cork], but we are the only company that dabbles in multiple sustainable materials. We were the first to bring cactus leather into the country,” says Kumar, whose line of wallets, clutches, bags, belts, laptop sleeves made of bio-based-materials marry the aesthetic of Indian craft with the ethical practices of conscious living. “We currently work with four main materials — cork from Portugal, Piñatex from Spanish company Ananas Anam [which sources from the Philippines], Desserto from Mexico, and Khesh from West Bengal.” Cork is the bark of the tree which is harvested responsibly every nine years, explains Kumar, adding that it is light because one-third of its cellular structure is air. “So a big bag, unlike one made of leather, will never weigh you down. It’s completely recyclable and comes with cotton backing. It’s also naturally antibacterial and antimicrobial.” While earlier bags were designed by her, the new launch has been crafted by their creative director, Abhijit Datta. Recycled zippers and handloom linings Kumar goes on to explain how Desserto is vegan leather derived from the Nopal Cactus of Mexico, and Khesh is made from old cotton saris torn into thin strips and re-woven to make a colourful fabric. “When we curate a product, while we do look at the hero material, we also try to minimise the impact of the accessories we use.” Bag linings are sourced from Bengaluru-based Khaloom, which creates handloom material from recycled yarn, and occasionally upcycled material from discarded umbrellas is also used. Zippers come from Japanese company YKK which makes them from recycled PET plastic, and logos are embroidered. “We live in a time when customers want transparency. We put out supplier and certification details on our website so they can decide whether the product fits into their conscious buying mode,” says Kumar, adding that their delivery packaging is made of jute and recyclable cardboard. Now exploring While these materials are the core of Studio Beej, she speaks of two other cutting-edge materials she’s currently exploring: Malai from Kerala, made from coconut waste, and Mirum from the US that combines natural fibres like corn and rice husk with rubber waste. While Kumar is keen on using homegrown materials, she says not much R&D is happening in India. So, will the worlds of luxury and sustainability meet easily? “Sustainable is going to be the new luxury. Luxury is going the conscious way. From Hermes to Fossil, and Nike, every brand is working on such materials,” she concludes.  Products are priced between Rs. 850 and Rs. 14,500. studiobeej.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/having-a-pineapple-moment/article34982178.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Space for you and space for me||In a 2017 interview, Nigerian author Chimamanda Adichie said, “A transwoman is a transwoman.” Taken by itself, it sounds reasonable — celebrating difference would mean not subsuming transwomen again within the man-woman binary. Unfortunately, the sentence was not a throwaway one — Adichie also said that transwomen start off life with “male privileges”, and later went on to support JK Rowling’s controversial views on transwomen. Despite Adichie’s clarifications, that she meant transwomen’s experiences are different from women’s, her stance has been suspect and she has been labelled a Trans Exclusionary Radical Feminist or TERF, someone wanting to exclude transwomen from women’s spaces. The essay Adichie published last week is mostly a defence against her critics, but it’s also a condemnation of the tenor of public debate. Although the piece has been criticised for shifting the spotlight away from transphobia and on to social-media hypocrisy, I believe there are two threads in it and each can be examined, without losing the other. Regarding transwomen, Adichie reiterates her support for their rights, and says, “We should be able to acknowledge differences while being fully inclusive.” How transwomen activists respond to this is for them to say. I will stick to the essay’s social media commentary. Adichie focusses on two of her detractors and her feelings of betrayal. Of one of them she says, “I had a personal relationship with her. She could have emailed or called or texted me. Instead, she went on social media…” One can dismiss this, ask if personal hurt is more important than the larger politics around the issue, but that would overlook the strident intolerance that passes for politics these days. Without personal integrity and adherence to smaller, individual truths and fidelities, one’s public political persona and credo become a largely dishonest construct. Calling someone out in public is easy and conspicuous, but choosing not to is a mark of grace, a quality conspicuously absent in public discourse. On social media, one is perhaps inured to what Adichie calls “the hostility of strangers,” but from friends and acquaintances it is not wrong to expect a call or email expressing frank disagreement. After that, one may part ways, but to willingly choose public attack over private argument signals less political conviction and more a grandstanding for visibility. Calm, private discussions are even more important when the issues are fraught, such as language and identity issues. One of Adichie’s severest critics is Nigerian novelist Akwaeke Emezi, who identifies as non-binary, neither male nor female. Given this, in which context would it be offensive to include Emezi as ‘woman’ and in which context not? Many of us don’t know, many are learning, still gathering the blocks to erect socially just structures. It is merely days since Kiwi weightlifter Laurel Hubbard has become the first trans athlete to be included in an Olympics contest. She will participate in the women’s team, but for that she had to first test with testosterone levels below 10 nanomoles per litre. Arriving here has taken years of negotiation, against prejudices but also against qualms that transwomen will have a physical edge over other women. Language and identity are contested spaces and constantly evolving. We need conversations around them, as around existential questions of rights and livelihoods of all marginalised groups. Social justice cannot be reached only via publicly performed outrage, even though, yes, this is a narcissistic age, and everything from love to lunches is put up on display. Some aspects trouble me especially about public outrage — one is how easily small, individual dishonesties are accepted in the support of a larger cause. I believe this corrupts the very heart of justice. Second, the annihilating language of rage and violence, whose primary goal is not to understand or be understood but to silence. If aggression is all we have to offer at a time when issues of social, gender, political and economic equity are at stake like seldom before, we are impoverished indeed. What Adichie calls “the false gauziness of ideological purity” covers an ulcer of intolerance ravaging social commentary today, its translucence failing to hide the festering lack of humanism underneath. But without empathy and compassion and ordinary, everyday kindness, we are nothing, less than nothing, and ideology alone is not going to make us whole again. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/space-for-you-and-space-for-me/article34982158.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Why Zumba when there’s Rambha?||Rejoice, young literary mitron . It is a golden time for aspiring writers who dream of contributing to India’s intellectual discourse. Suddenly, wonderful opportunities are raining from the sky like renegade petals from a pushpaka vimanam doing loops. Are you yearning to project our culture and literature globally? Then look no further, all you Saraswati seekers. Young scribes, use these copyright-free ideas as starting points and write many, many books that bring back our lost glory. Apsarobics for Heavenly Bodies  Everyone wants to be fit. Unfortunately, the lucrative fitness market has been cornered by the diabolical West. It is time to wrest it back with an unbeatable book on fitness that goes back to Vedic times. Why should one cross-train or do Pilates in unflattering tights when one can lose weight dancing like Rambha and her sister Apsaras in sequinned bustiers to a Raj-Koti tune? Imagine how strenuous it must have been for these ageless women to distract stubborn sages deep in penance. Share the six-pack secrets of our divine damsels in an unbeatable fitness book reeking of our culture. Sweet Dreams with Kumbhakarna They say health is wealth. And we know sleep is health. Today, almost everyone is sleep-deprived. And again the West has misled us into believing that sound sleep can be achieved only through evil allopathic medication. Let the world know about the very first sleeper cell in history, Kumbhakarna. Unveil the secrets of how this original Samrat of Somnology could sleep through palace remodelling work, bickering concubines, forest fires, and war with not a care in the world. Teach the world to snore without pills like our Vedic ancestors did. Maricha & Subahu’s Essential Guide to Disruption What do all the biggest businesses today — like, say, Netflix, Uber, Airbnb — have in common? They are all disruptors. The West, that villain again, has been pretending for far too long that the concept of disruption is somehow something they invented. We are the original disruptors. And the true brand ambassadors are Messrs Maricha and Subahu. A book on them is long overdue. Let the world learn from them. While the West has upstarts, we will have a fresh wave of start-ups. Organic Farming the Shakuntala Way Today, every morsel of food we put into our mouths is contaminated with toxic pesticides and foul antibiotics that have been introduced into them only because of faulty western thinking. What better way to detox than to follow Shakuntala’s Vedic Agri Tech. After all, any of our ancient books will tell you that during her apprenticeship at Sage Kanva’s ashram , she was in charge of the veggie patch. Young writers, let us show the West that nothing beats wholly organic deer dung and peacock urine when it comes to growing wholesome vegetables, not to mention mood-enhancing mushrooms. Bakasura’s Barbecue Recipes Other than Padma Lakshmi, who has been showing the West the power of curd rice (in her lovely food videos, attired in fetching gear), our culinary versatility has been sadly underrepresented. Bakasura, if you ask me, has got a bad rap. He wasn’t a gluttonous man-eater as purported. In today’s world, he’d be called a foodie. He’s like the guy who pushes you out of the way at the buffet queue to get his sixth helping of Nargisi kofta . Time we did a recipe book in his honour. If he was eating humans for all three meals, I’m sure he must have used some pretty interesting condiments, and techniques to spice things up. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/why-zumba-when-theres-rambha/article34982182.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Conscious content||I am told I’m an influencer. It’s odd because I didn’t really set out to be one — I just like sharing snippets of my life on Stories, Instagram’s 24 hour-only feature that allows users to upload images, GIFs or 15 second videos that are visible to one’s followers before they vanish into the ether. I wasn’t happy doing what I was — running a digital agency — and so I decided to take a break. I started making videos about skincare on Instagram while sharing bits of my daily life on the platform; fast forward to a year later and I’m enjoying it way more than expected. I’m meant to have a rate card — a media kit too, if possible. And a manager! Like I’m some kind of agency-quasi celebrity hybrid, which I suppose is not too far from the truth when it comes to influencers, considering they’re often expected to script, edit, produce and be the content. When I ran an agency, Jossbox, one of the things we did was work with brands to manage their marketing budgets, often set aside exclusively for influencers — or digital creators, as they’re sometimes known. Between 2013 when we launched and 2019 when I closed it, I saw a sharp rise in the budgets allocated by brands towards influencers. With Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) guidelines in place that state that all influencers must clearly disclose a paid partnership whether in cash or kind – along with a host of other rules detailed on the asci.social platform — it’s clear that the ecosystem is growing and needs regulation. It is a move I’d rather welcome. If anything, it seems to me that influencers have even more bargaining power than they did before — with me, for example, I am clear about not sticking to a brief and instead create content that’s more in keeping with my own style. I let brands know if there are certain things I will not highlight like scientifically dubious claims, for example. This is very different from the way it was even a couple of years ago, when influencers were expected to follow the exact script and messaging from the brand. This, to me, seems indicative of their lasting impact on the industry. There’s no doubt the influencer industry — and it certainly is an industry — will evolve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/conscious-content/article34982168.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Finding closure||Trisha Das’ debut novel, Ms Draupadi Kuru: After the Pandavas , was about Draupadi, Amba, Gandhari and Kunti deciding to leave heaven to live on their own in present-day Delhi. While it is now being developed for the screen (details to be announced), her second novel, a sequel, The Misters Kuru: A Return to Mahabharat (published by HarperCollins), takes the story to its logical conclusion, answering many questions and tying up many loose ends. In this book, some of the Pandavas decide to stay on Earth and Kunti apologises to Draupadi for putting her in a position where she had five husbands.  Read the full stories on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/finding-closure/article34982185.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||UB40’s India collab||UB40, the hitmakers who created emotive reggae versions of songs like ‘Red Red Wine’ and ‘Can’t Help Falling Love’, leverage their global popularity in their latest album, a collaboration-heavy offering called Bigga Baggariddim . Released on June 25, it features Jamaican reggae veterans like Winston Francis and Inner Circle, plus the newer wave of Caribbean artists like Leno Banton, Protoje, Koffee and Chronixx and Blvk H3ro. Where the scope of Bigga Baggariddim actually gets global is with their inclusion of New Zealand-based roots reggae band House of Shem and Indian vocalist-producer General Zooz aka Zorawar Shukla, part of the party-starting crew Reggae Rajahs. The latter leads the song ‘Roots Rock Reggae’, which released on June 18. Bigga Baggariddimsees UB40 hand the reins to their collaborators, letting them take over all vocal duties throughout 15 tracks. “It reflects that our career has been truly international. It’s a source of pure joy and we wanted to reflect that in this record,” says drummer Jimmy Brown.  Listen on Apple Music, Spotify, Pandora, and YouTube Music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ub40s-india-collab/article34982187.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Cookies and cookalongs||Add to all the focaccia, sourdough, and pan pasta experience you racked up last year with ITC Master Chef’s live cookalong,Recipes Made Easy. Hosted by chefs Kirti Bhoutika and Akanksha Khatri (winner and finalist ofMasterchef Indiaseasons 5 and 6 respectively). 5 pm, in.bookmyshow.com. But if you’d like to skip kitchen time, Ricky’s Cookies presents ‘Mango Binge’, with golden Imampasand in Sunny Days cookies (Rs. 90), a rice pudding (Rs. 210), and a baked custard (Rs. 200). Details: rickyscookies.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cookies-and-cookalongs/article34982180.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Advertising 2020-21||The last year saw dynamic experiments in this industry, even while tackling the pandemic and its fallouts. Think ‘The World’s Most Reported Trailer’ by Dentsu Webchutney, pegged on Taapsee Pannu’s filmThappad,that sparked a conversation about reporting domestic abuse. It picked up a silver Lion at Cannes Lions this week. In this issue,The Hindu Weekendexplores advertising’s pandemic pivot, in the digital space and with social consciousness in ads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/advertising-2020-21/article34982189.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Get your laugh on||Prepare for a comedy Sunday. Here’s the roster: actor-comic Vipul Goyal will ponder dreams, arranged marriage, and more inHumorously Yours(5 pm, Rs. 599); Parvinder Singh will take to Zoom withPunchliners. Expect his family and pandemic observations to star in his rib-ticklers (6 pm, Rs. 349). And finally, multi-lingual comic Vivek Muralidharan — who switches between English, Tamil, Hindi and Telugu — will bring his brand of socio-political humour inBits & Pieces(8 pm, Rs. 199). All tickets on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/get-your-laugh-on/article34982191.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Bajpayee teaches acting||He’s fresh offThe Family Man Season 2and raking up kudos for his role in Netflix’sRay(a series inspired by the works of filmmaker Satyajit Ray). But Manoj Bajpayee is still making time for his fans, to share some acting tips and anecdotes. His 2.5-hour masterclass, powered by learning and entertainment platform Unluclass, will cover everything from cracking auditions, breaking down the script, and improvising, to training your voice and even dealing with criticism. Sign up for Rs. 999, on unlu.io||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bajpayee-teaches-acting/article34982193.ece
26 June 2021||Spielberg and Netflix:,||Talking point||Two year ago, when Netflix distributed Martin Scorsese’sThe Irishman, Steven Spielberg spoke in favour of the theatrical experience. How time, and a pandemic, changes perspectives! Spielberg’s production company, Amblin, has just signed a deal with the streaming behemoth to produce several features a year. It’s another step towards a shift in consumption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34982195.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Off the loom||There’s a new handloom brand in the market. Founded by Mumbai-based Prachi Saraf — a designer who fine-tuned her skills at her family’s business house — Vyusti is just days old and is a for-profit social enterprise that works directly with weavers in Karnataka and Maharashtra. Withdhotis,duppattas, saris, shawls and stoles, the inventory is limited at the moment, but the Chitradurga, Karvat Kati, Paithani, Himroo, and Bagalkot weaves are tempting. From Rs. 2,700 (for a silkdupatta) onwards, on vyusti.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/off-the-loom/article34982197.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Cartoon hour||There’s no escaping screens, but you can introduce kids to a paper-and-pencil hour. HobbyStation is organising a doodling workshop for children. The Zoom workshop will teach fun sketches and help improve concentration, memory, and problem-solving skills.Rs. 250, 3 pm and 6.30 pm. Alternatively, there’s the Cartoon Classroom with Ajit Narayan, who’s worked with publishing houses such as Pratham Books. Learn to draw comic strips, animal cartoons, and more. 6 pm, Rs. 699. Register on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cartoon-hour/article34982199.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramen to that||Cool rainy days are best enjoyed with a steaming hot bowl of ramen. Bengaluru’s newest delivery service, NaruNoodle Bar, launched a few weeks ago with ex-Toit and Permit Room chef, KavanKuttappa (who’s also had stints at Eleven Madison Park, Le Bernardin, and Momofuku in New York). The ramen fan puts up the week’s menu for pre-orders every Thursday, with delivery on Sunday. The last couple of weeks have seen kits for a gorgeous Truffle Tori Paitan and a Green Chilli Miso. Approx Rs. 800 onwards on @eatnaru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ramen-to-that/article34982201.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Raise a toast||Dram alert. John Distilleries (of the internationally-acclaimed Paul John Indian Single Malts) has launched a new blended whiskey, Roulette. A balance of peated and unpeated malts, with a 42.8% ABV, it has been matured in ex-bourbon casks. Available in Goa at the moment. Rs. 850 for 750 ml. At jdl.in. Meanwhile, Diageo India will launch Epitome Reserve, the country’s first small-batch, craft 100% rice whisky, by the end of July. With 2,000 bottles, the woody spirit has notes of dried fruits, toffee caramel and vanilla. diageoindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/raise-a-toast/article34982203.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||stardom||In Vasan Bala’s Spotlight, part of Ray , the Netflix anthology adapted from Satyajit Ray’s short stories, a popular actor, Vikram Arora, played by Harshvarrdhan Kapoor, is crippled with artistic insecurity despite his career being on an upswing. His professional anxieties get progressively worse when the hotel that he’s staying at is pretty much hijacked by a religious leader, Didi (Radhika Madan), who commands outsized influence on politicians, business leaders, film producers, and the general populace. In the course of the film, Kapoor’s character must come to terms with the limitations of movie stardom and the realisation that between cinema and religion, two factions that enjoy a colossal hold over the Indian psyche, religion will always trump the former. While the film has an undercurrent of dark commentary, the treatment itself is lighthearted and Bala, who earlier directed the festival darling Mard Ko Dard Nahi Hota, peppers the narrative with a variety of inside jokes. For instance, Kapoor’s manager, played by an astute Chandan Roy Sanyal, takes a dig at Inlaks, a housing society in Mumbai’s Versova known for aspiring actors who are yet to break through, as well as Scrumptious, an eatery nearby largely frequented by the same crowd. In the film’s context, Sanyal’s dig is at the star who’s refusing a lucrative part that will bring in the money, the suggestion being that if he doesn’t take the gig, he may have to go back to the life of a ‘struggler.’ “It was a line improvised by Chandan,” Bala, whose last film too was seeped in cinephilia, says over a Zoom call. “All the cinephilia is almost like a personal trip for me. If nobody finds out [the references] it’s fine, the story will still hold on its own.” Which it does, except it’s a much more joyful experience once the jokes are understood. Kapoor, who plays an actor grappling with stardom, says that he was thrilled to have that experience, as it’s something that has, so far, eluded him. “He [Vikram Arora] has captured the imagination of the paying public in a way that I haven’t done. I enjoyed living in that world. Actors are an insecure lot. The job entails failure, rejection and insecurity. The call from Vasan came during the first wave when everybody was anxious about the future, grappling in uncertainty. So I ended up channeling that nervous energy into the part.” A little bit ofEntourage Kapoor points out two characters, Johnny Drama and Vincent Chase, from the show, Entourage — about the life of a Hollywood star and his coterie — which percolated into Spotlight. While the film draws parallels between a cult leader and a movie star, another aspect that runs through the narrative is the cost of fame and how debilitating it can be psychologically for those who live and die under the constant glare of the public eye. As an artist, does Kapoor crave that popularity? “Honestly, that power would just liberate me to do films like Spotlight, Bhavesh Joshi and AK vs. AK . I told Vasan this: I don’t only want to be an option for you when you’re making a film with a Rs. 5 crore budget. I also want to be an option when you’re making a Rs. 50 crore-plus film. If I’m lucky enough to achieve that kind of power, I’d want filmmakers to tell different kinds of stories at a bigger scale. That really can be the best by-product of stardom.” While that’s a noble aspiration to chase, the flip side could be that stardom could imprison the star, making them a victim of their own image. One of the reasons why we see a lot of top stars repeat what they’ve done in the past is because they chase stories that serve their stardom and not the other way round. “That’s a good point. Given the lineage that I come from, I have felt that weight. But I haven’t let that affect my choices, whether it was doing a film festival musical as my first film or a vigilante drama disguised as an action film as my second.” Sanyal says he did draw some nuances from Ari Gold, the agent character from Entourage , but his primary source was Asrani’s character from Hrishikesh Mukherjee’s 1973 film, Abhimaan , and Rabi Ghosh, the Bengali actor who did several films with Satyajit Ray. Great art vs fame Akansha Ranjan Kapoor, who plays Anuya, Kapoor’s partner, and acts as his moral compass and a voice of reason, says that Bala isn’t a director who rehearses too much. The idea is to be on set and react to the moment. Even their interpersonal dynamic reflected in the film is the way it really is. “Harsh knows so much about cinema and I’m pretty blank. I think that method found its way into the film,” she says. To this, Bala adds, “With Vikram and Anuya, what I really like is that one is trying to be an artiste but is popular and hence the problems in his life. Anuya doesn’t have such issues. She’s pragmatic, wants to earn her money, and live her life. She’s not even having those artistic battles. She sleeps better and he doesn’t.” Which brings us to a long unanswered argument that the film dabbles in. Does great art inherently come at the cost of sacrificing popularity and mental peace? “It’s a classic choice,” Bala says. “Till things are working for you, it’s great. There’s Barfi, there’s Rockstar. .. all happening at once. And then comes Bombay Velvet a nd people like me come in,” he laughs, referring to Ranbir Kapoor’s career that took a brief nosedive with the Anurag Kashyap directorial. Vasan was one of the writers of the 2015 film. “When you’re used to popularity and fame, the shift is difficult. It takes a lifetime to balance it out. Either you chase stardom or stardom chases you.”  Ankur Pathak is a writer based out of Mumbai, who was formerly the entertainment editor of HuffPost India.   Watch AnkurPathak   in conversation with   Vasan Bala and the cast on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/stardom/article34982166.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Redo that home office||Not so long ago, work-from-home (WFH) was a perk that companies offered employees. COVID-19 changed all that, making home offices and remote working the norm. A McKinsey report, What’s next for remote work , stated that quarantines, lockdowns, and self-imposed isolation have “pushed tens of millions around the world to work from home, accelerating a workplace experiment that had struggled to gain traction before COVID-19 hit”. The report, which did an analysis of 2,000 tasks, 800 jobs, and nine countries, revealed that the potential for remote work is “highly concentrated among highly skilled, highly educated workers in a handful of industries, occupations, and geographies”. That may be so, but the resurgence of the virus means that WFH isn’t going away any time soon. In such a scenario, many people will continue to work out of home, divvying up their time between office duties and family. Working at the dining table may have been fine for a while, but now it’s high time you dedicated a space to your home office. Creating an office set-up and making it comfortable ensures that you get your work done easily. So if you haven’t done it already, here’s how you can go about it: Bespoke furniture  Ergonomicsis extremely important if you’re planning to spend hours working. Sitting on a couch, laptop in hand, just won’t cut it. Go for a smart work desk and match it with a comfortable chair that is ergonomically sound. Investing in this can avert health problems in the future. Smart lighting  The right lightingis a must for a home office as improper lighting can lead to health issues and consequently a drop in productivity. If you don’t have enough daylighting, harness a mix of task and accent lighting. Simple storage  Less is alwaysmore on the work desk. So ensure you keep the desk surface clean and tidy at all times. Books, papers and files should be all put away. Even if you don’t want elaborate storage systems, opt for baskets, bins and boxes to keep your home office clean. Make it multi-purpose Most times a home office is not a dedicated space, and it doesn’t need to be. As long as you have a desk surface and ample storage, the setting can change with the time of the day. Homework area, craft nook, email counter, phone area — there’s a lot your work desk can be when you are not working. Move it if you can  If you can, an island on wheels that can be moved around the family space is ideal. It makes the home office playful and fun, and helps make the space multi-layered and multi-purpose. 50-plus shades of grey  Grey continues to rule the world of décor and it has also made huge inroads in the world of home office design. The many varied shades of grey allow you to use the neutral colour as a base and as an accent hue. Grey is ideal for small home offices as it doesn’t create any visual fragmentation. Writing on the wall  Why would you ignore the walls in a space where you sit down to work and earn a living? Use wallpaper to create an impact in the home office — it could be a bright colour, pastel or a beautiful texture. Modern prints can add a contemporary vibe.  The many varied shades of grey allow you to use the neutral colour as a base and as an accent hue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/redo-that-home-office/article34982209.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||India slips in Global House Price Index||As per realty consultancy Knight Frank’s latest research report — Global House Price Index, Q1 2021 — India  moved down 12 spots in the global home price index to the 55th rank in Q1 2021. This was against the 43rd rank in Q1 2020, with a decline of 1.6 % year-on-year (YoY) in home prices. India gained a spot, compared to last quarter (Q4 2020), where India ranked last globally amongst the 56 countries tracked by the Index. With respect to 6-month (Q3 2020 – Q1 2021) and 3-month (Q4 2020 – Q1 2021) changes, residential prices in India witnessed a growth of 0.6% and 1.4%, respectively. The report highlighted that the United States witnessed the highest annual price growth rate since 2005, with a 13.2% increase YoY.  The Global House Price Index tracks the movement in mainstream residential prices across 56 countries and territories worldwide using official statistics. As per the report, in the 12-month percentage change for Q1 2020 – Q1 2021, Turkey continues to lead the annual rankings with prices up by 32% YoY, followed by New Zealand at 22.1% YoY and Luxembourg with 16.6% YoY. Spain was the weakest-performing territory in Q1 2021, where home prices fell by 1.8% YoY, followed by India with -1.6%.  Mainstream residential prices averaged across 56 countries and territories in Q1 2021 grew by 7.3%, which records the fastest growth in prices since Q4 2006. According to the report, 7% (4 countries) of the surveyed global countries and territories registered a decline in yearly price growth, while 13 of the 56 countries and territories experienced a Y-o-Y double-digit growth in prices till Q1 2021. Shishir Baijal, Chairman and Managing Director, Knight Frank India, says, “In Q1 2021, India witnessed meaningful recovery in sales volumes, helping housing prices remain stable. In the preceding quarters the residential markets had been on a path of rebound with markets such as Mumbai and Pune achieving pre-Covid activity levels. However, with the onset of the second wave and the threat of new variants of the virus along with the fluctuation in vaccine roll out there could be a pressure on sales volumes as well as on price growth.” Key Findings India ranked 55th globally in-home price appreciation for Q1 2021 India witnessed a QoQ rise of 1.4% in house price in Q1 2021 Turkey leads the index for the fifth consecutive quarter with annual price growth of 32% 13 countries and territories experienced a YoY double-digit price growth in Q1 2021 Residential prices across 56 countries and territories increased by 7.3%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/india-slips-in-global-house-price-index/article34982212.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP demands arrest of Kejriwal, criminal case against Ministers||The BJP on Friday demanded that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal be arrested and criminal cases filed against other Delhi government Ministers for the loss of several lives due to the alleged mismanagement of oxygen in the Capital. The deaths of several innocent people during the second wave of the pandemic were due to the “pretended oxygen shortage” claimed by the Delhi government as pointed out in the report of oxygen audit by the Supreme Court, it alleged. “The Kejriwal government is responsible for the loss of thousands of lives and he should be arrested for the same. While only 209 MT oxygen was needed, it [the Delhi government] asked for 1,140 MT and it conspired to shift entire blame on the Centre,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri urged Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to register a case of murder against the CM, Deputy CM and Health Minister. Court’s seal “Even the managements of big hospitals of Delhi had held the State government responsible for not getting oxygen and now the court’s committee has also given its seal of approval on this,” Mr. Bidhuri said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana alleged that the Delhi government’s “toolkit” to defame the BJP-led Centre had been exposed which was why it was levelling baseless allegations for which it would be dragged to court by the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-demands-arrest-of-kejriwal-criminal-case-against-ministers/article34982520.ece
26 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers back at Ghazipur border||Farmers have once again started assembling at the Ghaziapur border in large numbers to protest against the contentious farm laws as the number of COVID-19 cases dipped in western Uttar Pradesh. On Friday, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Naresh Tikait led a tractor rally from Saharanpur via Muzaffarnagar and Meerut to Ghazipur border. On the completion of seven months of protests, farmers would present memorandums to Governors of different States on Saturday. Addressing the farmers, Mr. Tikait said that the Central government has become arrogant. “Farmers are on road for seven months but the dumb and deaf government has not responded to their demands. 10% people can’t afford to ignore the demand of 90% people,” he said. ‘Ministers powerless’ Taking the Union Agriculture Minister to task, the BKU president said had he done his job properly, the issue would have been resolved. “In this government, the Ministers have not been given any powers,” he alleged. “Farmers have once again assembled at the Delhi border. It is time that the government stop making it a matter of ego and listen to the annadata (food providers) of the country,” Mr. Tikait said. Unlike his younger brother Rakesh who has been talking about teaching the BJP a lesson at the hustings, Mr. Tikait is said to be a follower of the middle path. On Friday, he once again reiterated that farmers were not against the present dispensation.  ‘Nothing to lose’ “Accepting the demands of the farmers doesn’t mean that the government would lose something. We want both the farmers and the government to be winners. In fact, it is the farmers who have put this government on the saddle. So the matter of victory and defeat doesn’t arise,” he underlined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-back-at-ghazipur-border/article34982495.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Reply sought on plea for FIR against Jaipur Golden Hospital||A Delhi court on Friday sought a status report from the police on a plea seeking registration of an FIR for the offence of murder against Jaipur Golden Hospital management for deaths of COVID patients allegedly due to oxygen shortage. As many as 21 critically-ill COVID-19 patients had died at the hospital on the night of April 23-24 as the hospital allegedly awaited the oxygen supply to be replenished. Six family members of the deceased have approached the court claiming that the hospital management should be punished but police, with mala fide intention, have neither arrested nor set up an inquiry against them. Hearing on July 13 Metropolitan Magistrate Vivek Beniwal has directed Delhi Police to submit the status report on the plea and posted the matter for July 13 for further hearing. The families have requested the court to take cognisance of the offences such as murder, criminal intimidation, death by negligence, cheating, criminal conspiracy and disappearance of evidence, summon and try the accused for these offences. In the petition filed through advocates Sahil Ahuja and Siddhant Sethi, the complainants have stated that the hospital management should have stopped admitting the patients or start discharging them if they were low on oxygen supply. “Keeping everyone in dark and thereby not providing the proper oxygen support which led to the death is an act of culpable homicide on their part all whilst the accused hospital minted money and raised invoices,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reply-sought-on-plea-for-fir-against-jaipur-golden-hospital/article34982510.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||1.5 lakh vaccinated, highest in a day||A whopping 1,56,636 doses of vaccines — the highest in a day till now — were administered in the city on Thursday, said AAP MLA Atishi, who presents a daily vaccination bulletin. “Yesterday [Thursday], more than 1.5 lakh doses of vaccines were administered. With this, Delhi’s total number of vaccine doses administered has reached more than 69.50 lakh. Out of the 1.5 lakh+ doses administered, 1.25 lakh were administered to youth. They either registered themselves on the CoWIN app or used the walk-in vaccination facility,” she said. “Delhi has 1.20 lakh Covaxin doses and 7.70 lakh Covishield doses, 13 days stock of Covaxin available for administering the second dose and five days stock for Covishield,” she added. Meanwhile, the Capital reported 115 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,33,590, according to the bulletin released by the Delhi government. Moreover, four deaths were reported, which takes the total count to 24,952. 77,477 tested A total of 77,477 tests were done and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.15%. Of the total cases, 14,06,958 have recovered and there are 1,680 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/15-lakh-vaccinated-highest-in-a-day/article34982522.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sushil to remain in jail as court extends custody||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar till July 9 in connection with the alleged murder of a young wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium here. Sushil was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Mayank Aggarwal at the end of the 14-day judicial custody. He is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping. According to the counsel of the accused, he has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail, where he was earlier lodged. Sushil, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Sagar (23) succumbed to the injuries later. The police have claimed that Sushil is the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Sagar. 10 arrested so far Sushil was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. Till now, he has undergone police and judicial custody of 10 and 23 days, respectively. A total of 10 people, including Sushil, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sushil-to-remain-in-jail-as-court-extends-custody/article34982512.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Two multimodal transit hubs part of New Delhi Rly Station redevelopment||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday chaired the fourth meeting related to the proposed redevelopment of the New Delhi Railway Station along the lines of the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport as part of a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country. Apart from solving a significant issue related to public transportation — 1,400 buses plying on 46 routes daily but without a single bus terminal in its vicinity — two multimodal transit hubs and an underground tunnel housing an Automated People Mover (APM) replete with travelators and electric vehicles are part of the proposal which The Hindu has accessed. Four-year project The project will, over the next four years, seek to redesign the largest and second-busiest railway station in the country with a daily footfall of approximately 4.5 lakh passengers, both from without and within, according to a senior government official. “Status of the project including grant of NOCs by various departments and preparation of influence zone plans was reviewed,” Mr. Baijal tweeted. According to Raj Niwas, several key components of the project including decongestion of traffic in the area, linking of greens for improved pedestrian experience, parking management and incorporation of adequate facilities for differently-abled persons were discussed during the meeting. Proactive measures While appreciating the progress, the departments were advised to proactively facilitate the approvals for timely implementation of the project, Raj Niwas said. As The Hindu reported on December 10, 2020, the project will see the height of the station being increased to 70 metres, the construction of twin towers 40 metres high, a hangar for trains, the creation of a passengers’ lounge similar to the airport, an underground parking for 2,000 vehicles and 40 buses in addition to a commercial area.  Status of the project including grant of NOCs by various departments and preparation of influence zone plans was reviewed Anil Baijal Lieutenant Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-multimodal-transit-hubs-part-of-new-delhi-rly-station-redevelopment/article34982518.ece
26 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan gets genome sequencing laboratory||The facility for genome sequencing to identify new variants of SARS-CoV-2 has been started at Sawai Man Singh Government Medical College here, making Rajasthan the first State in the country to have such a provision for complete sequencing at the State level. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here on Friday that the facility had been made available in the State at a cost of Rs. 1 crore for getting information about new variants of the virus. The samples from the State were so far being sent to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology’s laboratory in New Delhi. Ten samples per day, or 300 in a month, were being sent to the laboratory, set up for Rajasthan by the Indian Council of Medical Research, as per the fixed limit. Mr. Sharma said the reports were not being received from the lab on time. The machine installed at SMS Medical College has started functioning from June 15 with the capacity to test 20 samples a day, while the report is received in three to four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-gets-genome-sequencing-laboratory/article34982493.ece
26 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Ensure power to farmers, Punjab CM tells PSPCL||Amid protest by farmers against the Punjab government for failing to provide eight hours of uninterrupted power supply for paddy sowing, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to ensure supply. He asked the PSPCL to purchase deficient power from outside the State to prevent any supply disruption in the ongoing sowing season. Chairing a high level meeting to review the power supply to the farmers, the Chief Minister directed the Finance Department to release Rs. 500 crore to PSPCL to tide over the financial crunch faced amid the pandemic. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who was present at the meeting, assured that his department would release the funds without delay. ‘Financial crunch’ The PSPCL earlier informed the meeting that it was facing a financial crunch as a result of slowdown in consumption and revenue collection in the last one year due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ensure-power-to-farmers-punjab-cm-tells-pspcl/article34982494.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Chaos mars special CoWIN session for the homeless||Without an identity proof or a mobile phone, 46-year-old Sunil Thakur waited for four hours to get vaccinated at a special inoculation centre set up for homeless people at Yamuna Pushta night shelter here, while people who came from places like Baghpat and Ghaziabad and had IDs got jabs within minutes. “Confusion marred the pace of the vaccination drive for homeless people. Nobody knew how to register such people without an identity card or mobile number,” an officer at the centre said. The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board organised the vaccination camp in association with the office of the district magistrate (Central Delhi). One of the officers present at the camp said he got to know about the drive last night. In the absence of a mechanism to register homeless people on the CoWIN portal, those having an identity proof and a mobile number were vaccinated with Covishield first. “This drive was meant for homeless people; most of them do not have any identity proof or mobile number. So, they had to wait for hours while people from outside got themselves registered and took the jabs within minutes,” a member of an NGO present at the night shelter said. A special session, which allowed registration of “as many homeless beneficiaries as needed” was created on the CoWIN portal, Vaccination Officer Aftab Ahmed said. Around 100 homeless people were linked to an ID created with Aadhaar and mobile number of the night shelter’s caretaker, he said. A total of 150 people were vaccinated on the first day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chaos-mars-special-cowin-session-for-the-homeless/article34982514.ece
26 June 2021||June 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Parched throats||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/parched-throats/article34982516.ece
26 June 2021||Lucknow,||Guard fires at bank customer over face mask||A security guard working in a bank in Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh on Friday shot a customer in the thigh over an argument that allegedly started over the man not wearing a face mask as a COVID-19 safety measure. The guard was taken into custody, said police. The injured customer is in a hospital. Ravindra Kumar, Superintendent of Police, Bareilly, said the customer — Rajesh Kumar — had gone to the bank at 11:30 a.m. when he got into an altercation with the guard. The officer said only after the victim’s statement was recorded they would be able to ascertain the reason for the argument. A relative of the bank customer said that when he arrived at the bank, the guard stopped Mr. Kumar from entering as he did not have a mask on. Mr. Kumar wore a mask and returned but the guard still denied him entry and asked him to come after the lunch break, said the relative. The guard then pushed him and shot him, she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/guard-fires-at-bank-customer-over-face-mask/article34982492.ece
26 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt to provide tabs to over 2,000 newly appointed teachers||The Delhi government has decided to provide tabs to over 2,000 teachers newly appointed by the Directorate of Education, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday. Mr. Sisodia, in an official statement, said the vision of the Delhi government is to provide excellent education to each child, and providing tablets to teachers is a step in this direction. Use of tabs by teachers will enable better teaching and learning, the Deputy CM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-to-provide-tabs-to-over-2000-newly-appointed-teachers/article34982513.ece
