27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. raises alert on Delta Plus||The Union government has warned the States that the Delta Plus variant, which is currently a variant of concern, has increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response. Directing the States to initiate more focused and stringent measures to contain the spread of the virus, the Union Health Ministry said adequate number of samples from positive persons should to be sent to designated laboratories so that clinical epidemiological correlations can be established. “The Ministry, in its written communication, advised immediate containment measures which must be put in place in districts and clusters where the variant has been detected, including preventing crowds and intermingling of people. It has also advocated for widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis,” a Ministry official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-raises-alert-on-delta-plus/article34996567.ece
27 June 2021||Srinagar,||Omar seeks delimitation, statehood before election||National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Saturday said his party will keep pushing for delimitation first, followed by statehood and election. “Not delimitation-election-statehood but delimitation-statehood-election. If you have to conduct an election, return the statehood first. Whenever and wherever we get a chance, we will keep stressing this,” Mr. Abdullah told presspersons at his residence in Srinagar, after the Abdullahs returned from Delhi where they met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 24. “Before Prime Minister’s address, Mr. [Ghulam Nabi] Azad expressed the view on behalf of all of us and said that this timeline [delimitation-election-statehood] is not acceptable to us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omar-seeks-delimitation-statehood-before-election/article34996557.ece
27 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Police seek public cooperation to make the coast drugs-free||Mangaluru City Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Saturday appealed to the public to cooperate with the police in eradicating the menace of narcotic drugs from the coast as those addicted to drugs will crumble like a tree affected by termites. He was speaking after the police destroyed over 160 kg of ganja and other drugs in about 60 cases as part of the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking here. ‘Share information’ Mr. Kumar urged people to share any information on the transportation, the sale, and the consumption of narcotic drugs thereby preventing its abuse. The Commissioner said the State police was simultaneously destroying confiscated narcotic drugs at the respective district/ city police units as per the direction of Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood. Mr. Kumar said the city police have cracked several drug abuse and trafficking cases in their limits and arrested the accused. More than 214 cases were registered and 300 people were arrested since over a year. The substances, worth over Rs. 10 lakh, were destroyed at M/s Ramky Energy and Environment Ltd., a biomedical waste disposal plant at Koland, Mulki. Dakshina Kannada district Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane led the destruction drive of the district police at the same unit. Over 220 kg ganja and other substances worth over Rs. 25 lakh were incinerated at the biomedical disposal plant. Mr. Sonawane said the district police have registered 89 cases under the NDPS Act in the last four years and arrested 153 people besides seizing 383 kg ganja and other substances. In Udupi The Udupi district police meanwhile got narcotic drugs worth over Rs. 1 crore destroyed at M/s Ayush Envirotech Pvt., Lt., at Nandikur Industrial Area, Padubidri on Saturday. As much as 103 kg ganja, 100 gm Hydroweed, 1,362 strips of MDM, 990 strips of LSD, and other substances were incinerated under the leadership of Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhana. Highest number of NDPS cases were reported from Manipal (12) and Udupi (10) police stations among 50 total cases from which substances were destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-seek-public-cooperation-to-make-the-coast-drugs-free/article34996972.ece
27 June 2021||Mangaluru,||Private city buses to resume services from July 1 in Mangaluru and Udupi||Private city buses, the lifeline of the twin districts, will resume services in a scaled up manner from July 1 and charge 25% enhanced fare to make up social distancing norms and increased diesel price. In a meeting called by Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Friday, the operators, led by Udupi Private City Bus Owners’ Association president Kuyilady Suresh Nayak, agreed to resume services provided they were allowed to charge 25% more. The operators said the fares may be reduced once the the occupancy gets normal and the diesel price comes down. Mr. Nayak said initially, the operators will start services with 25 buses out of the total 80 buses and increase the numbers as the demand increased. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has already commence operation of its city buses on select routes in Udupi. The buses had remained off the road for nearly two months following COVID-19 lockdown by the state government. Office bearers of DK Private Bus Owners’ Association, the umbrella organisation of private city buses in Mangaluru, will meet the Deputy Commissioner on Monday and indicate their willingness to resume services with 25% increase in fares. Association president Dilraj Alva told The Hindu the fare hike was absolutely necessary in the face of the increased diesel prices and the mandate to follow social distancing norms. The latest government notification on fare revision for private stage carriages provides for automatic fare revision commensurate to diesel price fluctuation. The operators will roll back the fares if there was any decrease in diesel prices. Services will commence from July 1 in Mangaluru in a graded manner, Mr. Alva said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-city-buses-to-resume-services-from-july-1-in-mangaluru-and-udupi/article34996976.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Guleria terms oxygen audit report ‘interim’||The audit by the Supreme Court-appointed sub-group on Delhi’s oxygen demand is an interim report and not the final word, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said on Saturday as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, under fire for purportedly exaggerating the city’s needs, insisted that acute shortage of oxygen during the second wave of COVID-19 was “real”. He also appealed for an end to political bickering. “The virus will win if there is a fight among stakeholders,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted a day after his Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP hit out at each each other over the report. While the BJP accused the Delhi government of “criminal negligence”, AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged that the “bogus” report was “cooked up” at the BJP office. Dr. Guleria, who heads the five-member sub-group, said: “It is an interim report. The oxygen needs are dynamic and change from day to day. The matter is sub judice.” CM calls for joint fight “May we work now if your fight over oxygen is finished? Let us together make a system so no one faces shortage of oxygen in third wave,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The report of the sub-group constituted to audit oxygen consumption in hospitals in Delhi during the second wave in April-May stated that the city government “exaggerated” the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1,140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT. Bhupinder Singh Bhalla, Principal Secretary (Home) and one of the members of the sub-group, wrote to his fellow auditors on Saturday clarifying that the exaggerated oxygen consumption was “not claimed” by the Delhi government but was “a mere collation of consumption data for one day”. This, he stated, was provided around May 12 by 183 hospitals, as per the proforma decided by the sub-group. The total oxygen consumption for Delhi, Mr. Bhalla stated in the note accessed by The Hindu , was 550 MT around May 12-13, about 10 days after the peak of COVID-19 in the Capital. The draft interim report was circulated to the members of the sub-group “for kind perusal and approval” through emails on May 30. Mr. Bhalla said he had sent his detailed written objections and comments on the report on May 31 to the members by email. His objections were added at the end of the report (pages 110-119) “just for posterity” leaving it to the reader “to make the effort, if he/she so decides, to interpret the entire report together”. Mr. Bhalla termed this “unfortunate and unacceptable” and said the report, as submitted, “does not have the approval of all the members”.  (With inputs from Special Correspondent)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/guleria-terms-oxygen-audit-report-interim/article34996932.ece
27 June 2021||Mumbai,||Deshmukh got over Rs. 4 cr. from bar owners: ED||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Saturday granted custody till July 1 of Kundan Shinde and Sanjeev Palande to Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the money laundering case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, and others. While seeking their custody, after their arrest early on Saturday, the ED told the court, “Mr. Shinde has been instrumental in collecting cash from suspended assistant police officer Sachin Vaze on behalf of Mr. Deshmukh. Mr. Palande was the then private secretary to Mr. Deshmukh and was instrumental in passing on instructions of Mr. Deshmukh with regard to transfer postings and collection of monies from orchestra bars and further, analysing and assessing the work of collection of tainted monies through police officials.” ED said that the duo have emerged as important cogs in the wheels and were directly involved in money laundering around Rs. 100 crore. The ED said, “Mr. Deshmukh, by virtue of his earlier position as home minister of Maharashtra government has received amounts to the tune of approximately Rs. 4.70 crore from orchestra bar owners/managers for smooth functioning of bars and the said bribe money was apparently used by him through his son Hrishikesh Deshmukh for providing cash to Delhi-based paper companies, and after layering the same was routed to the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha Trust in the form of donation, a Trust of Shri Anil Deshmukh and his family members.” “Suspended assistant police officer Sachin Vaze, currently in Taloja Central Jail, collected money amounting to Rs. 4.70 crore from various orchestra bar owners/managers from December 2020 and January 2021,” the ED pointed out. ED stated, “It is revealed that there are 11 companies directly controlled by family members of Mr. Deshmukh. Further, another set of 13 companies have also come to light which are in the names of close associates of Deshmukh family and controlled by family members of Mr. Deshmukh. Subsequently, various bank account statements of these entities and individuals were analysed and it was revealed that money is flowing from companies indirectly controlled by family members of Mr. Deshmukh to companies directly controlled by family members of Mr. Deshmukh and vice versa.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deshmukh-got-over-rs-4-cr-from-bar-owners-ed/article34997181.ece
27 June 2021||Kolkata,||Rivals or partners?: wolf and hyena found sharing the same bowl in south western Bengal||The Indian Grey Wolf and Striped Hyena known to be rival species are showing tolerant behaviour towards each other, in terms of the patches they occupy to utilise the livestock resource as prey in semi-arid regions of West Bengal, a recent study by scientists of Zoological Survey of India and the West Bengal Forest Department has pointed out. The details of the study have been published in a paper titled, ‘Indian Grey Wolf and Striped Hyena sharing from the same bowl: High niche overlap between top predators in a human-dominated landscape’ published in international science journal Global Ecology and Conservation. “We found that both the species, which are generally known rivals showing tolerance towards each other, which is a strong evidence of land sharing among the species in the landscape. We also found significant level of biological connectivity between the overlapping suitable habitat patches of both the species,” said Dr. Lalit Kumar Sharma, lead author and head of the wildlife section of ZSI. The researchers divided the landscape in grids and used camera traps as well as DNA analysis of scats to record the presence of both the species. The GPS (global positioning system) coordinates of all the 262 presence records such as direct sightings and indirect evidence (camera trap pictures, scat) of both the species were recorded. Of the total presence records, 189 observations were found confirmed for wolf combining both 72 direct and 117 indirect observations. In case of hyena there were 73 records, 27 direct observation and 46 indirect. The researchers conducted interviews of about 1,356 respondents on species presence and also to document carnivore-human conflict case. “Our model also brought out that much of the species suitable habitat lies within the human-modified lands. Moreover, the highest level of biological connectivity resides between Purulia and Bankura district, indicating the species use a human-dominated landscape for movement among suitable habitat patches. Further presence of a high level of niche overlap and occurrence of biological corridors in the anthropogenic landscape can be attributed to poor wild prey availability, increasing human colonization and mining activities in study region,” the paper said. Debal Roy, chief project director, West Bengal Forest and Biodiversity Conservation Project, said the study was conceptualised four years ago when he along with colleagues came across the presence of these animals in the wild and did not know much about their habitat utilisation connectivity and gene flow between the populations. Mr. Roy, who is also one of the authors of the study, said that based on the outcome of the study the State forest department will take up effective management of both species. Along with the niche overlap of the two species, the publication also gives an idea of the corridor analysis of both. The maximum biological connectivity for hyena may exist between the large habitat patch distributed in western Purulia. Patches of the southern area of Bankura Marginal connectivity may also exist among the smaller patches present on the northern side of Bankura-Purulia. In case of the Grey Wolf, biological connectivity may exist in habitat patches distributed in the western part of Purulia with the southern region of Bankura, which continues up to Jhargram district. The researchers said they have not encountered any cases of cooperative hunting between the two species but added the possibility can’t be ruled out and recommended more intensive camera-trapping studies and radio telemetry-based study. to better understand landscape utilisation. The paper that has been authored by 12 experts — including Mukesh Thakur, Tanoy Mukherjee, Bheem Dutt Joshi, and Kailash Chandra, former director of ZSI — revealed that many suitable habitats for both species are not protected and under high anthropogenic pressure. “Hence, it is imperative to adopt best practices pertinent to wildlife conservation into the working plans of these identified areas. We recommend that the suitable patches and corridors identified in the study may be prioritized for conservation and management,” Dr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rivals-or-partners-wolf-and-hyena-found-sharing-the-same-bowl-in-south-western-bengal/article34997123.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Cut-off marks for CET likely this year||In the absence of minimum eligibility criteria for second PU students who want to write the Common Entrance Test (CET) this year, the Higher Education Department is considering introducing cut-off marks for seat allotment. If approved, the government will allot seats to only those candidates whose marks are above the cut-off. Although the CET is the gateway to many professional courses, such as veterinary sciences and Pharm.D. among others, the eligibility criteria has been mooted for agriculture and engineering courses, which see the most demand. “All second year pre-university students have been promoted this year, and there is no minimal eligibility criteria. In previous years, we would allot CET ranks to all the candidates who sat for the test. But doing that now and awarding ranks to everyone will be a challenge,” said a senior official in the Higher Education Department. The idea was proposed at a meeting recently chaired by Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. A majority of Higher Education Department officials batted for cut-offs as criteria. “That way, there will be some form of quality control,” said the official, who attended the meeting. In the CET format, each of the papers — physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology — carries 60 marks each. Students who want to take up engineering, appear for the physics, chemistry and mathematics papers, for which the maximum marks is 180 marks. In the past, all candidates would be allotted ranks under engineering irrespective of how they scored. If the cut-off system comes into play, they will need to score a minimum mark, for example 60 out of 180. Only then will they be eligible to get an engineering rank and obtain government seats or government quota seats in private engineering colleges through the CET route. Students unhappy While professors and lecturers in engineering colleges have hailed the suggestions, students are not happy with this development. K. Rajinikanth, former principal, M.S. Ramaiah Institute of Technology (MSRIT) said that on paper it may be a good idea. He, however, pointed out that the cut-off marks should be decided carefully keeping in mind how tough the academic year has been for students. Amaresh Kadaga, State president, Students Federation of India said, “When there are so many vacant engineering seats in the State every year, there is no need to fix a cut-off mark,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cut-off-marks-for-cet-likely-this-year/article34996828.ece
27 June 2021||SALEM,||Search on to trap leopard sighted in sugarcane field||The district Forest Department has launched a search for a carnivorous animal which has reportedly ventured into a sugarcane field near Kandhampatti here on Saturday. On Saturday evening, Vanitha and Ponkodi, two women residing near the sugarcane farm in Kandhampatti had gone to the area to collect grass for cattle. The women claimed that they saw a leopard in the farm and rushed out of the place. The women immediately alerted forest and police personnel. District Forest Officer R. Murugan, Assistant Conservator of Forests Yogesh Kumar Meena and a team of forest personnel rushed to the spot and conducted checks. The forest personnel checked for pug marks and any other identification marks in the place. Forest personnel were deployed at the place to guard the farm premises and prevent the animal from venturing into residential areas. Camera traps Mr. Murugan said that camera traps would also be set up. Mr. Murugan said that they are yet to identify the animal and about 30 forest personnel have been deployed and cages would be placed. He added that they would conduct searches using drones. N. Mohanraj, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) said that about 40 police personnel have been deployed. District Collector S. Karmegham advised the people residing in the area to stay in their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/search-launched-to-trap-leopard-sighted-in-sugarcane-field/article34996919.ece
27 June 2021||new delhi,||CJI cites a letter that showed him the way||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday said a letter from a former Supreme Court judge, at the time of his appointment as top judge, to act with courage in “these testing days”, became the road map for his tenure. “I feel that this message is indeed the road map for my journey as the Chief Justice of India. I shall treasure this message forever,” Chief Justice Ramana said of the letter from former Supreme Court judge Justice R.V. Raveendran. The Chief Justice was speaking on Saturday at the virtual launch of Anomalies in Law and Justice, a book authored by Justice Raveendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cji-cites-a-letter-that-showed-him-the-way/article34997124.ece
27 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra sees 9,812 new cases, 179 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 9,812 fresh COVID-19 cases and 179 fatalities, taking its tally to 60,26,847 and toll to 1,20,881, the State Health Department said. Of the 179 fatalities, 106 occurred in the last 48 hours and 73 in the last week. With 8,752 patients being discharged during the day, the tally of recoveries has reached 57,81,551 so far, leaving the State with 1,21,251 active cases. The case recovery rate now stands at 95.93% while the case fatality rate is 2%. Mumbai reported 648 new cases, taking its tally to 7,19,610. Fifteen fatalities were reported in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-sees-9812-new-cases-179-deaths/article34997182.ece
27 June 2021||Hassan,||Seized ganja incinerated in Shivamogga, Hassan||The Shivamogga police disposed of ganja worth over Rs. 29 lakh, seized in many cases in the district, to mark International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on Saturday. The police disposed of 637 kg of ganja through incineration at the common biomedical waste treatment and disposal facility of Shushruta Bio-Medical Waste Management Society at Machenahalli near Shivamogga. Similarly in Hassan, 198 kg of ganja seized by the police in Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts was disposed of at a bio-medical disposal unit of Prajwal BMW Management Systems. It included 157 kg of ganja seized in 52 cases reported in Chikkamagaluru district. Members of the drugs disposal committee and police officers were present. Maruthi Gowda of the bio-medical waste management system in Hassan said the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board had given clearance for the exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seized-ganja-incinerated-in-shivamogga-hassan/article34996974.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,||State unveils evaluation methodology for Class 12||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced the criteria for evaluation of Class 12 students, and said the results would be declared on July 31. The State Board examinations for the 2020-21 batch were cancelled because of COVID-19. The maximum weightage of 50% has been given to Class 10 board examination marks (the average of the top three subject scores in Class 10 will be considered), followed by 30% to Class 12 practical examinations and internals, and 20% to Class 11 marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-unveils-evaluation-methodology-for-class-12/article34996864.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||186 cr. doses needed to cover all over 18: Centre||The Union government informed the Supreme Court on Saturday that it will require 186 to 188 crore vaccine doses to twice inoculate the 93 to 94 crore population aged above 18. It said 51.6 crore doses would be “made available” by July 31. The government said it was looking at a deadline of December 2021 and had procured a total of 35.6 crore doses as on date. The government assured the top court that every single eligible person above 18, no matter what their financial capacity, would get free vaccine doses. 93-94 crore target “The total population of the county aged 18 and above is 93-94 crore,” the government affidavit, filed through Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, said. “Administering two doses to these beneficiaries would require an estimated 186 to188 crore vaccine doses… 51.6 crore doses will be made available for administration by July 31, leaving a requirement of approximately 135 crore vaccine doses for complete vaccination to the eligible population.” “The vaccination drive would obviously get a boost if the Government of India succeeds in its attempts to procure vaccines available outside India such as Pfizer, Johnson &Johnson, Moderna, etc,” the government said. The goverment also said that the Zydus Cadila vaccine may be made available to children aged between 12 and 18 in the “near future”. The Centre said the States are free to fix their own priorities for vaccine coverage and supply schedules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/186-cr-doses-needed-to-cover-all-over-18-centre/article34996558.ece
27 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||APPSC dispenses with interviews||The State government on Saturday issued an order dispensing with interviews for Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) examinations under all categories, including Group-I Services for the recruitments notified hereafter. This is to maintain utmost transparency and to ensure complete trust of the competing candidates in the entire selection process, according to G.O Ms. No. 58 issued by Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das. The order is in pursuance of a recommendation by the APPSC to do away with the interviews, which had been decided in its review meeting on reforms in the conduct of examinations, held on October 18, 2019. The scheme and syllabi for recruitment by APPSC for various posts and the posts for which interviews were required, were enunciated through G.O. Ms. No.103 dated February 3, 1967. The government had, vide G.O.Ms. No. 420 dated July 22, 2011, announced the abolition of interviews for all posts, except for State Services and for those posts which are executive in nature and where articulation skills and public interface were required. Through separate G.O.s issued in 2016 and 2017, the APPSC had prescribed interviews for more posts. It later recommended that interviews be done away with for all future recruitments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/appsc-dispenses-with-interviews/article34996562.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers complete 7 months of protest||Thousands of farmers, marking the seven-month anniversary of their agitation against the three agricultural reform laws, marched to Raj Bhavans on Saturday. They submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind through the Governors, alleging an “undeclared emergency” in the country. As June 26 is also the date the Emergency was declared in 1975, the farm unions under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) observed the day as Kheti Bachao, Loktantra Bachao Diwas (Save Agriculture, Save Democracy Day). The Morcha said protesters were detained at several locations across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-complete-7-months-of-protest/article34996564.ece
27 June 2021||Allahabad,||Relief for man held under U.P. anti-conversion law||The Allahabad High Court has set aside the order of a lower court in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar district and granted bail to a man arrested under the new unlawful conversion law in the State. The High Court said the lower court had “erred” in rejecting the bail application of Mehzan Malik. On April 4, a special court under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Gautam Buddha Nagar, rejected his bail plea in a case of alleged rape and unlawful conversion of a Dalit woman aged 20. Mr. Malik was booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation), relevant sections of the SC/ST Act and Section 3/ (5)1 of the U.P. Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 at Kasna. He has been in jail since March 20. The counsel for the accused submitted in court that from a bare perusal of the FIR it was apparent that physical relations were developed by him with the consent of the victim. In her statement under Section 161 CrPC, the victim had said that the man had a physical relationship with her on false assurances of marriage. Setting aside the lower court order, Justice Vipin Chandra Dixit on June 25 allowed the criminal appeal filed by Mr. Malik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/relief-for-man-held-under-up-anti-conversion-law/article34996933.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||High and dry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-and-dry/article34997128.ece
27 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Online classes only for school and Intermediate||As schools and colleges are set to reopen from July 1, the government has decided that for the time being only online classes will be held. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao seemed to have asked the officials to drop their plans for offline classes as well in view of the reservations expressed by Education and Social Welfare departments over the arrangements for safety of the students. Parents also opposed physical classes before the entire population was vaccinated . Accordingly, classes from Class III to Class X will be held online only and it would be the same for Intermediate students. These may continue till Dasara vacation at least.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/online-classes-only-for-school-and-intermediate/article34996997.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||High and dry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-and-dry/article34997183.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||In deep waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-deep-waters/article34996930.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Lockdown days||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-days/article34997034.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Concerned over Delta: WHO||The Delta variant, identified in at least 85 countries, is the “most transmissible” of the SARS-CoV-2 variants identified so far and is spreading rapidly among unvaccinated populations, World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus warned on Saturday.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/concerned-over-delta-who/article34996559.ece
27 June 2021||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi police burn 999 kg of ganja||The Kalaburagi district police set on fire around 999 kg of seized ganja to mark International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on Saturday. Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George said that 999.153 kg of ganja seized in 26 different cases in various stations across the district was disposed at the ACC cement factory at Wadi in Shahbad taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalaburagi-police-burn-999-kg-of-ganja/article34996970.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,||7.25% of adults have received both shots||Over 7.25% of Karnataka’s total adult population of 4.7 crore has been fully vaccinated so far, and 37.1% have got at least one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/725-of-adults-have-received-both-shots/article34996826.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Rise in raw material rates shoots up construction cost||Construction sector, hit by the pandemic, is facing a second blow with cost of materials seeing a steep rise as cascading effect of fuel price hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rise-in-raw-material-rates-shoots-up-construction-cost/article34996827.ece
27 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Puducherry Ministry to be sworn in today||The swearing-in of Puducherry’s first NDA Ministry, led by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, will take place on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/puducherry-ministry-to-be-sworn-in-today/article34996863.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||City parks, golf courses to open from tomorrow||City parks, gardens and golf courses will open from Monday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority stated in an order on Saturday. Apart from these, guests at marriage ceremonies will be allowed up to 50% of the banquet hall’s capacity, gyms and yoga institutes too will be allowed to work at 50% capacity from June 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-parks-golf-courses-to-open-from-tomorrow/article34996935.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Temples in Chennai get ready to reopen||Around 3,000 temples in and around Chennai are set to be reopened on Monday following the decision to relax lockdown conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/temples-in-chennai-get-ready-to-reopen/article34997135.ece
27 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||DCs in Odisha asked to find ‘a day for children’||Odisha govt. has directed all District Collectors to spare a day in a quarter to address grievance of children and protection of their rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dcs-in-odisha-asked-to-find-a-day-for-children/article34997125.ece
27 June 2021||Guwahati,||Sorry for Kimin row, says Border Roads Organisation||The BRO has issued an unconditional apology to the people of Arunachal Pradesh for the “inadvertent mistake” of using the wrong name of a place without any “mala fide intention”. The organisation had attracted flak for “renaming” Kimin, a small town in Papum Pare district near Itanagar, as Bilgarh of Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sorry-for-kimin-row-says-border-roads-organisation/article34997126.ece
27 June 2021||Mumbai,||Will restore OBC quota if given power: Fadnavis||The Maharashtra unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress held protests across the State on Saturday demanding restoration of reservation for OBCs in local bodies. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who participated in a protest in Nagpur, claimed that if his party was brought back to power, he would ensure that the quota for OBCs was restored within four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-restore-obc-quota-if-given-power-fadnavis/article34997184.ece
27 June 2021||MANGALURU,||16 deaths, 514 new COVID-19 cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 14 COVID-19 deaths and 375 new cases on Saturday. It also reported a mucormycosis case on the day. The COVID-19 positivity rate in the district stood at 4.62 %. With 567 patients being discharged the active COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 6,208. The active mucormycosis cases stood at 29 in Dakshina Kannada. Udupi district reported two deaths and 139 new cases. With 268 patients being discharged the active COVID-19 cases in the district were at 1,129. It had five active Mucormycosis cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-deaths-514-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34996977.ece
27 June 2021||Chennai,||T.N. records 5,415 new cases, 148 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Saturday logged 5,415 new COVID-19 cases and 148 deaths. Chennai recorded 314 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-5415-new-cases-148-deaths/article34996862.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to the future for China’s communists||In February, the ruling Communist Party of China, which turns 100 on July 1, came out with a new edition of A Short History of the Communist Party of China , a text that provides the authoritative version of party history. This text matters. It offers the template for how party history is taught everywhere in China, whether in schools and colleges, study sessions for party officials or the military, or even in the increasingly active party units of private enterprises. The 2021 edition, coinciding with the party’s centenary, comes with noteworthy changes. Past versions of the text noted Mao Zedong’s great successes — chiefly, his leading a ragtag group of ill-equipped revolutionaries to an unlikely victory, against tall odds, in a brutal civil war with the Kuomintang and amid Japanese occupation, and laying the foundations for the country’s progress, for which Mao remains venerated in China. They did, also, acknowledge his failures, in keeping with the formula set by the party’s second-generation leader, Deng Xiaoping, whose pronouncement that Mao was “70% correct and 30% wrong” allowed for some discussion of his mistakes after decades of blind deification. The texts, for instance, mentioned the calamitous Great Leap Forward, which devastated agriculture, led to famine, and caused more than 30 million deaths, and the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) that led to the persecution of millions, as it warned of the historical lessons. The latest edition, however, has seemed to ignore the Deng formula. Gone is any discussion of Mao’s wrongs, the Wall Street Journal reported, with the Maoist years only remembered for industrial and technological progress. Also gone is another important Deng formula, which stressed the need for what the party calls collective leadership. His statement that “building a nation’s fate on the reputation of one or two people is very unhealthy and very dangerous” no longer finds mention. Instead, the text says, referring to China’s fifth-generation — and current — leader, Xi Jinping, “Amid ten thousand majestic mountains, there must be a main peak.” Rebels to rulers History, anywhere in the world, is written and rewritten by the victors. Historical narrative is, for rulers, a key source of legitimacy. In China, how the Communist Party tells its history — what it chooses to emphasise, and what it chooses to downplay or entirely leave out — has seen as many twists and turns as the changes it has presided over since coming to power, as it evolved from a revolutionary party to a ruling one. The CPC was founded in 1921 by two Chinese intellectuals, Li Dazhao and Chen Duxiu. The party, in its early years, offered an attractive alternative to young Chinese, especially during the corruption of the Kuomintang period, as it drew inspiration not only from Marx and Lenin, but from the idealism of the May 4, 1919 movement. The Peking University scholar Jiang Shigong, who has grown into one of the more influential intellectuals of the Xi era, described in a 2018 essay the party’s first stage, from 1921 until 1949, as one of revolution and nation-building. The second stage from 1949 to 1978, he wrote rather charitably, was of “standing up”, thanks to the achievements of the Mao years — including land reform and vastly improved health and education — although, in keeping with the recent trend, he ignored the calamities. Reform and revival Regardless of the current tendency to recast the Mao years, it is what Mr. Jiang describes as the third stage (1978-2012) of “getting rich” that turned around the fortunes of a party in crisis. In one sense, 1978 was a far more significant liberation than 1949, as Deng pushed China into the reform era and sought to free it from the two vice-like grips of ideology and one-man totalitarianism. On one of his “spark lighting trips” to push reform in Sichuan in 1978, Deng would, as Ezra Vogel writes in his biography of Deng, mock those who said “if a farmer has three ducks he is socialist, but if he has five ducks he is a capitalist”. “Socialism is not poverty,” he argued, as he made the case for “reform and opening up”. Deng, Vogel argues, was a pragmatist with a knack for changing things without saying he was changing them. He criticised “collective responsibility” as being a system where “no one was responsible” but sang praises to communism. He said “it does not matter if the cat is black or white as long as it catches the mouse” but officially extolled “Mao Zedong Thought” as the party’s abiding ideology. He said “some will get rich first” without saying that economic growth would, inevitably, bring inequality. Deng’s view was simple. “If we can't grow faster than the capitalist countries,” he said, “then we can’t show the superiority of our system”. And grow faster China did. In 1978, China’s GDP was $149 billion, 1.75% of global GDP and only slightly higher than India’s $140 billion. China’s $156 per capita GDP was less than India’s $203. Forty years later, its $12.2 trillion economy would account for 15% of global GDP, grow to five times India’s, and become the world’s second-largest, establishing a once isolated state as a powerhouse of trade and lynchpin of global supply chains. The transition was not without hiccups, and Deng’s liberalisation was firmly limited to matters economic, as the brutal crushing of the 1989 protests would show. Neither was Deng as powerful as Mao, with the continued conservative resistance stalling his reforms process, which were given a second wind after his famous “southern tour” of 1992 that would usher in years of double-digit growth. The Deng legacy of China focusing on growth, while “biding time, hiding brightness” in foreign affairs, was broadly carried forward by his successors, Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao. That famous maxim, too, was among those that no longer merited mention in the party’s latest official history. Growing strong Mr. Jiang, the Peking University scholar, says the current — and fourth — stage of the party’s evolution, starting in 2012 (neatly coinciding with the ascension of Mr. Xi) is about “growing strong”. There is no longer a need to bide or hide. It is a time for resolving the contradictions that emerged from the third phase, from income inequality and calls for political reform to corruption and the absence of ideological tethers for the party, and ending a growing debate within that looked to “pit the Deng Xiaoping era against the Mao Zedong era”. Mr. Jiang justifies the Mao-inspired strongman solution favoured by the current leader, Mr. Xi, who ended two of Deng’s most significant legacies. Collective leadership — as well as the term limits instituted by Deng — has been disbanded, while ideology is back with a bang, with stricter enforcing of what Mr. Xi calls political discipline. Some of the modest freedoms of the Deng, Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao eras are being narrowed. As China opened up to the world, so did its media and universities. Scholars embraced exchanges, while journalists pushed the bar where they could, exposing local-level corruption and power abuses even if the central leadership remained off limits. Today, classrooms and newsrooms are the most controlled they have been since the 1970s. Others, such as Xu Zhangrun at Tsinghua University, disagree, viewing the dismantling of collective leadership and term limits as “a negation of the last 30 years” and ending a system “that afforded the people of China a measure of political certainty and bolstered international confidence that our country seemed on the way to becoming a modern polity”. As the party turns 100, it stares at yet another inflection point in its history, but what the next chapter will say remains anyone’s guess.  In Focus The CPC, founded in 1921 by two Chinese intellectuals, offered in its early years an alternative to young Chinese, especially during the corruption of the Kuomintang period The fortunes of the party turned around during the reform period of Deng Xiaoping, who sought to free China from the two vice-like grips of ideology and one-man totalitarianism Under Xi Jinping, collective leadership — as well as the term limits instituted by Deng — has been disbanded, while ideology is back with a bang   In 1978, China’s GDP was $149 billion, 1.75% of global GDP. Forty years later, its $12.2 trillion economy would account for 15% of global GDP and become the second-largest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/back-to-the-future-for-chinas-communists/article34996524.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||HCs are taking steps to fill vacancies, says CJI||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has written to Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad that the Chief Justices of the High Courts have promised “positive and accelerated action” to fill vacancies of judges in their courts. In his letter, the CJI said that during an interaction, he had impressed on the Chief Justices the “need to expedite the process of sending recommendations through Collegium to fill up the vacancies in the respective High Courts”. “This was in furtherance to my communication addressed to the Chief Justices of all the High Courts soon after I had assumed the Office of the Chief Justice of India. I have been assured of positive and accelerated action by the Chief Justices,” the CJI wrote. He has also asked the Centre to intervene immediately to strengthen network and connectivity in rural and tribal areas. Digital divide In his letter to Mr. Prasad, who is also the Minister for Communications and IT, the CJI said his interaction with the Chief Justices revealed that the digital divide between urban and rural India was adversely affecting the functioning of courts during the pandemic. ICT tools He highlighted the need to augment judicial infrastructure with the latest information and communication technology tools to facilitate access to justice during and after the pandemic. The top judge wrote to the Law Minister that a “blueprint of the proposal to set up the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC) is in the final stages of preparation and will be shared with the Union Government shortly”. “I am of the firm belief that concerted efforts need to be put in, in order to materialise this concept, in view of the challenges put forth by the pandemic,” he wrote. The CJI also asked the government to take up at the highest level certain issues which include augmenting the vaccination of court staff and their families across the country to facilitate “full-scale functioning” of the courts. He said his interaction with the Chief Justices brought to the fore the need to recognise court functionaries, including advocates, as frontline workers for the purpose of providing pandemic-related relief. He flagged a requirement to provide financial support to advocates, especially juniors, who are struggling to make ends meet because of loss of work for more than a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hcs-are-taking-steps-to-fill-vacancies-says-cji/article34996485.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Full statehood for J&K top priority, says CPI(M)||CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, who was among the 14 politicians from Jammu and Kashmir who attended a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, has said restoration of full statehood for Jammu & Kashmir with a Governor remained the top priority. At the meeting, he said Union Home Minister Amit Shah said statehood would be restored at an “appropriate time”. Mr. Tarigami told a group of reporters on Friday that the Prime Minister told the leaders that their concerns had been noted and that the same would not be “ignored”. “What it means, only time will tell,” he said. The gathering was the first such meeting to be organised after the Centre removed the special status of J&K under Article 370 and split the State into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019. Mr. Tarigami said he told the Prime Minister while he appreciated the meeting being held, it would have been better had it been held in July 2019. He said he was “worried” that “national parties are vacillating” regarding Article 370. When asked to clarify, he said some parties supported the government during the debate in Parliament when the special status was revoked and the State reorganised. He said the Home Minister asked the leaders to support the ongoing delimitation process. He said the CPI(M) had not been contacted by the Delimitation Commission yet. “We are more concerned about restoration of original statehood. Election is a routine exercise. Recently, DDC polls were held and we participated in them. We are asking for creating a conducive environment for polls,” he said, when asked if his party would participate in the Assembly election if it was to be held before restoration of statehood. He said the leaders had asked for restoration of civil rights and return of Kashmiri Pandits with dignity and security. He also said Assam had been left out of the delimitation process and Assembly poll was held there recently. “Why can’t elections be held in J&K [before delimitation],” he asked.  Double standards  In another example of apparent double standards, Mr. Tarigami said India was a huge country with diversity and uniqueness. He said Nagaland “feels unique”. “You [government] are talking to them, not bulldozing. Why is the same thing not being followed for J&K?” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said “nothing tangible had emerged” out of the meeting. He said it was a good gesture that the mainstream parties of J&K had attended the meeting. He said it appeared the meeting was called due to international pressures with the U.S. withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan, rather than any domestic compulsions.  We are concerned about restoration of original statehood. Election is a routine exercise M.Y. Tarigami||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/full-statehood-for-jk-top-priority-says-cpim/article34996496.ece
27 June 2021||Chennai,||61.9 lakh vaccine doses given||India administered 61.9 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines until 9 p.m. on Saturday. Madhya Pradesh recorded the highest number of vaccinations (9.7 lakh) followed by Maharashtra (7.2 lakh) and Uttar Pradesh (5.2 lakh). Between June 1 and 25, 39.5 lakh doses were administered daily in India on average. At the current rate, a total of 106.5 crore doses can be administered by December 31, 2021, which is around 81.5 crore doses less than those required to fully vaccinate all adults (188 crore doses). To fully inoculate all adults by the end of this year, 82.4 lakh doses need to be given daily on average in the country. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 60.9 lakh on June 25, which is more than the 33.5 lakh recorded a week before (June 19). Significant rise The figure was also significantly higher than the average daily doses recorded a month before (May 25), which was 21.2 lakh. About 28% of adults in India, 59.1% of those aged above 45 years, and 66.4% of people aged above 60 years, were administered at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 9 p.m. on Saturday. Only 4% of the country’s population is fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. India recorded 46,580 new COVID-19 cases until 9 p.m. on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,02,29,199. As many as 1,222 new deaths were also registered taking the tally to 3,95,747. Kerala leads in cases Kerala reported 12,118 new infections, followed by Maharashtra (9,812) and Tamil Nadu (5,415). Maharashtra recorded 511 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (148) and Kerala (118). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Punjab, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/619-lakh-vaccine-doses-given/article34996506.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A fabled wonder in danger||As a fabled wonder of the natural world, Australia’s Great Barrier Reef and its diversity of marine life ranging from corals to whales found a place on UNESCO’s World Heritage List in 1981. Made up of a couple of thousand individual reefs off the continent’s northeastern coast, it has a geological history going back an estimated 23 million years to the Miocene epoch, and has survived many challenges. The GBR is about 2,300 km long and extends across a breathtaking 346,000 sq. km. area, hosting an assemblage of fishes and invertebrates in the reefs, dugongs, green turtles and other species in seagrass meadows, and sharks, rays, anemones, sponges, worms and myriad other forms all of which need a delicate ecological balance to thrive. Idyllic as it appears, the reef system faces severe environmental threats, and this year, the World Heritage Committee has sounded a warning by drawing up a resolution to inscribe the reef on the 'List of World Heritage in Danger'. The Committee took note of the 2019 Outlook Report of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, which says in no uncertain terms that the long-term state of the ecosystem has further deteriorated from poor to very poor. At the heart of the crisis is climate change, which has led to three big events of coral bleaching in 2016, 2017 and 2020. UNESCO’s move to list the GBR as ‘in danger’ brings pressure on Australia’s governmentto review its record on responding to climate change. As a continent that has recorded a rise in its average temperature by 1.4 degrees C since 1910, the devastating fires of 2019-20 were another wake-up call on climate change aggravating extreme events. Destructive impacts The World Heritage Committee resolution calls upon Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s government to heed the conclusions of the Outlook Report, particularly on accelerated action needed to address climate change with the Paris Agreement goals in focus. The updated Reef 2050 Plan that the country is pursuing for conservation should incorporate this. Further, the government should stop destructive impacts of human activity such as land-based and farm run-off that has polluted waters, coastal development and other commercial uses, it adds. The World Heritage Centre, the administrative body, had sent a letter to Australia in 2019 raising concerns “about the approval of the Carmichael Coal Mine”, a controversial project with impacts for the reef and the climate, to which it got a response noting “that the project’s approval is subject to over 180 regulatory conditions and that compliance with these conditions will be monitored.” Canberra’s response to the UNESCO Committee’s move was to allege a conspiracy, hinting at pressure from China, which holds the chairmanship of the panel. Close scrutiny of the GBR shows a variety of ecological impacts from environmental stresses, including climate change. The Outlook Report records harm to “the abundance and health of many species groups, including corals, invertebrates, some bony fishes, marine turtles and seabirds” from the rising sea temperatures and thermal extremes due to global warming. It adds that since 2014, there has been widespread and significant declines in many coral species. In 2018, coral larvae declined by 89% averaged across the region, arising from consecutive bleaching events, as the adult broodstock was reduced. Warmer temperatures led to “feminisation of green turtles originating from nesting beaches in the northern Region, potentially leading to significant scarcity or absence of adult males in the future”. Coral growth is also endangered by the proliferation of crown-of-thorns starfish, which consumes them. Some relief is available from the reported recovery of humpback whales, and slow gain in southern populations of green turtles. Urban coastal dugong populations also show an improved breeding rate. But overall, the reef is under threat. A magnet for eco-tourists, the vast expanse coloured by algal hues draws thousands annually. The report says that in 2015-16, tourism, fishing, recreational uses and scientific activities contributed an estimated $6.4 billion to the Australian economy, a rise of about 14% since 2011-12. Without resolute action on climate and pollution threats, though, all sectors stand to lose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-fabled-wonder-in-danger/article34996520.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A diverse coalition||The People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a group of five political parties in Jammu and Kashmir, was in the spotlight on June 24 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi met leaders from eight political parties in J&K, the first such meeting since the erstwhile semi-autonomous State was split into two Union Territories (UT) of J&K and Ladakh and its special status was taken away on August 5, 2019. Otherwise sworn rivals in the battleground of electoral politics, the five parties — the National Conference (NC), the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), the People’s Conference (PC), the Awami National Conference (ANC), the CPI(M) and the J&K People’s Movement — forged the alliance on October 15, 2020. The sole motive of the alliance, according to its head Farooq Abdullah, “is to fight for the restoration of the August 4, 2019 position”. The journey of the Gupkar Alliance, as the PAGD is widely called, has already witnessed many ups and downs. It was after the sundown of August 3, 2019 that the PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti started visiting her rivals’ houses amid speculation that the Centre was planning something big. J&K’s political class was clueless then and could not read the reasons for the unprecedented security measures taken by the Centre in the State, such as asking tourists to leave and stopping the Amarnath yatra in the middle. On August 4, 2019, the Gupkar declaration was signed at the residence of Mr. Abdullah, located on Srinagar’s Gupkar Road, by eight political parties, including the Congress. The 169-word declaration unanimously resolved to protect the identity, autonomy and special special status of J&K, fight against modification or abrogation of Articles 35A, 370 and oppose any bid to carry out the unconstitutional delimitation or trifurcation of J&K. “It (such actions) would be an aggression against the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh,” the declaration reads. All the leaders sought an audience with the President and the PM but failed. Finally, Prime Minister Modi met the Gupkar Alliance leaders on Thursday, but only after the government put them in jail for eight to 13 months, with Ms. Mufti, Mr. Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah booked under the controversial Public Safety Act. The incarceration, however, seemed to have cemented the bond between the local rivals who nursed a deep sense of hurt, betrayal and despair. DDC elections Despite many second-rung leaders and workers remaining in jails, the Gupkar Alliance emerged a formidable force during the District Development Council (DDC) polls in J&K in November-December 2020, amid allegations that the State machinery favoured BJP candidates during the campaigning. In the run-up to the polls, Union Home Minister Amit Shah even termed the alliance ‘Gupkar Gang’, which became a catchphrase for the electioneering carried out by top BJP leaders. When results came in, the alliance won 110 out of 280 segments, while the BJP managed to win only 75. The results and the alliance’s domination in most districts of Kashmir as well as in Jammu may have contributed to the softening of the Centre’s approach towards the grouping. The Gupkar Alliance first saw the Congress distancing itself in 2020 because it did not want to be seen clamouring for Article 370, which would have impacted the party’s electoral prospects in the rest of the country. They suffered another setback when Sajad Lone, who was the alliance spokesman, decided to quit the group, alleging “the partners fought against each other during the DDC polls”. Omar Abdullah also started maintaining a conspicuous absence from the amalgam’s key meetings in recent months. The alliance is now reduced to three key faces: Farooq Abdullah, Ms. Mufti and M.Y. Tarigami of the CPI(M). The trio is both the binding and frictional force within the group, with each leader professing politics contrarian to each other. The meeting with the PM was both an opportunity and a challenge for the alliance. It’s an opportunity because the Centre reached out to them and they could push for their declared goals with the government. It’s a challenge because there would be questions whether the decision to meet the leaders who ended the special status to J&K yielded any tangible result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-diverse-coalition/article34996522.ece
27 June 2021||Mumbai,||ED arrests Deshmukh’s two aides||Former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday sought more time to appear before Enforcement Directorate officials after the agency issued a summons to him in a money laundering case. Mr. Deshmukh’s lawyer submitted the request before the ED. Earlier, the central investigation agency arrested Mr. Deshmukh’s personal assistant Kundan Shinde and his former personal secretary Sanjeev Palande. The agency called them for questioning on Friday and arrested them around 1 a.m. They will be presented before the court to seek their custody for further investigation. New summons According to ED sources, a new summons will be issued to Mr. Deshmukh and he will be called for interrogation next week. On Friday, the agency searched the houses of Mr. Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur and his official residence, “Dyaneshwari”, which he is yet to vacate after resigning as Minister. The agency searched the houses of Mr. Shinde and Mr. Palande. Both were later taken to the agency’s office where they were questioned and arrested. These searches come weeks after the Central Bureau of Investigation conducted searched the houses and properties of Mr. Deshmukh and his aides. According to ED sources, the agency is following a trail of Rs. 4 crore which is believed to be the money given to Mr. Deshmukh by 12 bar owners in Mumbai. The sources allege that the money was deposited in the accounts of shell companies and diverted to the accounts of establishments related to Mr. Deshmukh. The former Minister has already said that he is cooperating with the agency and has nothing to hide. It all started after former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged in his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Mr. Deshmukh directed former assistant police inspector Sachin Waze to collect Rs. 100 crore from hotel and bar owners in Mumbai. The Bombay High Court directed the CBI to launch an investigation after which Mr. Deshmukh resigned. Following the preliminary inquiry, the CBI filed an FIR against Mr. Deshmukh and subsequently the ED started its own independent investigation. Last week, the ED recorded a statement of one Mumbai police officer who works in the enforcement wing of the force. The officer was earlier posted with the social service branch of the police and was part of a team which searched several pubs, hookah parlours, dance bars, bars and restaurants. Sources said that several more police officers are likely to be questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-deshmukhs-two-aides/article34996476.ece
27 June 2021||Srinagar,||Why does J&K delimitation exercise matter?||The Jammu and Kashmir delimitation exercise took centre stage at the June 24 talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and political leaders from the Union Territory, especially those from the Gupkar alliance. The much-awaited process is likely to add seven more constituencies to the current 83-member Assembly ahead of the promised election. Despite a freeze brought in by the government of then Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah both in the State Assembly as well as in the Supreme Court in 2002 on such process till 2026, the J&K Delimitation Commission came into existence under provisions of Part V of the J&K Reorganization Act, 2019, and Delimitation Act, 2002, passed by the Centre in August 2019 along with other J&K-specific Bills. Prior to August 5, 2019, carving out of Assembly seats was carried out under the J&K Constitution and the Jammu and Kashmir Representation of the People Act, 1957. J&K saw the last delimitation exercise in 1994-95, after 22 years, which resulted in an increase in the number of Assembly constituencies from 76 to 87. The Jammu region saw an increase of five seats (from 32 to 37), the Kashmir region an increase of four seats (from 42 to 46) and Ladakh two seats (from two to four). The State as a whole had a total of 111 seats, with 24 reserved and vacant for Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). J&K would hold elections to 87 seats, including four from Ladakh, after a six-year term, unlike the rest of the country where Assemblies have a five-year term. What changed? Post August 5, 2019, and the split of the State into two Union Territories, the complexion of Assembly changed and the Union Territory of Ladakh seats were declared void, reducing the strength of the J&K Assembly to 83 from 87. The Delimitation Commission, headed by retired Supreme Court Judge Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai, was constituted on March 6, 2020, to delineate seven more constituencies based on the 2001 census — even though the fresh census is due this year — taking the strength of seats to 90. All the five MPs from the UT of J&K, two from the BJP and three from the National Conference are its members. The Commission, which was granted a one-year term to complete the exercise till March year, was granted an extension. The extension was necessitated after the NC boycotted the Commission's meeting on February 18 this year, saying the entire Reorganisation Act, 2019 was under a judicial scrutiny for being “palpably unconstitutional and enacted in disregard and violation of mandate and spirit of the Constitution of India”. On the other hand, the BJP MPs suggested considering other elements other than population like physical features, existing boundaries of administrative units, facilities of communication and public convenience while delineating new constituencies. What is the BJP’s agenda? According to Aijaz Ashraf Wani, Senior Assistant Professor of Political Science, University of Kashmir, the BJP has been proposing the removal of special status and delimitation exercise for many years. “Abrogation of J&K’s special constitutional position has been achieved. It does not want to miss the delimitation process for its set timelines. It may not have any significant value electorally but has a high rhetoric value for the party in the Jammu region, where its vote base is,” Professor Wani said. Though there is a set formula for carving out new constituencies, the BJP will only gain if the seats are increased in the districts where it is dominating the political scene like the Samba-Kathua-Jammu-Udhampur belt. “Though it seems out of seven [new seats], there is by and large chances of equal distribution between the Kashmir region and the Jammu region,” Mr. Wani said. He said the delimitation process will become a major poll plank for the BJP in the polls to highlight how it tried to break the domination of the Kashmir region by increasing seats in the Jammu region. However, many in Jammu are of the opinion that it will be for the first time the Scheduled Tribes will get reservation in the J&K Assembly. What is link with poll? Constitutionally, Mr. Wani said, there is no correlation between the two exercises, delimitation and elections. “Both are independent exercises. However, the BJP wants to put a sequence to it,” he added. Experts suggested that the delimitation talks, which was put at the centre of the talks recently, is an issue with the BJP and the NC, because only these two parties have MPs from J&K. Thereby, other political parties, like the Peoples Democratic Party or the Congress with no MP, has no locus standi in the exercise. Why has NC agreed to be part of it? Mr. Wani said the NC understood that the process may not change electoral dynamics significantly. “By attending the process, NC will lend credibility to the final report. Why they agreed to be part of the process that they questioned earlier is not known?” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-does-jk-delimitation-exercise-matter/article34996501.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sidhu’s tweet hints at a possible patch-up in Punjab Congress||A tweet from dissident Congress leader and former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday indicates a possible compromise in the faction-ridden Punjab Congress. Responding to an allegation from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sukhbir Singh Badal that Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh was following Rahul Gandhi’s directive to implicate SAD leadership in false cases, Mr. Sidhu claimed justice in the sacrilege case was “inching” forward under a new Special Investigation Team (SIT). “6 Yrs since sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib Ji.. No Justice in 2 yrs of your rule.. No Justice in the following 4.5 yrs.. Today, New SIT inches closer to Justice for Punjab’s Soul & you cry of political interference.. Political interference was that which delayed Justice by 6 yrs,” Mr. Sidhu said on Twitter. Crucial timing The timing of Mr. Sidhu’s tweet is as significant as its content. It comes just days after the SIT questioned former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal, and Mr. Sidhu claimed that the Amarinder Singh government was shielding the Badals. Mr. Sidhu’s tweets could give the Congress a way out as the leadership is learnt to have told the Punjab Chief Minister to show visible action not just on the sacrilege issue but also against the liquor, sand and transport mafia operating in the State. In another tweet, the dissident Congress leader asked his government what it had done against Bikram Singh Majithia, who was blamed for being involved a drug racket when the Akalis were in power. “To DGP [Director General Police] ... What have you done about Majithia? About those who gave political facilitation & protection to set-up Chemical Drug Factory in Punjab? What is action taken on Big fish mentioned in STF report sent by Hon High Court to Govt? Thus today he threatens to put cases on us,” the cricketer-turned-politician said. Keen on united face While there is no unanimity among Punjab leaders on making Mr. Sidhu the Punjab Congress chief — a post he is sought to have wanted — the Congress leadership is keen to present a united face going into the 2022 Assembly election. In this context, through the week the former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has met several leaders including the incumbent Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar, Punjab ministers Brahm Mohindra, Balbir Sidhu, Vijay Inder Singla and Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari (all close to Capt. Amarinder) as well as detractor Samsher Singh Dullo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhus-tweet-hints-at-a-possible-patch-up-in-punjab-congress/article34996503.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army Aviation raises tempo in operations along LAC||While the Army’s repeated attempts to replace its ageing fleet of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters continue, there has been a quantum jump in the employment of helicopters of the Army Aviation in the last one year along the northern borders during the ongoing standoff, according to defence sources. “The recent induction of third generation night navigation goggles provides our helicopters with the requisite capability to operate almost during the entire moon phase. Adding to this capability, the recent induction of fresh lot of ammunition for the fleet of Rudra, weaponised variant of Advanced Light Helicopters (ALH), also ensured a quantum jump in terms of capability of the Army Aviation helicopters,” one defence source said. “The growth of Army Aviation has been exponential in the past one year or so.” During the ongoing standoff and recent tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Army Aviation assets were deployed all along as a proactive stance giving troops on ground the much needed surveillance support and confidence in terms of available fire support, the source said. Surveillance system The Army has 90 ALH and 75 Rudra helicopters in service which are indigenously designed and developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). Very soon, the Army Aviation is also likely to induct a surveillance downlink system, anti-aircraft missiles, countermeasures against missile systems, new generation surveillance pods among others which will enhance the existing role to manifold, the source stated. The Army Aviation is also gearing up for some major inductions in the next couple of years including the AH-64 Apache, considered as the world’s best attack helicopter. These helicopters will be delivered as early as 2023 and will be operational within a year, the source said adding, “This massive game changer will ensure that the western borders are well secured.” The Army will soon also receive the indigenous Light Combat helicopter (LCH) from HAL. HAL has received the letter of intent for five IAF and five Army LCH for delivery pending contract finalisation of 15 limited series production variants, a HAL source said. “In the current year, we are producing four LCH for Army and two for IAF.” In addition, to augment its surveillance capabilities along the LAC, the Army has recently leased four Heron-TP Medium Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) from Israel Aircraft Industries. Two UAVs would be delivered by August and remaining two by year end, two defence sources confirmed. Heron-TP is an advanced version of the Heron’s in service with the forces. It is satellite communication enabled and can fly up to an altitude of 45,000 feet and has an endurance of over 30 hours. However, about 75% of the Army’s fleet of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters, which are its mainstay, is over 30 years old and some of them are about 50 years old. The Ka-226T utility helicopter deal with Russia along with the indigenous Light Utility Helicopter (LUH) is meant to replace them has been held for several years over the percentage of indigenisation. However, the Army is now hoping for some progress in the coming few weeks on the long-delayed deal, another source said adding, it is making a pitch to procure a small number of Ka-226T helicopters. Rifle deal With the visit of Mr. Putin in the works for year end for the annual summit, there are expectations that this deal along with other held up proposals like the AK-203 assault rifle deal will get a push, a third source said. At present, the Army is holding 160 of the 246 Cheetah and Chetak helicopters with a serviceability rate of 60%. Of these about 75% are over 30 years old and some about 50 years. In addition, around 20 helicopters are with HAL for overhaul for around a year at any point of time. As reported by The Hindu earlier, the technical life of these helicopters will start finishing from 2023 onwards which will only further exacerbate the deficiencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-aviation-raises-tempo-in-operations-along-lac/article34996508.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No immediate threat from Delta Plus in places that had Delta outbreaks’||Anurag Agrawal , Director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR), Delhi, speaks on the Delta variant of the coronavirus being a global concern, the impact of mutation on the efficacy of vaccines, the cause of mutation in a virus and the difference between a strain and variant of a virus.  What is the Delta variant? How is it different from the Delta Plus variant? Why has it become a global concern? A mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2, B.1.617.2 is now named the Delta variant. It has mutations in its spike protein, which makes it more transmissible and able to evade immunity. It has already spread to 80 countries across the world. After India, now it is spreading fast in the U.K., some States in the U.S., Singapore and southern China. When the Delta variant develops additional mutations of possible importance, it is called Delta Plus. As of now, the K417N mutation, which was previously seen in the Beta variant, is what people usually mean when they say Delta Plus. This is not a Delta/Beta hybrid, but a case of convergent evolution where mutations develop independently. The more correct name is AY.1 or AY.2. In my opinion, regions that have already suffered from Delta outbreaks should not have a major problem with Delta Plus, since I expect there to be reasonable cross-neutralisation of Delta Plus by antibodies raised against Delta. Thus, I do not see an immediate threat or any reason to panic. Delta Plus is not rising faster than Delta in the previous month, so that is somewhat confirmatory. However, the Central government is keeping a close watch, since any Delta sub-lineage is a variant of concern meriting further investigation. Are we going to see a third wave soon as some are predicting? A viral outbreak begins by infecting the most exposed or vulnerable population in an area and then spreads by infecting more and more people who are susceptible. People who get the infection and recover develop some natural immunity against the virus. Then, there are people who acquire immunity post vaccination. When enough people become immune resistant, the virus cannot propagate easily and cases diminish. After some time, when the immunity fades or the virus evolves to evade it, the virus strikes back and starts spreading again. You may call this cycle a wave. If we look at the entire country, we cannot say that the recent wave was just a second wave. For example, in Delhi, it was the fourth wave — the first in June last year, then in September, followed by one in November, and now. Many people want to know when there will be the next surge. I don’t think it will come anytime soon as the Delta variant caused this surge across the country. A majority of people will have immunity against it right now. So, while I expect localised outbreaks, I don’t expect a big national wave anytime soon. Of course, if the virus mutates drastically to evade this immunity and, more importantly, if people lower their guard as they did a few months back, there could certainly be another wave. Right now, vaccination is going on fast, viral evolution takes time and we are tracking the mutations, so I am hopeful that the size of future waves can be kept small. Do remember that the virus is still there and while we have some time, we must use it well. So, we need to take reasonable precautions and promote vaccination, but not panic. How does mutation impact the efficacy of the vaccines? And what leads to mutation in a virus? Some mutations on the virus’s spike protein may not allow the antibodies developed after immunisation to bind to it. In such cases, the mutant can escape the immunity and cause disease. So far, currently available vaccines are efficient to prevent severe disease by mutants but have reduced effectiveness in preventing infection. When a virus multiplies in a host’s body, it makes millions of copies. But some copies are not perfect replicas, they develop some differences, which are termed as mutations. The ability to escape human immunity makes some mutations advantageous. These may then propagate better than parent lineages. What are double mutations or triple mutations in a virus? Does India track mutations through genome sequencing? Why is it important? These are wrong choices of words used to oversimplify things. All current lineages carry many mutations. But only a few mutations, which lead to more infections or increase the severity of the disease, matter. What is the difference between a strain and a variant of a virus? Technically, it is one strain until there is a very major change in the virus, which is not yet the case. Variant or lineage is a better word to describe mutations in a virus that are leading to the changes being seen. Does it mean scientists will have to invent new vaccines for each mutation happening? We don’t need to redesign the vaccine for every mutation. Some, for example, E484K mutants, may need tweaks to the vaccine. We are already seeing such versions for mRNA vaccines. Do vaccines that are currently available in India give protection against mutant COVID-19 virus? Yes, all available vaccines are protecting against severe disease. Mutations in a virus are inevitable. There is no need to panic. People need to take precautions and follow COVID appropriate behaviour (CAB). CAB is effective against all mutations. Also, as said earlier, vaccines are protecting against severe disease.  The Central government is keeping a close watch, since any Delta sub-lineage is a variant of concern||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-immediate-threat-from-delta-plus-in-places-that-had-delta-outbreaks/article34996518.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Greece seek respect for territorial integrity||India and Greece have held discussions over the situation in Cyprus during the visit of External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to Athens. The Ministry of External Affairs said both sides emphasised upon respect of sovereignty and territorial integrity by all members of the international community. “Both sides discussed the recent developments pertaining to the Eastern Mediterranean, Cyprus and Libya. They agreed that the rule of law and respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity are fundamental principles of international relations and must be observed by all,” said a joint press release issued by the MEA on the discussions that Mr. Jaishankar has held with his counterpart Nikos Dendias. The condition in nearby Republic of Cyprus has become tense in the backdrop of Ankara’s plan to mark the anniversary of 1974 invasion of the island by Turkish forces. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is expected to visit Northern Cyprus, also known as the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, on July 20 to celebrate the birth of the northern Turkish Cypriot entity. The visit has drawn opposition from the Republic of Cyprus as well as from the EU that has urged him to avoid escalating tension in the region. The reference to Cyprus and principles of international relations in MEA’s statement indirectly refer to the role of Turkey concerning several issues that are relevant to India and Greece. Turkey has refused to tow the Indian line on issues like Kashmir and has emerged as one of the frontrunners in managing the emerging situation in Afghanistan. It has repeatedly supported the Pakistani position on Kashmir drawing strong protest from India. Mr. Dendias signed and handed over the Agreement on the International Solar Alliance (ISA) to the visiting side. Both sides agreed that this will assist the two countries in realisation of the energy goals set by the respective governments to make renewable energy and significant part of the energy supply, the MEA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-greece-seek-respect-for-territorial-integrity/article34996478.ece
27 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Oxygen concentrators from U.S. benefit Rajasthan villagers||Oxygen concentrators supplied by the Association of Indians in America (AIA) have benefited the COVID-19 patients in the remote areas of Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district. The machines were sent to primary health centres in the villages, where the COVID-19 care centres were also established by the Medical and Health Department. A total of 60 oxygen concentrators were sent in May-end and first week of June, during the second wave of the pandemic, in Nadbai, Kumher, Pahadi, Kaman, Bayana and Sewar blocks of Bharatpur district. While a large number of patients have recovered with the use of machines, some of them are still being used. Eleven machines were kept at the block offices of Lupin Foundation, which has been working in the district’s rural areas for over three decades, to provide emergency services at the doorsteps of villagers. Eight COVID-19 care centres were inaugurated in various blocks in the presence of MLAs from the respective constituencies. Lupin Foundation's executive director Sita Ram Gupta said on Saturday that the oxygen concentrators had helped save lives of a large number of patients, who were facing difficulty in breathing. “This assistance from the U.S. turned out to be a blessing in region where the health facilities were in shambles,” Mr. Gupta said. AIA thanked The district administration profusely thanked AIA president Urmilesh Arya, hailing from Bharatpur district’s Ballabhgarh village, for the philanthropic gesture. Mr. Gupta suggested that the COVID-19 care centres be established in the localities at some distance from the community health centres to protect the villagers coming for treatment of other diseases from the COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oxygen-concentrators-from-us-benefit-rajasthan-villagers/article34996942.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||CJI cites a letter that showed him the way||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday said a letter from a former Supreme Court judge, at the time of his appointment as top judge, to act with courage in “these testing days”, became the road map for his tenure. “I feel that this message is indeed the road map for my journey as the Chief Justice of India. I shall treasure this message forever,” Chief Justice Ramana said of the letter from former Supreme Court judge Justice R.V. Raveendran. The Chief Justice was speaking on Saturday at the virtual launch of Anomalies in Law and Justice , a book authored by Justice Raveendran. Testing days Chief Justice Ramana read out Justice Raveendran’s letter, which said, “These are difficult days. Challenging days. Testing days. Being a Chief Justice requires courage to act, commitment to the cause of justice, concern for the common man, tact to deal with and obtain the cooperation of the brother judges in addition to the qualities expected of a judge. You possess all of them in abundance. Let the almighty lead you to a purposeful, meaningful and successful tenure.” Chief Justice Ramana referred to Justice Raveendran’s rise to the top court from a humble background, with “no family pedigree in the profession”. The CJI is also a first-generation lawyer. Chief Justice Ramana took a leaf from Justice Raveendran’s legacy in the Supreme Court. Low profile “He never tried, or made an attempt, to project himself as the saviour of the judicial process. He continued to be humble and believed that the office which he held did not exist for himself... He believed in the dictum, as Lord Denning said, ‘that the best judge is one who is less known and seen in the media’,” Chief Justice Ramana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-cites-a-letter-that-showed-him-the-way/article34996492.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Activists seek 50 more days of work under NREGA||More than 2 lakh rural households have already completed their guaranteed 100 days of employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme within the first three months of the financial year, according to the scheme’s database. This is higher than seen at the same time last year, indicating even higher demand for work than 2020-21’s unprecedented levels. Given the high rates of rural job loss due to the COVID-19 pandemic, activists belonging to the NREGA Sangharsh Morcha wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, asking for an additional 50 days of work to be provided under the scheme, with funding allocated from the disaster management budget. The MGNREGA scheme guarantees 100 days of non-skilled employment for every rural household each year, and proved a lifeline for migrant workers and families hit by the COVID-19 lockdown last summer. In acknowledgement of the disaster, the Centre increased MGNREGA funding by Rs. 40,000 crore for 2020-21. However, funding is back to pre-COVID-19 levels this year, with the Centre arguing that there has been no nationwide lockdown. However, the MGNREGA database shows that this year’s demand may be even higher than last year’s. As on June 26, 2.17 lakh rural households have already completed their 100 day quota and will not be able to seek any more work from MGNREGA this year. Last year, The Hindu had reported in the first week of July that 1.4 lakh households had completed their 100 day quota within the first quarter. (During early April 2020, most MGNREGA worksites were shut down across the country, resulting in low levels of work provided.) Throughout 2020-21, an unprecedented 72 lakh households completed 100 days of work. If the trend of the first quarter continues, this year will see an even higher number of families who run out of work under the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activists-seek-50-more-days-of-work-under-nrega/article34996509.ece
27 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Ayodhya etched in the mind of every Indian, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described Ayodhya as a city that is “etched in the cultural consciousness of every Indian”, and said coming generations should feel the desire to visit the town in Uttar Pradesh at least once in their life time. Ayodhya should manifest the finest of Indian traditions and the best of its developmental transformations, Mr. Modi said in a virtual meeting with U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to review the development projects in the town. ‘City for every Indian’ Mr. Modi hailed Ayodhya as a city by and for every Indian. He said the way Lord Ram had the ability to bring people together, the development works of Ayodhya should be guided by a spirit of healthy public participation, specially by the youth, government sources said after the meeting. The Prime Minister also spoke about blending identity with infrastructure. “It is our collective endeavour to celebrate the identity of Ayodhya and keep its cultural vibrancy alive through innovative ways,” he was quoted as saying by sources. In the meeting, government officials made a presentation on the various aspects of Ayodhya's development, which is being envisaged as a spiritual centre, global tourism hub and a sustainable Smart City, the PMO later said. The PM was also informed about various upcoming and proposed infrastructure projects to improve connectivity with Ayodhya. An upcoming Greenfield township was discussed which includes lodging facilities for devotees, space for ashrams, mutts, hotels and bhavans of various States. A tourist facilitation centre and a world class museum will also be built, added the PMO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ayodhya-etched-in-the-mind-of-every-indian-says-pm/article34996498.ece
27 June 2021||Dehradun,||Experts oppose decision to open Corbett, Rajaji round the year||Wildlife experts in Uttarakhand on Saturday strongly opposed the State government’s decision to open Corbett and Rajaji tiger reserves for visitors all round-the-year, saying it amounts to cruelty to the animal world. “The rule to close tiger reserves for around four months from June to mid November every year was framed after considering all aspects. Opening them for visitors round-the-year just for income generation will be an act of cruelty to animals. We will oppose the decision legally and on all other platforms to ensure that it is withdrawn in the interest of wildlife,” former wildlife warden for Nainital Dinesh Pandey said. Wildlife tourism is not open round-the-year anywhere in India or abroad, he said. Uttarakhand’s Forest and Environment Minister Harak Singh Rawat recently announced that Corbett and Rajaji tiger reserves will now remain open for visitors throughout the year. 5-month closure The two tiger reserves whose major parts are located in Nainital and Haridwar districts, respectively remain closed to visitors every year from June 30 to mid November. “The State government should review its decision to open the tiger reserves throughout the year because monsoon is also the mating season for a number of wild animals, including elephants, who roam freely around the forests in search of a mate. Movement of both animals and humans in the wild during the season may also give rise to man-animal conflict situations,” State Head of the Wildlife Protection Society of India Rajendra Agarwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/experts-oppose-decision-to-open-corbett-rajaji-round-the-year/article34996940.ece
27 June 2021||Kolkata,||WB sets up panel to probe fake vaccination||West Bengal government on Saturday set up an expert committee to examine the effect of fake vaccination administered to the people and take corrective action. Hundreds have been administered fake vaccines at camps set up by Debanjab Deb, who posed as an IAS officer and official of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The four-member committee has been tasked with submitting a detailed report immediately. During the day, the West Bengal Health Department organised health camps for people who had been administered fake vaccines. Doctors said there were no serious reactions to the fake vaccines. Primary investigation has revealed that people were administered antibiotic Amikacin instead of vaccines. Meanwhile, the Kolkata police have arrested three more persons in connection with the scam. They have been identified as Sushanta Das, Rabin Sikdar and Santanu Manna, and, according to police, they aided Debanjan Deb in opening bank accounts. Former Kolkata Mayor and Chairman of Board of Administrators Firhad Hakim said that anyone, including officials of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, found to be involved in the scam will not be spared. Mr. Hakim wondered how the banks could allow the fraudsters to open and operate a bank account in the name of KMC. A special investigation team has been set up to investigate the scam and officers from Kolkata Police’s Detective Department were charged with leading the investigation. Several people, including businessmen, have lodged complaints against Debanjan Deb, son of a retired bureaucrat, who had for months pretended to be the joint commissioner of the KMC. The police have also questioned businessmen who provided holograms of KMC to him. In the past 24 hours, another case against the accused was registered by a contractor who alleged that he was cheated of Rs. 90 lakh. A pharma company also alleged that Mr. Deb duped the firm. The fake vaccination racket was busted after Trinamool Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty raised an alarm after she did not receive any message or certificate after getting vaccinated at one such camp in Kasba area of the city, a few days ago. Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly Suvendu Adhikari has written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan demanding that a probe by a central agency should be conducted in the fake vaccine scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wb-sets-up-panel-to-probe-fake-vaccination/article34996511.ece
27 June 2021||United Nations/Geneva,||Delta variant most transmissible: WHO||The Delta variant of COVID-19, identified in at least 85 countries, is the “most transmissible” of the variants identified so far and is spreading rapidly among unvaccinated populations, World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has warned. “I know that globally there is currently a lot of concern about the Delta variant, and the WHO is concerned about it, too,” Director-General Ghebreyesus said at a WHO press briefing on Friday. The Delta variant was first identified in India. “Delta is the most transmissible of the variants identified so far, has been identified in at least 85 countries, and is spreading rapidly among unvaccinated populations,” he said in Geneva. He noted with concern that as some countries ease public health and social measures, “We are starting to see increases in transmission around the world.” “More cases means more hospitalisations, further stretching health workers and health systems, which increases the risk of death,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delta-variant-most-transmissible-who/article34996513.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Army Aviation raises tempo in ops along LAC||However, the Army is now hoping for some progress in the coming few weeks on the long-delayed deal, another source said, adding that it is making a pitch to procure a small number of Ka-226T helicopters. Putin visit With the visit of Russian President Vladimir Putin in the works for year end for the annual summit, there are expectations that this deal along with other held up proposals like the AK-203 assault rifle deal will get a push, a third source said. At present, the Army is holding 160 of the 246 Cheetah and Chetak helicopters with a serviceability rate of 60%. In addition, around 20 helicopters are with HAL for overhaul for around a year at any point of time. As reported by The Hindu earlier, the technical life of these helicopters will start finishing from 2023 onwards, which will only further exacerbate the deficiencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-aviation-raises-tempo-in-ops-along-lac/article34996936.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Omar seeks delimitation, statehood before polls||Keeping his cards close to his chest on the participation of the three NC members of Parliament in the Delimitation Commission, Mr. Abdullah said, “Dr. (Farooq Abdullah) Sahib is to take the view as and when necessary. There has been no fresh approach from the Delimitation Commission. As and when Commission makes an approach, Dr. Sahib will take the view. We will convey our stand to the Commission.” He said all the Gupkar alliance members made it clear that “they don’t accept August 5, 2019 decisions”. The former Chief Minister made it clear that the struggle to restore J&K’s special status is a long one. “It took BJP 70 years to fulfil its agenda. If it takes us 70 weeks or 70 months, or whatever time it takes, we will not retract from our mission,” Mr. Abdullah said. He said the Prime Minister listened to the stand of the members of the Gupkar alliance. “We conveyed to him that people are unhappy,” he said. Mr. Abdullah said the people of Kashmir were facing an “unchecked bureaucracy”. NC president Farooq Abdullah described the meeting with Mr. Modi as “very good” and said people should wait to see if the Centre was ready to remove mistrust existing on the ground in J&K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omar-seeks-delimitation-statehood-before-polls/article34996483.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||186 cr. doses needed to cover all over 18: Centre||“The total population of the county aged 18 and above is 93-94 crore,” the government affidavit, filed through Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, said. “Administering two doses to these beneficiaries would require an estimated 186 to188 crore vaccine doses… 51.6 crore doses will be made available for administration by July 31, leaving a requirement of approximately 135 crore vaccine doses for complete vaccination to the eligible population.” “The vaccination drive would obviously get a boost if the Government of India succeeds in its attempts to procure vaccines available outside India such as Pfizer, Johnson &Johnson, Moderna, etc,” the government said. The goverment also said that the Zydus Cadila vaccine may be made available to children aged between 12 and 18 in the “near future”. The Centre said the States are free to fix their own priorities for vaccine coverage and supply schedules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/186-cr-doses-needed-to-cover-all-over-18-centre/article34996486.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers complete 7 months of protest||Farmers successfully delivered the memorandum to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and his Himachal Pradesh counterpart Bandaru Dattatreya, and to designated officials at the Raj Bhavans in Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. In Delhi, though protesters were originally detained at Civil Lines and held at the Wazirabad Police Training Centre, they were later able to hold a brief virtual meeting with the Lt. Governor and hand over the memorandum to a representative. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated his appeal to farmers to “end their agitation.” Posting a video statement on Twitter, he said the Centre was also “ready to discuss and to resolve any provision of the laws” which the farmers were protesting against. However, the farmers are insistent on demanding a full repeal, “as there are fundamental flaws in the laws and their very objectives”. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted his support for the protesters. “It’s simple. We are with the Satyagrahi Annadata,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-complete-7-months-of-protest/article34996487.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. ramps up alert on Delta Plus variant||“The Ministry has written to Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Punjab, Haryana, J&K, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh where some districts have this variant,” he said. Doctors across India have also cautioned against any relaxation in adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour. Archana Dhawan Bajaj, director, Nurture IVF said that the Delta variant has been labeled as ‘Variant of Concern’ by World Health Organisation (WHO) for multiple reasons. “Delta variant is more resistant to medication, treatment, and vaccination. Therefore, people who have been vaccinated can still be affected by this variant and can go on to get the clinical illness. Neutralising antibodies against this variant post-vaccination seem to be nearly five times lower in people who have already been vaccinated than the other variants,” she said.  “Vaccinations specific against variants like Delta variant need to be synthesised or manufactured and rolled out on an urgent basis. If this variant is not controlled in a timely manner, this could lead to a rapidly occurring ferocious third wave of the COVID pandemic. Delta Plus variant has been instrumental in causing a new wave of COVID pandemic in the UK and parts of U.S. There are concerns that it can bypass vaccine immunity, a phenomenon called immune escape. Countries like India with a big population size are always at risk of having extensive effects,” said Arunesh Kumar, HOD, Paras Chest Institute and senior pulmonologist, Paras Hospital, Gurugram. With multiple cases detected in Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, and Maharashtra, the Delta Plus variant and impending third wave of coronavirus, it becomes important to strictly follow the directions of the Health Ministry to engage in immediate containment measures, said Piyush Goel, senior consultant- Pulmonary and Critical Care, Columbia Asia Hospital, in Gurugram. The Delta Plus variant is a variant of concern that has been recently declared by the government. It has already been identified and isolated in over 10 countries and nearly 50 cases have already been seen in India especially in Maharashtra. “Looks like the third wave will hit Maharashtra in the next six to eight weeks. Like the last wave which has been driven by the Delta variant, it is feared that the next wave will be driven by the delta plus variant,” said Shuchin Bajaj, Internal Medicine, founder director), Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-ramps-up-alert-on-delta-plus-variant/article34996490.ece
27 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SIT probes Badal’s role in 2015 Kotkapura firing||Former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister and president of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Sukhbir Singh Badal was on Saturday questioned by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab police, probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident in Punjab’s Faridkot. Mr. Badal appeared before the SIT at the Punjab Police Officers Institute. Several senior SAD leaders also reached the institute in support of their leader. The party said that Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Sunil Jakhar and Navjot Sidhu had replaced the three-member SIT and had already indicted former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and the SAD chief in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sit-probes-badals-role-in-2015-kotkapura-firing/article34996504.ece
27 June 2021||Mumbai,||Rajdhani Express derails inside tunnel in Ratnagiri||The Goa-bound Rajdhani Express from Hazrat Nizamuddin, with 309 passengers on board, derailed inside a tunnel in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra early on Saturday. Nobody was injured in the incident, officials said. The front wheel of the locomotive of the special service (train no. 02414) to Madgaon derailed around 4.15 a.m. in the Karbude tunnel, approximately 325 km from Mumbai, the officials said. The derailment led to disruption of traffic, which was restored within a few hours, they said. Boulder on tracks A boulder had fallen on the tracks, which led to the derailment, a spokesperson of the Konkan Railway, which operates the route, said. “The front wheel of the locomotive derailed in the Karbude tunnel located between the Ukshi and Bhoke stations in the Ratnagiri region of the Konkan Railway,” the official said. A rail maintenance vehicle (RMV) and an accident relief medical van (ARMV) with re-railing equipment were rushed to the spot for the restoration work, he said. Resumes journey The restoration work was completed and the track fit certificate was issued at 8.18 a.m., he said, adding that the express train began its journey towards Madgaon at 9.14 a.m. “Traffic was restored at 10.27 a.m.” The Konkan Railway operates the 756-km route between Roha, near Mumbai, and Thokur, near Mangalore. This route, which is spread across Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka is one of the challenging terrains with many rivers, gorges and mountains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajdhani-express-derails-inside-tunnel-in-ratnagiri/article34996489.ece
27 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Fluctuation in Odisha cases major concern||Fluctuations in the daily COVID-19 case count and the test positivity rate in Odisha indicates that the situation is not improving steadily in the State as was expected. For the past 11 days, the daily figures have mostly remained above 3,000, dropping below the mark on two occasions. Similarly the TPR has swayed around 5% during the same period. Fourth phase of curbs The State has entered the fourth phase of virus-induced lockdown, but non-compliance of COVID-appropriate behaviour is being seen as the prime reason behind the slow improvement in the pandemic situation. The State on Saturday reported 3,554 fresh virus cases, compared to 2, 912 on Friday — an increase of 642 cases. The daily cases jumped by 22% in 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fluctuation-in-odisha-cases-major-concern/article34996937.ece
27 June 2021||Shimla,||MLA accused of torture||Dharamsala BJP MLA Vishal Nehriya has been accused by his HPAS officer wife of physical and mental torture. In an 11-minute video that has gone viral on social media, the 2020-batch Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services (HPAS) officer Oshin Sharma alleged that the BJP legislator slapped her thrice on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mla-accused-of-torture/article34996938.ece
27 June 2021||Lucknow,||Ailing woman dies during traffic hold-up||An ailing woman, head of the women’s wing of the Kanpur chapter of the Indian Industries Association (IIA), died after being stuck in traffic while she was being taken to a hospital during the visit of President Ramnath Kovind. Commissioner of Police, Kanpur, Aseem Arun personally apologised for the incident. “This is a big lesson for us in future. We pledge that our route system in future will be such that citizens are stopped for minimal time so that such incidents are not repeated,” Mr. Arun said in a statement. Four suspended Four police personnel — a sub-inspector and three head constables — had been suspended for stopping traffic longer than directed, said a police officer. Mr. Arun said President Kovind was anguished by the untimely death of Vandana Mishra, the women’s wing president of the Kanpur Chapter of IIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ailing-woman-dies-during-traffic-hold-up/article34996481.ece
27 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||U.P. panchayat poll candidate alleges kidnap||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD)-Samajwadi Party (SP)-supported candidate in the upcoming Baghpat Zila Panchayat election alleged on Saturday that she and her husband were kidnapped and forced to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). However, they claimed they somehow managed to escape from the Delhi residence of the BJP MP from Baghpat, Satyapal Singh. Jai Kishore, husband of the candidate Mamta Kishore, told reporters that they were forcibly taken to the residence of Mr. Singh in the early hours of Saturday. Ms. Kishore held a press conference in Baghpat and filed her nomination for the seat. “We were draped with BJP stoles and photographed with Mr. Singh. When we resisted, we were told that false cases will be filed against us and that our life would become hell. We somehow managed to escape from their custody and reached the RLD office in Baghpat. I am a true soldier of the party,” claimed Mr. Kishore. BJP district president Suraj Pal Gurjar denied the charges. The duo went to the MP’s house on their own, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-panchayat-poll-candidate-alleges-kidnap/article34996482.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Oxygen needs are dynamic: AIIMS chief||Amid controversy over a report on Delhi’s oxygen needs submitted by a Supreme Court-appointed panel headed by him, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria on Saturday said it is an interim report. Oxygen requirements are dynamic and change from day-to-day, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oxygen-needs-are-dynamic-aiims-chief/article34996514.ece
27 June 2021||Allahabad,||Relief for man held under U.P. conversion law||The Allahabad High Court has set aside the order of a lower court in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar district and granted bail to a Muslim man arrested under the new unlawful conversion law in the State. The High Court said the lower court had “erred” in rejecting the bail application of Mehzan Malik. On April 4, a special court under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Gautam Buddha Nagar, rejected his bail plea in a case of alleged rape and unlawful conversion of a Dalit woman, aged 20. Mr. Malik was booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation), relevant sections of the SC/ST Act and Section 3/ (5)1 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 at Kasna. He has been in jail since March 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/relief-for-man-held-under-up-conversion-law/article34996499.ece
27 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam officials served notice for COVID-19 scare leading to death of 250 bird chicks||The authorities of Assam’s Udalguri district have served a show-cause notice on the officials of the Tangla town for causing the death of more than 250 egret and cormorant chicks due to a COVID-19 scare. The district’s Deputy Commissioner, P. Uday Praveen said the show-cause was served to the civic body officials under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 and COVID regulations of 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-officials-served-notice-for-covid-19-scare-leading-to-death-of-250-bird-chicks/article34996480.ece
27 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM reiterates demand for national drug policy||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday reiterated his demand for a national drug policy to tackle the scourge, saying there’s a need for more synergy between the Special Task Force (STF), the police and the Intelligence wing to eliminate drugs from the State. Capt. Singh said while the neighbouring States of Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi had agreed to put in place an effective mechanism for tackling drug smuggling, no significant progress had been made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-reiterates-demand-for-national-drug-policy/article34996488.ece
27 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Activist-politician Akhil Gogoi granted two-day parole to visit family||Sibsagar MLA and Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi was on June 25 allowed to go home after almost 550 days in captivity, but for two days. A special court of the National Investigation Agency granted him 48-hour parole after he wished to visit his wife and teenage son in Guwahati and mother in Jorhat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activist-politician-akhil-gogoi-granted-two-day-parole-to-visit-family/article34996494.ece
27 June 2021||Bureau,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protests in districts highlighting various demands||Farmers affiliated to the All India Kisan Sabha staged a protest in front of the Coimbatore Collectorate on Saturday demanding repeal of the three farm laws that the Central Government had passed sometime ago and withdrawal of cases against farmers, who protested against the farm laws. Farmers led by Su. Palanisamy said the Centre should repeal the three laws because they were anti-farmer, would not help them get a fair price for their produce and leave them at the mercy of corporate companies. Mr. Palanisamy said the DMK government should immediately pilot a resolution against the three laws in the Assembly and pass on the resolution to the Central Government. Likewise, the State Government should withdraw the cases the police had registered against farmers who had protested against the laws. There were a couple of hundred farmers in Coimbatore who had cases against them. Until a few days ago, the farmers went to the police station to fulfil their legal obligations, he added. He further said that the Central Government should also give up the move to withdraw free power given to farmers. In Erode, farmer organisations and labour unions protested against the Union government demanding among other things an end to farmers’ protests in Delhi. Members of farmer organisations and labour unions protested at Soorampatti Library Road here condemning the Union government for passing the contentious farm laws and demanding withdrawal of the labour codes passed by the Union government. The protesters also demanded that the Union government should take measures to reduce fuel prices and ensure availability of COVID-19 vaccine for all. In Salem, similar protests were held near the head post office here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protests-in-districts-highlighting-various-demands/article34996917.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Repeated encroachment of lakes raises concerns||Some of the waterbodies in western parts of the city continue to face the challenges of encroachments that reappear in spite of the repeated evictions. Residents demanded that stringent measures be put in place and measures be initiated to safeguard lake boundaries to prevent further encroachments. The Water Resources Department recently removed encroachments that had surfaced at the Red Hills and Korattur lakes. While a portion of the Red Hills lake area near Shanmugapuram was encroached upon and layouts were being developed, the temporary bund laid by authorities was removed at Muthamizh Nagar, and new encroachments appeared on the rear of Korattur lake, where the WRD had already removed structures. Waterbodies in Avadi, including the Vilinjiyambakkam lake, also faced similar issues. Following complaints, the department initiated measures to clear the fresh encroachments in the Red Hills and Korattur lakes. However, residents raised concerns about encroachments resurfacing along the waterbodies. S. Sekaran, secretary, Korattur Aeri Padukappu Makkal Iyakam (KAPMI), a citizen movement protecting the waterbody, said some encroachers had put up board in the lake area near DTP Colony, Karukku, and had also shifted the lake boundary. “These repeated offences cannot be controlled unless lakes’ boundaries are demarcated and vulnerable portions are protected with fences or compound walls. The lake bed must also be deepened lower than the road level in the rear portions to prevent encroachments,” he said. KAPMI has also recently represented to the Ambattur tahsildar and Villivakkam sub-registrar office to not provide patta for land falling within the waterbody’s boundary. Environmental activists demanded that the Tamil Nadu Protection of Tanks and Eviction of Encroachment Act of 2007 must be implemented strictly, with amendments to avoid the tedious process for encroachment removal. S. Sameer, of the Social Work Team Trust (SWOTT), engaged in the restoration of the Red Hills reservoir, said the department must build compound walls in portions prone to encroachments, such as Alamaram to Kavankarai, Pothur to Avadi and Shanmugapuram to Thirumullaivoyal. Officials of the WRD said encroachments had been removed from the Red Hills lake and the enumeration process was in progress. The department has submitted a proposal to build compound walls in vulnerable stretches, like Naravarikuppam, to prevent encroachments and the dumping of solid waste. Similar measures would be initiated in other waterbodies too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repeated-encroachment-of-lakes-raises-concerns/article34996869.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai records fewer than 10 deaths after several weeks||After several weeks, Chennai recorded fewer than 10 deaths on Saturday. Across the State, 148 persons, including two teenagers, succumbed to the infection, taking the toll due to COVID-19 to 32,199. The city registered nine deaths, taking its toll to 8,152. There were 19 deaths in Vellore, 13 in Erode and 11 in Salem. Coimbatore, too, reported nine deaths, taking its toll to 2,003. Mostly, deaths that had occurred over the previous three to four days are recorded in the day’s bulletin. Registering a further dip in fresh cases, Tamil Nadu logged 5,415 cases. So far, 24,60,747 persons have tested positive. Of the fresh cases, Coimbatore reported 671 cases, followed by Erode (574), Salem (369) and Tiruppur (337). Chennai’s daily count stood at 314. There were 260 cases in Thanjavur and 254 in Chengalpattu. A total of 20 districts recorded fewer than 100 cases each. The total number of patients now under treatment stood at 44,924. Across the State, 7,661 persons were discharged. Two teenagers succumbed to the infection. A 16-year-old girl from Tirunelveli was admitted to a private hospital in Madurai on June 21 with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia on June 26. A 17-year-old boy from Theni who had bronchial asthma died soon after arrival at the Theni Medical College Hospital. His sample returned positive for COVID-19 on June 22. His death was due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A centenarian, who had hypertension, was among those who died. A resident of Cuddalore, he was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on June 12 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for four days. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on June 25. In the last 24 hours, 1,70,963 samples were tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-records-fewer-than-10-deaths-after-several-weeks/article34996896.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC looking at appointment of ad-hoc judges to clear backlog||The Madras High Court is contemplating appointment of retired judges of the court as ad-hoc judges to reduce the backlog of 5.84 lakh cases that had got accumulated over the years. According to sources, the proposal to appoint ad-hoc judges is under active consideration of the court and that Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee will take a call on suitable candidates. As of now, the working strength of the Madras High Court is 59 as against its sanctioned strength of 75 judges. There are 16 vacancies and three more judges are retiring by September 27. Further, seven more judges of the court are due to retire in 2022. The High Court has a mounting backlog of 5.22 lakh civil cases and over 61,000 criminal cases. Of the pending cases, 1.09 lakh (18.75%) are between 10 and 20 years old. Similarly, 1.12 lakh (19.29%) pending cases are between three to five years old. Although the High Court had 1.24 lakh (21.22%) cases that are less than one year old, court officials say it could be because of restricted functioning due to COVID-19. The present move to appoint ad-hoc judges comes following a Supreme Court verdict delivered on April 20 this year impressing upon the need for the High Courts to “activate” Article 224A, a “dormant provision” of the Constitution. The constitutional provision empowers the Chief Justice of a High Court to request a retired judge to sit and act as a judge on being paid such allowances as the President may determine. The apex court had batted in favour of utilising the experience of retired judges to clear the backlog since appointment of permanent and additional judges to sanctioned vacancies takes a long time due to delay at various stages of the process. It had made it clear that ad-hoc judges could be appointed over and above the sanctioned strength of judges and that they should be given only judicial work, and not administrative work, though their pay and allowances should be at par with permanent judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-looking-at-appointment-of-ad-hoc-judges-to-clear-backlog/article34996878.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ENT surgeon S. Kameswaran, 98, passes away||S. Kameswaran, renowned ENT surgeon, passed away on Saturday. He was 98. Prof. Kameswaran was born in 1923 and had his early education in Loyola College and Madras Medical College. He trained in the U.K. where he got his FRCS from Edinburgh and Glasgow. He was the former director of the Institute of Otorhinolaryngology at the Madras Medical College and mentored generations of ENT surgeons from various parts of the country. He also served as director of University of Madras’s Basic Medical Sciences at Taramani. Prof. Kameswaran was a surgeon to former President R. Venkataraman, and a short-term consultant to the World Health Organisation. He was also a member of the three-member committee that was responsible for laying the foundation for starting Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University. He received numerous awards, including Padmashri and Dr. B.C. Roy award. He is survived by his son Mohan Kameswaran, managing director and chief surgeon of Madras ENT Research Foundation and daughter Chitra Sankaran, professor of English at National University of Singapore. Tributes by leaders Governor Banwarilal Purohit, expressing his condolences, said Prof. Kameswaran was a doctor with a social consciousness and his contribution to the development of the medical field would always remain unforgettable. “His demise is an irreparable loss to the people of Tamil Nadu and particularly to the medical fraternity,” he said. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, along with Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, paid homage to the mortal remains of Prof. Kameswaran. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said Prof. Kameswaran was an expert in the speciality of ENT and had mentored several young doctors. He had been providing medical service to people for more than 50 years and brought laurels to both Tamil Nadu and India. He was an “unparalleled friend” of former Chief Minister Karunanidhi, he said. V. Mohan, Chairman and Chief of Diabetology at Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, said, “Prof. SK was a rare combination of a clinician, surgeon, teacher, researcher, educationist and administrator, and what is most amazing is that he excelled in all these fields. He was one of the first ENT surgeons to do Ph.D in India. His work on Rhinosporidiosis is well recognized. He also made monumental contributions to several organisations including the National Academy of Medical Sciences. Perhaps his greatest achievement is that he groomed his son Dr. Mohan Kameswaran to become one of the greatest ENT surgeons, not only in India, but in the world.” Dr. V. Mohan also said his family was extremely privileged to be associated with Prof. S. Kameswaran’s family for three decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ent-surgeon-s-kameswaran-98-passes-away/article34996873.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petrol prices cross Rs. 100 in 35 districts of Tamil Nadu||Petrol prices crossed the Rs. 100 mark in 35 districts in the State on Saturday, with a revision of 31 paise per litre — the 13th hike this month. Vellore saw petrol priced at Rs. 101.37/litre, Cuddalore Rs. 101.07/litre, Tiruvannamalai Rs. 100.81/litre and Salem Rs. 100/litre. Places like Rameswaram (Rs. 101/litre) and Hosur (Rs. 101.10/litre) witnessed price pass the Rs. 100 mark on Thursday. At bunks in the core of Chennai prices have not yet touched Rs. 100 a litre. Fuel outlets sold petrol at Rs. 99.19/lit and diesel at Rs. 93.23/litre, with an upward revision of 34 paise. S. Jude Mathew, Tamil Nadu Independent Rental Vehicle Association, said with only about 30% of businesses working and people using cars only for medical emergencies, marriages and deaths, taxies were unable to fix rates due to such prohibitive fuel costs. “When customers refuse to pay, we are either forced to cancel trips or run at losses. Already vehicle finance companies are taking away vehicles for not paying dues,” he said. V. Gopalakrishnan, a resident of Virugambakkam, said the government must consider reducing prices. “Puducherry did that and their prices have not gone up to Rs. 100. The Central government has not spoken anything about fuel prices and is watching people suffer,” he said. Tamil Nadu Petroleum Dealers Association president K.P. Murali said dealers were finding it very difficult to run outlets due to the high cost of purchasing fuel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-prices-cross-rs-100-in-35-districts-of-tamil-nadu/article34996887.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nobel laureates, scientists seek nod for neutrino project||The India-based Neutrino Observatory (INO) project, proposed near Pottipuram in Theni district, does not pose any danger to the environment and will not have any effect on the water table or dams which are far away, Nobel laureates, scientists and academicians said in a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin while urging him to approve the project. The signatories to the letter include Nobel laureates Prof. Arthur B. McDonald and Prof. Takaaki Kajita; G Baskaran, Distinguished Visiting Researcher, Perimeter Institute, Canada and IIT Madras; T.R. Govindarajan, former professor, IMSc, and 75 other scientists and academicians. “Technically speaking, it is a telescope, to be built under a hill to detect billions of neutrinos that are passing through us continuously without any effect. It is similar to the optical telescopes we have at Kodaikanal, Kavalur and the Radio Telescope at Ooty and will bring fame through scientific contributions,” they said. The signatories said neutrinos are shy and non-interacting and hence absolutely harmless, which need very special detectors. The big hill above the observatory at the tunnel is needed to filter the neutrinos from other aggressive cosmic ray particles and Tamil Nadu was specially suited for this observatory as the hills are made of dense Charnockite rocks and provide a good shield from cosmic rays, they said. The signatories said some activist groups had been opposing the project by creating unwarranted fear among the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nobel-laureates-scientists-seek-nod-for-neutrino-project/article34996888.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State to reward Olympic medallists||The Tamil Nadu government will reward sportspersons from the State who win a medal at the Olympics in Japan, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Saturday. The government will reward a gold medallist with Rs. 3 crore, a silver medallist with Rs. 2 crore and a bronze medallist with Rs. 1 crore. The reward is meant to encourage Tamil Nadu sportspersons, he said, addressing sportspersons at a special vaccination drive held at Nehru Indoor Stadium. The Chief Minister said the government had been running a scheme to give sports equipment worth Rs. 10 lakh and pay tournament travel cost to sportspersons who won at international and national competitions. For sportspersons taking part at international events, Rs. 25 lakh was being given, he said. “Nethra Kumanan, Varun A. Thakkar and K.C. Ganapathy will take part in the sailing competition; G. Sathiyan and A. Sarath Kamal will take part in table tennis; C.A. Bhavani Devi will take part in fencing, while T. Mariappan will take part in the high jump competition in the Paralympics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-reward-olympic-medallists/article34996889.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temples get ready to reopen||Around 3,000 temples in and around Chennai are set to be reopened on Monday following the government decision to relax lockdown conditions. Temple authorities in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpettu districts have begun cleaning and sanitising temples and setting up barricades to form queues. “We will be following the same set of protocols as the last time. We will not allow people to prostrate or sit down inside the prakarams or touch idols on the walls or ring bells. Elders above 60 years of age, those with comorbities, children below 10 years of age and women who are pregnant will not be allowed inside,” said an official of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. On the need for reopening temples, an official said that apart from protests by a section of people, devotees were calling up their recently launched helpline at 044-28339999 and asking when temples would be reopened. Around 60% of the calls were related to this, he said. Helpline timings Devotees can call the helpline on all working days between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. and log in complaints relating to temple lands or Thiruppani works needed for temples or even allegations relating to the running of temples in their areas. Balashanmugam, a devotee, said that last time, many small temples did not have hand sanitisers. “They did not maintain social distancing either,” he said.  On Saturday, Minister P.K. Sekar Babu inaugurated a free COVID-19 testing camp for staff, including archakas and bhattacharyas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-get-ready-to-reopen/article34996891.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pattamadai mat weavers adopt digital marketing||When the ‘kora’ mat weavers of Pattamadai village in Tirunelveli district wanted avenues to sell their products during the last lockdown, the Crafts Council of India decided to give them a month-and-half-long training on how to do business using internet and smart phones. “We are now teaching them to take photos and make e-catalogues so that they can get in touch with prospective buyers. The district Collector is already in talks with e-commerce platforms to market their products,” said Gita Ram, chairperson, CCI, at an online webinar to discuss the way forward for the 40 Lebbai women who are now part of four self-help groups. Sudha Ravi, treasurer, CCI, said that the Council’s relationship with Pattamadai was a long and enduring one. In the early 90s, the CCI had encouraged this cluster to submit well-woven mats for the national awards selection panel. Ibrahim Beevi was the first to receive this prestigious award in 1993. This was the ‘awakening’ of the public to the wonders of this craft. CCI has been showcasing their products for several years through their crafts bazaars and Kamala outlets, she said. Mohammed Fathima said she was happy to be able to market the mats. “We used to make them based on orders, earning Rs. 300 per mat as labour. GST is a road block for our development. We need a waiver from that,” she said. Kavva Beevi, one of the weavers, said she had been working for over 30 years with the mats and she wanted their children too to learn the skill of making the fine silk mats of 100 count variety. She wanted a training centre where the next generation can learn the craft. The 100-hour-long programme was conducted by the CCI when the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation asked them to work with a cluster and sponsored it along with Sankalp, a programme assisted by World Bank. Now, the CCI is in the process of setting up bank accounts for the women and also a revolving fund from which they can take money to buy ‘kora’ grass, which is available only in certain seasons. “They will replace the amount when they sell their mats so that they can use it the next time to buy ‘kora’ grass,” said Latha Thirumal, project coordinator. Tirunelveli district Collector Vishnu said the weavers needed market access to their products. He said a training centre would be set up before the end of the current financial year. He also urged CCI to give professional guidance to the women on how to develop the cluster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pattamadai-mat-weavers-adopt-digital-marketing/article34996875.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal assumes additional role in Makkal Needhi Maiam rejig||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder and president Kamal Haasan will assume additional responsibility as the party’s general secretary. Mr. Haasan has also appointed two vice-presidents: former IPS A.G. Mourya and G. Thangavelu; two political advisors: veteran leader Pazha. Karuppiah and V. Ponraj, and three State secretaries to assist him to make decisions. These changes come following high profile exits in the wake of poor showing by the party in the Assembly election. In a video message on June 26, Mr. Haasan made these announcements. “Each of them have been given a clear target: from this moment, they will speak with every cadre, organise meetings, ensure the party’s growth by inducting more members, and take the party’s principles to the people. The rural local body elections are coming soon and we will make people take notice. We are also starting preparations for Lok Sabha election in 2024,” he said. Mr. Haasan said that this was the first round of announcements. Changes are expected at zonal and district levels. “They will be done on the basis of performances. These positions won’t just be about the power they hold - they will come with responsibilities and targets. Those who don’t do it will not be able to continue,” he said. While Mr. Haasan’s alleged ‘authoritative attitude’ in deciding alliance partners and non-transparency in revealing the source of election funds were highlighted by those who left the party, they also said that Suresh Iyer of Sankhya Solutions and Mahendran, completely monopolised the party decisions. A senior member of the party said they would not interfere in the party any more. Advisory role “We have appointed two people in an advisory role. Hence, there is no need for more political advisors,” said a senior officer-bearer. An official press release from the party said Siva Elango and Senthil Arumugam of Satta Panjachayat Iyyakkam have been appointed as State secretaries of MNM along with entrepreneur Sarath Babu. Actor Sripriya Sethupathi will be a central governing body member and G. Nagarajan will be the coordinator of Narpani Iyakkam wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-assumes-additional-role-in-makkal-needhi-maiam-rejig/article34996880.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. told to take immediate steps to contain Delta Plus variant||In the light of nine samples from Madurai, Kancheepuram and Chennai returning positive for Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2, the Union Health Ministry has written to Tamil Nadu to take up immediate containment measures such as preventing crowds and intermingling of people, conducting widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis in these districts. Rajesh Bhushan, Union Health Secretary, in a letter to V. Irai Anbu, Chief Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu, said that INSACOG — a consortium of laboratories for whole genome sequencing — has informed that Delta Plus, which is currently a variant of concern, has the characteristics of increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response. Public health response has to become more focussed and stringent, he said, requesting the State to ensure that adequate samples of COVID-19 positive persons are promptly sent to the designated laboratories of INSACOG so that the clinical epidemiological correlations can be established.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-told-to-take-immediate-steps-to-contain-delta-plus-variant/article34996886.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drones to control mosquito menace||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Saturday started using drones, on an experimental basis, to spray larvicide along the waterbodies to control the mosquito menace. The civic body was collaborating with Dr. Kalam Advanced UAV Research Centre on the MIT campus of Anna University for this activity. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and other senior officials monitored the spraying through drones along the Cooum near Langs Garden Road on Saturday. Highlighting that it was done on a pilot basis on Saturday, Mr. Bedi said, “We will be carrying out spraying through dones for the next 15 days on an experimental basis and based on the results we will expand further.” With the help of drones, he said that spraying of the anti-larval oil can be done in a faster and safer manner. K. Senthil Kumar, Director, Dr. Kalam Advanced UAV Research Centre, said such drones were first used by Agriculture Department for spraying pesticides, when Mr. Bedi was the secretary. They were occasionally used by a few districts, including Chennai, during COVID-19 pandemic for spraying disinfectants, he added. Running on petrol, drones can fly for 35 minutes on the trot. They had battery backup in case of any failure to quickly bring them back to the ground and prevent them from falling into the waterbodies, he said. “They can be made to function in a fully automatic manner by feeding the geographic coordinates of the area along which the spraying must be done,” Prof. Senthil Kumar said. He pointed out that these drones carried a maximum of 16 litres of larvicide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drones-to-control-mosquito-menace/article34996876.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Another suspect in ATM theft case held in Haryana||One more suspect has been arrested by the police in Haryana in connection with the series of thefts at SBI ATMs. More than 14 cases of theft at SB ATMs with cash deposit facilities were reported last week. The investigation revealed that the accused had come from Haryana and committed the offences. Around Rs. 45 lakh in cash was stolen from the ATMs in the city. The special team nabbed one Amir Arsh, of Ballabhgarh, Haryana, with the help of the Haryana State police on Wednesday. The police took him under custody for five days, and started interrogating him from Friday. During interrogation, he admitted that he and his friend Virender struck at Ramapuram, Chinmaya Nagar, Pondy Bazaar, Vadapalani, Velachery and Taramani. Video statement Other associates stole at other places in the city, he told the police. His statement was videographed by police. Meanwhile, his associate Virender was nabbed by a special team of the police in Haryana, and further efforts are on to trace the other accused, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-suspect-in-atm-theft-case-held-in-haryana/article34996866.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Extended taxiway ready for use at airport||The airport’s already existing taxiway ‘Romeo’ has been extended to touch both ends of the main runway, and will now serve as a parallel taxiway to help reduce the time a flight occupies the main runway. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said last month, the work was completed, and the Aviation Regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation, conducted inspections subsequently. “We recently got their clearance for putting the taxiway to use. But we have to complete a few more formalities after which it can be thrown open in a few weeks,” an official said. Three more rapid exit taxiways are also under construction, and the straightening of a taxiway called ‘Bravo’ too has been in progress for a while now. “When all the construction work is finished, the runway occupancy time of a flight will come down drastically, and we will be able to handle more flights. Also, the remote bay, in which many flights can be parked, is usually not put to much use but when all these taxiways open, it can also be used for parking more aircraft,” he added. The Airside Project was planned when the airport had severe congestion. With the restoration of normal traffic in the future, the additional taxiways would help greatly, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extended-taxiway-ready-for-use-at-airport/article34996867.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||UBI’s advisory on old cheque book validity||The Union Bank of India (UBI) has informed its customers that it will phase out old cheque books and issue new ones with additional security features from July 1, post the merger of Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank with UBI. The old cheque books from Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank are valid only till June 30, it said. The RBI said no further extension will be provided, the bank noted, and asked customers to immediately contact their branch manager and replace their cheque books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ubis-advisory-on-old-cheque-book-validity/article34996865.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Utilise unused vaccines at pvt. hospitals’||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday called upon the Tamil Nadu government to utilise the unused COVID-19 vaccines lying with private hospitals. He said private hospitals charging Rs. 850-Rs. 1,500 a dose and requiring booking for vaccination meant “lakhs of” vials remained unutilised. As per an estimate, there were 25 lakhs of vials lying unutilised at private hospitals in the State, he said. AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami asked the government to clarify whether Tamil Nadu students would have to appear for NEET before the A.K. Rajan Committee gives its recommendations. He said there was confusion among students on whether they should prepare for NEET, adding that when he raised the issue in the Assembly, the Chief Minister did not give a direct answer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/utilise-unused-vaccines-at-pvt-hospitals/article34996885.ece
27 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pulamaipithan wants Sasikala in AIADMK||Pulamaipithan, an AIADMK veteran, on Saturday called for the return of V.K. Sasikala, party’s former interim general secretary, to the organisation. Mr. Pulamaipithan, who served as chairman of the presidium of the party about 20 years ago, told The Hindu that Ms. Sasikala stood with the former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa through thick and thin. “She should come back,” he said. Criticising the leadership for expelling those who got in touch with Ms. Sasikala, the 85-year-old, who had spoken to her over the phone, said, “no one has the power to remove her, who was elected as [interim] general secretary by the party executive and the general council.” During the day, Ms. Sasikala’s office released audio clips, containing her telephonic conversation with six persons, including M. Periyaveeran, former Periyakulam MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pulamaipithan-wants-sasikala-in-aiadmk/article34996881.ece
27 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||As COVID-19 case count dips, Coimbatore corpn. continues to enforce safety guidelines||A month ago, on May 26, the Coimbatore Corporation recorded the number of COVID-19 positive persons at 1,962. From the peak, the corporation had witnessed a steady decline in positive cases and in the last few days the city saw only around 250 persons turn positive a day. The decline had been notably sharp in the last 10 days as from 437 cases on June 14, the positive case count on June 23 stood at 221. Sources in the corporation said the number of active cases had come down by over 40% in the last 14 days and so had the positivity rate – from 13% on June 10 to 3.88% on June 23 though there was only a slight reduction in the samples tested 7,715 to 6,515. Though there had been a decline in cases, the corporation was not letting down its guard. To further reduce the case count and ensure that the State government relaxed the lockdown restriction in the city, the civic body was doing all it could to enforce COVID-19 safety guideline. It continued to impose fine on individuals for not wearing mask and establishments for violating the guideline. On June 23, the corporation had fined 334 individuals and 139 commercial establishments to collect Rs. 1.85 lakh. The civic body also continued to send people for door-to-door survey to check if residents showed influenza-like infection and if they did, inform the medical team concerned for sample collection. This early intervention had helped bring down the COVID-19 case count in the city, the sources pointed out. Meanwhile, the corporation had also opened 10 mask distribution kiosks in the city at two each a zone. At the kiosks in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, vegetable markets, fish market, flower market and other places, the response had been good. The nurses that the corporation had engaged on contract also distributed multivitamin tablets, checked oxygen saturation level and noted down the name and contact details of those who asked for tablets. They then shared the numbers with the zonal medical team concerned which then called the persons who took tablets for follow-up action. The initiative had a good response from those working during the lockdown, particularly persons engaged in food delivery, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-covid-19-case-count-dips-coimbatore-corpn-continues-to-enforce-safety-guidelines/article34996900.ece
27 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sudan national killed in road accident||Eid Salah Eid Mohammed (24) from Khartoum in Sudan, who was doing first year under graduation in a private college at Eachanari in Coimbatore, was killed in an accident on Friday. Police said he rode a two-wheeler while his room mate Abdul Majid (26), also from Khartoum in Sudan, was on the pillion. The accident took place at Eachanari when they were travelling to their residence at Palanisamy Nagar at Malumichampatti. The Mohammed lost control of the two-wheeler when it skidded and both of them were injured. Mohammed was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital where he died around 3 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudan-national-killed-in-road-accident/article34996926.ece
27 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Abide by new COVID-19 lockdown restrictions: Collector||Collector G.S. Sameeran on Saturday urged people to abide by the new COVID-19 lockdown restrictions that would come into force on June 28. He said in a release that tea stalls could function from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m., but offering only takeaways. Shops selling electrical goods, hardware, stationery, footwear, utensils, fancy goods and offering laundry, photocopy service, printing service and photo and video service could function from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Likewise, shops selling and servicing home appliances should function only from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. as should shops selling and serving two-wheelers, automobile spare parts, mobile phones and accessories, computer hardware and electronic gods. Mr. Sameeran, who held a meeting to discuss the arrangements to enforce the revised guidelines, said roadside eateries should function only between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m., but offer only takeaway service. All State Government departments that come under the essential service would function with 100% strength and others with 50% workforce. Banks, insurance companies and companies engaged in cash refilling service would function only with 50% employees. Companies engaged in export and those providing spares or inputs could function with 100% workers and others with only 33%, the Collector further said. As for participation and conduct of weddings, the Collector said people travelling to weddings held within the district could travel without e-pass or e-registration. Those travelling to the district to participate in weddings, should have e-pass. Parents of the bride or groom should get the pass online athttps://eregister.tnega.org. The Collector said that those who were COVID-19-positive would not be allowed to remain in home isolation. The should undergo treatment either at a hospital or a COVID-19 Care Centre. Sample collection The Collector also urged people to cooperate in the random sample collection for the RT-PCR test that the administration planned to conduct to check the spread of the infection, given the relaxation of regulations. In a release issued here on Saturday, he said of the 10,000 to 13,000 samples that the administration collected every day in the district, it randomly lifted samples at places where people gathered in large numbers like vegetable and flower markets and the potato market in Mettupalayam. In continuation of the exercise, the administration would collect samples from people in markets, government offices and private establishments, shops, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abide-by-new-covid-19-lockdown-restrictions-collector/article34996903.ece
27 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industry and trade welcome relaxations||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) here have welcomed the government decision to relax the lockdown restrictions and permit industries in the district to operate from next week. However, it should support the industries by relaxing the norms further and extending support, the MSME associations said. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said while the State government had permitted industries to reopen from Monday, the restriction on the number of workers would only add to the problems faced by the industries. Only about 50 % of the workforce was with the industries now. The government was permitting only 33 % workers to attend the units. This would lead to “unnecessary problems” when officials visit the industries for inspection. Hence, the government should allow the units to function with the available workers, he said. P. Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said the industries would not be able to withstand further extension of lockdown. Spread of COVID-19 among industrial workers was not high this time. The government should allow the units to operate with 50 % workforce, he said. Last year, when the industries stopped production because of the lockdown, the government gave moratorium to repay loans. This year, there was no such support, he said. M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said the Union government should relax the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme norms. It should extend the scheme to all MSMEs without any condition and the scheme should be extended to MSMEs based on their working capital, cash credit limits too, he said. The government should allow the MSMEs to operate without any restriction on workforce, he added. C. Balasubramanian, president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, said the Chamber welcomed the announcement on reopening of shops in the district next week. The State government has allowed shops to be open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. and export units to work with 100 % workforce. It has also permitted sweet shops to function with only parcel service. Since the COVID-19 cases were reducing in the district, the government should allow big textile shops, malls and temples too to reopen, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-and-trade-welcome-relaxations/article34996913.ece
27 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore girl with SMA gets Rs. 16-crore life-saving drug in lottery draw||One year and 18 days old Zuha Zainab from Coimbatore received an injection at a hospital in New Delhi on Saturday which her parents barely thought they could arrange for her. But luck favoured the couple and the kid. Baby Zainab was among the four children suffering from rare genetic disorder spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) for which a gene therapy that costs over Rs. 16 crore was administered free of cost at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, on Saturday. Zainab and the three other kinds emerged winners of a lottery programme which made them receive the single dose gene therapy Zolgensma. “We had registered the baby’s name with Cure SMA which works for children who require treatment for SMA. By the end of May, we were informed that our baby was one of the winners of the lucky draw conducted by the supplier of the drug,” said Ayisha Firdous, the baby’s mother over phone. She said that the therapy’s cost would be more than Rs. 16 crore as it is imported with tax. “The drug infusion started at 3.30 p.m. and was completed by 4.15 p.m. We have been asked to stay in Delhi for four weeks for weekly follow-up tests,” she said. Ms. Firdous and husband V. Abdullah had lost their first child, a male baby, due to SMA in 2018 when he was six-months-old. The first child and baby Zainab were diagnosed with the SMA, which causes weakness and wasting in muscles, by S. Velmurugan, a paediatric neurologist based in Coimbatore. The doctor had advised the parents to be part of SMA support communities which finally led them to get the drug free of cost though a lottery win. A couple from Komarapalayam in Namakkal is currently seeking support for the therapy for their two-year-old daughter Mithra, Ms. Firdous added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-girl-with-sma-gets-rs-16-crore-life-saving-drug-in-lottery-draw/article34996928.ece
27 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMCH doctors remove peanut aspirated by toddler||Doctors at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) recently removed from the airway of a two-year-old boy a peanut that he had aspirated at his house in Tiruppur. The toddler was first rushed to a private hospital in Tiruppur where doctors found that the peanut was lodged in his left main bronchus. As attempts to remove it failed, the private hospital referred the child to the CMCH on Tuesday evening. A team comprising A.R. Ali Sultan, Head of the Department of ENT, associate professor V. Saravanan and assistant professor M. Nallasivam from the department, and Professor Kalyanasundaram, assistant professors Madana Gopal and Anita from the Department of Anaesthesiology removed the peanut through rigid bronchoscopy under general anaesthesia on Wednesday morning. CMCH Dean A. Nirmala lauded the team for the timely intervention which saved the boy from a life threatening condition. According to Dr. Sultan, peanut is the most common thing aspirated by children and it normally gets stuck in the left main bronchus unlike in adults (right main bronchus). Complete obstruction of the airway will affect inflation and deflation of the lung. “If the obstructing foreign object is not removed within 24 to 48 hours, the affected lobe (left or right) of the lung becomes solid and non-functional. If children who are otherwise normal suffer from sudden cough and breathlessness without a fever, aspiration has to be suspected. Partial obstruction by aspirating small particles can also happen which leads to intermittent breathlessness and cough,” Dr. Sultan said. A qualified doctor should be consulted at the earliest , he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-doctors-remove-peanut-aspirated-by-toddler/article34996906.ece
27 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MP hands over relief materials||Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan on Saturday distributed relief materials among the workers at the electric crematoriums in Coimbatore city. The relief material kits, each worth Rs. 2,000, was given to 119 people in the first phase. The beneficiaries included 16 persons working at the electric crematoriums in the city and 38 ambulance drivers at the CMCH. He also felicitated them for their service during the peak of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-hands-over-relief-materials/article34996912.ece
27 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Injured leopard caught, dies||An injured female leopard, which was spotted near a private mangrove at Anna Nagar on the Palani-Kodaikanal ghat section, was caught, but even before it could be treated, it died on Saturday. Following information from the public, a team of officials from the forest department rushed to the spot. After spotting the animal, they decided not to tranquillise as it had suffered severe injuries. Hence, they planned to catch it with the help of Fire and Rescue Services personnel. The young leopard, which looked tired and hungry, was caught easily with a net. The veterinary doctors said that it had suffered injuries around the stomach. In about less than 30 minutes, it died. District Forest Officer P. .K Dilip who was present at the spot told The Hindu that the injury may have caused the animal to lose its hunting ability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-leopard-caught-dies/article34997146.ece
27 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Fine imposed on restaurant||The City Health Officer R Lakshiya Varna imposed Rs. 5000 as fine against a restaurant for violating the lockdown guidelines and allowing customers to sit on the premises and have food. A team visited Venu Biriyani and found that they were serving food. At a time when the government had permitted only takeaway by maintaining physical distancing norms, it was neglected. Traffic in the area too got choked due to the functioning of the shop, the civic authorities said and warned the operator to shut shop immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fine-imposed-on-restaurant/article34997178.ece
27 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Policemen beaten up, three youth arrested||Three youths were arrested on a charge of assaulting two policeman on duty at a checkpost near Viruveedu on the Batlagundu-Usilampatti highway on Saturday. Two policemen were manning the checkpost when three youths riding a two-wheeler hit the metal barricade and fell down. The youths, who were in an inebriated state, said they were returning to Kurumpatti near Usilampatti after attending a marriage. Even as the police were making inquiries, three others who came on another motorcycle, assumed that their friends were being beaten up and started thrashing the policemen with logs. A video of the policemen being beaten has gone viral on the social media. While the three youths who had a fall were detained, the other three escaped. Special teams have been formed to nab them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policemen-beaten-up-three-youth-arrested/article34997175.ece
27 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies after consuming tablet||An elderly woman from Chennimalai reportedly died after consuming a tablet offered by an unidentified person. Three others who consumed the tablet have been hospitalised. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Mallika (55). Sources said Mallika’s husband Karupanna Gounder has a farm near Chennimalai here. On Saturday, while the couple, their daughter Deepa and farm worker Kuppammal were resting at their house, an unidentified person visited the house claiming to be from COVID-19 fever camp. The suspect allegedly provided a tablet for all four persons and left the place. The four persons reportedly complained of nausea following this, the police said. Neighbours rushed them to hospital and Mallika reportedly died en route to the hospital. While Karupanna Gounder and Deepa were taken to a private hospital in Coimbatore, Kuppammal was taken to Erode government hospital. Superintendent of Police Sasimohan and other senior police officials visited the spot. Police are investigating the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-after-consuming-tablet/article34996923.ece
27 June 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||A sanctuary for slender loris on the anvil||A proposal has been sent to the State government to declare the Kadavur Reserve Forest in Karur district as a sanctuary for slender loris. Out of 6,327 hectares of forest in Karur district, about 6,000 hectares are in Kadavur taluk. The entire forest in the taluk has been classified as reserve forest and considered a hotspot in the State for slender loris. According to a census taken in 2016-17 by the Forest Department, the Kadavur Reserve Forest has a population of 3,500 slender loris. The current population is estimated to be around 5,000. The medium to high temperature in the hill, which has an elevation of about 1,200 meters from sea level, bordering Karur, Tiruchi and Dindigul districts, is said to be the main reason for the growth of Slender Loris. T. Prabhu Shankar, Collector, who visited the forest a few days ago, said that a proposal had been sent to the State Government to declare Kadavur Reserve Forest as a sanctuary for Slender Loris. Many conservation activities could be taken if it was made as a sanctuary and it would also attract tourists and environmentalists. Steps would be taken to expedite the proposal, sources said. R. Ravichandran, Ranger, Kadavur, said that no other place in the State has such a large congregation of Slender Loris. The proposal would enable the Forest Department to take steps to protect the habitat of the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-sanctuary-for-slender-loris-on-the-anvil/article34997232.ece
27 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Clubs contribute oxygen generation plant to PHC||The upgraded primary health centre at the Jegadevi panchayat in Bargur union here will now be equipped with an oxygen generation plant and a generator. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy on Saturday inaugurated the oxygenation plant and a 62.5 KW generator contributed by the Rotary Club, Krishnagiri, jointly with Rotary East, Coimbatore. The oxygen plant is equipped with a generation capacity of 100 ltr per minute. The plant will be able to support a 50-bed facility. As on date, 20 beds in the primary health centre will be supported by the oxygen generated by the plant through pipelines, according to the administration. In addition, 10 oxygen concentrators of 5 ltr capacity each at a cumulative cost of Rs. 35 lakh has also been contributed to the PHC. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Reddy lauded the participation of private, non-state actors, including industries and voluntary organisations in contributing to the fight against COVID-19. According to the Collector, Krishnagiri government headquarters hospital was similarly equipped with 13,000 ltr liquid oxygen tank and an air vaporizing column at a cumulative cost of Rs. 30 lakh. A.Chellakumar, Member of Lok Sabha for Krishnagiri, and D. Madhiazhagan, MLA, Bargur, were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-clubs-contribute-oxygen-generation-plant-to-phc/article34996915.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ministers inspect prospective library sites||The Public Works Department Minister E.V. Velu, Minister for Rural Development K. R. Periyakaruppan, Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy and Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan, on Saturday inspected the six places in the city which have been shortlisted for setting up the Kalaignar Memorial Library. The sites shortlisted for setting up the library are: near M.G.R. bus stand; World Tamil Sangam premises; near Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women; Madurai Corporation’s warehouse at Aattu Mandhai in Simmakkal; parking lot near Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple; and near office of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board on 70-Feet-Road in Ellis Nagar. The PWD Minister told reporters that the library would come up on over two lakh square feet area. It would be fully air-conditioned. It would have ground floor and seven additional floors. The library would have 24 sections and can accommodate 600 readers at a time. The advantages and disadvantages of each location would be explained to the Chief Minister who will choose the location where the library will be set up. Earlier, the Ministers distributed Rs. 4,000 and grocery kits as part of COVID-19 relief to the priests of Poonga Murugan Temple. Collector S. Aneesh Sekar was present.  What is in store The library will be fully air-conditioned With 24 sections, it can accommodate 600 readers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-inspect-prospective-library-sites/article34997165.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai railway division emerges as the best trouble-shooter||Madurai railway division has emerged as the best among the six divisions and zonal headquarters of Southern Railway in prompt disposal of public grievances raised over Rail Madad, the Railway Board’s portal to redress grievances, during 2020-2021. “Though officially Indian Railways has not chosen us as the best performing division in terms of promptness in disposal (time taken) and quality of disposal of the grievances, as per the records, Madurai is the only division in the zone that has bagged “Excellent” rating from the public,” said a senior railway official. The portal is handled round the clock by the staff in the Railway Control room where representatives of all the departments are present. As and when the people raise concern about facilities in trains or railway stations over the portal, the staff immediately act upon it. “This portal is being watched by heads of all departments at the division and supervised by the Additional Divisional Railway Manager and Divisional Railway Manager,” the official said. Madurai division handled 984 grievances and it took an average of 31 minutes to dispose them.“Ours is the shortest average time taken when compared to other divisions and zonal railway headquarters,” he added. “It is not just the swiftness in acting, but also the quality of disposal of grievances that got us the “excellent” rating. The portal has total transparency and the rating is done by the travelling public. Only if they are really pleased with our prompt action to redresses their grievances in total will they give top category rating,” he added. All other divisions and the zonal headquarters have received “satisfactory” - average rating. The grievances of other divisions or zones which are inadvertently directed to Madurai division are forwarded to the division concerned. Madurai division had handled 14.35% of over 6,800 grievances raised in Southern Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-railway-division-emerges-as-the-best-trouble-shooter/article34997154.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Medical oxygen generator set up at Railway Hospital||The first medical oxygen generator for Southern Railway was commissioned at Railway Hospital here on Saturday. Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin formally inaugurated the new plant, set up at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh, in the presence of Additional Divisional Railway Manager Lalit Kumar Mansukhani. The 88-bedded hospital was dependent on cylinders for its oxygen requirement till the first wave of COVID-19. However, the railway administration installed a liquid oxygen plant for 1,000 litres last year. “ Now, a third option to meet oxygen requirement has been fulfilled with this facility which can generate 250 litres a minute,” a railway official said. The Railway Hospital has a COVID-19 ward that catered to railway staff and pensioners and their family members. It also treated non-railway personnel during the first wave. Chief Medical Superintendent Baskar and Senior Divisional Engineer William Joy were present. Government Rajaji Hospital has also installed an oxygen generator which will be commissioned on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-oxygen-generator-set-up-at-railway-hospital/article34997171.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court upholds conviction of man in sexual assault case||Despite stringent laws and punishment, it is shocking and disturbing to note the increase in number of cases where children are sexually assaulted by known persons, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed while upholding the conviction of a man who had sexually assaulted a girl in 2010 in Pudukkottai district. Justice K. Murali Shankar observed that sexual assault of a girl child is the most heinous, barbaric and savage act. The right of the female child is always at peril. Such a brutal act creates a deep impact in the mind of the child, traumatises her for a long period or her entire life, affecting her physically as well as psychologically, the judge said. The court was hearing the criminal appeal filed by Mookan alias Murugan of Pudukkottai district against the judgment of the Pudukkottai Mahila Court that sentenced him to 10-year rigorous imprisonment in 2016. He had sexually assaulted the girl near her house while her parents had gone to attend a condolence. Dismissing the criminal appeal, the judge observed that considering the most deplorable and disgraceful conduct of the man, he deserved stringent punishment. The punishment awarded by the trial court cannot be found fault with. The conviction and sentence imposed by the Pudukkottai Mahila Court is confirmed, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-upholds-conviction-of-man-in-sexual-assault-case/article34997161.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directs DSP to complete investigation||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court directed the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli, to conduct and complete investigation in the murder case of a college student belonging to Scheduled Caste in Tirunelveli in 2019. Justice G. Ilangovan directed that the investigation must be monitored by the Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Usaikumar, father of the murdered student Rajamani. He had sought a CB-CID probe. The petitioner said that during a funeral procession, a few Caste Hindus threw flowers at the neighbourhood, where Scheduled Caste people were residing. The flowers were thrown at the houses, including the petitioner’s and also their temple. This was questioned by a few people, including the petitioner’s son. After the college student had complained about the incident, it led to enmity between the groups and the petitioner’s son was murdered following the incident, the petitioner said. The petitioner said that he was not happy with the investigation being conducted by the local police and sought a CB-CID probe. Taking note of submissions in the case, the judge directed the investigation be completed in three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-dsp-to-complete-investigation/article34997148.ece
27 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Protect pregnant women from possible third wave, says MP||Su. Venkatesan, MP, has appealed to the Union government to administer vaccine to pregnant women and lactating mothers to protect them against the possible third wave of COVID-19. As per available data, though the two vaccines used in India were found to be safe for pregnant women, the government should consider Pfizer or Moderna vaccines for vaccinating for them due to their advantages. “Evidences have shown that the both vaccines prevented preterm births with better birth outcomes,” he said in a memorandum addressed to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Stating that more pregnant women were infected with the COVID-19 during the second and third trimesters, he suggested that vaccination should be done by the end of first trimester. Stating that most of the scientists around the world had warned the onset of the third wave in India by mid- September, he said that mass and speedy vaccination drive was the only option in hand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protect-pregnant-women-from-possible-third-wave-says-mp/article34997159.ece
27 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court grants advance bail to man||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court granted anticipatory bail to a man from Tiruchi who along with his associates had abused police personnel when they questioned the group for not following COVID-19 protocol. They were not wearing face masks. The petitioner, Kaja Hussain, filed an undertaking affidavit to the court giving an unconditional apology for the incident. He undertook that he would not be involved in such offences in the future. He paid Rs. 10,000 to Advocate Clerks Welfare Association as directed by the court. Justice G. Chandrasekharan took note of the fact that the petitioner had filed the undertaking affidavit expressing regret for the entire incident and also gave an undertaking that he would not involve himself in such activity in the future. Taking into consideration the fact that he had complied with the direction given by the court, the judge granted anticipatory bail with conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-grants-advance-bail-to-man/article34997174.ece
27 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to upload revised master plans closed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday closed a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the government to upload the revised master plans on the official website after the State informed the court that the master plans were being uploaded. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam took note of the submission and closed the PIL petition filed by M. Maruthupandian of Ramanathapuram. He also sought a direction to ensure the mentioning of the land classification at the time of registration so as to benefit the public. The buyers were unaware of the details as they were not made available on the public domain. The facts were being kept a secret. If the details were uploaded on the official website, the buyers would not fall prey to middlemen, he said. The main objective of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971, was to maintain transparency in the development of lands and towns. The master plans provided the manner in which the land of the planning area would be used and classified the lands as residential, commercial, industrial or agricultural, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-upload-revised-master-plans-closed/article34997153.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district records 92 new positive cases||Madurai recorded 92 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 71,984. A total of 87 persons were discharged and the number of active cases stands at 619. Three deaths were recorded, increasing the district’s toll to 1,081 . Virudhunagar district recorded one death on Saturday after recording no deaths on the previous two days. After the death of a 64-year-old woman, the death toll has risen to 521. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases further fell down to 67 with 93 patients getting discharged. With this, the number of active cases has come down to 757.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-district-records-92-new-positive-cases/article34997163.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Doctors save life of critically ill patient||Joint efforts of doctors of Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute has helped in saving the life of a COVID-19 positive patient who was on a critical condition. According to a press release from the hospital, a 45-year-old COVID-19 positive woman with severe respiratory problems was admitted to the hospital. Her CT scan showed 95% lung involvement with a severity score being 24 out of 25. She was resuscitated and shifted to the COVID-19 Intensive Care Unit managed by Varun Ramamurthy, senior Intensivist. Her saturation level was 60% on high oxygen masks and it improved to 83% on hi-flow nasal cannula, but she quickly deteriorated and required non-invasive ventilation. She was intubated under the guidance of anesthesiologist John. Once her vitals stabilised, early tracheostomy was performed within two days by Rajavelu to facilitate weaning. Her condition also gradually improved. Hospital chairman M. V. Muthuramalingam congratulated the entire team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-save-life-of-critically-ill-patient/article34997166.ece
27 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rising number of sexual assault cases disturbing, says HC||Despite stringent laws and punishment, it is shocking and disturbing to note the rising number of cases where children are sexually assaulted by known persons, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court said while upholding the conviction of a man who had sexually assaulted a girl in 2010 in Pudukkottai district. Justice K. Murali Shankar said that sexual assault upon a girl child was the most heinous, barbaric and savage atrocity. The right of the female child was always staked to peril. Such brutal acts create a deep impact in the mind of the child, traumatise her for long or her entire life, the judge said. The court was hearing the criminal appeal filed by Mookan alias Murugan of the Pudukkottai district against the judgment of the Pudukkottai Mahila Court that sentenced him to 10 years rigorous imprisonment in 2016. He had sexually assaulted the girl near her house while her parents had gone to attend a condolence meet. Dismissing the criminal appeal, the judge observed that considering the most deplorable and disgraceful conduct of the man, he deserved the stringent punishment.  Conviction confirmed The judge confirmed the conviction and sentence imposed by the Pudukkottai Mahila Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rising-number-of-sexual-assault-cases-disturbing-says-hc/article34996871.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on July 28||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level Dak Adalat at the Office of the Postmaster General, Southern Region, Madurai, at 11 a.m. on July 28 to redress the grievances of postal customers. The customers can send their complaint to office of the Postmaster General. The complaint should contain full details of date and time of posting, addresses of the sender and addressee with phone number, registration receipt number with date and office of booking for money order, value payable post, registered, insured and Speed Post articles. Complaints on savings schemes and postal life insurance should have account number, postal life insurance policy number and full address of the depositor/insurant, name of the post office, details of recovery and any reference from the department. The complaints should be sent through ordinary, registered or Speed Post, with ‘DAK ADALAT June-2021’ superscribed on the cover. Correspondence through courier services will not be accepted, said a Department of Posts press release. The complaints can be addressed to S. Ananthi, Assistant Director (Staff), Office of the Postmaster General, Southern Region, Madurai 625002, on or before July 16. Customers can also email their grievances topg.madurai@indiapost. gov.inwith the subject as DAK ADALAT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-july-28/article34997155.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three held with 40 kg of ganja||Madurai City police arrested three persons and seized 40 kg of ganja, a two-wheeler and a car at Pykara on Saturday. Based on an alert, a team of police led by P. Balamurugan, Sub-Inspector of Police, Subramaniapuram, conducted vehicle check at Pykara when they intercepted a motorcycle and a car that was trailing it. The police found the narcotic substance in the car. The arrested persons were identified as A. Chinnasamy, 49, E. Rajjiyapura, 36, and M. Veerendran, 32, all from Usilampatti.      Joint Commissioner of Transport Pon. Senthilnathan inaugurated a COVID-19 vaccination camp at the Regional Transport Office- North here on Saturday. It was organised in association with the Madurai Corporation. About 150 people - driving school instructors, Transport Department employees and their family members - were inoculated at the camp, said RTO - North S. Selvam.    The Tamil Nadu Granite Quarry Operators and Processors Association has donated Rs. 1.25 crore to Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. According to its office-bearers P K Selvaraj and Shankaranarayanan, they handed over the cheque to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin in Chennai in the presence of School Education Minister Mahesh Poyyamozhi. The association, at a meeting held in Madurai, passed resolutions hailing the government in its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and resolved to work with the district administration in getting the vaccine doses for granite quarry workers in the rural areas of Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-with-40-kg-of-ganja/article34997160.ece
27 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 132.35 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 646 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 64.73 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,580 cusecs and a discharge of 2,969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,518 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday. Tirunelveli The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 133.20 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 198.22 cusecs and 1,585.14 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 81.50 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 210 cusecs and 600 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34997167.ece
27 June 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Two ganja peddlers held for double murder||The Kanniyakumari police have arrested two ganja peddlers in connection with double murders. Police said J. Jesuraj, 28, of Swamynathapuram near Kanniyakumari, and D. Selwyn, 24, of Vadakku Kundal, were found murdered near Murugankundram near Kanniyakumari on Thursday evening while their associate Shaya Shaji Jenish, 27, a history-sheeter, admitted himself to the hospital with stab injury. The police found that the trio, who were enlarged on bail after being arrested in connection with a few cases, planned to resume their ganja sale in and around Kanniyakumari. When they planned to buy the contraband from Bageeswaran, 24, and Muthukumar, 22, of Agastheeswaram, major ganja suppliers of Kanniyakumari district, the duo came to Kanniyakumari to meet the trio. Even as they were consuming liquor during the deal, an altercation broke out between the two groups in which Bageeswaran and Muthukumar allegedly stabbed Jesuraj, Selwyn and Sahaya Shaju Jenish. While Jesuraj and Selwyn died on the spot, Jenish has been admitted to the hospital with stab injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-ganja-peddlers-held-for-double-murder/article34997177.ece
27 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s first NDA Ministry to be sworn in today||The swearing-in of Puducherry’s first NDA Ministry, led by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, will take place amid tight security and strict pandemic-related restrictions on Sunday. Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan will administer the oath of office and secrecy to five Ministers — A. Namassivayam and Sai Saravanan Kumar of the BJP and K. Lakshminarayanan, “Theni” C. Djeacoumar and Chandira Priyanga from the AINRC. The ceremony is scheduled at 2.30 p.m. at a makeshift pavilion in front of the Raj Nivas. Although within five days of the announcement of Assembly election results on May 2, Mr. Rangasamy was sworn in on May 7, the constitution of the Cabinet had dragged on for over seven weeks as the AINRC and the BJP were involved in hard bargain for Cabinet berths and the posts of Speaker and Deputy Speaker. Mr. Rangasamy got admitted in a Chennai hospital on May 9 for COVID-19 treatment. However, by the time he was discharged on May 17, the Centre had nominated three BJP candidates as MLAs. BJP settles for Speaker Eventually, the BJP let go of its demand for Deputy Chief Minister and settled for Speaker’s post and two berths in Cabinet. The AINRC kept the post of Deputy Speaker and three Ministers. The list of Ministers, which was submitted to the Lt. Governor and forwarded to the Centre for approval, was accorded Presidential assent on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherrys-first-nda-ministry-to-be-sworn-in-today/article34996883.ece
27 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records 228 fresh COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded two COVID-19 deaths, 421 recoveries and 228 new cases from 8,018 tests, at a test positivity rate of less than 3%. Puducherry and Karaikal recorded one death each, taking the cumulative toll to 1,741. The region-wise toll in the Union Territory is Puducherry 1,390, Karaikal 216, Yanam 102 and Mahe 33. Puducherry reported under 200 cases after several weeks, adding 166 new patients, followed by Karaikal (43), Yanam (13) and Mahe (six). The number of active cases stood at 2,775 with 474 patients in hospitals and 2,301 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 2.84% and case fatality rate 1.50%, while the overall recovery rate improved to 96.12%. The Union Territory has recorded a cumulative aggregate of 1,16,414 cases against 1,11,898 recoveries. Of an estimated 12.76 lakh tests conducted till date, over 10.96 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 48 healthcare workers, 11 frontline staff and 6,087 members of the public took vaccine shots in the last 24 hours. The total number of people vaccinated in the Union Territory is 4,63,464, including 37,133 healthcare personnel, 22,866 frontline workers and 3,43,044 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-228-fresh-covid-19-cases/article34996884.ece
27 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||HM member threatens police, expelled from organisation||A video of a Hindu Munnani functionary arguing with the police at a vehicle check point went viral on social media platforms following which the city police have registered a case against him. The organisation expelled the member later. Chellapandian, a functionary of Hindu Munnani, on Friday evening entered into a heated argument with the Salem City police personnel deployed at a check point near Kondalampatti roundabout. Chellapandian reportedly argued with the police for imposing a fine of Rs. 200 on his friend Murali for not wearing mask on Thursday. According to the police, on Thursday night, Murali, a resident of Kondalampatti, was fined for not wearing mask and he was allowed to proceed immediately after collecting the fine. On Friday evening, Chellapandian arrived at the check-post and argued with the police and demanded that the personnel return the amount. Chellapandian was seen in the video as threatening the personnel and also abusing them. He also threatened to set fire to the check-post. Kondalampatti police registered a case under Sections 294(b), 295(A), 270, 353, and 506 (ii) of Indian Penal Code for offences including criminal intimidation and deterring a public servant from discharge of his duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hm-member-threatens-police-expelled-from-organisation/article34996924.ece
27 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Animals in Kurumbapatti zoological park being monitored||A veterinary team has been conducting periodical checks on animals in Kurumbapatti zoological park here and forest personnel are monitoring their health to prevent any spread of COVID-19 among them. Following reports of lions succumbing to COVID-19 at Vandalur zoo in Chennai, the Forest Department has been maintaining vigil and strictly monitoring the health of animals and birds in the zoo. Wildlife veterinarian A. Prakash checked the animals on Thursday and found the animals healthy. According to forest officials, veterinarians have advised to include immunity building tablets in their food. District Forest Officer R.Murugan along with senior officials inspected the enclosures and cages and checked the health condition of animals. Zoo ranger V.P. Subramaniyam said all precautionary measures were being taken at the zoological park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/animals-in-kurumbapatti-zoological-park-being-monitored/article34996902.ece
27 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||921 litres of illicit arrack destroyed||The Salem district police through an intensive drive conducted during past week seized and destroyed 921 litres of illicit arrack. The police warned of stern action against offenders. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said in a release that the district police have intensified checks to prevent distillation of illicit liquor and have tightened checks at the district borders to prevent smuggling of illicit liquor and liquor bottles from districts where Tasmac outlets have been permitted. According to the district police, check-posts have been set up at 19 places to prevent smuggling. As part of an intensive drive conducted by the district police, 921 litres of illicit arrack and 2140 litres of fermented wash were seized and destroyed by them, Mr. Abhinav said. From May 10, the district police have seized and destroyed 8,090 litres of illicit arrack and 28,315 litres of fermented wash. Police have also seized seven four-wheelers and 159 two-wheelers which were used for smuggling. Police have also registered 357 cases and arrested 363 persons in connection with the cases, Mr. Abhinav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/921-litres-of-illicit-arrack-destroyed/article34996922.ece
27 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Pharmacies told not to sell medicines without prescription||The Revenue District Officer of Attur held discussions with pharmacies and advised them to follow all protocols issued by the State government. Pharmacies were advised not to sell medicines without prescription and not to administer injections at outlets. Pharmacies should not sell medicines to those who visit stores sans masks and ensure COVID-19 protocols. They were advised not to sell biscuits or other products and officials told them that stern action would be taken if guidelines were not followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pharmacies-told-not-to-sell-medicines-without-prescription/article34996921.ece
27 June 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||25 families move to local temple after a few houses collapse||After the roof of a few houses in the Adi Dravidar Colony collapsed injuring one person, about 25 residents of Kadaneri South Street near here have moved into the neighbouring Sri Muthu Mariamman Temple on Saturday morning. About 20 years ago, the then State government had built over 50 houses for the Adi Dravidars here. Most of the beneficiaries work as farm labourers in the fields here. According to them, the poor upkeep had resulted in damage to their houses. Two years ago, when three houses collapsed, the residents submitted a petition to the then Collector Jayakanthan. Promising to get them new houses, he ordered the Kalayarkoil Block Development Officer to inspect the locality. However, nothing was done thereafter, Kannappan, a resident said. People have been living under the constant threat of their houses collapsing whenever there was heavy rainfall in the area. In the latest incident, the roofs of three houses had collapsed and a resident, identified as Subramani, was admitted in the hospital with multiple injuries. Revenue and Adi Dravida Welfare Department officials said that they would inspect the houses on Monday and take further action. The residents were firm not to go back to their houses until the authorities got them new houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-families-move-to-local-temple-after-a-few-houses-collapse/article34997152.ece
27 June 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||‘Expedite museum work’||Steps were being taken to expedite the construction of a museum at Keeladi, said Public Works Department Minister E. V. Velu here on Saturday. He was addressing mediapersons, along with Minister for Rural Development K. R. Periyakaruppan, Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy and Finance Minister P. T. R. P Thiagarajan, after inspecting the ongoing archaeological excavations at Keeladi and the construction of a museum at Keeladi. The work order for constructing the museum was issued in October 2020. Although the construction works are supposed to be completed by this October, only 16% of the works have been completed. The Chief Minister had asked the Ministers to visit the site and inspect the progress of the museum work. “We have instructed the officials to expedite the work,” said Mr. Velu. “New roads will be laid and other infrastructure created for the convenience of the visitors to the museum. Findings from the excavations have proved that Vaigai civilisation is one of the earliest urban civilisations. All the artefacts unearthed during the excavations will be on display at the museum,” he said. The Ministers inspected the seventh phase of archaeological excavations under way at the site. They also saw the artefacts that were unearthed in the last six phases of excavation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-museum-work/article34997157.ece
27 June 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Two workers injured in fire accident||Two workers suffered burn injuries while destroying waste in a colour matches unit at Enjar near here on Saturday. The police identified the injured as M. Kalidoss (42), who had sustained 45% burns and M. Arunjunai Rajan (27), who suffered 20% burn injuries. The workers were standing closer to the waste burning pit of Kaleeswari Colour Matches unit when a ball of fire engulfed both of them at around 10.30 a.m. Both of them have been admitted to a private hospital here. Tiruthangal police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-workers-injured-in-fire-accident/article34997176.ece
27 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow archanas in temples’||A group of devotees staged ‘anga prathakshinam’ on Sarangapani Kovil Sannadhi Street at Kumbakonam on Saturday urging the State government to allow ‘archanas’ int temples from June 28.  Talking to reporters, Hindu Makkal Katchi Agila Bharatha Anuman Sena, State secretary Bala said that it was disheartening to note that ‘archanas’ cannot be performed by devotees as it would help roadside vendors selling flowers and ‘puja’ items near the temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-archanas-in-temples/article34997229.ece
27 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Man held for attempt to murder||The Thiruvidaimaruthur police have arrested K. R. Venkatraman of Kothankudi near Kumbakonam for attempting to murder a resident of Maruthuvakudi. According to sources, the Thiruvidaimaruthur received a complaint from M. K. Stalin of Maruthuvakudi near Kumbakonam stating that someone had issued a life threat to him over the phone a week ago. Investigations led to a murder case accused, Manikandan of Thiruvidaimaruthur, who was lodged in Salem prison. Subsequently, the Thiruvidaimaruthur police took him under their custody through the Court two days ago and on interrogation, it was ascertained that Venkatraman was instrumental in the plan to eliminate M. K. Stalin. Venkatraman was arrested on Saturday and remanded to judicial custody, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-attempt-to-murder/article34997219.ece
27 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 6 lakh given to CM’s relief fund||The GK Dairy, Kuruchi, near Kumbakonam, marketing milk and milk products in the brand name of ‘Tamizh Paal’ has contributed Rs. 6 lakh to the CM’s Public Relief Fund to combat COVID-19 pandemic. GK Dairy founder, G. Kannan and managing directors K. Purijagannathan and K. Thyagarajan met Chief Minister M. K. Stalin at Chennai and handed over the contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-6-lakh-given-to-cms-relief-fund/article34997221.ece
27 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Let us operate for half a day’||Textile and jewellery shop owners here have called upon the State government to permit them to operate their establishments for half a day every day to recoup their business. In a meeting convened by the All Traders Association Kumbakonam on Saturday, representatives from the Associations of Textile Traders and Jewellery Traders in Kumbakonam narrated how lockdown had affected their business. Already, they were burdened with cash outgo in the form of salaries to employees with nil sales for the past few months. Assuring that the SOPs would be implemented, they appealrf to the government to allow them to function for half-day every day so as to help them recoup their business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/let-us-operate-for-half-a-day/article34997222.ece
27 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Elective surgeries to resume in GHs, medical college hospitals||With the second wave of COVID-19 showing signs of easing, the government and government medical college hospitals have been told to resume elective surgeries which had been postponed due to the outbreak of the pandemic, S. Uma, Project Director, Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project, has said. Speaking to reporters here on Friday after chairing a meeting with the public health department officials of Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts to review the ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations and the preparations for the possible third wave, she said the government hospitals and the medical college hospitals across Tamil Nadu were giving excellent treatment to the COVID-19 patients under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme that saved thousands of lives, especially the patients from poor background. The Chief Minister, with the objective of ensuring quality treatment to the below poverty line patients, had capped the treatment charges in the private hospitals on May 22 and this amount was being reimbursed under the CMCHIS. Before May 7 last, 1,450 COVID-19 patients got benefited to the tune of Rs. 6 crore while Rs. 400 crore had been paid to over 22,000 COVID-19 patients since May 7, she said. “The timely step of capping the treatment charges by the Chief Minister in private hospitals has saved thousands of patients from the viral infection and being trapped in financial crisis,” she said adding that a transparent online system had been put in place to redress the grievances of the patients. The Project Director said Tamil Nadu had emphatically tackled the second wave of COVID-19 and had put in place all arrangements for facing third wave. “All these hospitals have been told to dedicate a portion of their premises for admitting these patients for the elective surgical procedures while there will be no complacency in dealing with the COVID-19 patients,” she said. On the mucormycosis cases, the Project Director said so far 350 such cases had been treated after they recovered from the viral infection. Moreover, this treatment had been brought under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme even if the patients underwent treatment in the private eye hospitals. Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elective-surgeries-to-resume-in-ghs-medical-college-hospitals/article34997140.ece
27 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||2.5 tonnes of turmeric seized||Police have seized 2.5 tonnes of turmeric and detained 5 persons for allegedly attempting to smuggle the spice to Sri Lanka. The police also seized a mini-lorry and a country boat from the smugglers. A marine police team conducted surprise check at Fishermen Colony here on Saturday where five unidentified persons were seen unloading the turmeric from a cargo vehicle to be loaded in a country boat anchored nearby. While the 5 persons on the shore could be nabbed, others in the boat escaped after abandoning the boat. They were identified as A. Robinston, 21, C. Arul, 55 and J. Viduston of Keezha Vaippaar, E. Govinda Perumal, 36, of Indra Nagar near Siluvaipatti and M. Sermaraja, 19, of Tsunami Colony near Thalamuthu Nagar. The police are on the lookout for Maideen, the brain behind this illegal venture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-tonnes-of-turmeric-seized/article34997149.ece
27 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Now, Tiruchi breathes easy as demand for oxygen beds dips||The demand for oxygen beds has come down significantly in Tiruchi due to sharp decline in fresh cases of COVID-19. Out of 1,099 beds in the COVID-19 ward in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), 643 beds have oxygen support. There are 100 beds in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) with ventilator support. COVID-19 cases peaked in the second and third weeks of May and the district recorded an average of 1,000 to 1,500 cases for a month. Active cases too went up to 11,800 in May but has now come down to 1,200. As per the recent trend, the district registers an average of 200 to 250 fresh cases daily. Nearly 75% of the patients report to the MGMGH in Tiruchi and the remaining patients, who test positive for COVID-19 cases, visit private hospitals for treatment. There were days when ambulances carrying COVID-19 patients with low saturation levels of oxygen, lined up at the MGMGH for admissions. The situation has changed now and patients are given admission within 20 minutes to 40 minutes of arrival. There is not much problem in allocating oxygen beds too. “As per the review during the last three weeks, there has been significant decline in COVID-19 patients seeking oxygen beds since June 10. Most of them require beds only in general COVID-19 wards,” says Collector S. Sivarasu. The district has about 4,000 beds for treating COVID-19 patients including beds at COVID Care Centres. Close to three fourth of beds were now lying vacant and it has released the pressure on health officials and workers, the Collector said. K.Vanitha, Dean, MGMGH, said that oxygen usage had come down by 50% when compared to the peak period in May. “We are noticing a decline in demand for oxygen beds. It has given space for regrouping our energy. However, there are instances of patients with critical conditions reaching the hospital at advance stages,” she said. Mr. Sivarasu said that village-level committees set up to monitor fever cases and fever camps had helped to bring down the cases dramatically. The level on compliance of social distancing protocol also seemed to have improved in the district. He added that even workers of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme were seen wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-tiruchi-breathes-easy-as-demand-for-oxygen-beds-dips/article34997137.ece
27 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Women Help Desks to come up in 15 police stations||The Tiruchi district police joined hands with various departments of the district administration to set up Women Help Desks to address concerns raised by women and children. With assistance from the Nirbhaya Fund, set up by the central government, the desks would be a one-stop for grievance redressal of women through the policing system. The police personnel from the Women's Help Desk said that 15 police stations in the district, including five All-Women Police Stations would have these help desks where-in two police personnel - a Sub Inspector and a constable - would be deputed to assist women. “The desk would work round-the-clock and will assist the women in getting access to any help,” they said. Women in distress can also dial '181' to reach the help desk. “In case of such calls, we will visit them in civil clothes and help solve the problem,” they said. Each of the 15 stations has been allotted a laptop and a two-wheeler for this purpose. The Help Desk has also sought the assistance of the District Social Welfare Office, Child Protection Office, labour department, and doctors and psychiatrists to provide meaningful assistance. District Social Welfare Officer M. Thameemunisa said that the multi-pronged approach would help in addressing issues quickly. “What happens usually is that if the police department receives a complaint, they have to reach out to us, or if we have to file complaints on violations such as child marriage, we have to write a letter to them. Now, the work will be done simultaneously,” she said. A orientation programme was held on Saturday, in which A. Radhika, Deputy Inspector General of Police, and P. Moorthy, Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-help-desks-to-come-up-in-15-police-stations/article34997218.ece
27 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lull in blood donation raises concern over shortage||With the COVID-19 vaccination drive picking up pace, the deferral period for blood donation after taking the first or second jab has given way to concerns over a possible shortage of blood. However, blood banks in the city say that while some districts are facing a shortage, awareness programmes would ensure that regular donors continue to donate blood as they used to. At the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, a list of regular donors is maintained and in case of emergencies, they are directly contacted, said sources. “We did experience some difficulties especially when people between 18 to 45-years-old began to get the COVID-19 vaccination, but regular donors understand our need and donate before vaccination and also encourage their friends to do so when they are unable to,” an official at the blood bank said. Exposure to virus A senior doctor in the city said that while it is difficult to conduct donation camps due to the fear of overcrowding, many regular donors too are afraid to venture outdoors to donate. “There are concerns about exposure to the virus, especially if we ask them to come to a hospital. Health workers need to focus on the importance of donating blood, and when one can do it, as part of the awareness for COVID-19 vaccination,” the doctor said. People can donate blood a week or two ahead of vaccination. Following the vaccination, the person must wait 14 days before donating blood, for both the first and second dose. “After the gap between both doses was increased for Covishield, there was a sense of confusion. However, the National Blood Transfusion Council (NBTC) has now reduced the deferral period of blood donation by those vaccinated against COVID-19, from 28 days to 14 days,” a representative of Uyir Thuli Blood Bank said. As many hospitals have paused elective surgeries, the demand for blood has also reduced. The current requirement in many hospitals is for trauma accident cases, emergency surgeries, and deliveries, which is manageable, the representative of the blood bank added.  NBTC has reduced the deferral period of blood donation by those vaccinated against COVID-19, from 28 days to 14 days Representative of Uyir Thuli Blood Bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lull-in-blood-donation-raises-concern-over-shortage/article34997138.ece
27 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage demo against farm laws||Members of various farmers organisations and trade unions staged demonstrations in Tiruchi and neighbouring districts on Saturday demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws and expressing solidarity with the farmers protesting in New Delhi. A group of farmers owing allegiance to the Desiya Thennidiya Nadigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam led by P. Ayyakannu staged a demonstration in front of the Collector’s office to press the demand by lying down on the road. They condemned the Centre for failing to respect the sentiments of farmers protesting in Delhi for over seven months. They also sought permission to stage a protest in Delhi against Karnataka’s move construct a dam across the Cauvery river at Mekedatu. District Collector S. Sivarasu heard their grievances and received a representation from Mr. Ayyakannu. At a protest organised on behalf of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a group of farmers and trade union members staged a dharna in front of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited’s office near the Cantonment in the city. They demanded repeal of the new farm laws and labour codes of the Union government. A group of CITU members also staged a demonstration at Chathram Bus Stand demanding the repeal of new farm laws, four labour codes and sanction of Rs. 7,500 for all unorganised sector labourers. Thanjavur The All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), Thanjavur district unit, organised demonstrations at three places in the district on Saturday. The demonstrators shouted slogans urging the Central government to withdraw the laws. Led by the AIKSCC Thanjavur district coordinator, N.V. Kannan, the demonstrators in Thanjavur also demanded that the Electricity Amendment Bill be withdrawn in the interest of farmers. Similar demonstrations were held at Kumbakonam and Pattukottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-demo-against-farm-laws/article34997230.ece
27 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temples asked to go in for BHOG certification||Major temples in the city have been asked to obtain BHOG (Blissful Hygienic Offering to God) certification from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India to ensure hygiene and safety of ‘prasadam’ and other food items distributed to devotees. An awareness meeting on obtaining the certification was hosted by the Department of Food Safety and Drug Administration for administration representatives of the Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple, Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple, Samayapuram Mariamman Temple, Thiruvanaikovil Jambukeswarar Akilandeswari Temple and Woraiyur Vekkaliamman Temple here on Friday. Speaking at the meeting, R. Ramesh Babu, District Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, emphasised the need for the authorities to maintain hygiene in the kitchens and places where prasadam was distributed and annadhanam provided. The raw materials used for making prasadams should have manufacturing and expiry dates. All temples providing prasadam and annadhanam should register themselves with the Department of Food Safety and Drug Administration and obtain licences. The temples should also subject themselves to audits by third party agencies approved by the FSSAI to get the BHOG certification. The meeting was attended by assistant commissioners of the HR&CE Department, cooks engaged in preparing prasadam and other food items in temples, supervisors and other officials, Dr. Ramesh Babu said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-asked-to-go-in-for-bhog-certification/article34997233.ece
27 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report less than 900 new cases||The central districts on Saturday reported 816 fresh cases of COVID-19. The number of deaths reported too, witnessed a significant decline. A total of 19 patients succumbed to the viral infection across the eight districts in the region. Seven patients succumbed to the viral infection in Tiruchi district. Pudukottai recorded six deaths, while Thanjavur reported four. One patient each succumbed to the illness in Ariyalur and Nagapattinam districts. No deaths were reported in both Karur and Perambalur districts. Thanjavur reported the highest number of cases in the region with 260 patients reporting positive. In Tiruchi district, 198 patients tested positive, while Nagapattinam reported 78 fresh cases. Pudukottai reported 72, while Tiruvarur reported 68. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had only 27 ICU beds vacant, and Pudukottai, 18. Tiruvarur had 73, while Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 266 and 193 beds vacant, respectively. Ariyalur recorded 57 fresh COVID-19 cases, while Karur reported 52. Perambalur district recorded 31 fresh COVID-19 cases. Meanwhile, Perambalur had 37 vacant ICU beds, Karur, 72 and Ariyalur had 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-less-than-900-new-cases/article34997225.ece
27 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will remain suspended in the following areas from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Sunday owing to maintenance works to be taken up by the Tangedco: Vasan Nagar, Vasan Valley, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Jeevan Nagar, Nachikurichi, Malliyampathu and Senkathirsolai; J. K. Nagar, JK Nagar Extension, Lourdu Nagar, Raja Ganapathy Nagar, RKV Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, areas around Planetarium, RVS Nagar and TWAD Board; part of Ammapettai, Chathirapatti, Ariyavur and Navalurkuttapattu under Ammapettai sub-station; and Dheeranma Nagar, Housing Board Colony, Karumari Nagar and Royal City. Tangedco has also announced that power supply will remain suspended in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Monday: Kallukuzhi, Circuit House Colony, Mannarpuram New Colony, Nadutheru, Illuppur Road, TVS Nagar, EB Colony, Khajamalai, RVS Nagar, JK Nagar, Khaja Nagar, Bharathidasan University Khajamalai campus, Sengulam Colony and Dargah Road under Mannarpuram sub-station; Palani Nagar, part of Aiyyappa Nagar, Pandian Salai, Cholan Salai, Bharathi Street, part of Subramaniapuram, Netaji Street, Thayumanavar Street, Mangamma Salai, RCS Paarai, Antony School and Devaraya Nagar under K.Sathanur sub-station; Southern Railway High Tension line and Railway quarters, Defence Colony (10 to 17 streets) Anna Nagar, part of Mela Ambikapuram, Sangiliandapuram, Senthaneerpuram, MGR Nagar and Muthumani Town: Indira Nagar, Devarayaneri, Thaenaeripatti, Asoor, Poigaikudi, Ex-Servicemen Colony, Thuvakudi Tollgate, Selvi Nagar and Lakkadipatti under Thuvakudi sub-sttion; Navalpattu, SIDCO, Kakkan Colony, IAS Nagar, Bhelpur, T-Nagar, Koothaipar and VOC Nagar and Posampatti, Koyyathoppu, Podavur, Puliyur, Ettarai, Vyazhanmedu and Koppu under Adavathur sub-station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34997227.ece
27 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Kani tribes get solar power||Injikuzhi, 14 km beyond the Papanasam dam in the Western Ghats, which houses nine families of Kani tribes, hitherto has no electricity. Now, this place has solar power. After these Kani tribes were identified by the Forest Department personnel even before Independence, their services were utilised for planting trees and conserving the jungle. While a few chose to live at Injikuzhi, a good number of them moved out to settle down near Papanasam and Servalar dams, now known as Periya Mayilaar, Chinna Mayilaar, Agasthiyar and Servalar Kaani Tribal hamlets with small huts. These tribes living near Papanasam and Servalar dams, all situated in the Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve’s (KMTR) Mundanthurai area, got their houses electrified thanks to the solar power panels supplied to them 15 years ago. Since their houses are inside the tiger sanctuary, power connection could not be given to the houses without getting mandatory clearances from the KMTR. When V. Vishnu, Collector, who has already met the Kani tribes on several occasions when he served as the Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi, visited the hamlets of Kani tribes as the Collector on June 21 to gift them a mini-cargo vehicle for carrying their farm produce such as pepper, jack fruit, tapioca, lemon, honey, amla etc. from the hills to the consumers living in the plains, he promised them that he would soon make arrangements for providing power to Injikuzhi residents also. Within a week, he fulfilled his promise by fitting solar power panels in every hut at Injikuzhi. “The solar panels, costing Rs. . 2.50 lakh, have been fitted atop the huts of Injikuzhi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kani-tribes-get-solar-power/article34997142.ece
27 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp held for narikoravas||Residents of Narikorava Colony in Valliyoor got vaccinated against COVID-19 on Saturday. Collector V. Vishnu, who inaugurated the camp, stayed there for nearly three hours and interacted with them to understand their problems. As the public transport is to resume from Monday onwards, the 110 narikorava families, which were hitherto confined to their hamlet due to the absence of buses, are expected to start moving out to sell their products, mostly handmade ornaments and honey. As the camp started in the morning, the residents fled their hamlet, saying that they would not take the vaccine. After a lot of persuasion, they agreed to get vaccinated. “A total of 120 persons from this colony were vaccinated on Saturday,” he said. When the Collector came to know that most of them do not have Aadhaar cards, required for vaccination, and smart ration card, he instructed Tahsildar of Radhapuram Kanagaraj to make arrangements for conducting a special camp at the colony on Monday to issue them the documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-held-for-narikoravas/article34997144.ece
27 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Unidentified persons murder 45-year-old man||Unidentified persons murdered J. Babu, 45, of Rajavallipuram under the Thazhaiyooththu police station limits on Saturday. As the relatives of the deceased alleged that the persons belonging to a different community had murdered Babu, who is facing a few criminal cases, tension gripped the area for a while. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan visited the spot and deployed additional policemen. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unidentified-persons-murder-45-year-old-man/article34997147.ece
27 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Bank accused of not allowing cash withdrawal for farmer’s treatment||Following the death of a farmer near Palladam in Tiruppur district, a farmers’ association accused the branch of a nationalised bank of not allowing the deceased’s kin to withdraw cash for his treatment. R. Kanagaraj (53), a resident of Kullampalayam village near Pongalur, died at a private hospital in Coimbatore on Friday morning. According to N.S.P. Vetri, working president of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association (unaffiliated to any political party), the deceased had a savings account at the bank’s Kethanur branch, which was allegedly placed on hold by the bank as he was unable to repay a crop loan taken by his father. Following his hospitalisation, members from the association had asked the bank manager to allow withdrawal of cash, which the manager allegedly refused, Mr. Vetri told mediapersons. He is survived by his wife and two daughters, he said, urging that the State government must initiate action against the bank manager and provide cash assistance to the family. When contacted, Lead District Manager T. Alexander said on Saturday that Kanagaraj’s father took a crop loan of Rs. 75,000 and that the son became the guarantor following the father’s death. Taking into account the COVID-19 pandemic and the deceased’s health condition, the district administration has instructed the branch manager to provide a settlement amount to the family members in adherence to the bank’s guidelines, he said. “The issue will be resolved soon,” Mr. Alexander said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-accused-of-not-allowing-cash-withdrawal-for-farmers-treatment/article34996904.ece
27 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Scribe arrested in Tiruppur||Tiruppur City Police on Saturday arrested a journalist on charges of threatening a head constable. Police sources said Mubarak Basha (40), said to be a reporter with a Tamil monthly investigative magazine, allegedly threatened the head constable of Velampalayam police station that he would publish an adverse report about her and demanded Rs. 1.25 lakh to not publish it. Based on her complaint, the police booked him under sections of the Indian Penal Code along with section 4 (Penalty for harassment of woman) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act and remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scribe-arrested-in-tiruppur/article34996925.ece
27 June 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Relief kits distributed||Vizhuthugal, a non-governmental organisation, has announced that its members had distributed 500 COVID-19 relief kits among the families of conservancy workers and manual scavengers across Tiruppur district. A release said that 200 beneficiaries in Tiruppur Corporation limits and 100 each in Avinashi, Palladam and Udumalpet Blocks received the kits, each of which comprised groceries, mask, hand sanitiser and soap. The NGO’s director M. Thangavel, and programme manager V. Govindaraj began the distribution of the kits from the third week of May, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-kits-distributed/article34996908.ece
27 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Bus services to resume||Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Virudhunagar, will resume its bus services from 6 a.m. on Monday. In a press release, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the buses would be operated across the State except for 11 districts, including Coimbatore, The Nilgiris, Erode, Tiruppur, Salem, Karur, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai, where the COVID infection was higher. All the buses were kept ready after taking up disinfection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-services-to-resume/article34997172.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 toll crosses 2,000 mark in Coimbatore||The number of persons who died of COVID-19 in the Coimbatore district crossed the 2,000 mark on Saturday, according to the Health Department. The official toll of the district stood at 2,003 after the Department on Saturday declared that nine more persons died of the disease. Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 671 new cases of COVID-19. The district had 6,122 active cases of the disease, while 1,263 persons have recovered. Tiruppur district reported 337 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 81,125. The Health Department reported two new deaths and the district’s toll increased to 738. The district reported 2,021 active cases and 448 recoveries on Saturday. No vaccination camps In a tweet, the Tiruppur Corporation announced that there would be no vaccination camps on Sunday in the Corporation limits. A total of 369 fresh cases and 11 deaths were reported in Salem district on Saturday.   According to health officials, 323 cases were indigenous and 108 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Forty-six patients had returned from Erode, Namakkal and other places. Of the 11 dead, six were female patients. 13 deaths in Erode While Namakkal reported 214 new cases, and six deaths, Erode saw 574 fresh cases and 13 deaths on Saturday. Krishnagiri recorded 122 fresh cases and two deaths on Saturday. A total of 156 persons were discharged. The total number of active cases stood at 1,112 as on Saturday. A total of 39,442 cases have been reported in Krishnagiri so far. Dharmapuri recorded 112 fresh cases, and two deaths on Saturday. A total of 143 persons were discharged. The total number of active cases stood at 782 on Saturday. As on date, a total 24,066 cases have been reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-toll-crosses-2000-mark-in-coimbatore/article34996910.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Second wave reaches a few tribal settlements in western region||Chinnampathy, an Irula settlement in the Madukkarai forest range in Coimbatore district, was among the 100-odd tribal settlements in the western region that largely remained insulated from the COVID-19 infection in the first wave of the pandemic. But the situation changed in the second wave towards June-end, and, that too, within a week. Many hamlets reported no case till the second week of June, but the infection infiltrated some of the settlements by month-end. When The Hindu ’s team interacted with residents and health officials, they suspected that the infection might have been brought in by some of the residents who ventured into the town or NGO volunteers who entered the settlements to render help. But the results of the random tests done on 20 of the 250 residents of Chinnampathy came as a shock on Thursday as seven persons, including three children, were found infected. They were shifted to a COVID Care Centre at Kinathukadavu on Friday. The swab samples of all the others were lifted. “None of the seven persons had fever or other symptoms. We believed that the settlement was free from COVID-19. Now all the residents are wearing mask at home too,” said Sandhya Shanmugam, the first graduate from the settlement. A Health Department official said a few persons from the village visited the nearest towns to buy groceries. Some also went out for work. “We suspect that the infection came through them,” the official said. Fever cases were reported in some of the settlements this year, especially after March. According to the Health Department, an anti-poaching watcher of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) named Raja, a resident of the Navamalai settlement, died of COVID-19 in May. His job required him to be in contact with persons from outside. The ATR is home to 35 settlements in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts. The Health and Revenue Departments are making efforts to contain the spread of the disease among these forest-dwelling communities. “Eleven settlements in the ATR fall within Valparai taluk where COVID-19 has not been reported yet. Fever camps are being conducted in these settlements,” Valparai tahsildar S. Raja said. Difficult terrain However, tribal welfare activist S. Thanraj of Ekta Parishad, Tamil Nadu, pointed out that the Revenue and Health Departments lacked demography of the forest-dwellers and a systematic approach towards monitoring their health. “Field staff like ASHA workers do not visit many settlements at frequent intervals because of the difficult terrain and for other reasons,” he said. According to K. Ramasamy, president of Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association, cases occurred in some of the hill areas in Erode district with the return of workers from garment units in Tiruppur and other districts. But many remote settlements, including Malliamman Durgham, Ukkiniyam and Nagalur in the Kadambur Hills and Sholaganai and Kathirimalai in the Bargur Hills, have reported no cases in the first and second waves. “Since the needs of most of the tribal people are few and they depend on their own land for food, very rarely do they venture out. Also there is no road to settlements like Malliamman Durgham and Kathirimalai, and hence no outsiders visit the hamlets,” Mr. Ramasamy said. In the Nilgiris, another district home to many tribal hamlets in the region, many people avoid testing, according to the field staff of the Health Department. Efforts are focused on vaccine-delivery in these areas. A few ASHA workers with whom The Hindu spoke said there was not enough testing being done to declare that there was no spread of the infection in these areas. In Tiruppur district, 17 tribal settlements in Udumalaipettai that fall in the limits of the ATR have not recorded a single case so far. K. Ganeshram, Assistant Conservator of Forests and Additional Director of ATR (Tiruppur Division), said the Forest Department ensured that outsiders such as NGO workers did not enter the settlements and the residents did not venture out of the ATR limits except for emergency. “Our staff have been providing groceries to the settlements and only select residents from the settlements are being allowed to purchase vegetables and fruits, in adherence to the safety protocol. Earlier this month, a 55-year-old man from one of the settlements was down with fever; his swab sample was lifted and the result was negative,” he said. Out of nearly 4,000 residents of these 17 settlements, around 700 have been vaccinated since May, when the Forest Department began inoculation. “Senior citizens are hesitant to take the vaccines, while the youth have been coming forward to get themselves vaccinated,” Mr. Ganeshram said. With a population of about 800, the two remote villages at Mellur and Kizhoor near Rasipuram in Namakkal district have not reported a single case so far, according to the Health Department. The villagers usually trek down once a week to get essentials and have not been making frequent visits to the foothills ever since the lockdown was announced. According to health officials, a separate health team has been formed to conduct periodical camps in these villages. ( Reporting by Wilson   Thomas from Coimbatore,   Rohan Premkumar from      Udhagamandalam,   R. Akileish from Tiruppur,   S.P. Saravanan from Erode   and Vignesh Vijayakumar from Namakkal )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-wave-reaches-a-few-tribal-settlements-in-western-region/article34996893.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Former AIADMK MLA joins DMK||Mariappan Kennedy, who was elected as an AIADMK MLA in 2016 from the Manamadurai (Reserved) Assembly Constituency in the district, joined the DMK in the presence of party president and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in Chennai on Friday. Speaking to reporters here, he said that he quit the AIADMK in 2018 and joined the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) following which he lost the MLA post. In the 2019 by-poll, he was defeated. Again, in the recently-held Assembly election, Mr. Kennedy, who contested as an AMMK candidate, lost. Hence, he decided to join the DMK. The people of Tamil Nadu have given a massive mandate to the DMK and hence it would be ideal to be with the party to serve the needy, he said and added that the AMMK had no future since the people have rejected it outright. Similarly, the AIADMK was caught in a number of intra-party squabbles, and self-appointed leaders were keen about their welfare and not the party, he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-aiadmk-mla-joins-dmk/article34997150.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||State unveils evaluation methodology for Class 12||Of the Class 12 weightage, 20% will be for the practical exams and 10% for the internals. For subjects that don’t have a practical component, 30% will be given to the internals. If a student did not take the Class 12 practical exams due to the pandemic, their Class 11 practical exam marks will be taken into consideration. If they have not taken the Class 12 and 11 practical exams, the marks they scored in the written exams through Class 10 and 11 will be taken into consideration. Students who have not cleared or written the Class 11 exams will be awarded 35 marks for each subject since it won’t be possible for them to take these exams again. If a student has not taken any examination, either written or practical, they will be given the opportunity to take up the examination as a private candidate. For private candidates, the examination schedule will be announced later, depending upon the situation. Those unhappy with their results will be given a chance to take the board examinations later, and the marks therein will be final. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said the government considered the recommendations of the Principal Secretaries of School Education and Higher Education Departments, Madras University’s Vice-Chancellor, principals of higher secondary schools and other experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-unveils-evaluation-methodology-for-class-12/article34996894.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE||June 27   Coimbatore and RS Puram sub-stations (10 a.m. to noon): Kalingarayan street, Nanjappa road, Malavika street, Ramar koil street, VOC park, Stance school, Sivasamy road, part of Mettupalayam road, part of RG street, Theppakkulam street 1,2,3, Lingappa chetti street, Devanga pet street, Mill road junction, part of Marakkadai, N H road.  June 28   Pappanaikenpalayam and RS Puram sub-stations:   (10 a.m. to noon) Alamu Nagar, C.K colony, Chinnasamy Naidu UO, Thirumalaisamy UO, R V UO, IT quarters, Bharath petroleum quarters, Bhagath singh road, New Siddapudur road.    (10 a.m. to 1 p.m.) Gandhipark to Thadagam road paal company, Telugu street, part of Edayar street, part of Sukkrawarpet, Manakka street, Sullivan street, Chohza restaurant area, Rajammal L/O, EB Colony, Shanmugha Nagar, part of SBOA school, part of Edayar street, K C Thottam, Samypudu Iyer street .  (Noon to 2 p.m.) Dhanalaxmi Nagar, Ramakrishna Hospital road, KK nagar, Karuppakkal thottam, Crematorium.  (2 p.m. to 4 p.m.) Kandasamy UO, Venogopal UO, Mariamman koil street, Jayasimmapuram, part of Parameshwaran UO, Sri Ram nagar Avenue, Aarokkiyasamy road west, Vazhakkai mandi, Sundappalayam road, Nehru vidyalaya school, Scheme road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore/article34996911.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||7.25% of adults have received both shots||Over 7.25% of Karnataka’s total adult population of 4.7 crore has been fully vaccinated so far, and 37.1% have got at least one dose. The wide difference between the two categories is attributed to frequent changes in policy and frequent revision of the prescribed gap between the two doses. The State, which is one of the six in the country where vaccination has crossed two crore doses, had administered 1,80,84,358 first doses and 35,32,165 second doses till Saturday. Although the short supply of vaccines has been posing a challenge to the government, health officials said Karnataka’s coverage is higher than the national average of 5%. On Saturday, several vaccination centres reported a shortage of vaccines and displayed “no vaccine” boards. However, Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra claimed there was no shortage of vaccines. “We currently have a stock of nearly seven lakh doses. We are using whatever we are getting and have been administering an average of 3.5 lakh doses every day since June 21,” he told The Hindu . Asserting that the State has been getting regular supplies and the previous consignment of four lakh doses was received two days ago, he said over 80% of healthcare workers have been covered so far. “Although there was vaccine hesitancy among people in the first few months, the steep rise in cases and deaths in the second wave prompted the public to reach out for vaccines. This led to a sudden rise in demand,” he said. V. Ravi, a member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee and chairman of the State’s Genomic Surveillance Committee, said Karnataka now has to sustain the pace of vaccination by procuring more vaccines. “Ideally, we should administer five lakh doses per day from now onwards. While vaccine supply is a challenge, taking vaccines to those who cannot come to the centres should also be worked out. There is a section of the population such as tribals and the underprivileged who cannot afford to lose out on their day’s wages and hence do not come to the centres,” he said. 80% target C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the objective should be to fully vaccinate at least 80% of the population by December. “The government should also examine vaccinating children in the 12-18 age group as early as possible. Hopefully, from August onwards the safety and efficacy data for this age group will be available,” he said. Lactating mothers, other eligible beneficiaries with comorbidities, and those who have undergone bypass surgeries, angioplasty, stenting and other procedures, and even those on blood thinners, should not hesitate to take the vaccine, he added. While Karnataka’s projected population is 6.7 crore, vaccination is being taken up only for those aged 18 and above now. On Saturday, the State entered the 24th week of its vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/725-of-adults-have-received-both-shots/article34996838.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Increase in raw material prices shoots up construction cost||The construction sector, hit by the pandemic and related restrictions, is facing a second blow with the cost of materials seeing a steep increase as the cascading effect of fuel price hike. One estimate pegs the increase at about 35% over last year. Crucial inputs such as steel, cement, sand, stone aggregates, plywood materials, and M Sand have seen a price increase in the last one year, pushing up the overall construction cost. The construction of individual houses has become expensive with cost per square for a moderate structure going up from a range of Rs. 1.5 lakh-Rs. 1.75 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh-Rs. 2.5 lakh, industry sources said. Labour shortage “Roughly, in the last one year, the cost of construction has gone up by about 35%. This has been caused by increasing diesel price and a shortage of labour,” said M. Ramesh from Builders Association of India, Karnataka chapter. Labour cost alone has increased by almost 25% after migrant labourers left Bengaluru during the last lockdown, he said, adding that the situation had not improved much since. He said the sluggishness in the industry had slowed down the payments, choking several contractors. In the last one year, while steel (TOR steel) price has gone up from a band of Rs. 55,000-Rs. 60,000 a tonne to Rs. 64,000-Rs. 73,000, the price of structural steel has increased from about Rs. 65,000-Rs. 70,000 a tonne to Rs. 80,000-Rs. 90,000. Cement, sand Cement price moved from about Rs. 350-Rs. 400 a bag to Rs. 440-Rs. 460. The cost of a lorry load of river sand has exceeded Rs. 1 lakh. M Sand used for plastering has seen its cost increase to Rs. 1,300-Rs. 1,700 from about Rs. 1,200-Rs. 1,300 a tonne. Plywood cost has gone up by 20%. Similarly, the price of solid concrete blocks, bricks, and plumbing and sanitary ware has also seen an increase. According to Mr. Ramesh, except for paint that has seen only a marginal hike in its price, all others have seen a steep increase in price. Nagabhushan V., a civil engineer in the city, said in a market that was already stressed due to the downward trend in the economy, inflation in construction cost has hit the business further. “We hope costs will come down after unlocking now. But we have had several projects indefinitely postponed.” Consumers hit This, in turn, is hitting consumers. Roshan Chengappa, who started building his house at Kodigehalli just before the pandemic, said he was forced to continue with the project since it was half done, but it had turned very stressful owing to non-availability of labour and rising costs. “Accounting for the delay in completion of the project, additional interest paid on loans and rising construction cost, the project estimate has shot up by over 40%.”  (With additional inputs by K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-in-raw-material-prices-shoots-up-construction-cost/article34996848.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. prohibits RTC employees from going on strike||The government has issued a notification under the provisions of the Karnataka Essential Services Maintenance Act (KESMA) prohibiting employees of road transport corporations from going on strike. The notification, issued by the Transport Department on Friday, will be in effect from July 1 to December 31, and is applicable toKarnataka State Road Transport Corporation, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation, North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation, and North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation staff. A KSRTC official said such notifications are issued twice a year. A similar notification had been issued prohibiting employees from going on strike between January 1 and June 30. However, the RTC staff went on strike for 15 days in April. RTCs have taken action against those who participated in the strike, including dismissals and suspensions, and booking cases against them under KESMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-prohibits-rtc-employees-from-going-on-strike/article34996831.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPCC to revamp district, block units of party||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) has decided to revamp district Congress committees (DCCs) and block Congress committees (BCCs), and five working presidents have been asked to submit reports in a week on appointing new office-bearers to DCCs and BCCs. KPCC presidentD.K. Shivakumar on Saturday held a meeting with five working presidents — Satish Jarkiholi, Eshwar Khandre,Saleem Ahmed, Ramalinga Reddy, and R. Dhruvanarayan — and asked them to visit districts and hold meetings with DCC office-bearers and workers to find suitable candidates to strengthen the party organisation. The decision to revamp has apparently created apprehensions among the loyalists of Siddaramaiah that Mr. Shivakumar would remove those loyal to the former Chief Minister. This was considered as one of the reasons for some MLAs trying to project Mr. Siddaramaiah as the party’s face in the 2023 Assembly elections, sources said. However,Mr. Saleem Ahmed said office-bearers of some DCCs would be changed to strengthen the party organisation from the grassroots level. A decision would also be to taken to drop some of the KPCC office-bearers and party cells. Mr. Jarkiholi said DCC presidents who have completed their terms would be replaced. COVID-19 outreach The Congress leaders also discussed the rolling out of the party’s “outreach campaign” with an objective to provide relief to the people affected by COVID-19 and to collect data on people who succumbed to the virus, and loss of jobs. The campaign would help the party to disseminate information regarding issues related to COVID-19 and post-COVID-19 care and identifying the demands of the affected families, Mr. Shivakumar said in a release. “This outreach programme shall be done by organising visits by local leaders (at the level of district, block, and taluk) to the households of the COVID-19-affected families,” Mr. Shivakumar said. The leaders also held a virtual meeting with Randeep Singh Surjewala, AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka, on implementation of the outreach programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-to-revamp-district-block-units-of-party/article34996850.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Explain why conditions for grant of land to trust were modified, HC tells govt.||Observing that the State government has modified conditions of grant of land for Sri Mata Amritanandamayi Trust prima facie for “overreaching” court’s earlier order, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, to explain this conduct. For other purposes A Division Benchcomprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed in 2019 by Kavitha and four others. The petitioners had complained that the trust had used the land, situated at Kasavanahalli in Varthur hobli in the city granted to it way back in September 2000, for the purposes other than specified in the terms and conditions of the grant. In response to the court’s direction issued in January 2020 to verify whether the trust had violated conditions of the grant, the State government, after several adjournments granted by the court, submitted a report on February 22, 2021, indicating violations based on inspection of the land. The inspection report alleged that “instead of constructing superspeciality hospital, houses for poor widows, etc., the trust is running an engineering college on the property.” Following this, the court on April 23, 2021, directed the Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban district, to initiate appropriate action against the trust in accordance with the law. The court had also clarified that no action should be initiated without giving an opportunity of hearing to the trust. Modified conditions However, the government on April 29, 2021 modified the conditions imposed in the original grant order by allowing the trust to use the granted land even for educational purposes. Taking serious exception to this conduct of the government, the court said modifying the conditions of the grant without taking the leave of the court and sans referring to the court’s direction to the Deputy Commissioner, prima facie amounts to “overreaching” the court’s April 23 order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/explain-why-conditions-for-grant-of-land-to-trust-were-modified-hc-tells-govt/article34996855.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC eases curbs on entry to courts||With the number of active COVID-19 cases declining across the State, the High Court of Karnataka has eased restrictions on entry and hearing of cases in all taluk and district courts as well as its Principal Bench at Bengaluru by allowing entry of advocates to the court halls from June 28. As per the revised standard operating procedure (SOP) notified by the High Court, though hybrid system — presence of advocate in court physically or through videoconference mode — will be adopted forhearing of cases at the Principal Bench, the entry for litigants and parties-in-person to the court halls remains prohibited. However, these relaxations will not apply for courts in Mysuru district in view of the higher number of COVID-19 cases in the district. While advocates have been given the option of appearing either physically or through virtual mode, the SOP has advised them to prefer the virtual mode. Courts in taluks and districts will hear only limited number of cases and witnesses would be allowed to enter the court premises only if the respective courts have ordered for their presence. Vaccination Meanwhile, only 50% of the private job-typists and photocopying machine operators, who were provided with space on the premises of taluk and district courts, would be allowed to enter the court premises if they have taken both the doses of COVID-19 vaccine, as per the SOP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-eases-curbs-on-entry-to-courts/article34996856.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP starts gearing up for election season||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is gearing up for the upcoming election season in the State — elections to taluk and zilla panchayats, BBMP council, 25 seats of the Legislative Council from local bodies, and bypolls to Hanagal and Sindagi Assembly constituencies. With the State government putting off all elections to local bodies for the next six months owing to the pandemic, these polls are expected to be held by December 2021, sources said. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, addressing the State executive meet of the party held here on Saturday, called on party workers to not only continue relief work to those affected by the pandemic and rain damage across the State, but also gear up for the upcoming election season. The party decided to train two lakh party workers to use oximeters and thermometers and also deploy them to motivate people to take vaccines. Amid this service outreach, the party will also hold meetings of all presidents and vice-presidents of gram panchayats at the mandal level and in August hold meetings of all booth presidents in the State. These meetings will lay the groundwork for the upcoming elections, party sources said. Meanwhile, the State Executive adopted three resolutions: congratulating the State and Union governments led by the BJP for “exceptional work” in handling the pandemic, condemning Opposition Congress for “undue negative criticism” of the State government, and condemning Trinamool Congress and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for “non-cooperation and confrontation with the Union government and the Governor”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-starts-gearing-up-for-election-season/article34996853.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KITU wins case||Karnataka State IT/ITeS Employees’ Union (KITU) has won an industrial dispute case against Wipro Technologies on an issue of forced resignation. Labour Court (Bengaluru) has ordered Wipro to reinstate an employee with continuityof service and full back wages. KITU vice-president T.K.S Kutty represented the employee in court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kitu-wins-case/article34996830.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rules under NDPS Act being changed: Bommai||The Home Department has initiated the process of bringing changes to the rules under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act to further empower enforcement agencies, said Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday. June 26 is observed as International Day Against Drug Abuse. Since the launch of a special drive against drugs last year, the police have seized drugs worth Rs. 50 crore in 12 months. While 60% of them were destroyed based on the approval of the courts, the remaining will be destroyed pending approval from the Forensic Science Laboratory and the courts, he said. The drugs seized include ganja, poppy, LSD, MDMA, and cocaine. The seizure is the record highest in the country and the police are continuing their efforts to contain the social evil, Mr. Bommai said. As part of their 12-month drive, the police have booked 4,000 cases across the State and arrested over 5,000 people involved in drug peddling. The State police are first in the country to crack dark web-related drugs cases, said the Minister. He pointed out that drug peddlers use sophisticated technology and the skills of various enforcement agencies, including the cybercrime police and the Economic Offences and Narcotic wing, are involved in cracking down on drug trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rules-under-ndps-act-being-changed-bommai/article34996834.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4,272 cases, 115 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 4,272 cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,31,026. Of the new lot, 955 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. With 115 deaths, the toll rose to 34,654. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 6,126 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 26,91,123. The State now has 1,05,226 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 2.58%, the Case Fatality Rate was 2.69%. As many as 1,65,010 tests were conducted in a 24-hour period, including 1,26,320 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,36,73,392.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4272-cases-115-deaths/article34996835.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three more arrested for murder of ex-councillor||The police have arrested three more men, all in their early 20s, who were allegedly part of the team that planned and executed the murder of former two-time BJP councillor Rekha Kadiresh. The accused — Stephen Jaipal, 21, Ajay Kumar, 21, and Purushotham, 22 — are said to have provided support to the two men who stabbed the councillor to death outside her office in Cottonpet on June 24. They have been taken into police custody for 14 days. “While Stephen and Ajay were assigned to provide security cover to the attackers, Purushotham tampered with the CCTV cameras outside her office and redirected the lens so that the incident could not be caught on camera. He was also assigned to keep watch and alert the hit team,” said a police officer. All three were in the vicinity when the former councillor was murdered. However, despite their efforts, the murder was caught on a CCTV camera in the area, based on which the police identified the accused. “Stephen and Ajay were also seen chasing away a person who attempted to come to Rekha Kadiresh’s rescue,” said the officer. Five people have been arrested so far. On Friday morning, a day after the incident, the police arrested Peter, 46, and Surya, 19, the duo accused of stabbing the councillor. Teams tracked them to a wooded area in Sunkadakatte and shot at their legs when they allegedly attempted to attack the police and flee. Eye on BBMP polls According to sources, there were many aspirants for the councillor’s seat in the upcoming Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike elections. The sister of Rekha’s late husband, Mala, was contemplating backing her daughter-in-law. “When she realised that Peter was in favour of Mala’s choice, Rekha started avoiding him and his associates and did not help him financially,” said a police officer. Mala, who is a rowdy-sheeter, her son and daughter-in-law are being questioned by the police. “This is just one angle of the investigation. Probe is on to ascertain the motive behind the murder,” said the officer, adding that more people were likely involved in the murder. “Special teams are tracking the suspects down.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-more-arrested-for-murder-of-ex-councillor/article34996840.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Extended Purple Line opening in early August||After a nearly three-year wait and multiple missed deadlines, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) hopes to begin commercial operations on the extended purple line on Mysuru Road from Nayandahalli to Kengeri by the first week of August. BMRCL is waiting for the response of the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) to inspect the line. It has instructed contractors to finish all pending work at metro stations by mid-July. BMRCL managing director Rakesh Singh on Saturday inspected six stations on the extended line. He told The Hindu that work at metro stations was affected by the shortage of workers and supply of material because of the pandemic and subsequent lockdown. “Passenger amenities such as escalators, lifts and others have been provided at the stations. However, at some stations flooring, paintings and other finishing works are pending. For each station, we have set a deadline. All the stakeholders have been told to adhere to the deadline and complete the work by mid-July,” he said He added that BMRCL has submitted the relevant documents to the CRS. “There is a plan to open the line by July-end or the first week of August,” said Mr. Singh. To generate non-fare box revenue, space available at metro stations will be rented out for eateries and other commercial activities. Initially, the line was slated to open by December 2018, but the BMRCL missed multiple deadlines. When it does finally become operational, it is likely to benefit 70,000 passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/extended-purple-line-opening-in-early-august/article34996846.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 10 lakh incentive for State’s Olympic sportspersons||The State governmenthas announced an incentive of Rs. 10 lakh for each sportsperson selected for the Tokyo Olympics, which will commence from July 23, to help them prepare for the big event. So far only Fouaad Mirza in the field of equestrian has been selected for the Olympics from Karnataka. He won silver medals in both the individual and the team events at the 2018 Asian Games. Minister for Sports and Youth Empowerment K.C. Narayana Gowda in a release said that names of four other sportspersons was shortlisted — S.V. Sunil (hockey), Rohan Bopanna (tennis), Srihari Nataraj (swimming), and Aditi Ashok (golf).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-10-lakh-incentive-for-states-olympic-sportspersons/article34996851.ece
27 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Chances of two MPs from State being inducted into Union Cabinet: KSE||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said there are chances of two MPs from the State getting berths in the Union Cabinet. Speaking to presspersons in Shivamogga on Saturday, the Minister said he would pray for two persons from the State to get the ministerial berths in the Union Cabinet. “Suresh Angadi, who was a Union Minister passed away. Since then, we have always been hopeful that his post would be filled by another candidate from the State. Besides that, we are hopeful one more would get an opportunity. The party high command must have already decided this,” he said. Answering a question on Minister C.P. Yogeshwar’s visit to Delhi, Mr. Eshwarappa there was nothing wrong with somebody visiting the capital. “Does the Constitution restrict anybody from visiting Delhi?”. Reacting to the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s statement on resignation, Mr. Eshwarappa said that he would not resign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chances-of-two-mps-from-state-being-inducted-into-union-cabinet-kse/article34996980.ece
27 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Suspecting foul play, police exhume body||The Alur Police on Saturday exhumed the body of an 18-month-old boy at Kittagere village in the taluk, following a complaint suspecting foul play in the baby’s death. The baby born to plantation workers, natives of Assam, working in an estate, died on June 20. The parents had buried the body on the estate where they had been working. After a few local people raised suspicion over the death, the police registered an unnatural death report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suspecting-foul-play-police-exhume-body/article34996994.ece
27 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protesters seek repeal of farm laws, formation of ‘national govt.’||Condemning what they termed as failure of the Union government on all fronts and demanding repeal of the new farm laws and formation of ‘national government’, members of various organisations staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Saturday. The demonstration was part of the nationwide agitation ‘Save Agriculture- Save Democracy’ demanding repeal of farm laws, assistance to the deprived class, formation of national government to address the crisis, and others. Members of Samyukta Horata-Karnataka, Citizens for Democracy (CFD), Pranta Raita Sangha, Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha, Rait Krishi Karmikara Sangha, CITU, AITUC and other organisations took part in the agitation. Staging a demonstration in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, protestors subsequently submitted a memorandum addressed to the President of India seeking his intervention in resolving the present crisis. Addressing the protestors, national president of CFD, S.R. Hiremath, demanded ouster of the BJP-led NDA government at the centre and formation of a national government with a broad political vision that would bring all sections of the country together to deal with the present crisis. ‘Governance crisis’ He said that the country was facing health, socio-economic and governance crisis, which was the worst since independence. The establishment of such national government would help in strengthening the democratic institutions and restore ethical values in public life, he said. Meanwhile, CFD launched a nationwide campaign seeking formation of the national government. In its detailed letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it appealed to him to resign to make way for the national government. In another letter to the President of India, it urged the President to convene a virtual special session of Parliament to discuss the national crisis. The formation of national government was necessary for preparing the country to face the third wave of the pandemic and for providing assistance to to the vulnerable sections of society like the migrant workers and all workers of the unorganised sectors. Such a government would also facilitate a process towards implementing comprehensive political and democratic reforms, strengthen democratic institutions, CFD has said in the letter written to the President of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protesters-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws-formation-of-national-govt/article34996985.ece
27 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Police arrange ‘green corridor’ for transporting organ||The Hubballi Dharwad police arranged ‘green corridor’ (zero traffic) for facilitating transport of donated organ from a hospital in Dharwad to Hubballi Airport on Saturday. Sunanda Naik, 53, a resident of Sirsi, had suffered a fall at home was being treated at SDM Hospital in Dharwad from June 23. She was declared brain dead on Friday. The family members agreed to the hospital’s request for organ donation. Subsequently, on Saturday morning Sunanda’s liver was sent for organ transplant at Aster RV Hospital at JP Nagar in Bengaluru. “We got a request from SDM hospital for Green Corridor for transporting a donated organ from SDM hospital to Hubballi Airport at around 9.30. Accordingly we made arrangements. The ambulance and escort vehicle left the hospital at 10:40. As we provided green corridor, the vehicles covered the distance of 16 kms in around 12 minutes,” Deputy Commissioner of Police K. Ramrajan said. “As Sunanda had suffered severe brain damage and was declared brain dead on Friday night. Her family members were sensitised and convinced about the benefits of organ donation. As the family members agreed to donate the organs, with their consent two kidneys and eyes and the liver were removed for organ transplantation,” Public Relations Officer of SDM Hospital Nagaraj Kallapur said. Appeal for volunteers He said that while the liver was sent to Bengaluru for organ plants, the other organ transplants would be carried out on needy patients at SDM Hospital itself. The Hospital would appeal to people volunteer for organ donations so that it would be of help in saving the lives of others, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-arrange-green-corridor-for-transporting-organ/article34996987.ece
27 June 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘Withdraw lockdown cases against traders’||The Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI), an organisation of industrialists and traders, has asked the State government to withdraw all the cases booked against traders for violating COVID-19 regulations including the lockdown. Addressing a media conference here on Saturday, Prashant S. Manakar and Sharanabasappa M. Pappa, president and secretary of the trade body respectively, said that the industrialists and traders were already in a bad shape financially owing to the frequent closures of their business establishments during the COVID-19 lockdown and the police cases on them amounted to rubbing salt into their wounds. “Over 300 cases have been booked against traders for violating COVID-19 regulations in Kalaburagi city alone. Provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act and different Sections of the Indian Penal Code are invoked for even minor violations such as not wearing masks, not maintaining social distancing, and openingshops for a brief period in an emergency. Police are preparing to file charge-sheets in the courts. The traders are worried about the cases as they could be imprisoned for up to three months and fined up to Rs. 2.5 lakh,” Mr. Pappa said appealing to the government to place the matter in the next Cabinet meeting and withdraw all the cases. He added that a memorandum had already been submitted to the government, and the office-bearers of the trade body had discussed the matter with the district in-charge Minister Murugesh Nirani. Terming the revision of property tax by the Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation unscientific and irrational at the time of pandemic-caused economic slowdown, Mr. Manakar demanded the complete rollback of the tax hike to its pre-pandemic position. “Over the last three years, property tax has been raised phenomenally in Kalaburagi city. In some cases, the hiked tax is more than double compared to the previous year. The property tax for a commercial property in the vegetable market, for instance, is raised from Rs. 26,828 in the previous year to Rs. 56,408 now. The phenomenal rise was because the guidance value of the property in 2018-19 was made the basis for the hike in property tax this year. The previous year’s tax was based on the property’s guidance value in 2004-05. The hike would seriously affect the traders and industrialists who were already hit hard by the pandemic. We, therefore, appeal to the civic body to completely roll back the tax revision. The guidance value of 2004-05 should be made the basis for fixing the tax amount and there should be no hike in the tax rates for the current year,” Mr. Manakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdraw-lockdown-cases-against-traders/article34996983.ece
27 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Annual urs to be low-key affair in Kalaburagi||The 617th annual urs of Dargah-e-Sharif of the 14th-century Sufi saint Hazarath Khwaja Bande Nawaz Gesudaraz in Kalaburagi, scheduled from June 27 to 29, will be a low-key affair this year owing to the second wave of COVID-19. Sajjada Nasheen Syed Shah Khusro Hussaini appealed to devotees from different parts of the country to postpone their visit as the ‘jhela mubarak’ and sandal procession that marks the beginning of the urs will also be a low-key affair. He appealed to devotees to view qawwali programme and seminars online. He said the Dargah shrine will not be opened for the devotees during the urs. The decision on opening the Dargah will be taken at an appropriate time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/annual-urs-to-be-low-key-affair-in-kalaburagi/article34996988.ece
27 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MLAs urged to bring fallow land under cultivation||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil said on Saturday that the State had 15 lakh hectares of fallow land. If all MLAs and other elected representatives took the initiative, these can be brought under cultivation. The Minister was speaking after inspecting paddy cultivation activities of the Kedarottana Trust, headed by Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat, on about 2,000 acres of fallow land under the Udupi Assembly segment. Mr. Patil took part in the transplanting of paddy saplings at Kadekar in Udupi. The Minister said that Mr. Bhat is doing the project which the government should have done. The MLA deserved kudos. All elected representatives can emulate the initiative taken by Mr. Bhat. Organic farming The Minister said that the trust is cultivating paddy on the fallow land organically. The government too is supporting organic cultivation. It has reserved Rs. 500 crore to promote organic cultivation in the State. The government congratulated the MLA for his initiative as it is a model project. Later speaking at a review meeting in Udupi the minister said that Udupi district faced a dearth of MO 4 variety of paddy seeds. The government will ensure that there will be enough supply of the same variety of the seeds to the district for the next kharif season. Mr. Patil said that farmers can take up some farming activities under the Atmanirbhar scheme of the Prime Minister. Farmers should make use of the scheme. The Minister asked farmers to go for mechanised cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlas-urged-to-bring-fallow-land-under-cultivation/article34996990.ece
27 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KIOCL commissions 5 MW capacity solar power plant in Tumakuru district||The KIOCL commissioned a 5 MW capacity solar power plant at Kathrikehal village, Chikkanayakanahalli in Tumakuru district recently. The power generated in the plant, set up at an estimated cost of Rs. 24.44 crore, is being consumed in the pellet plant of the company in Mangaluru. The plant is expected to generate 10 million kWh of power per annum. The estimated savings to the company from the plant is Rs. 6.2 crore per annum and the payback period is four years eight months. The estimated life cycle of the plant will be 25 years, a release from the company quoted its chairman and managing director M.V. Subba Rao as saying. The company has entered into an agreement with KPTCL, BESCOM and MESCOM for wheeling of the power generated at the solar power plant, it said. As part of modernisation of the 3.5 MTPA capacity pellet plant, the company has installed a barrel type blender reclaimer of 1,000 tons per hour capacity at a cost of Rs. 17.5 crore. The reclaimer homogenously blends different types of iron ore fines received from various sources by its forward and backward movement, thereby helps in increasing the operational flexibility, the chairman said. With this, the pellet plant can use different types of iron ores, enhance productivity, flexibility in operations and achieving in manufacture of good quality pellets, he said.  The company has also set up a medical oxygen generator unit at Adichunchanagiri Institute of Medical Science, Nagamangala Taluk in Mandya District. It has the capacity to generate 1,000 cu.m. of oxygen per day to supply 143 cylinders a day. The unit has been installed under the corporate social responsibility of the company at a cost of Rs. 90 lakh. The plant was set up on the request by the Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. In addition, the company has donated 50 beds to the government hospital in Moodbidri, Dakshina Kannada at a cost of Rs. 18 lakh to take care of COVID-19 patients. Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel had requested for the same. Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurated all these facilities in the virtual mode in the presence of Union Minister of State for Steel Faggan Singh Kulaste on June 22, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kiocl-commissions-5-mw-capacity-solar-power-plant-in-tumakuru-district/article34996993.ece
27 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP activists to help vaccinate people||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists at the ward and booth levels in urban and rural areas respectively will be involved in an effort to ensure that all citizens aged above 18 in the district are vaccinated against COVID-19, said BJP district unit spokesperson Ravishankar Mijar here on Friday. Taking to reporters, Mr. Mijar said that the workers will be involved in the effort as part of the party’s “Meera Booth, Vaccine Mukt” drive to ensure 100% vaccination in the district. Mr. Mijar said that two activists each from the booth and ward will be trained. They will be tasked with identifying people who have not been vaccinate, and facilitate administration of vaccine. “We will be helping the government in vaccinating all people by the end of December and prevent the likely outbreak of a third wave of COVID-19,” he said. These activists will be trained to carry out thermal scanning and other simple diagnostic tests for screening of suspected patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-activists-to-help-vaccinate-people/article34996981.ece
27 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 effect: More people keen on will registration||There has been an uptick in the number of people drafting and registering a will (a declaration of how a person wishes his or her property to be distributed after death) for both moveable and immovable properties consequent to the uncertainty arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. The months of April and May saw an increase in case fatality rate and a near collapse of the healthcare system because of a rise in COVID-19 cases. During these two months, there was also a surge in people evincing interest in leaving behind a will. This was so widespread that Mysuru Grahakara Parishat (MGP) even conducted an awareness programme on registering a will. “A will is the last thing on the mind among amajority of people in society.So far, only those who had vast property used to take interest. But the sudden deaths and the uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic is forcing even people from the middle class to contemplate registering a will,” said Sudheer K. Shankar, an advocate in Mysuru. As against less than half a dozen will registrations per year that he used to help with before the pandemic, inquiries and counselling on the subject have increased manifold in recent times. “The surge in enquiries increased during the peak of the second wave of COVID-19,” he added. Among those who enquired was a software professional in his 30s who sought advise on the legal process of registering a will. “Many senior citizens with comorbidities feared the worst and sought counselling on how best to divide property among family members so as to ensure that property-related issues were settled amicably,” said Mr. Sudheer. Not all inquiries and drafts may have culminated in the registration of a will at the sub-registrar’s office, as required by law. “But the fact that people are contemplating legal recourse underlines the uncertainty created by the pandemic,” said H.V.S. Murthy, another advocate who has handled more than a dozen such inquiries in the past couple of weeks. Confirming the trend, B.G. Manju, sub-registrar, Mysuru South, said the increase was perceptible in the weeks leading to the surge in the second wave of infections. He said the increase in registrations of will for immovable properties was something being witnessed across all sub-registrar’s offices. Besides, there is registration of partition deeds and registration of distribution and shares in other valuables, which too are on the rise, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-effect-more-people-keen-on-will-registration/article34996842.ece
27 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Elephant herd damages school compound wall||An elephant herd which trooped towards a school at Kajur village near Shanivarsanthe in Kodagu district brought down the compound wall and the gate of the institution before sauntering away from the site. The incident occurred on Friday and was observed by local residents who informed the school authorities and the Forest Department. Fortunately, the educational institution was closed owing to the pandemic and there were no students. The incident highlights the precarious human-animal relationship which is coming under strain owing to rise in conflict situation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephant-herd-damages-school-compound-wall/article34996857.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Taken away||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/taken-away/article34996860.ece
27 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Shutter of Thottappally spillway collapses||One shutter of the Thottappally spillway collapsed raising the threat of saltwater intrusion into Kuttanad. Shutter 7 collapsed and fell into the water on Friday. Paddy farming (additional crop season) is on in several fields in Kuttanad and farmers fear that saline intrusion through the leading channel of the spillway during high tide would destroy the agriculture. Local residents said the saltwater intrusion had already begun. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has directed the officials concerned to carry out the repair work immediately. He asked the officials to reduce the intrusion of saltwater by erecting a temporary structure using sandbags. Mr. Augustine said the Irrigation chief engineer had been dispatched to Alappuzha for taking necessary measures. Last year, the government sanctioned Rs. 2.75 crore for replacing all the 40 shutters of the spillway. “The tendering process is nearing completion and we hope to start the work on replacing shutters soon,” Mr. Augustine added. The Minister, who visited Kuttanad on Friday, said the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras would submit an interim report on the desilting of Vembanad Lake and rivers in Kuttanad by September. “The government will not wait for the final report. Based on the recommendations in the interim report, the government will prepare projects to desilt waterbodies with an aim to prevent waterlogging in the region,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shutter-of-thottappally-spillway-collapses/article34997205.ece
27 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Many office-bearers quit BJYM in Wayanad||Even as the election bribery row is rocking the BJP in the State, many office-bearers resigned from Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) in the district on Saturday in protest against the suspension of some leaders from the organisation. Suspended BJP district president Saji Sankar had suspended BJYM district president Deepu Puthan Purayail, and BJYM Sulthan Bathery constituency president Lilil Kumar on Saturday. The move provoked many members of the organisation, including Akhil Krishnan, treasurer, Kalpetta constituency, and V.K. Jithin, president, BJYM, Pulpally panchayat, and they resigned from the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-office-bearers-quit-bjym-in-wayanad/article34997036.ece
27 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||500 students in district have no gadgets to attend online classes||Nearly 500 students in Ernakulam do not possess any gadget to attend online classes, according to the General Education Department. At least half of these students are residing in tribal hamlets in the district. The latest estimates by the department showed that the parents of nearly 220 students in these regions lacked the financial resources to buy a smartphone, tablet, laptop or television. The district has about 2.6 lakh students in Classes 1 to 10. “The department has set up 48 neighbourhood learning centres in the district to help children not having any smart device gain access to the ongoing online sessions. These centres are equipped with learning devices and materials,” said Honey G. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam. The children belong to tribal hamlets in Pinavoorkudy, Anandakudy, Panthapara, Pooyamkutty, Mamalakandam, Ponginchuvadu, Kunjippara, Uriyampetty and Neriyamangalam. The neighbourhood learning centres were set up in association with other government departments, local bodies and non-voluntary organisations in various regions. Libraries, anganwadis, local-level Prathibha centres, Vidya Kendras in tribal hamlets, and cluster resource centres were converted to learning centres. The centres have facilities such as television and cable connection, laptops, computers and internet connection to access the classes aired through Victers channel. However, hilly terrain and lack of internet connectivity continue to remain a major hurdle for tribal students to access the online classes even after nearly three-and-a-half weeks of the new academic year. There have been occasions when the classes held at the neighbourhood learning centres were interrupted owing to poor connectivity and other technical issues. The education volunteers under the Samagra Shiksha Kerala record the weekly lessons in a pen drive and travel to the tribal hamlets on the weekend to overcome this situation. The children watch the classes on their laptops or common facilities provided at the centres. A member from the tribal community gives regular updates on learning difficulties faced by the children to the volunteers. An order issued by the Education Department on June 24 stated that the students lacking gadgets and access to online classes should also be given mental and emotional support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/500-students-in-district-have-no-gadgets-to-attend-online-classes/article34997051.ece
27 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Efforts on to identify source of water contamination at Vyttila||Consumers of piped drinking water in Ponnurunni, Vyttila, Thykoodam, Champakkara, Pettah, Kachapilly Road, Ambelipadam Road, Major Road, Toc-H School Road, Janatha Road, Chilavannoor Road and Kadavanthra must shut the valve of their water supply lines on Sunday (June 27) since the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) will clean the water pipelines that got contaminated with oil that is suspected to have leaked from Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) pipeline at Ponnurunni. The pumping of drinking water to these areas is expected to resume on Monday and attain normality on Tuesday, the KWA has informed. Residents in many parts of Vyttila and nearby places had been complaining of getting drinking water contaminated by what smelt like diesel since Friday evening. Following this, the KWA collected water and oil samples on Friday and BPCL on Saturday to identify the contaminant. BPCL and Kochi Corporation also joined in efforts to trace leaks if any in its pipelines, from where crude oil or any other contaminant managed to seep into KWA pipelines laid close by, on Saturday. The agencies deployed personnel to dig the ground at frequent intervals at Ponnurunni to trace underground pipelines and their valves that could have developed leaks. What appeared like black or crude oil that had leaked from adjacent oil pipelines and had settled on the ground were detected at a few spots at Ponnurunni, very near to KWA valves. “We hope to shortly zero in on the source of contamination, wash the pipeline and recharge it with potable water in a day or two,” said an official of KWA’s Vyttila office. Month-long issue Personnel of the health wing of the Kochi Corporation too joined the efforts to trace the contaminant, after the councillor representing Vyttila division, Sunitha Dixon, who is also chairperson of the works standing committee, drew the attention of different stakeholders to residents complaining of contaminated water for the past one month. “It got worse on Friday. Hundreds of families were affected by the contamination, since they do not have any alternative source of drinking water. Water in tanker lorries was supplied to needy people,” she said. KWA officials who collected samples twice earlier this month had said the odour in water could be that of chlorine, said Ms. Dixon. Assessment BPCL sources said trenches were being dug every 100 m or so and assessed, by multiple teams. “Even otherwise, our workers walk through the exclusive underground pipeline corridor that runs to the refinery, as part of their daily inspection. The pressure of pipelines too is constantly monitored, to keep a tab on leak if any,” they added. Excavation and fire personnel were sent to the Vyttila-Ponnuruni area on Friday, to check leak, if any, in undergound pipelines that carried hydrocarbon from the refinery to tanker berths at the jetty. No leaks in the pipelines have been found as of Saturday evening. More spots are being excavated along the pipeline corridor. Oil traces found in many pits were being removed by vacuuming, said BPCL sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-on-to-identify-source-of-water-contamination-at-vyttila/article34997053.ece
27 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi metro’s Bliss City project may take InvIT route||Kochi Metro Rail may choose the InvIT mode to raise funds for its approximately Rs. 3,000-crore Bliss City project in Kakkanad so that the project can be executed without the metro agency availing loan for capital investment. The Bliss City has been envisaged as a wellness and wholesome entertainment destination in 31 acres of land in Kakkanad, to garner non-ticketing revenue for Kochi metro’s operation and maintenance. InvIT or Infrastructure Investment Trust funds are similar to mutual funds. While mutual funds provide an opportunity to invest in equity stocks, an InvIT allows one to invest in income-generating infrastructure projects. Even as land would continue to belong to the owner agency (in this case, KMRL), stakeholders who invest will be responsible for the project’s operation and maintenance. “The InvIT mode, which will be a long-term plan, will help lessen financial burden on KMRL that has already availed substantial loan for Kochi metro and Water Metro projects. Ultimately, the agency’s Director Board must take a call on this, based on the outcome of a (feasibility) study,” said official sources. By availing the InvIT mode, one can generate revenue for future investment. Public sector undertakings like PowerGrid have opted for this route. Care has to be taken so that investors are assured of returns. Kochi metro has the potential to make operational profit, while it is struggling to get returns on investment which came to approximately Rs. 5,200 crore. The operational profit could be capitalised and reinvested in ventures like readying extensions from the existing metro corridor, rather than depend yet again on equity from the State and Central governments, they added. Metro sources said KMRL was in the process of getting possession of the entire parcel of 17 acres PWD-owned land in Kakkanad, as had been envisaged. “Another 14 acres nearby too is needed for the Bliss City project,” they said. The KPMG has been entrusted with conducting a study and readying a master plan for the project. Meanwhile, socio-environmental activists and a section of residents have flagged the ecological damage over the possible axing of 4,000 trees of 180 species on the 17-acre land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metros-bliss-city-project-may-take-invit-route/article34997035.ece
27 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Weekend shutdown evokes mixed response||The State government’s decision to enforce complete lockdown on weekends has evoked mixed response with some stakeholders criticising it to be counterproductive. Unusual rush was experienced on Friday with people hitting the roads in large numbers ahead of the weekend shutdown. “Even otherwise, most shops other than those dealing in essential items are allowed only on alternate days leading to rush when they are open. Even heavier rush is felt on Fridays because of the weekend lockdown,” said P.A. Sageer, president, Broadway Shop Owners Association. P.A. Paul, who runs a stationery shop, said the arrangement was counterproductive. “Allowing us to work round-the-week is much better since customers packed into three days will be spread across the week, which will reduce the crowding,” he said. However, the banking industry found the existing arrangement ideal. While normal banking hours have been restored, customers are not allowed in banks on Tuesdays and Thursdays. “Banks now have contextual works like loan restructuring other than the routine transactions. Two days without customer interactions will allow employees to focus on such works. With three days for normal services, customers don’t suffer either,” said K.S. Krishna, national joint secretary, All India Bank Employees Association. Kerala Merchant Chamber of Commerce felt that with the test positivity rate yet to go down below 8% and gradual rise in the number of active cases being reported, restrictions may have to continue. “Opening up round-the-week will definitely reduce the crowd felt on weekdays. But in the prevailing situation, we can hardly demand that. Besides, we have noted that the rush on roads is not getting converted into business. So, we have asked our State coordinators to study that phenomenon,” said G. Karthikeyan, president of the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weekend-shutdown-evokes-mixed-response/article34997062.ece
27 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cargo transport via waterway a non-starter||Fourteen years since the then Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan commissioned the 205-km-long Kollam-Kottapuram National Waterway III, the phased shifting of cargo transit from roads to waterways is yet to begin. This, despite the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) investing over Rs. 300 crore in two decades to dredge the waterway, build retention walls on the banks, and construct terminals at prominent locales. “Cargo transport has not been shifted to the waterway, except to a small extent in Kochi, despite the State government reiterating that such a move is crucial for decongesting roads and for the safe transportation of hazardous goods,” IWAI sources said. Freight operators are citing issues like ‘nookukooli’ that will have to be paid at each port, when cargo is shifted to/from lorries. Fleet operators who own dozens of lorries often act as a pressure group when public sector units or private companies attempt to shift freight to waterways. There are also problems on the Kochi-Kottapuram route, where the dredged waterway has been encroached upon by fishermen at many places, hampering smooth transit of boats and barges. The scheduled operation of tourist boats in the Thottappally-Kochi sector too has not stabilised because of the pandemic situation, according to the IWAI. On complaints of inadequate bank protection, they said damaged retention walls were being repaired, especially on routes where barges operated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cargo-transport-via-waterway-a-non-starter/article34997055.ece
27 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cong. leader Sabu to join CPI(M)||Congress leader A. B. Sabu announced here on Saturday that he would join the CPI(M). Groups within the Congress in Kerala had made it difficult to carry out political work “respectably,” he said. Politics centred around personal interests and individuals in the Congress in the State had prompted his exit from the party, and propelled him towards the LDF that prioritised people’s welfare, he said. Mr. Sabu is a former councillor and standing committee chairperson of the Kochi Corporation and had served as general secretary of the District Congress Committee, besides being a member of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). The Congress leadership, both nationally and in the State, had weakened, he said. Leaders of the Congress ‘I’ and ‘A’ groups would make it difficult for KPCC president to function effectively, Mr. Sabu claimed. Prior to the Assembly elections, Mr. Sabu had raised allegations of corruption against K. Babu, the UDF candidate from Thripunithura, who went on to win the seat. Mr. Sabu had declared then that the UDF would not win from Thripunithura, and Mr. Babu’s candidature favour the BJP. The UDF Thripunithura Assembly constituency committee had asked the KPCC to expel Mr. Sabu for the stand he had taken before the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-leader-sabu-to-join-cpim/article34997060.ece
27 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MG varsity plans to hold PG entrance test online||Mahatma Gandhi University is planning to hold an entrance test for admission to the postgraduate programmes offered by its various departments online in view of the pandemic situation. The test is usually held in the offline mode at select centres in the country. “However, we are now trying to see whether it can be held in the online proctored mode. They could appear for the test from their homes,” says Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor. The conduct of the online test would not create much of logistical and technical hurdles as the admission is being held for about 1,000 seats available under the various university departments, according to the authorities. “Moreover, the best talents across the country would get a chance to appear for the entrance even amidst the pandemic situation. The varsity expects that the best of talents would enrol for the various academic programmes in the new academic year,” says Prof. Thomas. The proposal for an online test has emerged after taking into consideration the overall pandemic scenario in the country. With the lockdown rules prevailing in many States, it is found that holding an offline test would be an uphill task. The number of students appearing for the offline mode may also take a hit in view of the COVID-19 situation. Several regions are also under partial lockdown and designated as containment zones, making it difficult to hold an offline test. The Vice Chancellor says the varsity is exploring options to develop its own digital platform to hold the online proctored exams. The PG programmes of the varsity are being offered through various schools and centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mg-varsity-plans-to-hold-pg-entrance-test-online/article34997071.ece
27 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fight COVID in competitive spirit, local bodies told||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve on Saturday called on local bodies to take up the mission of combating COVID-19 in a spirit of competition. Local bodies should take up the fight so that the local economies could be brought back to normality, he said here. He was speaking to reporters after handing over oxygen concentrators to primary health centres under the local bodies within the Kalamassery Assembly constituency. The oxygen concentrators can be borrowed by COVID-19 patients, who are under treatment in their homes. Once their use is over, the devices can be returned to the respective primary health centres to be borrowed again by other patients in need of the device. Kalamassery municipality and Kadungalloor panchayat received two devices each as these local bodies have two health centres each. The other PHCs are under Eloor municipality and Karumaloor, Alangad and Kunnukara panchayats. The devices were contributed by Malayali expatriates in Germany.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fight-covid-in-competitive-spirit-local-bodies-told/article34997057.ece
27 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vocational training likely for those quitting drugs||Vocational training for those who undergo de-addiction is under consideration, Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu has said. She was speaking at the virtual inauguration of a month-long intense campaign against substance abuse launched by the Social Justice Department coinciding with International Day Against Drugs on Saturday. Dr. Bindu sought the cooperation of all departments for the rehabilitation of the de-addicted. The Minister said the availability of drugs should be checked through the concerted efforts of the Police and the Excise Departments. Jagrata cells should be formed in colleges. She said Kudumbashree should be roped in for the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vocational-training-likely-for-those-quitting-drugs/article34997068.ece
27 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,414 test positive in Ernakulam||Ernakulam recorded 1,414 new COVID cases and a test positivity rate of 9.76% on Saturday. Thrikkakara saw the highest number of cases on Saturday with 67 people testing positive. This was followed by Thripunithura with 46 new cases, Kalamassery 44, and Payipra and Mazhuvannoor 40 each. Piravom recorded 32 new cases, Fort Kochi 30, and Elamkunnapuzha, Keezhmad, Chellanam and Vengola 29 each. Five health workers tested positive. As many as 1,174 people were considered to have recovered. A total 327 people were discharged from treatment centres. The active case load in Ernakulam is 13,150. Of those who are recovering, 8,749 remain at home. The number of people undergoing COVID treatment at tertiary care facilities has fallen. At the Government Medical College Hospital, 97 patients are recovering, while five patients are admitted at PVS Hospital where the COVID care centre will wind up soon. At the Ernakulam General Hospital, 55 patients are recovering, while 40 are at the Aluva District Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1414-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article34997056.ece
27 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Youngster charged with trespass into Naval area||The Harbour police have booked a youngster, who allegedly trespassed into the Naval area here in the garb of a military officer even as the Navy denied any trespass or security breach. The incident took place on Friday soon after the departure of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who was at the Southern Naval Command for the review of indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant, which is set to be commissioned next year. The youngster was intercepted by Navy officials and handed over to the Harbour police. While the police claim he had gained access, which they attributed to a security lapse at the gate, the Navy, in a release, categorically stated that there was “no security lapse”. “The guard on duty held him and handed him over to his superior,” the Navy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youngster-charged-with-trespass-into-naval-area/article34997058.ece
27 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,132 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 1,132 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,108 recoveries on Saturday. While 1,121 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include five NRIs, one person from another State and five health workers. Kollam district currently has 32,303 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 16,03,031. A total of 2,912 people completed home quarantine on Saturday. Kottayam As many as 550 people including two health workers tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 547 people including a health worker contracted the disease through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the district was 7.81%. With 95 cases, Kottayam municipality had tge highest number of cases, followed by Nedumkunnam, which recorded 48 cases . As many as 752 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 3,726. Meanwhile, 25,907 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamathitta, 345 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 341 people contracted the disease through local transmission. The contact source of two cases were yet to be ascertained, bulletin issued here said . The TPR for the day was 9.5%. With 25 cases, Aranmula reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamthitta municipality and Kaviyur with 16 cases each. The disease, meanwhile, claimed six more lives in the district. With 406 recoveries in the day, Pathanamathitta currently has 4,639 active cases. ( With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1132-new-cases-in-kollam/article34997211.ece
27 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Special task force to reduce TPR in Kollam||The district administration has formed a special task force headed by Collector B. Abdul Nasar to reduce the test positivity rate (TPR) in Kollam. The district currently has 25 local bodies that have failed to record any considerable dip in TPR even after a lockdown. These local bodies will be divided into seven clusters and the task force is expected to bring down the weekly TPR of these clusters below 8% by month end. The functioning of rapid response teams (RRT) will be made more efficient while enforcement measures will be made stricter in consultation with the officials. Testing all persons on the contact list and expediting vaccination measures will be the other responsibilities of the taskforce. The District Collector has directed the officials concerned to ensure support for those under home care and move patients who cannot afford home isolation to domiciliary care centres. An expert team including the District Medical Officer, National Health Mission district project manager and district surveillance officer will issue instructions for the team. Kummil, Ayalamon, Thekkumbhagam, Thazhava, Ettiva, Chitara, Perayam, Kundara , Thodiyoor, Oachira, Poruvazhi and Vilakudy are among the local bodies that have been asked to take strict measures to bring down the TPR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-task-force-to-reduce-tpr-in-kollam/article34997206.ece
27 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Open source summit by Saintgits tomorrow||The first edition of Saintgits Open Source Summit, organised by the Saintgits College of Engineering, Kottayam, will be held from June 28 to July 2. The event, being held online, comprises different tracks including open source systems and licences, artificial intelligence and machine learning, blockchain, Docker and Kubernetes, Linux systems, open source languages, open source repositories. It also features a series of expert keynotes, interactive panel discussions,solution-based case studies, technical sessions, hands-on workshops, and fireside chats. Brian Behlendorf, GM of Blockchain Healthcare Identity, Linux Foundation, will inaugurate the summit at 9.30 a.m. on June 28. Other experts who would lead the sessions include Ibrahim Haddad, Julian Gordon (Linux Foundation), Oleg Nenashev (CloudBees), Mario Behling (FOSSASIA), Martin Bahr (Free Software Advocate).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/open-source-summit-by-saintgits-tomorrow/article34997209.ece
27 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Vaccination for migrant workers begins in Kottayam||As part of the preparations to counter a possible third wave of COVID-19, the district administration has commenced vaccination of migrant workers in Kottayam. To begin with, the authorities have begun distribution of the Covishield vaccine among those camping in Paipad grama panchayat, which is regarded as the biggest settlement of migrant workers in the district. As many as 150 people received their jabs at the special vaccination camp held here on the first day. Buoyed by the success of the first day’s vaccination, the authorities have now decided to conduct a mega vaccination camp for migrants at the same venue on Sunday. Labour camp owners, meanwhile, have been tasked to bring their tenants to the vaccination centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-for-migrant-workers-begins-in-kottayam/article34997210.ece
27 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Pinarayi inaugurates Malabar Police Museum||After a five-year-long wait, north Kerala’s first ever police museum with an exclusive collection of historical articles and exhibits has become a reality near the District Police Chief’s office in Kozhikode city. On Saturday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan opened the facility, which throws light on the history and the growth of the police force in the Malabar region. The proposal for the Malabar Police Museum, which gained impetus when Uma Behra was the District Police Chief, was implemented with the generous contribution of rare exhibits and artefacts by various individuals from their personal collections. Many of those who donated the articles were the family members and relatives of police officers, who were part of the force during its infancy. Officials in charge of the museum said the visitors would be able to see a unique collection of exhibits such as archive documents, writing utensils, ornamental medals, official seals and royal crown buttons used by the force in the past. A first aid box used during the British period could be one of the very old items in the collection, they said. Until very recently, the Pazhassi Raja Archaeological Museum at East Hill here was the major source of information for those who took up academic research about the history of the police in the Malabar region. One of the highlights here was an exclusive collection of various police caps. Considering the importance of the latest initiative among young researchers, the police will again call for public contributions in the form of rare exhibits. Officials said it would be developed into a full-fledged museum in a couple of years with all the learning resources to depict the foundation of the police explaining its history from ancient to modern era. The museum was set up using an old building earlier occupied by the City Women Cell. A team of officers under the District Crime Records Bureau (DCRB) supervised the installation process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-inaugurates-malabar-police-museum/article34997047.ece
27 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Thikkodi to be developed as the safest drive-in beach||The development of the Thikkodi beach in Kozhikode into Kerala’s safest drive-in beach is again in focus with the latest allocation of Rs. 93 lakh by the Tourism Department. Countering local resistance through negotiations, the department plans to develop the 5-km seashore with better amenities to greet both domestic and international tourists. Facilities planned Interlocked pavements, bamboo fencing, huts, attractive seating arrangements, theme park for children, and clean comfort stations are the amenities to be readied in the first phase of the project. The proposed boat service from Thikkodi to Velliyankallu, a rocky area located nearly 12 km off the coast, is also expected to pep up the tourism potential of the destination. Opposition from locals Though there have been efforts on the part of the Tourism Department and local administrators to explore the tourism prospects of the destination through various activities since 2015, opposition from a section of local residents and fishers has been playing spoilsport. In the wake of the latest fund allocation, the department plans to ensure better participation by people’s representatives in the negotiation process. Koyilandy MLA Kanathil Jameela has already come out in support of the project. Officials of various departments have also visited the place to assess its scope for development. According to them, the proximity to Kolavipalam, known for its turtle hatchery, and the Vadakara sand banks will offer a better sightseeing experience to visitors. Local body members pointed out that the prospect of Thikkodi to emerge as the safest drive-in beach in the State is unlimited, with the State government endorsing the project. It could have been realised many years ago, if an earlier proposal of Rs. 202 crore had been implemented in time, they pointed out. According to some leading homestay entrepreneurs from Vadakara and Koyilandy, many domestic tourists are exploring the beach at Thikkodi. The opposition from local residents is due to the fact that untrained persons and riders have turned the area into a dangerous zone with their reckless rides, they argued. Fishers’ concern Meanwhile, a few fishermen association leaders pointed out that they were apprehensive about “unwanted regulations” at the place owing to its emergence as a popular water sport destination. They also said that restrictions on the lives of people in the area in the name of the project would be opposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thikkodi-to-be-developed-as-the-safest-drive-in-beach/article34997043.ece
27 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Web-based services in infancy in many panchayats||At a time when the entire State is witnessing a digital revolution in the wake of COVID-19 challenges, grama panchayats in Kozhikode district, which are expected to lead the technology-driven changes, are lagging behind even in the creation of portals for online service delivery. Of the 70 grama panchayats and 12 block panchayats, not even 10 have updated professional websites for citizen services. Though many local bodies have independent pages on the official page of the Kerala Local Self-Government Department, a majority of hyperlinks lead to a repository of stale data and figures. Some pages do not even open. “Searching the names of local bodies on the net, one comes across a number of hyperlinks, including those created by private website builders, leading to wrong information. Even contact details of ward members are untraceable owing to poor web presence,” said Bibin Kuriakose, an engineering student from Kodencheri. The youth who faced many hurdles during the preparation of a project on panchayats, pointed out that the issue could be addressed using a small android application.  Poor security features Complaints are on the rise against the poor security features of websites, which are often blocked by anti-virus software. Instead of providing specific data about local bodies, the pages carry general information, which can be easily accessed from other sources. Owing to the poor presence of quality websites, users rely on data available on private social media pages and groups. Website creation According to officials at the Directorate of Panchayat, local bodies can create their own websites with a suitable domain name for facilitating services and information exchange. Technical experts can propose suggestions, and they can be implemented in compliance with the department’s policies, they affirmed. V.K. Vinod, a former panchayat president, pointed out that the technicalities involved in securing special permission from various departments were reportedly discouraging local bodies from coming up with their own websites. “Many believe that the available web pages are enough to serve the purpose. The situation will change when the newly elected members take it up at panchayat-level meetings,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/web-based-services-in-infancy-in-many-panchayats/article34997049.ece
27 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||State’s first WTE plant to come up in Kozhikode||The construction of the Kozhikode Corporation’s waste-to-energy (WTE) plant, the first of its kind in the State, will begin in August this year. Corporation Secretary K.U. Bini said the civic body had obtained all statutory clearances for the project, and with the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) agreeing to purchase power generated at the plant at Rs. 6.81 per unit, there were no more hurdles. It was in 2018 that the corporation decided to construct a WTE plant at Njeliyanparamba near Cheruvannur, which already houses the corporation’s solid waste treatment plant. The foundation stone for the plant was laid in 2020, but the project could not be taken forward without removing around 1.3 lakh cubic metres of legacy waste from the treatment plant. Meanwhile, bio-mining to get rid of the waste is in progress. Legacy waste is often used for land filling, but with the lockdown and other COVID-related issues, it proved to be a difficult task. Besides, uncertainties over the sale of power to the KSEB also delayed the project. The Rs. 300-crore project is implemented by Bengaluru-based Zonta Infotech. A new company named Malabar Waste Management Private Limited was formed to carry out the construction of the plant. Around 450 tonnes of both biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste can be processed at the plant daily through procedures such as bio-methanisation and incineration, generating around 6 megawatts of power. Technical advisor The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) is the technical advisor for the project, and controlled combustion technology will be used at the plant. The implementing agencies claimed that the plant was totally eco-friendly, as the smoke emanating from it will not have harmful contents. Besides, there will be no foul smell. There is also a plan to set up a green belt around the facility. Apart from the Kozhikode Corporation, the project will benefit Ramanattukara, Feroke, Koyilandy, Olavanna, Kunnamangalam, and Kadalundi. It is expected to be completed by September 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-first-wte-plant-to-come-up-in-kozhikode/article34997038.ece
27 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Squads hold surprise checks at hotels||Noticing stray incidents of food poisoning, food safety squads have resumed surprise inspections at restaurants and hotels delivering takeaways. In the initial round of the special drive, food was found being prepared in unhygienic environments at 21 units. Members of the squads said they had covered 110 outlets with the support of three field-level units in a week. Food samples were collected from 30 places for examination. After the easing of regulations, food-based ventures have been doing brisk business. There are even entrepreneurs who ventured into the business without obtaining licence. Wayside food stalls also mushroomed following the suspension of dine-in services at hotels and restaurants. Meanwhile, consumer forum activists in Kozhikode said it was strange that hoteliers who had campaigned against wayside food delivery citing poor hygiene were caught for the same offence. They also pointed out that more such cases would come to light if food safety squads went ahead with surprise inspections. “In urban areas, the demand for takeaways is high, and it often ends up in quality norms being given a go-by. Many restaurants are operating with skeletal staff,” said a former Food Safety Department official. He called upon customers to remain vigilant and report unhealthy practices in view of public safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/squads-hold-surprise-checks-at-hotels/article34997050.ece
27 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) linked to Karipur gold case: Surendran||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has said that the CPI(M) is connected to the Ramanattukara accident case and the related controversies, including gold smuggling through the Calicut international airport. At a press meet here on Saturday, Mr. Surendran said contraband gold was usually used to launder money at cooperative banks. The car used for the gold smuggling belonged to a CPI(M) leader and he was an employee of a prominent cooperative bank, Mr. Surendran alleged. He also alleged that M. Shajar, who was the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) Kannur district secretary and the chief promoter of the Halal Fayidah bank in Kannur (Islamic Bank), had a good rapport with Arjun Ayanki, named by an accused in the gold smuggling case. Petition by Customs The Customs Department had submitted a petition in this regard to the Ernakulam Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offence). Mr. Surendran added that investigation into the case was yet to make any headway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-linked-to-karipur-gold-case-surendran/article34997063.ece
27 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||One more arrested in gold smuggling conspiracy||The special squad probing the Ramanattukara accident and the related gold smuggling case on Saturday nabbed a 26-year-old youth from Koduvally who was suspected to be a conspirator in the incident. Police sources said Fijas Abdulkhader, brother of Sufiyan, who is the prime accused in the case, was involved in connecting the two smugglers’ gangs near the Kozhikode International Airport in the conspiracy to grab more than 2 kg of smuggled gold from a passenger. The five persons, who died in the Ramanattukara accident on June 21, were part of one of such gangs he interacted with, the police said. Fijas, who was remanded in judicial custody in connection with the case, claimed innocence in the incident. He told the Kondotty police that he reached the international airport on June 21 to pick one of his friends. However, the police rejected his claims on the basis of some incriminating evidence, including the call detail records, gathered from various spots. Fijas would be interrogated again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-arrested-in-gold-smuggling-conspiracy/article34997045.ece
27 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police nab Delhi-based kingpin in ATM fraud||A special investigation team of the Kozhikode Rural police has tracked a well-planned banking fraud in which a Delhi-based gang withdrew money from the accounts of around 30 persons from Vadakara using ATM skimmers nearly three months ago. The recent arrest of Sugeeth Varma from Delhi, who was reportedly the kingpin behind the theft, is expected to crack secret operations of similar gangs in Kerala. According to the police, three of the five suspects have already been arrested in the case. Intensified search is under way with the support of various inter-State investigation teams for tracking the two persons at large. It was one of the rare incidents in which the local youths were also found colluding with the North Indian rackets for quick financial gains, they said. It was the arrest of two engineering graduates from Villiappally on March 31 that helped the police expose the inter-State network of the fraudsters’ gangs. The two youths were reportedly in touch with the three-member gang, including the recently arrested man, for fixing skimmers in various ATMs. In their operation between February and March, 2021, the local account holders had lost about Rs. 6 lakh. The ATM card details of more than 100 persons had been tapped in the trickery. Since the trickery was exposed, the account holders who visited various ATMs in Vadakara were in a situation to reset their banking passwords, ATM PIN numbers and phone numbers to secure their savings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-nab-delhi-based-kingpin-in-atm-fraud/article34997040.ece
27 June 2021||Mangaluru,KERALA||Karnataka objects to change of names in Kasaragod||A move by the Kerala government and local bodies to change names of places in Kasaragod district, bordering Karnataka, has irked local residents and the issue has been taken up by the Karnataka Border Areas Development Authority with the Kerala government. Authority chairperson C. Somashekar has written to the Kerala government objecting to the move and asking the government to retain the existing names as the people of Karnataka as well as those in Kasaragod are emotionally attached to them. He met Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar and urged him to take up the matter with his Kerala counterpart. The original names, which reflect Tulu and Kannada language sound patterns, are being changed to make them closer to the Malayalam patterns. The Kerala government did not consult local residents before resorting to change in names, said Mr. Somashekar. The Kerala government was also replacing Kannada name boards, which was unacceptable, the authority said, urging the neighbouring State not to hurt the sentiments of Kannada-speaking people who were in large numbers in the region. The names being changed include Manjeshwara as Manjeshwaram, Madhuru as Madhuram, Malla as Mallam, Karadka as Kadagam, Bedadka as Bedagam, Pilikunje as Pilikunnu, Anebagilu as Anevagil, Hosadurga as Pudiyakota, Kumbale as Kumbla, Sasihithlu as Shaivalap, and Nellikinja as Nellikunni, the authority said. Manjeshwara is the birthplace of Rashtra Kavi Govinda Pai and his residence was converted as a memorial by Karnataka and Kerala governments a few years ago. Govinda Pai was among those who fought for inclusion of Kasaragod into Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karnataka-border-areas-authority-against-change-of-names-in-kasaragod/article34996845.ece
27 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Attappady tribes to be vaccinated in a month||Minister for Health Veena George has assured the tribespeople of Attappady that all of them will be vaccinated against COVID-19 within a month. She visited Government Tribal Specialty Hospital at Kottathara, Attappady, on Saturday. The Minister said vaccines would be made available to cover the tribal population in Attappady. She said 82% of the tribespeople above 45 years of age in Attappady had already been vaccinated. Plans were afoot to give vaccine to all above 18 years of age, she said, adding hurdles for the vaccines to reach Attappady would be removed. She said an oxygen plant would be set up soon at Government Tribal Specialty Hospital. She said a Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CBNAAT) machine would soon be installed at the tribal hospital in order to enhance COVID-19 testing. Besides, a mobile RT-PCR laboratory will be made available in Attappady once a week. “We are planning to enhance the number of COVID-19 tests,” she said. The Minister said facilities at the Kottathara hospital would be augmented in order to create a situation where patients would not have to go to another referral hospital for treatment. Speciality services would be made available and new posts would be created if needed. Priority Congratulating the health workers in Attappady, Ms. George said priority would continue to be given to the tribal region. Special thrust would be given to the health of women and children in Attappady. Efforts would be continued to ensure that Attappady maintained a low child mortality rate. The help of other departments would be sought to ensure that. Ms. George also visited the Family Health Centre at Pudur, Community Health Centre at Agali, and community kitchen at Pudur. She said preparations would be made for Attappady to face the possible third wave of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attappady-tribes-to-be-vaccinated-in-a-month/article34997070.ece
27 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||IT to help market farm produce||Hit hard by the vagaries of climate and the pandemic-induced market stasis, the agriculture sector in Pathanamathitta is increasingly harnessing information technology to align supply chains for ensuring a better price for growers. In a new initiative, the Department of Agriculture Development and Farmers’ Welfare, Koipuram block, has rolled out a market promotion scheme to link up local markets under it to manage the demand-supply situation. Home delivery The intra-network, established using a Plan fund of the block panchayat, also facilitates home delivery of these produces through the website entechanda.in. Mathew Abraham, Assistant Director of Agriculture, Marketing, said the production-linked initiative was being launched after two years’ market research and also taking into account the experience of departmental outlets. The future modules of the system would include features for demand and availability planning and statistical forecasting, among others. “The linkage system, with pre-designed protocol for officers and outlet operators, will enable farmers to plan the supply of produce to any of the shop based on the stock position. It also envisages the creation of a database to monitor the trends in production, sales, and consumption and, based on the analysis, give suggestions to farmers what to produce when to produce and what varieties are preferred,” he explained. He said the software had separate customised interface for farmers, officials, market, and the end customers and would have a price forecasting system as well. “Retail consumers too can check the stock position in each of the shops, who will then be automatically directed to the nearby store,” he added. Pilot basis Anila Mathew, Principal Agricultural Officer, said the project had been rolled out on a pilot basis at a farm store run by the Ezhumattoor Panchayat Haritha Sangam and it would go live in other shops of the block within two weeks. “The system architecture and algorithm are predesigned for replication and linking to make it a district-level project,” she said. The project comes close on the heels of an online home delivery marketing initiative for fruits and vegetables established by the Department of Agriculture, Horticorp, and the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council of Kerala (VFPCK). Initiative The latter initiative aims to procure locally grown vegetables through Horticorp and the VFPCK and delivering kits containing all major vegetables to households at Rs. 200 a packet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-to-help-market-farm-produce/article34997208.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 25-cr. project for Amayizhanjan Canal||Funds of Rs. 4.13 crore will be allocated for cleaning up the canals in the capital, Minister for Water Resources Roshy Augustine has said. Additionally, a Rs. 25-crore project will be implemented to clean up and revive Amayizhanjan Canal. The issue will be taken up at the next State Cabinet. Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas, Transport Minister Antony Raju, Mayor Arya Rajendran, and Mr.Augustine on Saturday visited flood-prone areas in and around Thampanoor in the city. As part of initial round of works to clear up the various canals, an amount of Rs. 45 lakh will be allocated for Amayizhanjan Canal, Rs. 35 lakh for Pattom Canal, Rs. 30 lakh for Ulloor Canal, Rs. 70 lakh for Pazhavangady Canal, Rs. 15 lakh for Thekkenekkara Canal, Rs. 45 lakh for the pond near Karimadam, Rs. 20 lakh for Thettiyar, Rs. 55 lakh for Kariyil Canal, Rs. 45 lakh for Parvathy Puthanar, and Rs. 25 lakh each for the Killi and Karamana rivers. Mr.Riyas said the frequent waterlogging and flooding in the capital was being viewed by the government as one of the key issues in the State. The Public Works Department would carry out assessments in these areas to ascertain the public land encroached upon by private parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-25-cr-project-for-amayizhanjan-canal/article34997197.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR manipulation for easing lockdown||The government’s over emphasis on test positivity rate (TPR) as the epidemiological indicator of COVID-19 transmission without any scientific understanding of the concept and pegging lockdown relaxations in local bodies to weekly average TPR has led to a situation wherein grama panchayats are now competing with one another other to reduce TPR by hook or crook. TPR is the proportion of people who turn positive amongst the number of tests done in a geographical region. However, the robustness of TPR as an indicator depends on a number of factors, especially the volume of tests done and who is being tested. For the past one week, the local bodies are given a daily testing target based on their TPR. The testing numbers are increased several fold, depending on how high the TPR is. “Local bodies are struggling to meet this target because people are resisting testing. For the local bodies, reduction of TPR has become an issue of their political image. The focus of all local bodies has thus shifted from the implementation of proper containment measures to the mere reduction of TPR,” a health inspector in a grama panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram district said. Many District Medical Officers (DMOs) are unhappy about the state of affairs. “Reducing disease containment efforts to just TPR reduction is unscientific and unproductive. Many such decisions are being imposed by higher-ups without even consulting us,” a DMO, who refused to be named, said. He said most local bodies are quite familiar with the ways and means in which TPR could be manipulated and brought down. Increasing the denominator by testing a large population and testing within a relatively low-risk population can artificially bring about a reduction in TPR. Testing strategy “If we follow up a positive case and test all primary contacts within five days of exposure, we can capture most of the positive cases in the community. But now that TPR reduction is a mere exercise to get out of lockdown, the local bodies know that the less positive persons you find, the better. Because of the insistence on a fixed testing target and TPR-based lockdown release, all local bodies are busy holding testing camps where asymptomatic persons are herded in, so that TPR number can be reduced overnight,” one of the DMOs said, adding people with symptoms are being told to stay home quietly rather than test. “In a community with established active transmission, there is no point in sentinel surveillance testing or testing of asymptomatic individuals. What we need at this time is targetted testing of high risk individuals, especially primary contacts. This may push up the TPR but it will give us the right picture of the epidemic and help in focussed containment,” a public health expert said. Directing all attention towards TPR reduction would result in the State missing pockets where disease transmission is live, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-manipulation-for-easing-lockdown/article34997085.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Petrol price hits century in capital||Petrol price has hit a century for the first time in the State capital, causing much worry to consumers and commuters alike. On Saturday, petrol was sold at Rs. 100.16 in the city's fuel pumps, following the 14th instance of fuel price hike this month and the 28th since May 4, when the unofficial freeze on fuel price during Assembly elections was removed. Delivery agents of online food delivery aggregators, who are a constant presence on the road even during the COVID-19-induced lockdowns, have been hit hard as fuel price hikes eat into their meagre daily profits. “If I carry out delivery from 10 a.m. to 8 a.m., I can make around Rs. 500. Out of this, around Rs. 300 has to be spent on fuel. Now, after this, what is left for me as savings? Many of the delivery agents have stopped temporarily over the past few weeks,” said Govindraj, a delivery agent. Autorickshaw drivers have also been hit hard by the double whammy of reduced trips and the rising fuel prices. “The minimum charges stay static while the fuel prices go on rising,” said Rajendran, an autorickshaw driver. Meanwhile, fuel pump owners said they had not made any gains from the price increase. “The commission for pump owners was last increased in 2016. Since then, it has stood static at Rs. 3.60 a litre for petrol and Rs. 2.11 a litre for diesel. To make profits, pumps have to sell a minimum of 2-2.5 lakh litres a month. Since pumps have been sanctioned unscientifically, most owners manage to sell only 0.8-1 lakh litres a month. The fuel price hikes will only add to our burden because we have to shell out Rs. 11.48 lakh for a load of 4,000 litre of petrol and 8,000 litre of diesel, compared to Rs. 9.40 lakh two months ago,” said C.K. Ravishankar, president, All Kerala Federation of Petroleum Traders. Out of the cost of petrol, the company costs Rs. 40.23 for refining. The excise duty for the Union government, the additional excise duty and cess for infrastructure development and agriculture adds Rs. 33.07 to this total. Out of this, only Rs. 1.5 goes to the States, while the rest remains with the Centre. To the cost, the State adds a tax amount of Rs. 23.26, including 30.8% VAT, flood cess and Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board contribution. The commission for the dealer is Rs. 3.60. The diesel price break-up also throws up a similar picture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petrol-price-hits-century-in-capital/article34997075.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pandemic curve on a long plateau||The COVID-19 pandemic curve in the State is on a long plateau. However, post lockdown, cases are beginning to show a rising trend in districts such as Kozhikode and Malappuram. While a spurt in disease transmission in the community is to be expected when lockdown restrictions are lifted, it is important that clusters and local outbreaks are identified fast and containment measures strengthened. The active case pool and hospitalisations in the State are yet to show a significant decrease and a considerable number of people with moderate or severe COVID are still hospitalised daily. ICU and ventilator occupancy, while showing a declining trend, is moving down quite slowly. TPR at 10.66% On Saturday, Kerala reported 12,118 new cases of COVID-19 when 1,13,629 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate has been hovering between 10% and 11% for the past few days and on Saturday was 10.66%. The State’s active case pool continues to have around a lakh patients – 1,01,102 on Saturday – and this metric is also stagnant, especially with the State reporting as many new cases as recoveries every day. The number of recoveries on Saturday was 11,124. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 12,817 with the State adding 118 recent deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 1,943 on Saturday, which took the total number of patients being treated for COVID in hospitals in the State to 26,298. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients, in both public and private hospitals, dipped from 2,368 on Friday to 2,317, with those patients requiring ventilator support dropping to 919. Active cases have gone up in Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Thrissur — the five districts with over 10,000 patients in the active case pool. Hospitalisations are also going up in these districts. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 28,77, 989 cases. Highest in capital Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,522, followed by Ernakulam 1,414, Malappuram 1,339, Thrissur 1,311, Kollam 1,132, Kozhikode 1,054, Palakkad 921, Alappuzha 770, Kasaragod 577, Kottayam 550, Kannur 535, Idukki 418, Pathanamthitta 345 and Wayanad 230.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-curve-on-a-long-plateau/article34997077.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schools can only move legally: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said that if any student defaults on fee payment, the educational institution concerned may take steps to recover it legally, but preventing students from appearing for examinations at the end of the academic year, blocking the examination results, or not promoting them during primary school is a violation of the Right to Education Act and should not be allowed. Acting on a petition from the father of a student in Ernakulam district, the commission, comprising member K. Nazeer earlier this week, directed the General Education Department Secretary, Director of General Education, and the CBSE Regional Officer here to issue orders asking schools not to repeat such practices. The petitioner had contended that as he had no work during the pandemic last year, fee in the first term could not be paid by him. As a result, his child’s education had become disrupted from November 2020, and he was not allowed inside the school study group. Year-end examinations were not conducted for his son either.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-can-only-move-legally-panel/article34997202.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital’s wasteland yields a new plant species||Scornfully dismissing plants growing wild on roadsides and in our backyards as ‘weeds’ can be a mistake. Here’s why. A subshrub spotted on the roadsides and wastelands in Thiruvananthapuram district has been identified as a new species of the genus Sida, to which the Kurumthotti, used in Ayurveda, also belongs. Named Sida keralensis , the plant was spotted during a floristic survey at Maruthur in the district. A subsequent search helped confirm the presence of the plant, which belongs to the family Malvaceae, in nearby areas such as Vattapara as well. Its discovery has taken the number of species in the genus Sida endemic to India from six to seven.  Sida keralensis was identified and described by a team of researchers from the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI), Palode, consisting of E.S. Santhosh Kumar, S. Shailajakumari, A.K. Sreekala and R. Prakashkumar (director, JNTBGRI) and Parthipan B. of S.T. Hindu College, Nagercoil. Their findings have been published in journal Phytotaxa . The genus Sida has about 250 species distributed in the tropical and sub-tropical regions, of which 22 can be found in India. Sida rhombifolia and a few other related species are used today as Kurumthotti for the treatment of medical conditions in Ayurveda. Sida keralensis is similar to Sida scabrida but differs in physical characteristics, Dr. Santhosh Kumar said. The discovery underscores the importance of documenting neighbourhood plant wealth which gets destroyed due to urbanisation, road development, and ignorance. “People tend to harbour a misconception that new plant species can be found only in forests. This is not the first time that we have located them on roadsides. Several new ones have been spotted in sacred groves as well,” he said. Named after Kerala Sida keralensis is an erect branched subshrub, growing to a height of 40-80 cm. The stems are greenish or slightly purple-tinged. It has 2 mm-long, brownish-black seeds and striking yellow flowers. As its name suggests, the species is named after the State of Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capitals-wasteland-yields-a-new-plant-species/article34997199.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSSP calls for review of Vizhinjam project||The Vizhinjam seaport project should be subjected to a review given its impact on the Thiruvananthapuram coast, the Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) has said. A resolution passed at the district conference of the Parishad here on Saturday noted that about 32 km of the 78-km-long Thiruvananthapuram coastline is facing severe coastal erosion. A new approach to coastal conservation is needed in the State, it said.  The multi-crore seaport and the breakwaters of the Vizhinjam and Muthalappozhi fisheries harbours have upset the equilibrium of the coast. This, coupled with the consequences of climate change on the ocean, aggravates the situation. The Parishad’s resolution also called for coastal conservation measures for restoring and protecting the eroded beach at Shanghumughom. The district conference will conclude on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kssp-calls-for-review-of-vizhinjam-project/article34997201.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CB moves against narcotics case accused||The District Crime Branch has initiated proceedings against an accused in a narcotics case in which a woman entrepreneur was allegedly framed by the perpetrator, resulting in her arrest five months ago. The investigation team, led by Thiruvananthapuram Crime Branch Dy.SP Amminikuttan S., had recently submitted a report to the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court III, mentioning the removal of the name of Sobha Viswanath, founder of Weaver’s Village, from the FIR registered in connection with the seizure of 480 grams of ganja from her garment shop on January 21. She was arrested by the Museum police and let off on station bail. The case was later transferred to the District Crime Branch on the basis of petitions submitted by Ms. Viswanath to the Chief Minister and the State Police Chief. In a twist to the case, the investigation team found the involvement of two others, Harish, the son of the owner of a private hospital in the city, and Vivek Raj, a former employee of Ms. Viswanath. They both have been arraigned as accused in the FIR. ‘Planted ganja packets’ They had allegedly planted ganja packets in the store in collusion with the entrepreneur’s maid, who purportedly turned off the CCTV cameras during the crime. Ms. Viswanath claimed that Harish could have orchestrated the crime in retaliation for a spurned marriage proposal. According to police sources, Vivek was arrested in the case and is out on bail. Harish, a U.K. citizen, has moved the High Court for anticipatory bail. The police have opposed the bail plea. The investigation team had attempted to nab him twice, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-moves-against-narcotics-case-accused/article34997195.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PM-KUSUM: action plan to be drawn up||An action plan will be drawn up for the implementation of the PM-KUSUM (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evam Utthaan Mahabhiyan) scheme in the State. A review meeting convened by Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty recently tasked the Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (Anert), KSEB and the Agriculture Department with the formulation of the action plan for making the scheme attractive to farmers in the State. In Kerala, the thrust is on replacing diesel agriculture pumps with solar pumps that are connected to the KSEB grid. Anert, which is the main project implementation agency along with KSEB, plans to install pumps with a capacity in the range of 1.5 HP to 7 HP. ''Farmers can apply for a feasibility study by remitting Rs. 1,190. If the work is not feasible, the money will be refunded. Since the project is grid-connected, it will provide an additional income to farmers by selling the surplus electricity to the KSEB,'' an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pm-kusum-action-plan-to-be-drawn-up/article34997203.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||School computers to be deployed in tribal areas||The State government has issued orders to make computers available in tribal areas that lack facilities for online classes for students. As per the order, nearly 1 lakh new computers distributed to schools through the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) under the High-Tech School project will be recalled and distributed to students in tribal areas who lack devices for the online classes. The government has entrusted KITE with the responsibility for distributing computers to facilitate face-to-face interaction between teachers and students as part of plans to start online classes in a phased manner this year, apart from the ongoing digital classes. Last year, when digital classes were set to begin in the State, KITE had directed that its computers could be used in common spaces for students to access digital classes. Lack of devices There have been reports of widespread lack of digital devices, besides problems with Net connectivity and electricity in tribal areas. The exact number of students who lack access to digital facilities in the State is yet to be published by the government, though it is estimated to be over seven lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-computers-to-be-deployed-in-tribal-areas/article34997072.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 held for gold theft||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have nabbed two goldsmiths who allegedly escaped with 108 sovereigns of gold from a jewellery outlet at Kallambalam. The Kallambalam police arrested Suresh, 37, and Ramesh, 37, natives of Alathur in Palakkad, on Friday. They had allegedly fled with the gold bars that their employer had entrusted them to deliver to a gold works outlet at Chala for dyeing on June 14. Kallambalam Inspector G.P. Manuraj said the duo usually used to return with the dyed gold the same day. However, they went incommunicado on the particular day with the jewellery owner’s efforts to get in touch with them turning futile. The police found that the accused broke the gold bars into pieces and hid them at various places. They also allegedly sold some gold at a jewellery store in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-held-for-gold-theft/article34997192.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,522 more test positive in capital||The COVID-19 test positivity rose slightly to 10.4% on Saturday when 1,522 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the past 24 hours. While 1,451 recovered from the illness, the active cases’ count stood at 11,084. Nine health workers were among those diagnosed with the disease. The death toll rose to 2,708 with 27 recent deaths, reported between June 8 and 26, being attributed to COVID-19. There are at present 40,193 people in quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1522-more-test-positive-in-capital/article34997194.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DPC elections in July||Elections to the district planning committees (DPCs) which were postponed due to COVID-19 second wave will be held on July 6, 7 and 8, State Election Commissioner A. Shajahan has said. The elections in the district panchayats will be held on July 6 and in the municipalities and Corporations on July 7 and 8 respectively. The District Collectors will serve as returning officers. The district panchayat president is the president and the Collector is the secretary of the DPC. One member is nominated by the State government. Twelve members are elected by the elected members of the district panchayats, municipalities and Corporations. The DPCs are responsible for integrating the projects prepared by the panchayats and municipalities in a district and for preparing the draft development plans. Although the elections were scheduled to be held in May, they were postponed on account of the surge in COVID-19 cases. Mr. Shajahan instructed the Collectors to conduct the elections by adhering to the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dpc-elections-in-july/article34997200.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||e-challan system extended||The e-challan system for traffic offences has been extended across the State with State Police Chief Loknath Behera formally inaugurating the second and third phases of the project that enables violators to pay fines online. The system had been introduced in Thiruvananthapuram City, Kollam City, Ernakulam City, Thrissur City and Kozhikode City police districts last year as part of the pilot project. A cumulative fine of over Rs. 17 crore was levied from the five cities through the e-challan system within 11 months. Violators can pay fines either online or using credit or debit cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-challan-system-extended/article34997073.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More vaccine doses arrive||Kerala has received 2,65,160 more doses of COVID vaccines, Health Minister Veena George said in a statement here on Saturday. A total of 61,150 doses of Covishield vaccines had been received at Ernakulam and another 42,000 doses of Covishield had reached Kozhikode on Friday. This apart, 1,08,510 doses of Covaxin and 53,500 doses of Covishield are scheduled to reach Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday night. With this, the State would have received 1,28,82,290 doses of COVID vaccines till date. On Saturday, vaccines were administered to 1,70,976 persons in 1,234 vaccination sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-vaccine-doses-arrive/article34997083.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||International placements for KTU students||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has attained a milestone by facilitating its first set of international placements for BTech students. Savio Siby of Edathua, Alappuzha, and Linda Sara Philip of Adoor, final-year Computer Science Engineering students of Mar Athanasius College of Engineering, Kothamangalam, and St. Thomas College of Engineering and Technology, Chengannur, respectively, have bagged placements from the U.S.-headquartered information technology company Virtusa. The students will undergo a nine-month remote training programme from their homes following which they will relocate to the United States. They have been offered a salary package of $45,000 (approximately Rs. 33.4 lakh) per annum. The recruitment drive was organised by the university’s Industry Attachment Cell for outgoing students of all affiliated colleges. The selection process included a Java skills test, technical and human resources interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/international-placements-for-ktu-students/article34997044.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Places of worship can let in 15 people on Sunday||Places of worship in the State can admit devotees in a regulated manner on Sunday despite the weekend lockdown. Temples, mosques, and churches can let in up to 15 worshippers at a given time as per the new template for the unlock process. The decision was made at a COVID-19 review meeting held here on Saturday. No new relaxations in lockdown restrictions were announced. Managements of places of worship should ensure that the worshippers wear double masks and maintain physical distance. Those visiting mosques should take a prayer mat for personal use and rinse themselves only in running water. The managements should record the name, address and mobile phone number of visitors and check their body temperature before permitting them inside houses of worship. The COVID-19 regulations will be reviewed on Tuesday after seeking reports from district administrations. Any ease of regulations would hinge on the average test positivity rate (TPR) percentage. The government has allowed examinations scheduled earlier to be held on Sundays. Private buses Private buses do not have permission to operate on the weekend. However, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation would conduct minimal services for persons working in essential sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/places-of-worship-can-let-in-15-people-on-sunday/article34997082.ece
27 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/,KERALA||Better facilities for police now: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the basic infrastructure facilities of the police have witnessed a considerable improvement in the last five years. “Most of the police stations are now functioning from their own buildings. The rest of the stations will get their own buildings soon,” he said while inaugurating some police station buildings and launching the construction of a few others through videoconferencing on Saturday. Besides inaugurating the new woman police station in Alappuzha, Thrithala police station in Palakkad, Chokli police station in Kannur, Mr. Vijayan commissioned the reconstructed buildings for the Ramankary and Edathua police stations in Alappuzha that were destroyed in the floods of 2018. The new buildings include facilities such as feeding rooms and transgender cells, in addition to separate resting rooms for officers and dedicated spaces for storing arms and ammunition, records and evidences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/better-facilities-for-police-now-cm/article34997212.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram/kochi,KERALA||Anticipatory bail for Siby Mathews||A court here has granted anticipatory bail to retired Director General of Police Siby Mathews in a “police frame-up” that led to the infamous “ISRO spy scandal” case in 1994. Last month, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had indicted Mr. Mathews for the alleged wrongful arrest and custodial torture of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan and others in the case. Mr. Mathews had headed the Special Investigation Team then. P.S. Jayaprakash The Kerala High Court on Friday extended till July 1 its interim order directing the CBI not to arrest P.S. Jayaprakash, former Intelligence officer and an accused in the controversial case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anticipatory-bail-for-siby-mathews/article34997081.ece
27 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Alcohol, drug abuse triggering crimes: Minister||Increasing addiction to drugs and alcohol has led to a rise in crime rate, Revenue Minster K. Rajan has said. He was inaugurating the International Day against Drug Abuse observance at the Excise Academy at Poothole here on Saturday. “Increasing drug abuse among youngsters is leading to crimes and accidents. Campaigns against drug abuse should not be limited to observance of such days. Our goal should be a society without abuse,” the Minister said. He lauded Vimukthi, an Excise Department drive against drug / alcohol abuse. The drive is supported by the General Education Department, Library Council, Nehru Yuvakendra, and the State Youth Welfare Department. District panchayat president P.K. Davis presided over the function. The Mala police organised a cycle rally on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alcohol-drug-abuse-triggering-crimes-minister/article34997039.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Jayaraj’s Hasyam wins laurels at Russian film festival||Jayaraj was a bit surprised when he received an invitation from the office of a film festival in Russia. The Cheboksary Film Festival requested him to enter his film Has yam for the competition section. He was also invited to travel to Russia. That was in March. But because of the COVID-19 pandemic, he could not go to Cheboksary to attend the festival, which was held earlier this week. Surprising On Saturday, the Russians surprised Jayaraj, yet again. Festival producer Dmitry Pirkulov mailed to him stating that he had won the festival’s award for the best screenplay. A welcome mail Attached with the mail were pictures of the statuette and the certificate. In these strange times, that is probably the best thing to do, but Pirkulov has assured Jayaraj in the mail: “Now I’ll try to find a way how to pass you Diploma and Prize.” They may take some time to reach Jayaraj’s home at Kottayam, but the seasoned filmmaker is willing to wait. He is delighted that his screenplay was honoured at a European festival. Back in 2016, Jayaraj had won the Crystal Bear at the prestigious Berlin festival for his Ottal . “I am glad that the script of Hasyam has been recognised by the jury of an international festival,” Jayaraj told The Hindu. “I had no plan to send the film to the Russian festival, but a member of its jury had watched the film at the International Film Festival of Kerala and recommended it.” Hasyam , starring Harisree Ashokan and Sabitha Jayaraj in lead roles, is the eighth in the director’s series on Navarasa (nine emotions). Ashokan plays a cadaver agent in this film of black humour. “ Hasyam had also won me the Padmarajan Award for the best script,” said Jayaraj. “That also meant a lot to me. The Padmarajan Award is special because it is the only one which gives more importance to the scriptwriter than the director.”   Hasyam , starring Harisree Ashokan and Sabitha Jayaraj, is the eighth film in Jayaraj’s series on Navarasa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jayarajs-hasyam-wins-laurels-at-russian-film-festival/article34997080.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Plastic craft||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plastic-craft/article34997190.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safe shores||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safe-shores/article34997065.ece
27 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala moots special courts to try dowry cases||The State government will consider establishing special courts to try cases related to dowry harassment and violence against women, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was virtually inaugurating newly constructed police buildings in different parts of the State on Saturday. Mr. Vijayan laid foundation stones for the buildings. The Chief Minister said the victims of dowry harassment and female victims of violence should get speedy justice. “We should ensure that the culprits in these cases receive swift punishment. The government will contemplate setting up special courts,” Mr. Vijayan said. Social problem Terming it a serious social problem, Mr. Vijayan said dowry harassment had reared its ugly head in recent times. “Dowry has been legally banned. But dowry harassment cases are still being reported. Dowry-related deaths have brought shame to the State. Women are subjected to torture and are killed in the name of dowry. Some are forced to commit suicide. These kind of things should not happen in Kerala,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said apart from society as a whole, the police and local bodies could play a vital role in preventing violence and atrocities against women. “The police should take effective measures to end violence against women. Role of local bodies Authorities should be able to reach out to women in distress. The local bodies too can play a vital role by trying to understand and intervene in issues faced by women along with creating awareness,” he said, adding that the government had launched a slew of measures aimed at addressing the problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-moots-special-courts-to-try-dowry-cases/article34996542.ece
27 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mason found murdered||The body of a mason, Jenne Yellappa, 45, was found in an open ground near JNTU Anantapur on Saturday. Police suspect that he was allegedly beaten to death late on Friday night. One Town police said that there was a deep injury on his forehead. He was last seen with his friends at 8.30 p.m. on Friday when they had gone to consume liquor. He was reportedly in a live-in relationship with another woman, his friends told the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mason-found-murdered/article34996568.ece
27 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more held in ex-corporator murder||Three youth, all in their early 20s, who were allegedly part of the team that planned the murder of former two-time BJP councillor Rekha Kadiresh have been arrested. The accused — Stephen Jaipal, 21, Ajai Kumar, 21, and Purushotham, 22, — provided support to the two men who stabbed the councillor to death outside her office in Cottonpet on June 24. Security cover “While Stephan and Ajay were assigned to provide security cover to the attackers, Purushotham tampered with the CCTVs outside her office and redirected the lens so that the incident could not be caught on camera. He was also assigned to keep watch and alert the hit team,” said a police officer. All three accused were in the vicinity when the corporator was murdered. However, despite their efforts, the brutal murder was caught on a CCTV in the area, based on which the police identified the accused. “Stephan and Ajai were also seen chasing away a person who attempted to come to Rekha Kadiresh’s rescue,” said the officer. He said more were involved and special teams are tracking them down. Five people have been arrested so far. On Friday morning, a day after the incident, the police arrested Peter, 46, and Surya, 19, the duo accused of stabbing the corporator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-held-in-ex-corporator-murder/article34996548.ece
27 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Conduct 17,000 COVID tests daily’||The medical and health administration in Chittoor district is gearing up to intensify the door-to-door fever survey and increase the number of daily COVID tests to the tune of 17,000, District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) U. Sreehari said. At a meeting with the medical and paramedical staff here, the DM&HO said that the field staff should span out to all villages and undertake the survey to detect new cases, and to dispel fears among the public about the prevalence of the delta-plus variant, which was detected in Tirupati recently. Meanwhile, after showing a slight spike in the daily tally for the last one week, the district reported 569 new infections on Saturday, taking the active caseload to 7,224.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-17000-covid-tests-daily/article34996786.ece
27 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur sets a target of grounding 61,000 houses during special mela||District Collector Vivek Yadav has directed the Housing, Revenue and Panchayat Raj officials to ensure that the special grounding mela of “Navaratnalu-Pedarandariki Illu,” scheme from July 1 to 4 is a grand success. The district administration has set a target of grounding 61,000 houses by July 4. “Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has taken up the programme to ensure that no family is left without a roof on their head. A home provides security, comfort and dignity to the family. I congratulate the officers who have worked relentlessly in ensuring that foundation stone was laid for 10,000 houses and now, carry on the good work and ensure the target is achieved,” said Mr. Yadav. The Collector asked the officers to motivate the beneficiaries and start the construction works and also ensure that the building material was placed at their disposal. He was also briefed about the programmes of the work by Project Director, Housing, Venugopala Rao. As part of the special drive, 15,000 houses would be grounded at Narsaraopet, and Joint Collector AS Dinesh Kumar is the nodal officer; 20,000 houses would be grounded at Guntur division with Joint Collector, Development, P. Prasanthi as the nodal officer; 6,000 houses at Gurazala sub division to be monitored by Joint Collector, Aasara, K. Sridhar Reddy; 20,000 houses at Tenali to be supervised by Joint Collector, Housing, Anupama Anjali. Assistant Collector Subham Bansal would be supervising the programme at the command control room in Guntur. Since the Chief Minister would be directly monitoring the programme, efforts should be on to ensure that the target is achieved, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-sets-a-target-of-grounding-61000-houses-during-special-mela/article34996788.ece
27 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps taken to support horticulture farmers during pandemic: official||The State government has taken steps to support horticulture farmers during the COVID-19 times, ensuring them good price for their crops, Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah has said. “Measures have been taken for smooth transport of harvested crops to avoid inconvenience to the farmers. Mangoes have been transported through 27 Kisaan Rails,” she told the media. MSP for perishable goods Ms. Malakondaiah said the government had supported farmers by providing MSP to perishable goods such as chilli, turmeric, banana and orange, and also established Price Stabilisation Fund with Rs. 3,000 crore. To benefit the farmer community, the government had announced MSP for the 23 crops significantly grown in State and which were not considered by the Centre, she said. “The State government is providing Rs. 7,000 per quintal for chilli, Rs. 6,850 for turmeric, Rs. 770 for onion, Rs. 2,500 for minor millets, Rs. 800 for banana and Rs. 1,400 for sweet orange. Besides, the government has also introduced graded MSP for groundnut and bengal gram,” she said. She said that 25 fruit processing units would be set up across the State . Asserting that RBKs at the village level had created a profound system, she said the State government had enabled all these RBKs as crop purchase centres, benefiting farmers at the harvest time. Also, she announced that the foundation stone for the construction of 2,000 warehouses would be laid on July 8. The government would soon be using drones for spraying fertilizers, especially in horticulture crops, and would be certifying the good practices through an independent organisation for providing better market rate for the crops, she said. Drawing comparison with the previous government, she stated that 11.22 lakh tonnes of crops, excluding paddy, had been procured during 2014-2019 at a cost of Rs. 3,921 crore against 19.30 lakh tonnes procured in the last two years at a cost of Rs. 6,348 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-taken-to-support-horticulture-farmers-during-pandemic-official/article34997240.ece
27 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patrol vehicles to ferry women home safely||The Guntur Urban Police have launched a novel initiative in which trained police personnel at Police Command and Control Rooms will attend to calls made by women and children in need of transport to take them safely to their homes. Superintendent of Police K. Arif Hafeez said the programme was initiated to ensure that women and children travelled safely to their homes even when it is dark and no transport was available. The control room would be staffed by vigilant police personnel at all times, who after receiving information, would despatch a police patrol vehicle near the location of the caller, leaving them unharmed at their residences, with male and female staff in attendance, without any inconvenience to them, said Mr. Hafeez. Similarly, women police personnel have started patrolling in the Disha vehicles in every police station in the Guntur Urban area. They have downloaded the Disha App on their Android phones and get police assistance when needed. The perpetrators of rape of girls and women would be dealt with stringently and would be subjected to severe legal action. The SP also warned that legal action would be taken against those who committed acts of bullying, eve teasing, riots, and that there was no point in worrying in cases where their family elders had to take appropriate legal action in advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patrol-vehicles-to-ferry-women-home-safely/article34996789.ece
27 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pondicherry girl wins photo contest at AIIMS||The Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Mangalagiri, Guntur, on Saturday observed “International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking” on Saturday. It conducted various activities related to it such as online Continued Medical Education (CME) and photographic competition for students and healthcare providers. The Continued Medical Education (CME) programme with theme “Drug Abuse: An insight to a never ending challenge” was attended by more than 300 participants from all over the country. The photograph competition with the theme “Drugs: You Use You Lose” had participants involving students and healthcare providers from all over the country and the best photographs were awarded with prizes. The first prize was bagged by Vaishnavi Santosh Madasnal from AVMC and H, Pondicherry, second prize was bagged by Anamika Nath from TMC and H, Assam, third prize was bagged by Zeegyasa from Arya Post Graduate College, Haryana, and Arpan Kumar Pan, JIPMER, Pondicherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pondicherry-girl-wins-photo-contest-at-aiims/article34996787.ece
27 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tenure of Chief Secy. extended by three months||The services of Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, a 1987 batch IAS officer, have been extended by three months following the approval of the Central government . Mr. Adityanath Das was due to attain superannuation on June 30. The State government written to the Union government in May proposing to extend his services by three months. Union Secretary Kudeep Chaudhury on June 26 wrote a letter to the Principal Secretary approving the proposal submitted by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tenure-of-chief-secy-extended-by-three-months/article34997241.ece
27 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of a family drown in Telangana||Pilgrimage to a dargah turned fatal for four members of a family, including three children, as they drowned in Manjira, a tributary of Godavari river, at Birkur village of Kamareddy district, around 200 km from here, on Friday. The victims were identified as Anjavva (45), her daughter Sony (8) and her co-sister’s children, Gangothri (12) and Prashanth (09), all residents of Shetloor village in Bichkunda mandal. Police said the victims boarded a passenger auto-rickshaw to reach Birkur and from there, they decided to cross the river to avoid taking the Manjira bridge, which is a long route on foot. “At a certain point, water flow was high due to the recent downpour and they drowned,” a police official informed. After learning about the incident, other family members along with villagers and police started searching for the victims, but in vain. Around 7.30 a.m. on Saturday, the swimmers retrieved three bodies. By 10.30 a.m., the fourth one was also fished out from the river. They were taken to a government hospital where doctors pronounced them dead and performed an autopsy before handing over the bodies to the family members for last rites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-of-a-family-drown-in-telangana/article34996547.ece
27 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held, gold worth Rs. 31.10 lakh recovered||The East Godavari police on Saturday arrested two person on charges of snatching chains and recovered gold ornaments weighing 610 grams from them. The accused have been identified as E. Suribabu and M. Durga Prasad belonging to Amalapuram town and they were allegedly involved in 19 offences reported from East Godavari district and Yanam town. “The accused have been snatching chains from women. The market value of the gold recovered from them would be around Rs. 31.10 lakh. A two-wheeler has also been recovered from them,” East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said. The Amalapuram rural police have registered a case and produced the accused before a court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-gold-worth-rs-3110-lakh-recovered/article34997273.ece
27 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction of 40,000 houses to begin in July||East Godavari Joint Collector (Revenue) G. Lakshmisha on Saturday said that construction works of 40,000 houses would begin in Amalapuram and Ramachadrapuram revenue divisions in the first week of July. On Saturday, Mr. Lakshmisha inspected the availability of materials —cement, iron, and sand —for the construction works planned in Amalapuram rural mandal. “The construction of 40,000 houses is expected to be completed within two months,” said Mr. Lakshmisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-of-40000-houses-to-begin-in-july/article34997274.ece
27 June 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||After 50 years, relief for kin of slain Kerala naxal||The State government handed over a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to the siblings of Naxalite leader A. Varghese, who was shot dead by the police in the Thirunelli forest of Wayanad in 1970. The Cabinet on February 24 had approved the recommendation of the Secretary-level committee to compensate the family. The amount was recently deposited in the bank accounts of Varghese’s brothers A. Thomas and A. Joseph and sisters Mariyam and Annamma. “We came to know about the cash transaction only a few days ago after the bank authorities informed us,” A. Varghese, a lawyer and son of Varghese’s brother, said. “Had the government announced the transaction through the media, it would have been useful, especially at a time when fake encounter deaths and human rights violations are so common,” Mr. Varghese, who was in the forefront of the prolonged legal battle, said. The family is planning to set up a befitting memorial for the slain leader on 70 cents at Vellamunda in Wayanad district utilising the compensation amount. For the record, the family had moved the High Court of Kerala after it came to light that Varghese was killed by the police in a fake encounter. The court had then directed the family to submit a memorandum to the government seeking compensation. Sensational case The killing of Varghese became sensational after P. Ramachandran Nair, a former constable, confessed that it was he who had shot him dead on the instructions of then Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Lakshmana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/after-50-years-relief-for-kin-of-slain-kerala-naxal/article34996553.ece
27 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transfer of RARS’s ADR decried||The Rayalaseema Sub Committee of CPI(M), Rayalaseema Development Committee and Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samiti have protested the sudden transfer of Nandyal Regional Agriculture Research Station’s Associate Director Research(ADR) Murali Krishna. The associations have called the transfer of Mr. Krishna a “vindictive attitude” of the government as he had filed an affidavit against the acquisition of 50 acres of the RARS land for Nandyal Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transfer-of-rarss-adr-decried/article34996569.ece
27 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal Andhra logs zero deaths after long||After a gap of several days, South Coastal Andhra Pradesh registered zero deaths in a span of 24 hours. The region had been witnessing unabated casualties every day since the second wave started. The number of active cases came down to a little over 8,500 as new infections continued to decline while recoveries improved during the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. The death toll remained at 903 in Prakasam district and 901 in SPSR Nellore district. The cumulative tally rose marginally to over 2.46 lakh as SPSR Nellore district registered 196 new cases and Prakasam 289. As many as 386 patients in Prakasam district and 187 patients in SPSR Nellore district recovered during the period. Meanwhile, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal went round Ongole with a view to strictly enforce the partial curfew on Saturday as any complacency among public will lead to spurt in fresh cases. He noted that there were some instances of violation by shop owners and general public. He exhorted the public to compulsorily wear masks, use sanitizers and observe social distancing while moving out during the curfew relaxation period. The district police had so far registered close to 50,000 cases against curfew violators and collected over Rs. 6.19 lakh as fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-andhra-logs-zero-deaths-after-long/article34996791.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly ruckus case: Kerala moves SC||The Kerala government has moved the Supreme Court challenging a High Court dismissal of a prosecutor’s request to withdraw a case of criminal trespass, mischief and destruction of public property involving Education Minister V. Sivankutty and others who created a ruckus on the Assembly floor during a budget presentation in 2015. The televised images showed MLAs coming to blows on the House floor and hurling chairs, computers and other public property soon after Finance Minister K.M. Mani began his budget speech during the UDF government’s tenure. The State argued that the legislators’ actions were protected from legal action by parliamentary privilege. “When the act of the accused persons was in relation to their function to protest as Members of the Legislative Assembly, are they not entitled to get protection?” the State asked the apex court. The Assembly Secretary should not have complained against the MLAs to the police without taking the prior sanction of the Speaker, the government argued. Besides offences under the IPC, the legislators were booked under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The Public Prosecutor’s application to withdraw the cases was dismissed by the Thiruvananthapuram Chief Judicial Magistrate on September 22, last year. The Magistrate had concluded that the request was made “without good faith and under external influence”. The High Court confirmed the Magistrate’s decision in March. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud is scheduled to hear the petition on June 29. UDF leader Ramesh Chennithala has filed a caveat in the case. In its appeal, the State government, represented by advocate G. Prakash, said a Magistrate’s role is limited when the Prosecutor seeks withdrawal of the case under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. All the Magistrate needs to examine is whether the Prosecutor has applied his mind “independently and properly”. The reason for the Prosecutor’s decision to seek withdrawal of a case need not be confined to paucity of evidence alone. It could also depend on “other relevant grounds as well as to further broaden the ends of public justice, public order and peace is the settled law”. “The broad ends of public justice will certainly include appropriate social, economic and political purposes,” the State argued in its special leave petition before the Supreme Court. The State also argued that it should be left to the House to decide whether it would want to exercise its jurisdiction or hand over the ‘offenders’ to the criminal courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assembly-ruckus-case-kerala-moves-sc/article34996539.ece
27 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre should concede farmers’ demands: AIKSCC||Adhering to COVID safety guidelines, activists of farmer and labour organisations staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Saturday urging President Ramnath Kovind to direct the Centre to concede the demands of farmers, including repeal of three farm laws and the new labour codes. Observing the 47th anniversary of Emergency as ‘black day’, the activists, led by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee(AIKSCC), Prakasam District Convenor Ch.Ranga Rao expressed anguish and indignation over the Centre’s alleged “indifferent” attitude to their demands. It was unfortunate that the Centre, instead of taking steps to end the impasse, had put boulders, sand trucks, barbed fencing and barricades and slapped false cases against farmer leaders agitating in Delhi and other places, they said. “In the past seven months, what we witnessed and experienced first hand reminds us of the Emergency period as democracy is being throttled every day,” they alleged, before submitting a memorandum to Prakasam District Collector Pravin Kumar for forwarding it to the President. The activists raised slogans demanding statutory backing to the minimum support price regime and ensuring remunerative as per the formula evolved by noted agriculture scientist M.S.Swaminathan to end the continuing farm suicides. They demanded scrapping of the Amendment to the Electricity Act to phase out subsidies to farm sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-should-concede-farmers-demands-aikscc/article34996793.ece
27 June 2021||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood threat persists as water level continues to rise in the Godavari||Tribal people in the Agency area are in constant fear due to rise in the flood level in the Godavari. The flood level at the crest at Polavaram, which was 25 feet on Friday, crossed 26 feet on Saturday. As the backwaters had overflowed from the Kothuru causeway a few days ago, the officials raised the height of the causeway. The water level at the causeway now was about 20 feet, the residents said. Closure of coffer dam “Water level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam is very low now. Though there are no floods to the river, the water level is raising due to the backwaters caused by the closure of the coffer dam this year. The flood fury will be very severe if the water level increases further,” the officials said. “Normally, the Godavari witnesses floods between July 15 and September 15. This year, as the backwaters are stagnating due to closure of the coffer dam, there is flood threat to about 20 hamlets. If there is a flood during peak monsoon, the situation will be so severe, and many hamlets will be submerged,” said Madakam Somu, a villager. K.R. Puram ITDA officials said Kothru, Mamidigondi, Tellavaram, Gajulagondi, Pedduru, Madhapuram, Kondrukota, Vadapalli, Pidakula Mamidi, Sarugudu, Yerravaram, Tekuru, Thutigunta, Cheeduru, Sivagiri, Tella Dibbalu and other areas would be inundated in case of floods. The Pragadapalli Vaagu, Yedla Vaagu, Gujjavaram Vaagu and many other streams would overflow onto the roads and communication would be affected to more than 20 hamlets, the Revenue officials fear. Officials were conducting grama sabhas in the tribal hamlets in Polavaram, Velerupadu, Kukunoor, Buttaigudem and other mandals and cautioning the residents on the severity of the floods. They appealed to the tribal people to move to safer places. A few families shifted to the hilly areas and erected huts there on Saturday. ITDA Project Officer Y.V. Prasanna Lakshmi said that Medical and Health, Revenue, Police, Irrigation, Fisheries, AP-Transco, Girijan Cooperative Corporation, APSRTC and other departments were kept on alert. The Irrigation Department officials were releasing the water through the Polavaram project radial gates, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-threat-persists-as-water-level-continues-to-rise-in-the-godavari/article34997237.ece
27 June 2021||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Horticulture university signs MoU with Central Agro Forestry Research||The Dr. YSR Horticultural University (YSRHU) celebrated its 14th foundation day on its campus at Venkatramannagudem village in West Godavari district on Saturday. Participating in the pogramme as the chief guest, ANGRAU former Vice-Chancellor P. Raghava Reddy delivered a lecture on video link. He praised the university for fulfilling the dreams of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekara Reddy, and helping the farmers. YSRHU Vice-Chancellor Dr. T. Janakiram, Registrar Dr. K. Gopal, Joint Registrar V. Anand Babu, Director of Research Dr. R.V.S.K. Reddy, Deans A.S. Padmavathamma, A. Sujatha, D. Venkata Swamy, Director of Research B. Srinivasulu and other staff participated. The Vice-Chancellor presented awards to 14 staff for their good performance. Later, the university Director (Industrial and International Relations Programmes) Dileep Babu and the officials of ICAR-Central Agro Forestry Research Institute signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for taking up more research activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/horticulture-university-signs-mou-with-central-agro-forestry-research/article34997235.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala eases curbs on places of worship||Kerala on Saturday decided that places of worship can admit devotees in a regulated manner on Sunday despite the weekend lockdown. Temples, mosques, and churches can allow up to 15 people at a time. Managements should ensure that visitors wear double masks and maintain physical distance. Those visiting mosques should take a prayer mat for personal use and use only running water. The COVID-19 regulations will be reviewed on Tuesday after seeking reports from district administrations. Any easing of regulations would hinge on the average test positivity rate (TPR). Although the epidemic curve appeared to be on a long plateau, post lockdown, cases were beginning to rise in districts like Kozhikode and Malappuram. While a spurt in disease transmission was expected when lockdown restrictions were lifted, experts stressed on identifying clusters and local outbreaks for containment. On Saturday, Kerala reported 12,118 new cases when 1,13,629 samples were tested, with TPR of 10.66%. Cumulative COVID-19 fatalities stood at 12,817 with the addition of 118 recent deaths. Active cases went up in all five districts – Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Thrissur – with over 10,000 patients. The cumulative case burden of the State was 28,77, 989 cases. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 1,522, Ernakulam 1,414, Malappuram 1,339, Thrissur 1,311, Kollam 1,132, Kozhikode 1,054, Palakkad 921, Alappuzha 770, Kasaragod 577, Kottayam 550, Kannur 535, Idukki 418, Pathanamthitta 345 and Wayanad 230. Karnataka on Saturday reported 4,272 new cases of COVID-19, of which 955 were from Bengaluru Urban and the total rose to 28,31,026. With 115 deaths, the toll rose to 34,654. The State had 1,05,226 active patients. The TPR for the day touched 2.58%. Andhra Pradesh reported 38 new deaths and 4,147 new infections on Saturday, taking the toll to 12,566 and the cumulative tally to 18,75,622. The daily testing level stood at 96,121 samples, with a TPR of 4.31%. There were 46,126 active cases as of Saturday and a majority (57%) were in four districts including East Godavari (8,864), Chittoor (7,224), West Godavari (5,356) and Prakasam (4,931). After several weeks, Chennai recorded fewer than 10 deaths on Saturday. Across the State, 148 persons, including two teenagers, succumbed to the infection, taking the toll due to COVID-19 to 32,199. The city registered nine deaths, taking its toll to 8,152. There were 19 deaths in Vellore, 13 in Erode and 11 in Salem. Coimbatore, too, reported nine deaths, taking its toll to 2,003. Mostly, deaths that had occurred over the previous three to four days are recorded in the day’s bulletin. Registering a further dip in fresh cases, Tamil Nadu logged 5,415 cases. So far, 24,60,747 persons have tested positive. Of the fresh cases, Coimbatore reported 671 cases, followed by Erode (574), Salem (369) and Tiruppur (337). Chennai’s daily count stood at 314.   (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-eases-curbs-on-places-of-worship/article34996555.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala students migrate to government schools||Gireeshkumar, a painter who resides at Perukavu, recently shifted his elder daughter from a private school in the city to a government school. Like many parents, he wanted to give his daughter a private school education, but could not pay the fee as COVID-19 has left him jobless. At the end of the year, the school asked him to pay the pending fee or his daughter would not be promoted. There was no option but to shift his daughter to a government school. “There is good opinion about government schools these days. At the private school, the online classes were just average. Students were not given any recreational activity. Not once did the school ask how she was doing; the only calls we received were to ask us about the fee,” says Gireeshkumar. Raman (name changed), a labourer who lives at Anchamada, and his wife, a domestic worker, have pending fee to the tune of Rs. 2,000 for their daughter studying in a private school. Thankfully, after some initial calls, the school has not exerted any pressure. Without regular work, shifting their daughter to a government school seems a logical move for the couple. K. Buhari, headmaster, Government Lower Primary School, Cotton Hill, said over 90% of the students who had taken admission this year from other school boards hailed from families experiencing financial stress. “So far, 224 students have taken admission to Classes 2, 3 and 4 from the CBSE or ICSE streams, while there are only two cases of transfers from other government schools.” Other school headmasters also attest to a shift of students from private schools to government institutions. Mr. Buhari said families experiencing financial distress cannot afford to pay advance fee in lump sum as sought by private schools. Even things such as free textbooks, uniform and noon meal kits provided by government schools matter to families. Moreover, government schools, with support from various quarters, are trying to arrange smartphones for students to attend online classes. The Principal of a prominent private school said many parents, who were well-off, had come to him citing loss of income and financial difficulties in the wake of COVID-19. At the same time, there are some parents who did not pay fee not because they cannot afford it, but because they did not want to pay it. Many private schools were facing a crisis as students leave without even taking transfer certificates (TC). TC was not mandatory for admission to government institutions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-students-migrate-to-govt-schools/article34996552.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) cautions against pro-party ‘fan pages’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has reportedly woken up to a relatively new threat: persons with criminal links running trendy pro-party ‘fan pages’ on social media, possibly to attract potential recruits for their illegal purposes. Court filings by the Customs (Preventive) reveal that at least two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) workers who ran viral pro-CPI(M) pages on Facebook were high on their wanted list in a gold smuggling case. They used CPI(M) iconography to project their accounts as genuine. An insider said the CPI(M) leadership felt that such bogus pages could potentially subvert the party’s legitimacy in the public eye. Gender justice campaign The CPI(M) is on the cusp of launching a massive campaign, Kerala Stree Paksham, to muster the masses to support the cause of gender justice. It wanted the programme to become a social movement. The campaign is hugely social media-centric. Hence, the CPI(M) is likely to regulate the social media behaviour of its members and urge them to follow, like and respond only on official social media accounts of the party and its mass organisations. DYFI State secretary A.A. Rahim said the suspects had only a fringe association with the youth organisation. They had latched on to the DYFI perhaps to gain legitimacy and remain off the law enforcement’s radar. The DYFI had done a background check in February and found the youth had inexplicably acquired wealth in a short time. “On February 7, the DYFI marched through the Thillenkeri neighbourhood urging the local youth not to slip into crime. The DYFI has asked its cadres to follow the official Facebook page of the DYFI and its district committees, and not any phoney accounts,” he said. Mr. Rahim said pop culture portrayals of lawbreakers and a misplaced sense of machoism had romanticised criminality in the minds of the impressionable youth. Mafia groups could easily lure them with the promise of quick money. Hence, the DYFI has launched a driveto stamp out any criminal tendencies among its cadre, he said.  Gold smuggling accused used party iconography to project their accounts as genuine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-cautions-against-pro-party-fan-pages/article34996550.ece
27 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to focus on declaring SSC, Inter exams results in a week||Education Minister A. Suresh on Saturday said that since the SSC and Intermediate Board examinations had been cancelled in view of the pandemic, the officials should focus on declaration of the results and constitute a high-power expert committee for the purpose at the earliest. In a video-conference with the department officials, the Minister wanted immediate steps for the constitution of the panel to ensure that the results were announced in one week. Reopening of schools Responding to his observation on reopening of schools, the officials informed him that the date would have to be finalised taking into consideration the advice of the Medical and Health Department. The Minister asked the officials to prepare the 2021-22 academic calendar and initiate measures to start classroom teaching. The Minister said that the Supporting Andhra’s Learning Transformation (SALT) programme, which aimed at improving learning outcomes, quality of teaching practices and school management in basic education, would usher in revolutionary changes in the education sector in the next five years. He said a project of this scale and potential had not been implemented in the State in the last five years. Informing that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) had sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs. 1,860 crore for implementation of the SALT, he said the initiative would transform the government schools into vibrant and competitive institutions. He said Mana Badi - Nadu Nedu, curriculum reforms, improved classroom practices, professional development of teachers and preparing students for global competition by introducing English as a medium of instruction in the State-run schools were all a part of SALT. He said the Samagra Shiksha wing of the Education Department would implement the five-year project from the academic year 2021-22 to 2026-27. Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar, Director V. Chinaveerabhadrudu, Samagra Shiksha State Project Director Vetri Selvi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-focus-on-declaring-ssc-inter-exams-results-in-a-week/article34997243.ece
27 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘SRM University-AP records 100% placements’||SRM University, Andhra Pradesh has set a record in placements with all of its maiden batch of graduates landing international and domestic jobs in various multinational companies. In a first, two graduates, Rajarshi Mazumder and Saptarshi Mazumder, landed jobs in Google Japan’s strategic partner PVP Inc in Japan with a pay package of Rs. 50 lakh per annum. K. Sri Ritika, Venkata Sai Nikith and K. Sai Rishvanth also secured jobs in MNCs in India with a high pay. University Vice-Chancellor Vajja Sambasiva Rao and Pro Vice-Chancellor D. Narayana Rao felicitated the five students here on Saturday. They were also given prize money. Prof. Sambasiva Rao said that the students of SRM University-A.P. would have three pathways – placements, higher studies and entrepreneurship and the maiden batch had excelled in all the three areas so far from landing top jobs to getting admitted to top universities in the world. A good number of graduated students got admitted to global top universities for higher studies with half of them awarded impressive scholarships up to $52,000. The Next Step laboratory, a full-time student-run initiative had helped students hone their skills, he said. Felicitated Prof. D. Narayana Rao said it was for the first time in India a private university got two of its graduates from the maiden outgoing batch placed with Rs. 50 LPA. The graduates had been to UC Berkeley as part of a special programme offered by the university. Upon being felicitated, Mr. Rajarshi and Mr. Saptarshi said that having come from a small town in West Bengal they had little exposure to the outside world when they entered the university four years ago. “Later, we got to see the world through the lens of SRM and were able to achieve this only because of the faculty and curriculum. Our parents sacrificed a lot so that we could be here today,” they said. Principal placement coordinator and associate dean (Engineering) Prof. Raghunandan said that the university had a unique teaching-learning process which led to the success.  Corporate relations and career services assistant director Vivekanandan said the university recorded 100% placements and the average pay package of the batch was Rs. 7 lakh per annum. Over 71% of graduates got placed with at least Rs. 5 lakh package, he said. In the domestic segment, the highest pay package offered was Rs. 29.7 lakh per annum. He said top recruiters included Amazon, PayPal, Barclay, American Express, Bank of America, Walmart, AB InBev, TCS, Cognizant, Infosys, L&T, AIS, JSW and Adani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srm-university-ap-records-100-placements/article34996785.ece
27 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records lowest COVID positivity rate in 85 days||The State has again reported 38 new COVID deaths and 4,147 new infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning taking the toll to 12,566 and the cumulative tally to 18,75,622. The total recoveries and recovery rate increased to 18,16,930 and 96.87% respectively as 5,773 patients recovered in the past day. During the same period, 96,121 samples were tested and recorded a positivity rate of 4.31%, the lowest in 85 days. The overall positivity rate of 2.16 crore samples was at 8.67%. There were 46,126 active cases as of Saturday and a majority (57%) of them were in four districts including East Godavari (8,864), Chittoor (7,224), West Godavari (5,356) and Prakasam (4,931). Chittoor and Guntur reported seven deaths each while East Godavari and Krishna reported five deaths each . Srikakulam reported four, West Godavari reported three deaths and Visakhapatnam, Kadapa and Anantapur reported two deaths each. Vizianagaram reported one new death. For the first time in months three districts — Prakasam, Nellore and Kurnool — reported no deaths in a day. East Godavari continues to report the highest tallies as it reported 839 new cases. It was followed by West Godavari (571), Chittoor (569), Guntur (321), Krishna (310), Prakasam (289), Visakhapatnam (229), Kadapa (226), Nellore (196), Anantapur (180), Kurnool (160), Vizianagaram (130) and Srikakulam (128). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,60,290), Chittoor (2,17,815), Guntur (1,61,209), West Godavari (1,59,961), Anantapur (1,53,348), Visakhapatnam (1,47,981), Nellore (1,26,579),Kurnool (1,21,573),Prakasam (1,19,914), Srikakulam (1,18,084), Kadapa (1,05,734), Krishna (1,00,433) and Vizianagaram (79,806).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-records-lowest-covid-positivity-rate-in-85-days/article34997239.ece
27 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada gets four stars in ‘climate smart cities’ rating||The city achieved a four-star rating in the ‘Climate Smart Cities Assessment Framework (CSCAF) 2.0’ by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. It was among the nine cities in the country that were given four-star rating and no city was given a five-star rating, said Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh. Mr. Venkatesh said that Vijayawada was the only non-smart city that got the four stars. It was a great achievement for the city as respective departments could get insights from the City Performance Report (CPR) through the CSCAF assessment and initiate necessary environmental practices. CSCAF nodal officer and Additional Commissioner U. Sarada Devi said the CSCAF 2.0 consisted of five themes - energy and green buildings, urban planning, green cover and biodiversity, mobility and air quality and water and waste management. The city got five stars in waste management, four in urban planning and water management and three in energy and green building and mobility and air quality. Ms. Devi said that the outcome was due to collaborative initiatives taken up with NIUA, UN-Habitat, UNDP, AIILSG and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijayawada-gets-four-stars-in-climate-smart-cities-rating/article34996784.ece
27 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Twins bag Rs. 50 lakh jobs with Google unit||Saptarshi Mazumder and Rajarshi Mazumder, twins hailing from West Bengal came out as exemplary brothers as well as graduates as they succeeded in bagging jobs at Japan’s PVP Inc., a strategic partner for Google Japan with Rs. 50 lakh annual pay package each. SRM University-AP, from where the duo graduated in Computer Science and Engineering, says it was the first private university in India to achieve placements with Rs. 50 lakh pay package for graduates from the maiden batch. While it seems getting placed in the same company in the same campus drive was a coincidence, the brothers, children of Biswajit Mazumder and Purabi Mazumder, in one voice say, “It is natural that we got selected by the same company. It wasn’t a surprise for us.” “We always study together. We have the same interests, ambitions and our brains work the same way. We always have the same grades,” the brothers say. “When we prepare for something, he will know if I’m facing any difficulty and helps me. I do the same for him, and if we don’t understand something we prepare together,” says Mr. Rajarshi. “Though we hail from Burdwan city, we lived mostly in Jharkhand where my father, a general manager in the hospitality industry, worked,” they say. None in their family has gone to this level in career and their joy knew no bounds when they heard about the placement. “Our father is the happiest person as he dreamt a lot more about our careers than us,” they add. Apart from studies, the 22-year-old brothers indulge in watching football. Mr. Rajarshi says 50% of his life is football and he loves Manchester United while Mr. Saptarshi is a fan of Barcelona. The duo will be working in Google Japan’s workplace in Japan from September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bengal-twins-bag-rs-50-lakh-jobs-with-google-unit/article34996540.ece
27 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases down to 2,951||Visakhapatnam district reported 229 new coronavirus infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulatively tally to 1,48,493. About 319 patients recovered during the same period. The death toll went up to 1,020 after two more persons succumbed to the infection between 9 a.m. on Friday and 9 a.m. on Saturday. The active caseload came down to 2,951 by Saturday morning and total recoveries increased to 1,44,522.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-down-to-2951/article34997278.ece
27 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists seek tribal people’s support for bandh on July 1||The banned CPI (Maoist) has appealed to the tribal people and social activists to lend their support and make the bandh called on July 1 a success. The Maoists called bandh in the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) region in protest against the encounter in which six of their members were killed at Theegalametta of Koyyuru mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency on June 16. In a letter released by Ganesh, secretary of the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC), the Maoists claimed they had provided medicines and food to the tribal people during the pandemic. He alleged that the State government had failed in providing medical support in the Agency areas and that COVID-19 tests were not conducted in the tribal region and there were no doctors to help. Instead of providing medical support to people, the government sent police forces into the Agency to attack the Maoists, he alleged. “The government’s aim is to exploit natural resources in the Agency. As the Maoists are opposing it, they are being killed in encounters,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-seek-tribal-peoples-support-for-bandh-on-july-1/article34997245.ece
27 June 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strive to make India a leading maritime nation in world, says Venkaiah Naidu||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has called for making India a leading maritime nation and emphasised the important role ports will have to play to achieve the ambitious vision. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu was speaking after Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao and other senior officials made a presentation on the various activities of the port and its expansion plans here on Saturday. Observing that India was strategically located on the world’s shipping routes with a long coastline of about 7,517 km and over 200 major and minor ports, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu said “these ports play an important role in India’s economy.” Recalling that ancient India was a great maritime power and that the navies of the Chola and Kalinga kings used to rule the oceans, the Vice-President said “we have to regain that past glory.” Infra development Referring to the development of port infrastructure in the country, he said that as part of the ambitious Sagarmala project, more than 504 projects had been identified to unlock the opportunities for port-led development, and these initiatives were expected to mobilise more than Rs. 3.57 lakh crore of infrastructure investment. Noting a decline in cargo movement at the VPT during 2020-21 due to the pandemic after a healthy upward swing between 2015-16 and 2019-20, the Vice-President expressed the hope that the port would regain its growth trajectory once the situation normalises. “It is important to note that ports will play an important role in the post-COVID economic recovery,” he added. Lauding the ports for having played a proactive role in handling oxygen supplies and humanitarian relief work during the second wave of the pandemic and cyclones Tauktae and Yaas, he said, “I compliment you all for that.” Vision 2030 Referring to the Maritime India Vision 2030, the Vice-President wanted the VPT to adopt global best practices in operations and development. He said that the vision was not impossible to achieve as India had the inherent strength of knowledge, and wanted everyone to work with Team India spirit. During the interaction, the Vice-President was keen to know the measures taken by the VPT to contain pollution and protect the environment. Appreciating the port’s green initiatives, he also wanted it to focus more on renewable energy and energy conservation. FTW zone Earlier, the Vice-President was apprised of the expansion plans, including the proposed establishment of the Rs. 406-crore Free Trade and Warehousing Zone (FTWZ) in an area of 103 acres. The FTWZ will be funded under the Sagarmala project, and a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) will be set up to develop infrastructure such as roads, electricity, rail and road connectivity. Minister for Tourism M. Srinivasa Rao, VPT Deputy Chairman Durgesh Kumar Dubey, and other senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strive-to-make-india-a-leading-maritime-nation-in-world-says-venkaiah-naidu/article34997248.ece
27 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM to offer sports scholarship||The GITAM Deemed to be University will be offering sports scholarships to eligible students pursuing the Bachelor of Physiotherapy (B.P.T.) programme from the 2021-22 academic year, GITAM School of Physiotherapy Director Madhuri Kasi said on Saturday. The four-year B.P.T. programme was launched with a vision for elevating physical therapy education in India on part with the international standards. The school is also providing hands-on training in clinical postings at GITAM Institute of Medical Science & Research multi-speciality hospital. Students with minimum age of 17 years who have passed Intermediate (10+2) examination with 60% aggregate marks with biology, physics and chemistry subjects are eligible to apply. In addition to these, a candidate need to qualify in the GITAM Admission Test-2021 or NEET -2021 to take part in the admission process, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-to-offer-sports-scholarship/article34997283.ece
27 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on property tax hike today||The members of Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents’ Welfare Association (VARWA) and Visakha Residential Colony Association Federation (Nivas) are jointly organising a webinar on ‘property tax based on property value’ on its Facebook page – VARWA, at 11 a.m. on June 27. Eminent personalities including former Union Secretary E.A.S. Sarma, Symbiosis CEO O. Naresh Kumar, Forum for Development of North Andhra general secretary A. Aja Sarma, APFERWAS president Uday Shirname will participate in the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-property-tax-hike-today/article34997281.ece
27 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB special drive against drug abuse concludes||The week-long special drive against drug abuse conducted by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) in the district concluded on Saturday, which was observed as ‘International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit trafficking’. As many as 14 awareness campaigns were conducted at hostels and public places, besides taking out rallies at several places during the drive. These apart, 46 flexies were displayed at various public places, said Rahul Dev Singh, ASP (SEB), Visakhapatnam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-special-drive-against-drug-abuse-concludes/article34997282.ece
27 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HPCL-Visakh Refinery holds mock drill on emergency||The HPCL-Visakh Refinery conducted an onsite emergency mock drill here on Saturday. According to the officials, the objective of the mock drill was to test the preparedness of the refinery crew in handling tank fire emergencies. Through this mock drill, it was also intended to test the emergency response and skill level of the emergency crew in handling emergency situations. Joint Chief Inspector of Factories Sri J Siva Shankar Reddy attended the drill as an observer. After the mock drill, a review meet was conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hpcl-visakh-refinery-holds-mock-drill-on-emergency/article34997279.ece
27 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atul Bhatt is new CMD of RINL||Chairman and Managing Director of Mecon Limited Atul Bhatt has been selected as the CMD of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), accroding to a release from the Public Enterprises Selection Board. Mr. Bhatt had earlier served as the Executive Director of the NMDC, Commercial Manager of Metalex World SA, General Manager (Merger and Acquisition) of Arcelor Mittal, London, and Country Manager of Mittal Steel, Iran. Mr. Bhatt was posted in place of P.K. Rath, who had superannuated from his services about a month ago. Mr. Bhatt will be taking over at a juncture when the Union Government has proposed 100% strategic sale of the PSU steel plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atul-bhatt-is-new-cmd-of-rinl/article34997246.ece
27 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NAD flyover works inspected||Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao inspected the ongoing works at the NAD flyover on Saturday. He instructed the officials to complete the lower rotary works within two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nad-flyover-works-inspected/article34997280.ece
27 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Services of special trains restored||The services of special trains which were earlier proposed to be cancelled due to safety related works in the Vijayawada Division, have been restored. Train no. 02717 Visakhapatnam-Vijayawada special and train no.02718 Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam special trains will run as per the schedule on June 28, 29 and July 5, 6. Similarly, train no. 07239 Guntur- Visakhapatnam special leaving Guntur on June 27, 28 and 29 and July 4, 5, 6 and pairing train no. 07240 Visakhapatnam-Guntur special leaving Vizag on June 28, 29, 30 and July 5, 6 and 7 will run as per schedule, said the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/services-of-special-trains-restored/article34997284.ece
27 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Keep an eye on your children’||Excise, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and Police Department on Saturday jointly organised an awareness rally against drug abuse and trafficking, marking the International Drug Day. SEB Circle Inspector G.S. Rajasekhar Naidu said youngsters were falling prey to drug mafia in many parts of the State. He urged the parents to keep a watch on their children. Sub Inspector B.Ravindra Raju said that drug addiction was ruining many families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-an-eye-on-your-children/article34997288.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lurking danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lurking-danger/article34997286.ece
27 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Maoist couple surrender||CPI (Maoist) Manuguru Local Organising Squad (LOS) Area Committee Member (ACM) Madivi Iduma alias Surender, 23, along with his wife Madakam Budri alias Sony, 23, Dalam member, surrendered to the police in Kothagudem on Saturday. The couple turned themselves in before Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt in the district headquarters town citing fear of the spread of Coronavirus infection among the cadre of the outlawed outfit in the forest region, police said. Iduma had earlier worked as body guard of the CPI (Maoist) State committee member and Bhadradri-Kothagudem district regional secretary Azad. Budri joined the proscribed organisation in 2016 and also worked as a guard of Azad for some time. The duo got married last month, police added. Presenting the surrendered Maoist couple before the media in the coal town on Saturday afternoon, the SP said the death of the CPI (Maoist) Central Committee member Haribhushan, the tech team in- charge Sobrai and senior cadres Gangu, Prakash and Bharatakka due to Coronavirus infection instilled a fear of further spread of the virus among the Maoist cadres. The police were ready to help the ailing Maoists in getting proper medical treatment, if they surrender, he said, repeating his appeal to the COVID-19-affected Maoist leaders and cadre to shun the path of violence and join the mainstream to lead a normal life by availing the government’s rehabilitation package. Bhadrachalam ASP G Vineeth was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maoist-couple-surrender/article34997026.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A new populist scheme on anvil||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday announced a new populist scheme aimed at empowerment of Dalits which will be implemented by drawing lots to select a few beneficiaries every year and depositing money in their bank accounts like it was done in Rytu Bandhu and social security pensions. The direct benefit transfer (DBT) will be part of a larger programme to empower eight lakh below-poverty-line families of Dalits in a phased manner. A sum of Rs. 1,000 crore will be spent this year on the programme to be implemented irrespective of SC sub-plan. The funding for this will be done separately, Mr. Rao told the Collectors conference today. He announced that the guidelines for the programme in which Collectors and senior officials will play an important role will be released shortly and asked them to select the beneficiaries in a transparent manner. An all-party meeting on Sunday which will be attended by Dalit MPs, MLAs and MLCs and prominent leaders will take further decisions on empowerment of the community. Mr. Rao compared the plight of Dalits to the pain in entire human body due to damage of any of its parts. When one section of people was subjected to discrimination similarly, the impact was felt on the entire society. He said the constituency development funds of MLAs and MLCs should be spent henceforth only with the approval of Ministers representing their districts. He announced Rs. 2 crore at the disposal of Ministers and Rs. 1 crore for Collectors for immediate developmental needs of villages and towns. The Collectors could appoint their own teams for the purpose. He asked authorities to remove the high-tension electric wires passing over houses in villages. Special Economic Zones, exclusively food processing units, should be established over not less than 250 acres in villages with buffer zones. Power day should be announced in villages to solve power issues. The forest department was asked to identify borders for sixty 66 lakh acres of forest land in the State. A comprehensive report should be prepared to resolve the problems of shifting cultivation on forest lands. Check posts should be activated to curb smuggling of forest produce. Pending bills for infrastructure in villages were released and they will be deposited in bank accounts of gram panchayats on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-new-populist-scheme-on-anvil/article34997019.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS records 1,028 COVID cases||Telangana recorded 1,028 COVID-19 cases on Saturday taking the total cases to 6,19,865. While 1,18,427 samples were put to test, results of 1,201 were awaited. Nine COVID-19 patients have died. Of the new 1,028 cases, the highest of 132 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). When the number of cases across the remaining 32 districts are considered, high number of cases were recorded in three rural districts too: 76 from Khammam, 66 from Nalgonda, 65 from Suryapet. Comparatively less number of people were detected with the virus in two more urban districts: 64 from Rangareddy and 43 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. The lowest of one case was from Kamareddy, two from Nirmal, five each from Narayanpet, Medak, Jogulamba Gadwal and Adilabad. From March 2,2020 to June 26 of this year, a total of 1,82,46,482 samples were put to test and 6,19,865 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 15,054 were active cases, 6,01,184 have recovered, and 3,627 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-records-1028-covid-cases/article34997002.ece
27 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Dalitha Agony’ by TPCC calls for fight against KCR||Protesting against police atrocities and ‘deceiving’ of the community by the government, Telangana Congress held ‘Dalitha Avedana Deeksha’ (Dalit agony protest) at Gandhi Bhavan where AICC SC Cell chairman Nitin Rawat participated along with senior Congress leaders. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, who led the protest along CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of failing Dalits after promising moon to them. “What happened to KCR’s promise of a Dalit CM? Why is the largest community in Telangana, the Madiga community, not represented in the Cabinet?,” he asked and accused the CM of telling lies. “When Congress leaders met him to submit a memorandum about the death of Mariyamma, he told the delegation that he was not aware of the incident. This was a blatant lie as the High court had already ordered a judicial probe and media carried reports on regular basis,” he said. Mr. Reddy asked whether the CM was unable to find even a single Madiga community MLA to appoint as a Minister though their population was about 60 lakh in the State. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka said the entire Telangana society was ashamed at the brutal torture of a poor Dalit woman and her son in police custody. All India Congress Committee SC Cell chairman Nitin Rawat said that Congress would fight on behalf the Dalits and called upon people to bring down the TRS government in the State. Congress MLAs Jagga Reddy, Sridhar Babu, former PCC president P Laxmaiah, AICC official spokesperson D Sravan, former minister J Geetha Reddy, AICC secretary Sampath, and TPCC SC cell chairman Preetam participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalitha-agony-by-tpcc-calls-for-fight-against-kcr/article34997023.ece
27 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth Reddy new chief of Telangana Congress||After dilly-dallying with the decision, the AICC has finally announced that Malkajgiri MP, A. Revanth Reddy will lead the Telangana Congress. Revanth, who is presently working president of the TPCC and a known critic of e Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, will be replacing Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy, who submitted his resignation after the Huzurnagar by-election. AICC secretary, Madhu Yaskhi Goud, who was also in the race for the top post was made e chairman of the all important Campaign Committee while former Deputy Chief Minister, Damodar Rajanarasimha will be chairman of the Election Management Committee. With a good mix of experience and seniority and also maintaining social balance, the AICC seems to have ensured that there was no power centre. However, Mr. Revanth Reddy seems to have ensured that his followers got a fair share. The AICC also announced a big team of five working presidents – Mohd. Azharuddin, J. Geetha Reddy, Anjan Kumar Yadav, T. Jagga Reddy and Mahesh Kumar Goud, a social combination of minorities, Backward Classes and Scheduled Castes. Alleti Maheshwar Reddy is made chairman of the AICC Programme Implementation Committee. A 10-member team of senior vice-presidents is also announced and it includes Podem Veeraiah, MLA, former Minister Sambani Chandrashekhar, Damodar Reddy, Mallu Ravi, Suresh Shetkar, Vem Narender Reddy, Ramesh Mudiraj, Gopishetty Niranjan, T. Kumar Rao and Javeed Aamer. Komatireddy’s future Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, who was in the race, is likely to be accommodated at the national level. Mr. Reddy has been a senior and in the forefront of Telangana movement resigning as a Minister for the Telangana cause. He has lost out since the high command felt that it could not accommodate another Reddy as the chairman of the important Campaign Committee. Former MP and present working president, Ponnam Prabhakar too is likely to be inducted at the national level. The high command seems to have not taken the warning of some senior leaders that party would lose out if loyalty was not respected. V. Hanmanth Rao had been vehemently opposing Mr. Revanth’s elevation as he was a new-comer. Another senior leader Marri Shashidhar Reddy too was arguing for loyalty and seniority. Manthani MLA, D. Sridhar Babu and MLC T. Jeevan Reddy, whose names too were considered, apparently did not evince interest in the top post. The high command also felt that senior MLA, Bhatti Vikramarka is already the Legislature Party leader. Sangareddy MLA, T. Jagga Reddy who made serious efforts backed out and announced he would be content as working president. All these leaders were contacted by the AICC leadership and convinced that their seniority would be respected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-reddy-new-chief-of-telangana-congress/article34997024.ece
27 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dharna staged at RTC depots||The Telangana Mazdoor Union (TMU) on Saturday has alleged that funds from the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) Thrift and Credit Cooperative Society (CCS) are being diverted for other purposes, and not for providing loans to TSRTC workers. Staff supporting the TMU staged dharnas outside bus depots across the State, including at Miryalaguda depot, Nirmal depot, Tandur depot, and Medak depot, among others. “Every month salary is deducted which goes to the CCS. Around Rs. 40 crore every month is being deducted. More than Rs. 1,060 crore has been diverted. This is going towards other expenses of the Rroad Transport Corporation,” said V.C.S Reddy, publicity secretary of TMU. Mr Reddy said that workers wore red badges and demanded more accountability from the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dharna-staged-at-rtc-depots/article34997027.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Covid vaccine for children in the making’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Saturday expressed the confidence that the Centre will be in a position to vaccinate the children below 18 years age too as soon as the second phase trials are concluded by the Serum Institute of India (SII). Another ‘super vaccine’ which can effectively tackle any kind of virus variants is also in the making and in the meantime people should not panic about the Delta variant of the coronavirus but get vaccinated and maintain COVID appropriate behaviour of face masks, avoiding crowds and hand hygiene. The Minister was addressing a gathering after inaugurating the Oxygen Bank of the Lions Club at Seetharamambagh. He wanted people not to give credence to rumours being circulating in the social media about the variants and said COVID samples were being sent to the World Health Organisation (WHO) for analysis. Claiming that the Centre was ready to tackle any kind of health emergency, Mr. Reddy pointed out that about one lakh oxygen concentrators were imported and distributed among the States. About 51,000 ventilators have been procured in eight months itself. The country was already supplying masks and personal protection kits to 85 countries. About 85 special trains were run through green channels for oxygen supplies and air force planes were also used for the purpose, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-vaccine-for-children-in-the-making/article34997007.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Turn 2BHK complex into model colony’||Municipal Administration Minister K.T.Rama Rao kick-started the release of 330 double-bedroom houses built at a cost of Rs. 28.5 crore in Ambedkar Nagar here by handing over the keys to a few beneficiaries on Saturday. He participated in the inaugural programme along with Cabinet colleagues Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Mohammed Mahmood Ali. Mr.Rama Rao expressed happiness at the dignity housing complex with a view of Hussainsagar, and asked the beneficiaries to ensure proper maintenance of the surroundings. Commercial space for 26 outlets has been provided along with residential quarters so that rent from the shops could be utilised for maintenance of the complex, he said, and advised for constituting a welfare committee to turn it into a model colony. The complex built on 3.4 acres has seven towers built in stilt-plus-five floors pattern. Together with the component of infrastructure, each dwelling unit cost Rs. 8.5 lakh. CC roads, sewerage lines, drinking water sumps, 10 elevators and external electrification are part of the infrastructure provided, a note from GHMC informed. MLC Surabhi Vani Devi, Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi, Deputy Mayor Mothe Srilatha, GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar and Hyderabad Collector Sweta Mohanty were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/turn-2bhk-complex-into-model-colony/article34997010.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM for inventory of govt. lands by July- end||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked District Collectors to prepare an inventory of lands and other assets of all government departments in their districts by July-end. An estate officer should be appointed at the district level to record the details, protect and monitor the lands and assets. They would work under the Collectors. A State-level estate officer would l function under the supervision of the Chief Secretary, Mr. Rao said at the Collectors’ conference on Saturday to discuss green cover implementation programme in the State. The Collectors should take possession of lands and properties of government offices which were shifting to newly constructed integrated complexes of Collectors and district officials. They should be used for public purpose. Veg and non-veg markets over nothing short of three acres should be constructed for every one lakh population. They should have parking and other facilities. Mr. Rao also asked the Collectors to allot a separate chamber in the new Collectorate complexes for the visiting Ministers and State level officers. Twin helipads should be prepared in Collectorates of all districts. The uncleared inter-department transfer of funds that had piled up should be completed by book adjustments by July-end. Hereafter, payment of bills across departments should be met immediately. In the matter of scientific use of urban land for public purposes, Mr. Rao asked the officials to take Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro as a model. They should take up massive tree plantation on hillocks and rocky terrain. They should take steps for setting up natural habitats over 10 acres in every mandal. Land acquisition for public purposes could be taken up as per law. Lands closer to towns should be acquired for four to five garbage dump yards keeping future needs in view and urbanisation. New layouts for plotting should not be allowed without the permission of Collectors. Discussing the implementation of ‘`Palle Pragathi’ and `Pattana Pragathi’ programmes of government from July 1, he asked Collectors to use the services of retired employees and ex-servicemen. Cleaning profile should be maintained town-wise. Mr. Rao wanted the Collectors to take steps for upkeep of sanitation and creation of basic infrastructure in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-for-inventory-of-govt-lands-by-july-end/article34997018.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to build barrage near Gadwal||The TRS government has expressed its firm resolve to go ahead with the construction of a barrage on river Krishna near Gadwal and dared the Andhra Pradesh government to stop it. The construction of the barrage was one of the half-a-dozen projects in erstwhile Mahabubnagar district which were cleared by the State Cabinet recently in a bid to prevent diversion of river water to AP. It was conceived in the limits of four villages -- Gummadam, Gondimalla, Velaturu and Pedda Maruru -- in Gadwal district. Speaking to media persons on Saturday, Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy, MPs, MLAs and MLCs from the erstwhile district said the State government had all rights to construct the barrage as per the award of Bachawat tribunal but the AP government had none of them to execute the Rayalaseema lift-irrigation scheme, yet its leaders made tall claims. Mr. Reddy warned that there was no comparison between regular projects of Telangana and irregular projects of AP. The threatening language of leaders of the latter State would not work. The barrage at Gadwal was conceived by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with an eye on future and recommendations of the earlier river water disputes tribunal headed by Justice Bachawat. The tribunal had allocated 17.84 tmc ft water for Jurala to meet the irrigation requirements in the erstwhile Mahabubnagar district. The tribunal said the allocation of 17.84 tmc ft to Jurala if not fully exploited could be used elsewhere in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-to-build-barrage-near-gadwal/article34997017.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Haribhushan’s associate also dies||Two days after CPI (Maoist) State committee secretary and Central Committee Member Yapa Narayana alias Haribhushan died of COVID-19, his live-in-friend Jajjari Sammakka alias Sharadakka too succumbed to the deadly virus. Telangana police confirmed that Sharadakka died on June 24, while Haribhushan died two days before in the forest of Chhattisgarh. However, the outlawed party did not issue any statement so far. Both natives of Madegudem village of Gangaram mandal of Mahabubabad district, the couple decided to stay together while leading their underground life. Family members condoled her death in their village on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/haribhushans-associate-also-dies/article34997021.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Vaccination on wheels’ for slumdwellers too||The mobile vans used by Telangana government to conduct ‘vaccination on wheels’ drive for people belonging to high-risk groups would be extended to give jabs to people residing in slums. Senior officials in the State Health department said that the vaccination for slum dwellers too would be launched in a few weeks’ time. The State government has been conducting these drives for people in high-risk groups such as vendors of vegetables, fruits, shop-keepers of grocery stores, meat shops, and others. The State’s Chief Secretary announced on Friday that 26 lakh people in this group were given the jab, and that 30 vehicles have been put to use to vaccinate the remaining in the category. The drives were conducted at work places in Hyderabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, and Rangareddy districts. While the drives were conducted in the three districts, the latter two did not receive the vaccine vans which are air-conditioned. The vans, over 20, are concentrated in Hyderabad limits. “The vaccination on wheels is being conducted in Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy limits too. Other vehicles under the Health department are put to use. The vaccination vans would help in smooth conduct of the drive. Sight of the vans might give confidence to beneficiaries too. Besides, it would be convenient to take the vans to all places,” sources in the department said. Vaccines for 30+ Now, people in the State who are above 30 years, belonging to non-high-risk groups too can get COVID-19 vaccines at the Government COVID Vaccination Centres (GCVC). It was reported in these columns two days ago that the slots at GCVCs for 30 plus age group are open in CoWIN and that officials were yet to announce it. The State’s Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr G Srinivasa Rao confirmed that anyone above 30 years can get the vaccine at GCVCs, including those waiting for the first dose. People belonging to poor families were awaiting this option since taking the vaccines for a family of three to four would mean expenditure of Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 5,000. There have been requests from people to know if their house-helps can get the jab at GCVCs. The senior official said that people in rural areas of the State can walk into Primary Health Centres to get the jab. In case of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), beneficiaries have to register and book slot through in CoWIN.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-on-wheels-for-slumdwellers-too/article34997004.ece
27 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Class 8 student found dead||A student of class 8 was found dead at his residence in Sangeet Nagar of Kukatpally here on Saturday. Police said K. Manikantha (12), a student of Rao’s High School, ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan in his room. He was taken to a private hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. The boy’s friends told police he was upset as his father planned to send him to a boarding school. “We are yet to ascertain the exact reason,” police said.  (Roshni, suicide intervention centre: 04066202000 or 66661117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/class-8-student-found-dead/article34997008.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC razes 28 dilapidated structures||As per the action plan during monsoon, GHMC Town Planning wing on Saturday demolished 28 dilapidated structures and vacated four. One structure was repaired and another seized, a press statement said. During the year, 563 dilapidated structures have been identified, and action taken with respect to 138 of those, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-razes-28-dilapidated-structures/article34997011.ece
27 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fresh hopes, but greater challenges||New Telangana Congress committee chief Anumula Revanth Reddy brings in fresh hopes to the beleaguered Congress but faces an uphill task not just from the strong ruling party but with his own as well. Mr. Reddy, who had been a two-time MLA from Kodangal in 2009 and 2014 representing the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), joined the Congress in 2017 after resigning as a legislator. He lost as MLA on the Congress ticket in 2018 Assembly elections but bounced back winning in the Lok Sabha elections a few months later. Since student days Active in politics since his student days, the AV College graduate joined the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) for a brief period. Denied ticket by the TRS for the Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency (ZPTC) election from Midjil in Mahabubnagar district, he contested as an independent and won. Later, he was elected Member of Legislative Council (MLC) as an independent candidate in 2008. Then he joined the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) where he rose to the position of working president. Considered firebrand, he has huge following across the State for his racy speeches laced with Telangana proverb and political punches against the Chief Minister. Party leaders across the districts have been stating he was the best bet to take on a strongman like KCR. He received an overwhelming support in the three-day exercise conducted by the AICC incharge for Telangana Manickam Tagore with Members of Parliament, MLAs, MLCs, former PCC chiefs, former parliamentarians, District Congress Committee leaders and key persons of all frontal organisations of the party. Out of the 162 people who gave their opinion, a majority, particularly leaders from the districts, favoured him. On his part, Mr. Reddy submitted a detailed plan to be executed to bring Congress back to power in these troubled times. Padayatra across the State was one of the political programmes he had suggested to connect with each worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fresh-hopes-but-greater-challenges/article34997025.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BSNL phone reconnection||BSNL introduced discount scheme from April 01 to March 31 for realisation of outstanding dues against closed telephone connections with the discount structure as follows. Rate of discount to the customers: 1 Up to one-year-old (NIL), >1 year old to 2 years old 10%, >2 year old to 3 years old 20%, >3 year old to 5 years old 30% and >5 years old 50%. Please visit the nearest customer service centres for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bsnl-phone-reconnection/article34997000.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccines for non-teaching staff, welfare hostel workers||Telangana government, which is conducting COVID-19 vaccination drives for teaching staff, has extended it to non-teaching staff working at government and private schools and colleges. Besides, workers or employees of hostels under all welfare departments of the State government too will be given the jabs. All eligible beneficiaries above 18 years can walk into nearest government vaccination centres to get the jabs by registering on the spot. The vaccination centres include Primary Health Centres (PHC), Community Health Centres (CHC), centres in GHMC, and municipal special vaccination centres. The potential beneficiaries should vary employee ID card and Aadhaar card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccines-for-non-teaching-staff-welfare-hostel-workers/article34997005.ece
27 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Case filed against real estate firm||Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority ( HMDA) has filed a criminal case against a real estate company for misleading advertisement with regard to properties in Kokapet layout of HMDA. In the backdrop of the e-auction announced by HMDA, with respect to its lands in Neopolis layout of Kokapet, CNN Ventures advertised about housing flats at discounted prices in the layout, a statement informed. Before auction is carried out and any permissions are obtained, the company’s ad amounts to fraud, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-case-filed-against-real-estate-firm/article34997012.ece
27 June 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Two killed in accident in Suryapet||Two persons were killed on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) in an accident involving a DCM and a car on Saturday evening. Chivvemla police said both occupants of the car died before any emergency intervention on the spot. The victims were identified as Kouju Srinivasa Rao and Garikapati Ramakrishna, natives of Tanuku in West Godavari district, and both were cab drivers. The police explained that the accident took place around 4.30 p.m., when a DCM going towards Vijayawada, near Gumpula Tirumalagiri in Suryapet, lost control after it hit the median strip. As a result, the heavy vehicle crossed onto its opposite direction and crushed the car. The car was mangled beyond recognition and the dead victims stuck in the debris could be extricated after the heavy vehicle was lifted using a crane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-accident-in-suryapet/article34997015.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ready to stay at borders till 2024, say protesting farmers||Marking the seven month of their ongoing agitation against the three agricultural reform laws, farmers at the Singhu border agitation site on Saturday said they are ready to stay put till 2024 — when the next general elections are due. Avtar Singh, who runs the makeshift hospital at Singhu border, said the protest has grown just like the hospital. “This hospital started from a table and now it is a full-fedged hospital with almost all services, tens of beds, and a fully equipped pharmacy. Just like this, the protest started from a two day-event and now it’s been seven months,” he said. The Central government is claiming that only a handful of people are left for the protests, but we are not gathering people in lakhs because we do not wish to be blamed for COVID-19, he said. “Also, we are now prepared to stay here till at least 2024. We have struck a balance between living here at Singhu and our houses in Punjab and Haryana. I spend half a week in Punjab and half here. People help each other with farming,” he said. Fund collection Sukhwinder Singh from Ludhiana said people have started collecting funds in villages to fund the protest. “Initially, donations were coming in abundance. Now, they have lessened. Collection points have now been made in villages and each family donates at least Rs. 500-Rs. 1,000 a month towards the protest,” he said. Stating that the demands of the farmers have remained consistent since the first day of the movement, Sukhjeet Singh Sidhu, a farmer from Punjab’s Patiala district, said: “The government recently said they are open to dialogue and want the farmers to bring a proposal. What more proposal will we bring? Our demands have remained the same since the beginning. On the day we are completing seven months, farmers across the country are submitting memorandums to governors of various States. This has brought in a new momentum to the movement.” Mr. Sidhu said the agitating farmers are prepared for a long haul and that the protest sites will witness an increase in the number of protestors in the coming days. “This movement is bound to continue and we are not going to quit. We are even ready to continue the movement till 2024 when the next general elections are due. The government has been persistent in trying to create hurdles for us but that will not stop us from moving forward with the movement. We will act according to whatever calls the unions and leaders give,” he added. ‘Done with farm work’ Gurmeet Singh, a farmer from Moga district, said: “If the Centre comes up with a solution then it is fine else they can expect to see people in large numbers back at the borders soon. People are almost done with their work on the farms and they are set to return soon in larger numbers. It has been seven months and the government has still failed to explain to us how the laws are favourable to us. Rather the farmers have already explained why we do not want the laws. The ruling dispensation will see how people reject them in the upcoming elections.” Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said langar services and healthcare facilities being provided at the protest sites would continue like it has over the past seven months. “The only thing which is certain is that the farmers are here to stay and will return only when the laws are repealed. It is for the Central government to decide when,” said Mr. Sirsa. In the wake of farmers’ rallies in different parts of the country, Delhi Police had also beefed up security in central Delhi. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation closed three stations, including Vishwavidyalaya, Civil Lines and Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ready-to-stay-at-borders-till-2024-say-protesting-farmers/article34996956.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||DoE chalks out three-stage plan to restart teaching, learning||The Directorate of Education on Saturday announced its strategy to conduct teaching and learning activities in government and government-aided schools for nursery to Class 12 during the 2021-22 academic session till the time schools reopen. Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister Manish Sisodia reiterated that schools will remain closed till the pandemic situation eases but that engagement between teachers and students will resume immediately using online and semi-online approach. “With the onset of the pandemic, learning loss has been massive. This year, we not only need to reduce learning loss but provide deep emotional support to our children. They need to be mentally prepared for any teaching-learning activities,” he said, adding: “This year, we will have close alignment between teaching-learning strategies and assessment so that dependency on one-time exam for year-end result is reduced.” Staggered approach According to the DoE, the action plan for the 2021-22 session includes a staggered approach for students to ease into the teaching-learning process and is divided into three stages. The first stage will unfold during the week starting June 28 with teachers and heads of schools contacting students and parents, updating contact details, making WhatsApp groups and preparing a list of students with smartphones, normal phones or with no phones. In the second stage, starting from July 5 till the end of the month, teachers will enquire about students’ well-being, understand their situation and need for support, and introduce light activities such as reading, writing and numeracy for students up to Class 8 through worksheets. Meanwhile, in Classes 9-12, the focus will be on understanding current learning level of the child and worksheets, apart from supporting emotional well-being. Stage three will begin from August onwards. It will focus on class-specific activities to bridge learning loss. While nursery to Class 8 students will receive generic and subject-specific worksheets, students of Classes 9-12 will have online classes from subject teachers. The focus of online classes for Classes 9-12 will be to guide students on how to learn. Students who have difficulty in accessing digital devices will be provided short notes capturing the points of online classes. Parents who do not have smartphones can collect the worksheets on a weekly basis from the school. In terms of assessing students, there will be regular monthly assessment based on project, activities and assignments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doe-chalks-out-three-stage-plan-to-restart-teaching-learning/article34996951.ece
27 June 2021||new delhi,||Policemen seen taking photographs with Sushil||Delhi Police has initiated an inquiry after its personnel were seen clicking photos with Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, who is an accused in the killing of a young wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium. The matter came to light after the selfies started doing the rounds on the Internet. ‘No major lapse’ A senior police officer said the inquiry was initiated on Friday and a report was submitted on Saturday. “There is no major lapse. However, the conduct was unprofessional and unethical. The officials got carried away by the celebrity status of the accused,” the officer said. Senior officers will decide on action to be taken, if any, against the erring officials. Police officials posted with the Special Cell and 3rd Battalion of the Delhi Armed Police took pictures with Kumar when he was being shifted from Mandoli jail to Tihar jail on Friday morning. Kumar was arrested in connection with the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankar, who was beaten to death in a clash involving two groups inside Chhatrasal Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/policemen-seen-taking-photographs-with-sushil/article34996949.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||DDA plans webinars to discuss draft master plan||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Saturday said a series of webinars will be organised between July 1 and July 20 on the various aspects of the draft Master Plan for Delhi – 2041, which was recently put in the public domain for suggestions and objections from stakeholders. In a statement, the DDA said: “As part of the MPD 2041 preparation, a series of webinars are being organised. This will facilitate citizens to understand the draft plan better and give more constructive suggestions to the draft plan.” Environment, economy, culture, heritage and public spaces will be discussed in a webinar on July 1. Shelters and social infrastructure, and transport and mobility on July 6. Physical infrastructure and spatial development framework on July 13, and the last session on July 20 will cover plan monitoring evaluation, development code and development control norms.  The webinars will facilitate citizens to understand the draft plan better and give more constructive suggestions DDA statement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dda-plans-webinars-to-discuss-draft-master-plan/article34996953.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Interim relief for Lakha in Republic Day violence case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted interim protection from arrest to gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in connection with his alleged involvement in violence that ensued at the Red Fort on Republic Day. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during their tractor rally and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. Fearing arrest, Mr. Sidhana moved Delhi’s Tis Hazari court seeking anticipatory bail in the case. The judge posted the matter for July 3 and directed the police to not arrest him until then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/interim-relief-for-lakha-in-republic-day-violence-case/article34996947.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to take control of private school||The Delhi government on Saturday said it had decided to take over the management of Swami Sivananda Memorial School in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh after receiving several complaints from parents that the school authorities were arbitrarily charging extra fees from students. The government added the school had also been failing students and asking them to re-take the same grade “intentionally”. An inquiry panel, formed to look into the matter, also found “inadequacies” in the functioning of the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-to-take-control-of-private-school/article34996952.ece
27 June 2021||Mumbai,||Will restore OBC quota in local bodies if given power: Fadnavis||The Maharashtra unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress held protests across the State on Saturday demanding restoration of reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local governing bodies, which was quashed by the Supreme Court in March this year. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who participated in a protest in his home district of Nagpur, claimed that if his party was brought back to power, he would ensure that the quota for OBCs was restored within four months, and if not, he would quit politics. Addressing BJP workers in Nagpur, Mr, Fadnavis said, “Unrest within the OBC community is a result of the incapability of the State government. This government did nothing in the court to ensure that the reservation remained. It did not even form the Backward Classes Commission. If this government is not able to restore the quota, it should give power to us. If I don’t deliver it within four months, then I will retire from politics.” However, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) accused the former BJP-led government of making a mess of the reservation issue. The ruling parties also blamed the BJP for failing to submit empirical data on OBCs to the Supreme Court despite being in power at the Centre. State Congress working president Chandrakant Handore said, “The real culprit behind OBCs losing reservation is the BJP-led Central government and the previous State government headed by Devendra Fadnavis. How can it even blame the present Maha Vikas Aghadi government as it was the one that enjoyed power for the previous five years?” State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant pointed out Mr. Fadnavis had promised to provide Scheduled Tribe status to the Dhangar community in his first Cabinet meeting in 2014. “Everybody knows that it was a lie and Fadnavis had been exposed. Similarly, he is trying to shift the blame in this issue of OBC reservation, but he has been exposed here as well,” Mr. Sawant said. NCP State chief Jayant Patil accused the BJP of clipping the wings of OBC leaders such as Eknath Khadse, Pankaja Munde, and Chandrashekhar Bawankule. “An OBC leader like Chhagan Bhujbal was jailed. And this party is talking about delivering justice to the OBCs? Do not fall prey to these tactics,” Mr. Patil said.  The real culprit behind OBCs losing reservation is the BJP-led Central government Chandrakant Handore State Congress working president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-restore-obc-quota-in-local-bodies-if-given-power-fadnavis/article34996969.ece
27 June 2021||Mumbai,||Boy makes prank terror call||A prank call by a Class IX student informing that two terrorists will enter Taj Mahal Palace hotel in Colaba sent the police into a tizzy on Saturday, an official said.   The anonymous call was traced to Karad in Satara district and it turned out that the caller was a schoolboy. No case has been registered in the matter so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/boy-makes-prank-terror-call/article34996966.ece
27 June 2021||Mumbai,||BEST told to pay compensation of over Rs. 4 lakh||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal has directed the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking to pay a compensation of over Rs. 4 lakh to a man who suffered 53% disability after a BEST bus jumped a signal and rammed into his bike in Powai on July 6, 2016. Rajendra Nagure was 30 years old and employed with Baroda Heat-up Controls Private Limited at a monthly salary of Rs. 14,600 at the time of the accident. Mr. Nagure sought Rs. 3 lakh as compensation for his treatment. The BEST refuted his age, income and occupation and claimed he was under the influence of alcohol. The doctor, who examined the victim, said, “He suffered a partial permanent disability of 53%. He has deformity in the right thigh and right hip. Movement of the right hip and right knee are painful and restricted.” S.C. Chandak, the presiding chairman of the tribunal, said: “It is apparent that the fracture, which is obviously of the toughest bone in the body, has impaired his bodily strength to a certain extent, that he has difficulties. The partial disability is not occupational disability.” In its order, the tribunal said, “The year of the accident and average prevailing rate of interest between 2016-2021. Thus, he is entitled to receive compensation of Rs. 4,28,555 with interest at 6.5% p.a. from the date of application till realisation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/best-told-to-pay-compensation-of-over-rs-4-lakh/article34996967.ece
27 June 2021||Washington,||‘U.S. will continue to back Afghanistan’||As violence increases in Afghanistan with the Taliban making territorial gains, U.S. President Joe Biden met with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and the Chairman of its High Council for National Reconciliation, Abdullah Abdullah, in the Oval Office on Friday. The meeting comes as the U.S. approaches a September 11 deadline to withdraw its troops from the country. With the Afghan leaders in the Oval Office, Mr. Biden pledged the U.S.’s economic and political support. A handful of reporters were permitted to be present during cursory remarks prior to the meetings beginning. “Our troops may be leaving but our support for Afghanistan is not ending in terms of support and maintenance of helping maintain their military as well as economic and political support,” Mr. Biden said, adding that the Afghan’s had to determine their future. “Afghans are going to have to decide their future, what they want,” he said. “The senseless violence has to stop but it’s going to be very difficult. But we’re going to stick with you and we’re going to do our best to see to it you have the tools you need,” he added. The U.S. President was joined by Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, Sumona Guha, who is the Senior South Asia Director at the National Security Council, USAID Administrator Samantha Power and others for the bilateral. Afghan Foreign Minister Haneef Atmar and National Security Adviser Hamdullah Mohib were among the representatives on the Afghan side. The White House released a ‘fact sheet’ on Friday afternoon, highlighting its assistance to Afghanistan, including a commitment to provide 3 million Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccines and $266 million in humanitarian assistance. Mr. Biden has requested the U.S. Congress for $3.3 billion for the Defence Department’s Afghanistan Security Forces Fund, the sheet said. Relocating Afghans On Thursday, Mr. Biden said the U.S. would start relocating Afghans who were in danger of being targeted for working with U.S. troops. Around 650 U.S. troops will remain in Afghanistan to protect the U.S. Embassy while additional troops will cover the airport until a Turkish-led operation will likely take charge of that facility, the Associated Press reported earlier this week. On Friday, Mr. Ghani said he respected Mr. Biden’s decision to withdraw troops. He also said that the Afghan forces had recaptured six districts in the South and North. “Just for your information, today, the Afghan Defence and Security Forces have retaken six districts, both in the south and the north,” Mr. Ghani said. In a number of areas, local security forces have surrendered to the Taliban. “Let us understand that in great moments of transition, things happen but you will see that with determination, with unity and with the partnership, we will overcome all odds,” he said. Earlier in the day, following his meeting with Mr. Austin (Mr. Abdullah was also there), Mr. Ghani was asked about a report on a U.S. intelligence assessment that the Afghan government could fall within six months of U.S. troop withdrawal. “There have been many such predictions, and they have all proven — turned out false.”, Mr. Ghani replied. After meeting Mr. Ghani, Senate Minority Leader (Republican) Mitch McConnell said that the withdrawal of troops would leave Afghan forces alone to confront threats. “The Taliban, emboldened by our retreat, is rolling back years of progress, especially for the rights of Afghan women, on its way to taking Kabul,” he said. Asked how the administration would respond to Mr. McConnell, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said on Friday, “ I would first say it’s important to take a step back and remember what we inherited.” She cited factors including an agreement between the Trump administration and the Taliban that U.S. troops would be withdrawn and the relatively low levels of U.S. and allied forces on the ground.“That’s the hand we were dealt. The President made a decision — which is consistent with his view that this was not a winnable war — to bring the U.S. troops home... after 20 years of fighting this war. And a big part of that decision was also around the fact that if we left our troops there, our troops would be at risk because the Taliban would be shooting at them by May 1st.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-will-continue-to-back-afghanistan/article34996472.ece
27 June 2021||Bagota,||Colombia President says his chopper was hit by gunfire||President Ivan Duque said the helicopter he was flying in on Friday near the border with Venezuela was hit by gunfire in the first attack against a Colombian head of state in nearly 20 years. No one was injured, and authorities did not say which side of the border the shots came from. Colombia regularly accuses Venezuela of harbouring Colombian rebels on its territory. “It is a cowardly attack, where you can see bullet holes in the presidential aircraft,” Mr. Duque said in a statement. Mr. Duque said he was flying with the Defence and Interior Ministers and the Governor of Norte de Santander province, which borders Venezuela, when the helicopter was attacked. Photos released by the President’s office showed the tail and main blade had been hit. Mr. Duque said the aircraft’s “safety features” prevented a “lethal” attack. “I have given very clear instructions to the entire security team to go after those who shot at the aircraft,” he said. The U.S., European Union and UN mission in Colombia all condemned the attack. The presidential delegation had left the town of Sardinata and was headed to the border city of Cucuta when they came under fire. Mr. Duque had attended an event in the Catatumbo region, one of the main coca-growing areas of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/colombia-president-says-his-chopper-was-hit-by-gunfire/article34996464.ece
27 June 2021||Washington,||U.S. Justice Department to sue Georgia over election law||U.S. Attorney-General Merrick Garland announced that the Justice Department would be suing the State of Georgia overcontroversial voting rights laws passed in March this yearon the grounds that they infringed on black voters’ right to cast their ballot. “Our complaint alleges that recent changes to Georgia’s election laws were enacted with the purpose of denying or abridging the right of black Georgians to vote on account of their race or colour,” Mr. Garland said, adding that voting rights expansion had often been met with counter-efforts. Georgia’s Election Integrity Act cut the period during which potential voters could ask for absentee mail-in ballots, restricted locations for ballot drop-boxes, outlawed the provision of food or water to those standing in line at the polls and prohibited breaks for ballot counters during counting. It also increased the control the state legislature has over the election apparatus. Mr. Garland said Georgia casting a record number of ballots in the 2020 elections was a “cause for celebration”, but that in March 2021 the State’s legislature passed laws to make it harder to vote. Mr. Biden was the first Democrat in nearly three decades to win Georgia, buoyed by support from African-American voters. Gerogia’s Governor Brian Kemp criticised the lawsuit on Twitter. “This lawsuit is born out of the lies and misinformation the Biden administration has pushed against Georgia’s Election Integrity Act from the start,” Mr. Kemp wrote. Former U.S. President Donald Trump had alleged widespread fraud in the elections and has continued to seek to overturn the results. Florida and Arizona are among states that have also passed laws to restrict voter access. These could be challenged by the DoJ. Mr. Garland hinted that his department could take on other cases where access to the ballot was being restricted. “The Civil Rights Division [of the DoJ] continues to analyse other State laws that have been passed and we are following the progress of legislative proposals under consideration in additional states,” he said, adding that where the DoJ believes civil rights have been violated, it would “not hesitate to act”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-justice-department-to-sue-georgia-over-election-law/article34996474.ece
27 June 2021||MINNEAPOLIS,||Chauvin gets 22 years in jail for Floyd’s death||Former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was sentenced on Friday to 22.5 years in prison for the murder of George Floyd, whose dying gasps under Chauvin’s knee led to the biggest outcry against racial injustice in the U.S. in generations. The punishment — which came after Chauvin broke his yearlong silence to offer condolences to the Floyd family and express hope that they eventually have “some peace of mind” — is one of the longest prison terms ever imposed on a U.S. police officer in the killing of a Black person. Still, Floyd family members and others were disappointed. The sentence fell short of the 30 years prosecutors had requested. And with good behavior, Chauvin, 45, could get out on parole after serving two-thirds of his sentence, or about 15 years. “Just because it’s the most time doesn’t mean it’s enough time,” said Nekima Levy Armstrong, a Minneapolis protest leader. Judge Peter Cahill went beyond the 12 1/2-year sentence prescribed under state guidelines, citing Chauvin’s “abuse of a position of trust and authority and also the particular cruelty” shown to Floyd. Floyd family attorney Ben Crump said the family had gotten “some measure of accountability” but is hoping Chauvin gets the maximum at his upcoming federal civil rights trial. Mr. Crump said this was the longest sentence a police officer has ever received in Minnesota. But he added: “Real justice in America will be Black men and Black women and people of colour who will not have to fear being killed by the police just because the colour of their skin. That would be real justice.” Outside the courthouse, a crowd of about 50 people clasped hands or placed them on each other’s shoulders. The reaction was subdued as people debated whether the sentence was long enough. “We’ll take it” At George Floyd Square, as the intersection where Floyd was pinned to the pavement is now known, members of the crowd broke into applause, and several said, “We’ll take it.” Chauvin was immediately led back to prison. He showed little emotion when the judge pronounced the sentence. The fired white officer was convicted in April of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter for pressing his knee against Floyd’s neck for up to 9 1/2 minutes as the 46-year-old man gasped that he couldn’t breathe and went limp on May 25, 2020. Bystander video of Floyd’s arrest on suspicion of passing a counterfeit $20 bill at a corner store prompted protests around the world and led to scattered violence in Minneapolis and beyond, as well as demands for overhauling police departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chauvin-gets-22-years-in-jail-for-floyds-death/article34996462.ece
27 June 2021||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong police chief calls for fake news law||Hong Kong’s new police chief called for a fake news law on Saturday and blamed the media for plunging trust in his officers in the politically polarised finance hub. His call comes as authorities carry out a sweeping crackdown on dissent and just days after outspoken newspaper Apple Daily was forced to fold following the freezing of its accounts under a tough new national security law. Surveys show the police have been the least popular disciplinary service in the city since Hong Kong was rocked by pro-democracy protests in 2019, during which allegations of police brutality emerged. Police chief Raymond Siu said much of the blame lay with the media. “I understand that there are residents who are still hostile against us. In this regard, I told my colleagues that many of these torn relationships and hostility against the police are due to fake news,” Mr. Siu said. “There is no legal definition of fake news at the moment, but if there is any legislation that could help us bring these people to justice, as law enforcers, we absolutely welcome it,” he added. Three former police officers were on Friday promoted to key positions in government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-police-chief-calls-for-fake-news-law/article34996467.ece
27 June 2021||Saint Petersburg,||Delta variant forces new lockdowns||Australia’s largest city Sydney entered a two-week lockdown on Saturday to contain a sudden coronavirus surge and Russia’s Saint Petersburg announced a record death toll, as several European nations lifted restrictions despite the global spread of a highly contagious COVID-19 variant. While vaccination drives have brought down infections in numerous — mostly wealthy — countries, the rise of the Delta variant has stoked fears of new waves of a virus that has already killed nearly four million people. Bangladesh announced that it would impose a new national lockdown from Monday over the variant, with offices shut for a week and only medical-related transport allowed. Sydney’s normally bustling harbourside centre was nearly deserted after people were ordered to stay home except for essential trips. New Zealand, citing “multiple outbreaks” in Australia, announced a three-day suspension of its quarantine-free travel arrangement with its larger neighbour. Meanwhile in Europe, Spain brought an end to mandatory outdoor mask-wearing on Saturday, a year after the rule was first introduced during Europe’s devastating first wave of the virus. The Netherlands also ended its rules on outdoor mask-wearing. Israel, which has one of the world’s most successful vaccination campaigns, has seen infections linked to the variant surge. Infections are also surging at an alarming rate in at least 12 countries in Africa, with the Delta variant fuelling unprecedented hospitalisations in the continent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/delta-variant-forces-new-lockdowns/article34996465.ece
27 June 2021||Washington,||Evidence on UFOs 'largely inconclusive': US intelligence report||A U.S. intelligence report on 144 sightings of aircraft or other devices apparently flying at mysterious speeds or trajectories, said most could not be explained, but did not rule out that some could be alien spacecraft.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/evidence-on-ufos-largely-inconclusive-us-intelligence-report/article34996466.ece
27 June 2021||Tehran,||Iran grants clemency to over 5,000 prisoners||Iran’s Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei granted clemency to more than 5,000 prisoners to mark a Shia holiday, a statement on his official website said on Saturday. It gave no details of the identity of the 5,156 prisoners.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-grants-clemency-to-over-5000-prisoners/article34996469.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||More I-T relief sought for COVID-19 bills||Tax practitioners have urged the government to consider some tax relief for those who footed their own COVID-19 bills, particularly senior citizens, even as they await the fine print on the Income Tax exemption announced for all such treatment costs funded with the help of employers and well-wishers. On Friday, the Centre promised legislative changes to the Income Tax Act to exempt any amounts received by a taxpayer for COVID-19 medical treatment retrospectively from 2019-20. “If an employer or a well-wisher paid a person’s hospital bills directly, then the treatment costs are not taxable for the patient in any case,” said Gautam Nayak, partner at CNK & Associates LLP. “This exemption will help those whose taxable incomes may not be very high, but their accounts would have shown higher receipts if employers or others remitted funds to them to help meet medical costs,” Mr. Nayak added. Delhi-based chartered accountant Geetanshu Bhalla said one would have to wait for the notification of the tax break to assess its impact, particularly as the word ‘well-wisher’ mentioned in the press note does not figure in the tax law. The exemption also won’t benefit those who may have pooled funds together informally to help meet the medical costs of needy persons, he pointed out, as the pooled corpus would be treated as a gift from unrelated parties and taxed in the hands of the person who coordinated the funding. Mr. Bhalla also called for a rethink on the deduction provision for taxpayers who tapped their own savings to meet healthcare costs. ‘Inequitable situation’ “We have a slightly odd and perhaps inequitable situation now, whereby all financial aid from employers or other persons for treatment is tax-free, while taxpayers who paid their own bills can only claim a deduction up to Rs. 25,000 under section 80D of the IT Act, with senior citizens allowed Rs. 50,000,” he said. “Anecdotal evidence suggests COVID-19 treatment costs can often run into lakhs of rupees, so these thresholds are quite inadequate,” he added. Senior citizens who do not have an employer to fall back on and are living off pensions and interest income could in fact find it particularly difficult. Separately, while the government has temporarily allowed cash payments of more than Rs. 2 lakh for COVID-19 patients, section 80D deductions are only permissible for medical expenditure incurred in non-cash mode. In the absence of requisite changes to the provision, no tax break could be availed for medical bills paid in cash, accountants noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/more-i-t-relief-sought-for-covid-19-bills/article34996802.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Capacity expansion will help us to meet PLI criteria’||PG Electroplast Ltd., which is engaged in electronics manufacturing, plastic injection moulding and assembly of printed circuit boards for large white good brands, is planning expansions in all of its businesses. Managing Director Vikas Gupta , elaborates on the plans.  What is your focus area? We see a lot of opportunity in the Make in India initiative, especially in our sector. We feel there are good prospects in the consumer appliances segment, and production wise we are aligning our resources accordingly to play a significant role in the coming years. Currently we have six manufacturing units with presence in sectors like plastic moulding, tool manufacturing, PU paint shop, PCB assemblies and final product assembly. We are a major manufacturer of washing machines, air conditioners and coolers for clients like LG Electronics, Whirlpool, Haier, Lloyd, Blue Star, Voltas, Carrier, Midea, Godrej, Lava, Flipkart, Reliance Retail, Jabil, Honeywell, Kohler, Jaquar, Orient and Crompton. In automotive, we are working with Tata, Mahindra and Maruti. We are trying to diversify and move into other industries also. But in the next 2-3 years, our major focus will be on consumer appliances because we see strong traction in that field. Do you have any plan to come up with your own brands? We are a third party contract manufacturing company and do not have our own brand. We wish to remain B2B, as having our own brands will be a conflict of interest with our clients. What is the total investment plan in next 3-4 years and how will you mobilise it? We are planning to do a capex of almost Rs. 150-200 crore in the next three to four years. Apart from existing products, we will be starting LED TV product manufacturing also. We are trying to fund this expansion through a combination of sources like debt, internal accruals, and some fund raising. Recently, our board had passed a resolution to raise Rs. 76.6 crore from investors. Baring Private Equity India AIF, Ananta Capital (promoted by the Taparia family) and the Patni family office are participating through preferential allotment of equity shares of Rs. 40.30 crore and compulsorily convertible debentures (CCD) of Rs. 36.30 crore in the company. Through this funding, the company is planning to expand its plant in Pune, which produces air-conditioners and coolers, and establish a new plant in Greater Noida which will produce air coolers, mobile phone parts and other plastic components. Total investment planned for the expansions is about Rs. 100 crore for this year. Through this growth focused funding, we plan to expand our production capacity in manufacturing ACs and coolers. We want to triple the production capacity of AC manufacturing and other products too. The capacity expansion is in line with the growth envisaged in the segment and will also allow us to comfortably meet the PLI scheme criteria of the Government of India. What was the turnover in the last fiscal year? We recorded Rs. 705.8 crore operating revenue for fiscal year 20-21, a growth of 10% over revenue of Rs. 641.8 crore during the previous fiscal. What is the annual growth you are looking at and how many people are you planning to hire? In the last four years, PGEL has grown at 25% CAGR annually. We are anticipating a growth of about 25-30% in the current financial year as compared with the last financial year. Secondly, the number of employees working with us will definitely increase as we are building capacity. Currently we are employing about 2,000 employees overall. We will be hiring more than 500 people in the coming 8-9 months.  We wish to remain in B2B, as having own brands will be conflict of interest with our clients||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/capacity-expansion-will-help-us-to-meet-pli-criteria/article34996799.ece
27 June 2021||Mumbai,||Jet resolution: Panel to oversee implementation||A seven-member monitoring committee, including members appointed by the winning bidder Jalan-Kalrock consortium and the lenders, will soon start managing the day-to-day affairs of Jet Airways till the resolution process is complete. Further, Ashish Chhawchharia has ceased to be the resolution professional (RP) of the airline, Jet said in a filing on Saturday. According to the terms of the approved resolution plan, a seven-member monitoring committee is required to be constituted. Three members each would be appointed by the consortium and the financial creditors, respectively. Also, there would be an independent insolvency professional appointed by the financial creditors (preferably the existing resolution professional), on the panel, according to the filing. The committee would supervise the implementation of the resolution plan.  According to the filing, the actions in respect of the appointment as well as duties and functions of the committee, and implementation of the resolution plan will be taken in accordance with the resolution plan. The same would be subject to any directions that may be issued by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jet-resolution-panel-to-oversee-implementation/article34996803.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Shree Renuka plans Rs. 450 cr. ethanol boost||Shree Renuka Sugars will invest Rs. 450 crore to expand its ethanol capacity, the company said on Saturday. In a regulatory filing, the company informed that its board had approved expanding production capacity by 430 kilolitre per day to 1,400 kilolitre per day. “Considering the huge untapped demand for ethanol due to the policies of Government of India on ethanol blending, the board of directors of the company approved further capacity expansion for ethanol production from 970 kilolitre per day to 1,400 kilolitre per day,” the company said in the filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/shree-renuka-plans-rs-450-cr-ethanol-boost/article34996804.ece
27 June 2021||Amsterdam,||Denmark makes a statement with classy win||Forward Kasper Dolberg struck in each half while Joakim Maehle and Martin Braithwaite also got in on the act late on as Denmark overpowered Wales to win 4-0 and reach the quarterfinals of Euro 2020 on Saturday. Dolberg, making his first start of the tournament, gave his side the lead with a fine individual goal in the 27th minute, curling into the top corner from outside the area. He doubled Denmark’s advantage in Amsterdam early in the second half, ruthlessly pouncing on a loose ball after Wales failed to clear a cross following a galloping run down the right wing from Dolberg’s strike partner Braithwaite. Glaring opportunity Braithwaite missed a glaring opportunity to add to Denmark’s lead but Maehle sealed the win in the 88th minute. Wales’ frustrations spilled over when Harry Wilson was sent off for a wild tackle on Maehle in added time. Braithwaite finally got the goal he had craved for by netting at the death, though he had to wait for the goal to be awarded following a lengthy VAR review. Wales needed a moment of magic from captain Gareth Bale or Aaron Ramsey bu that never came. Earlier, a framed Wales national team shirt with Christian Eriksen’s name on it was given to Denmark captain Simon Kjaer before the teams played. Welsh wishes The Wales jersey had “CHRISTIAN” written on top of Eriksen’s No. 10 and BRYSIA WELLA underneath. Brysia wella means get well soon in Welsh. Kjaer, Wales captain Gareth Bale and the three match officials in Amsterdam then posed for a photo with the framed jersey moments before kickoff.  The result: Wales 0 lost to Denmark 4 (Dolberg 27, 48, Maehle 88, Braithwaite 90+4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/denmark-makes-a-statement-with-classy-win/article34996458.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manu and Saurabh win silver||Manu Bhaker and Saurabh Chaudhary were beaten to the gold in the mixed air pistol team event by Russia’s Vitalina Batsarashkina and Artem Chernousov 16-12 in the shooting World Cup in Osijek, Croatia, on Saturday. Manu and Saurabh topped the first stage of qualification one point ahead of the Russians with 587. However, the latter asserted their class in the second stage with a three-point lead over the Indians, before dominating the gold match. The second Indian team of Yashaswini Deswal and Abhishek Verma was fourth in the first qualification and third in the second. The Iranians Javad Foroughi and Golnoush Sebghatollahi won the bronze match against Yashaswini and Abhishek 17-7. In mixed air rifle, Elavenil Valarivan and Divyansh Singh Panwar were eliminated in the second stage in sixth place. The pair shot 416.1 and missed the chance to fight for a medal by 1.6 point. Even in the first stage of qualification, the Indian team had placed fifth. Anjum Moudgil and Deepak Kumar placed 15th with a total of 624.6 in the first stage of qualification.  The results: Mixed air pistol: 1. Russia (Vitalina Batsarashkina, Artem Chernousov) 16 (390) 586; 2. India (Manu Bhaker, Saurabh Chaudhary) 12 (387) 587; 3. Iran 17 (385) 583; 4. India-A (Yashaswini Deswal, Abhishek Verma) 7 (386) 577.   Mixed air rifle: 1. Hungary (Eszter Meszaros, Istvan Peni) 17 (420.1) 626.1; 2. Russia 13 (419.1) 628.7; 3. Russia-1 17 (418.8) 630.4; 4. US 11 (417.7) 626.8; 6. India-2 (Elavenil Valarivan, Divynsh Singh Panar 416.1 (626.6); 15. India-1 (Anjum Moudgil, Deepak Kumar) 624.6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manu-and-saurabh-win-silver/article34996817.ece
27 June 2021||PATIALA,||Shaili’s potential to the fore||Shaili Singh proved that her reputation as the next big thing in Indian athletics was not misplaced, the 6.48m leap giving her the long jump gold in the National inter-State athletics championships on Saturday. but the 17-year old is focused firmly on the World Junior Championships later this year. The jump will place the 17-year-old in the joint top spot in the IAAF rankings in the Under-18 category this year. Training under Anju and Bobby George, Shaili is expected to be a strong medal contender at the World juniors in Kenya in August. It wasn’t as happy a homecoming for high-jumper Tejaswin Shankar, however, as he could only do 2.20m in his first meet at home in three years. Although it was good enough for gold, it was his lowest jump this season. With Hima Das faltering in the 100m heats in the morning and pulling out of the competition, the much-awaited showdown with Dutee Chand did not happen. But it did not matter as Tamil Nadu’s Dhanalakshmi proved her victory in the Federation Cup was no fluke, winning in 11.52s under lights here. “I am happy to win but I was targeting 11.15s for Tokyo because I have been clocking under-11 in hand timings,” she said. Among the men, 22-year-old Gurindervir Singh broke the meet record in 10.27s.  The results: Men: 100m: 1. Gurindervir Singh (Pun, 10.27s), 2. Lovepreet Singh (Pun, 10.47), 3. Amiya Mallick (Odi, 10.49); 400mH: 1. Jabir MP (Ker, 49.78s), 2. Sathish K (TN, 51.90), 3. Pravin Kumar (TN, 52.77); High jump: 1. Tejaswin Shankar (Del, 2.20m), 2. Geo Jos (Ker, 2.15m), 3. Aromal T (Ker, 2.15m); Hammer throw: Damneet Singh (Pun, 62.03m), Niraj Kumar (Raj (60.28), Ravi (Har, 57.92m).   Women: 100m: 1. Dhanalakshmi (TN, 11.52s), 2. Amasha de Silva (SL, 11.59), 3. Archana Suseendran (11.60); 400mH: 1. Salini (Ker, 1:01.63), 2. Khushdeep Kaur (Pun, 1:04.52), 3. Nirmal Punia (Har, 1:05.68); Long jump: 1. Shaili Singh (UP, 6.48m), 2. Sherin A (TN, 6.26m), 3. Renu (Har, 6.17m); Shot put: 1. Manpreet Kaur (Pun, 16.95m), 2. Srishti Vig (Del, 15.96m), 3. Kiran Baliyan (UP, 15.75m).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shailis-potential-to-the-fore/article34996446.ece
27 June 2021||Bristol,||India, England to battle it out in limited-overs format||Teen sensation Shafali Verma is set to make her One-Day International debut as India takes on World champion England in the first game of a three-match series here on Sunday. The 17-year-old, who has taken world cricket by storm, has so far played 22 T20 Internationals but was inexplicably not picked for the last home series against South Africa. India lost the series 4-1. The team management is well aware of Shafali's value. Especially after her stellar Test debut against England last week with scores of 96 and 63. Smriti Mandhana and Shafali could open the batting, with Punam Raut at No. 3, followed by skipper Mithali Raj and her deputy Harmanpreet Kaur.  The teams (from):   India: Mithali Raj (Capt.), Smriti Mandhana, Shafali Verma, Punam Raut, HarmanpreeKaur (Vice-Capt.), Deepti Sharma, Taniya Bhatia (wk), Sneh Rana, Jhulan Goswami, Shikha Pandey, Jemimah Rodrigues, Arundhati Reddy, Puja Vastrakar, Ekta Bisht, Radha Yadav, Poonam Yadav, Priya Punia and Indrani Roy (wk).   England: Heather Knight (Capt.), Tammy Beaumont, Kate Cross, Nat Sciver, Sophia Dunkley, Lauren Winfield-Hill, Anya Shrubsole, Katherine Brunt, Sophie Ecclestone, Amy Jones (wk), Freya Davis, Tash Farrant, Sarah Glenn, Mady Villiers, Fran Wilson, Sarah Glenn, Emily Arlott and Tash Farrant.   Match starts at 3.30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-england-to-battle-it-out-in-limited-overs-format/article34996448.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Will encourage Shafali to enjoy her batting: Mithali||Mithali Raj wants Shafali Verma to play her natural game at Bristol on Sunday. The free-stroking opener is expected to make her ODI debut in the first of the three-match series against England. The expectations are high about the 17-year-old after her sensational start to her Test career a few days ago at the same venue, with scores of 96 and 63. Mithali said, as a captain, she would encourage her to play the way she enjoyed playing. “There will be times when she gives us head starts, and we would love her to be consistent, but she is a young kid and will learn with experience,” said Mithali at a virtual press conference on Saturday. The skipper said India was going into the three-match series in a confident frame of mind, after doing well to save the one-off Test, though she conceded England would have the advantage of playing at home. “England is one of the best sides in the world,” she said. “But we have players who have had the experience of playing the league here and we would get inputs from them about preparing against the England squad.” About the early end to the Test match, when debutants Sneh Rana and Taniya Bhatia had chances of reaching a hundred and fifty respectively, she said she was surprised. “Sneh told me it was a bad-light call taken by the umpires,” Mithali said. “When the umpires saw both the teams congratulating each other, it was pretty much taken the match was over.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-encourage-shafali-to-enjoy-her-batting-mithali/article34996449.ece
27 June 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI to host T20 WC in UAE, Oman||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is set to formally inform the International Cricket Council (ICC) about its willingness to host the T20 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates and Oman from October 17 to November 14. ANI quoted BCCI secretary Jay Shah saying that the Board “will take a final call soon”, but The Hindu understands that the decision has been made in the wake of a new COVID-19 variant that has been found in various states in India. On June 1, the ICC had given the BCCI a four-week extension to finalise the venue for the 16-team tournament. It is understood that the BCCI, in consultation with the ICC events team, has chalked out a tentative schedule. While Oman and Sharjah will stage the qualifiers from October 17, the main event will be held in UAE, with the grand final in Dubai on November 14. It means that the T20 World Cup qualifiers will begin barely 48 hours after the Indian Premier League final, scheduled at the Dubai International Stadium on October 15. Considering the limited window available to stage the IPL and the T20 World Cup in UAE, it is learnt that the T20 World Cup qualifiers will coincide with the warm-up ties for the main draw. CPL final advanced With the IPL set to resume in UAE on September 19, the BCCI has managed to convince Cricket West Indies to advance the Caribbean Premier League final from September 19 to September 15. At least 12 IPL cricketers are set to feature in CPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-to-host-t20-wc-in-uae-oman/article34996452.ece
27 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu has set her eyes on Tokyo gold||World badminton champion P.V. Sindhu is ready to cope with the pressure of expectations as she heads for next month’s Tokyo Olympics. She had won silver at the 2016 Rio Olympics, hence the expectations would be greater, she acknowledges. Staying focused “Every time I take the court in a major event, expectations are that I’ll come back with a medal. It is not that easy. But, I have to deal with it by staying focussed on the game,” Sindhu said during a virtual interaction of TedXYouth Suchitra Academy themed ‘Pause, Reset The Way You Think’ on Saturday. “You have to be composed. Obviously my target is to come back with a gold,” said a smiling Sindhu. “It will be a great honour to be the flag-bearer of the Indian contingent at the Tokyo Olympics. This is something you don’t get that easily,” Sindhu said. Simulated conditions Reflecting on the preparations for Tokyo, Sindhu said: “I have been exclusively training at Gachibowli Indoor Stadium under Korean coach Park Tae-Sang with sparring partners from Suchitra Academy. The preparations are going really well in simulated match conditions similar to the badminton venue in Tokyo,” she explained. “Every day I have been training with different sets of sparring partners — southpaws, aggressive, defensive players — thanks to Praveen Raju and Pradeep Raju of Suchitra Academy, which has been like a second home for me since 2017. “The sessions have always been a mix of different combinations like one-vs-two or one-vs-three match-plays,” she said. “I am grateful to the Sports Authority of India, Badminton Association of India and Government of Telangana for immediately accepting my request to train at Gachibowli and extending all the facilities for my training,” she said. Resilience “When you lose a game or go through such a phase your confidence might be shaken. But it can’t be a full-stop. You have to think you can do it, believe in yourself. You have to reset your goals and work hard to achieve them despite the challenges,” Sindhu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-has-set-her-eyes-on-tokyo-gold/article34996996.ece
27 June 2021||Auckland,||Kiwis home with mace||The triumphant New Zealand players returned home on Saturday, carrying with them the mace they clinched after winning the inaugural World Test Championship. However, the team’s inspirational skipper Kane Williamson and a few others were not part of the group that landed here on Saturday due to playing commitments in England. As many as 11 players and eight support staff members returned to Auckland via Singapore. New Zealand Cricket chief executive David White said the Board plans to honour the players soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiwis-home-with-mace/article34996456.ece
27 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Players’ body raises its concerns||The Billiards and Snooker Players Association of India (BSPAI), on Saturday, demanded that the Billiards and Snooker Federation of India (BSFI) reinstate its affiliation and allow two of its representatives in the national federation. The BSPAI, which was formed in 1992 and was functional until 2007-08, was revived in February 2021. “We started to engage the BSFI in the early part of this year. Now they say they don’t recognise us,” said BSPAI president Cherag Ramakrishnan during a virtual press conference. He added the players’ body wanted recognition from the BSFI and representation of two players nominated by it in the BSFI managing committee and executive committee meetings.  Asian Games gold medallist snooker player Yasin Merchant, a vice-president in the BSPAI, said the players’ body was not anti-establishment. Pankaj Advani, another BSPAI vice-president, said: “We are asking for a bit of transparency.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-body-raises-its-concerns/article34996807.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sreejesh, Deepika for Khel Ratna||Veteran India goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh and former women’s team player Deepika were on Saturday nominated by Hockey India for this year’s prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award. Besides the duo, vice-captain of India’s Tokyo Olympics-bound men’s team Harmanpreet Singh and women’s team members Vandana Katariya and Navjot Kaur were nominated for the Arjuna awards. The national federation also nominated R.P. Singh and Ch Sanggai Ibemhal for the Dhyan Chand Award for Lifetime Achievement, while coaches B.J. Kariappa and C.R. Kumar were recommended for the Dronacharya Award. According to a statement issued by HI, the period of consideration for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award is between January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreejesh-deepika-for-khel-ratna/article34996808.ece
27 June 2021||PARIS,||Abhishek bags gold||Abhishek Verma defeated American Kris Schaff via shoot-off in a nerve-wracking final to win the compound men’s individual title in the Archery World Cup Stage-3 here on Saturday. Abhishek shot a 10 against Schaff’s nine in the shoot-off after the two were tied 148-148 in the gold medal match. This was his second World Cup individual gold after the one in Wroclaw, Poland, in 2015. The 32-year-old Indian scored a perfect 30 apiece in the first three of his five attempts and established a two-point lead. Schaff fought back to level the scores and take the contest to the tie-breaker. Earlier, Abhishek defeated Russian Anton Bulaev 146-138 in the semifinals. Abhishek, who led 86-85 after the third attempt, scored a perfect 30 apiece in his last two attempts to ensure a medal for himself. He fetched the lone medal for the country in the compound division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhishek-bags-gold/article34996442.ece
27 June 2021||LANDERNEAU (France),||Alaphilippe in yellow after dramatic opening stage||Frenchman Julian Alaphilippe recovered from a crash to win the first stage of the Tour de France, an incident-strewn 197.8-km ride from Brest, to take the inaugural leader's yellow jersey on Saturday. Alaphilippe burst away from the main pack with 2.3km left of a brutal climb up to the Cote de la Fosse aux Loups, and none of his rivals could match his power. Australian Michael Matthews took second place, with Slovenian Primoz Roglic coming home third, eight seconds behind, with most of the top favourites, including defending champion Tadej Pogacar and Geraint Thomas, on their wheels. The stage was hit by two massive crashes that brought down numerous riders. Among them were four-time champion Chris Froome, who looked in pain as he climbed on his bike after being sent down in the second crash 7.5km from the finish. In the first crash, German Tony Martin was sent tumbling when he rode straight into a cardboard sign being held out by a fan looking the other way at a television camera, creating chaos with 47 kilometres left of the stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alaphilippe-in-yellow-after-dramatic-opening-stage/article34996454.ece
27 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Bajrang Punia allays fears over injury||Tokyo Olympics bound wrestler Bajrang Punia has assured that there is nothing to worry about his injury which he picked up during the Ali Aliyev memorial wrestling tournament in Russia. The Indian was trailing 4-0 when he injured his right knee in the semifinal bout against Adbulmazhid Kudiev of Russia and withdrew from the contest. “Thanks for your affection and sympathy. Very soon you will see me back on the mat, everything is alright and there is nothing to worry,” Bajrang tweeted on Saturday. Bajrang’s personal coach Shako Bentinidis was relieved. “Thank God! There are no problems. He walks and it does not hurt,” Bentinidis told The Hindu . A Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) official said Bajrang should be fit sooner than later. “What we gather is that it is not a major injury. He should get well in a few days,” said the official. Jeremy misses out Meanwhile, Jeremy Lalrinnunga could not make it to Tokyo, according to the Absolute Ranking list put out by the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF). Jeremy, ranked 12th in the men’s 67kg category, had an outside chance in case of any lifter pulled out. After the allocation of the tripartite slot to Pakistan’s Talha Talib, Jeremy’s chances ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bajrang-punia-allays-fears-over-injury/article34996805.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sajan Prakash makes Olympic ‘A’ cut||Sajan Prakash on Saturday became the first-ever Indian swimmer to breach the ‘A’ Olympic qualification time by clocking 1:56:38 seconds in the men’s 200m butterfly event at the Sette Colli Trophy in Rome, Italy. The 27-year-old made the Tokyo Games ‘A’ standard, set at 1:56.48 seconds, by 0.10 seconds at the FINA-accredited Olympic qualifier. With the historic sprint, Prakash also rewrote his own national record of 1:56.96s that he had set last week at the Belgrade Trophy swimming competition. This will be Prakash’s second successive Olympics, having represented India in the 2016 Rio Games. He will take part in the Tokyo Games alongside Maana Patel, who has been nominated by the Swimming Federation of India for the Universality places. Prakash’s direct qualification means Srihari Nataraj will not be competing despite being nominated for the Universality places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sajan-prakash-makes-olympic-a-cut/article34996824.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arjun stuns Dubov; Firouzja shocks Carlsen||Arjun Erigaisi’s second-round victory over day’s joint leader Russia’s Daniil Dubov was the high point of Indian performances on the first day of the Goldmoney Asian online rapid chess tournament on Saturday. The lowest-ranked in the 16-player field, Arjun went to sign off with a draw against joint-leader Ding Liren on a day when Alireza Firouzja shocked Magnus Carlsen.  The results (involving Indians): Fifth round: Vidit Gujrathi bt B. Adhiban; D. Gukesh lost to Levon Aronian (Arm); Arjun Erigaisi drew with Ding Liren (Chn). Fourth round: Adhiban drew with Arjun; Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) drew with Vidit; Ding drew with Gukesh. Third round: Gukesh drew with Adhiban; Vidit lost to Daniil Dubov (Rus); Arjun lost to Artemiev. Second round: Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol) drew with Vidit; Adhiban lost to Ding; Dubov lost to Arjun; Artemiev bt Gukesh. First round: Vidit drew Anish Giri (Ned); Adhiban lost to Aronian; Gukesh lost to Dubov; Arjun drew with Duda.   Leading positions (including Indians, after five rounds): 1-5. Ding Liren, Levon Aronian, Magnus Carlsen, Vladislav Artemiev, Daniil Dubov (3.5 points). 9-10. Arjun Erigaisi, Vidit Gujrathi (2.5 each); 14-15. D. Gukesh, B. Adhiban (1 each).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-stuns-dubov-firouzja-shocks-carlsen/article34996444.ece
27 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adhiban well placed||With the draw out for the chess World Cup beginning at Sochi on July 12, the prospects for GM B. Adhiban look better than five other Indians who begin their campaign from the first round. P. Harikrishna and Vidit Gujrathi, seeded 11 and 13, have received a bye in the first round. Sixth seed D. Harika starts in the second round of the women’s section.  The initial rounds feature two-game mini-matches in classical time-control. Rapid and blitz games get into play as tiebreakers. Adhiban, expected to beat Chiletso Chipanga, will also start as favourite against the winner of the clash between Niaz Murshed and Neuris Delfado Ramirez.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adhiban-well-placed/article34996820.ece
27 June 2021||SOUTHAMPTON,||England makes it 3-0||England defeated Sri Lanka by 89 runs in the third T20I to clinch the series 3-0 on Saturday. Asked to bat, the hosts rode on a 105-run stand for the first wicket between Jonny Bairstow (51, 43b, 5x4, 1x6) and Dawid Malan (76, 48b, 5x4, 4x6) to score 180 for six. The visitors were shot out for 91 in 18.5 overs.  The scores: England 180/6 in 20 overs (Jonny Bairstow 51, Dawid Malan 76, Dushmantha Chameera 4/17) bt Sri Lanka 91 in 18.5 overs (David Willey 3/27, Sam Curran 2/14); MoM: Malan; MoS: Curran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-makes-it-3-0/article34996450.ece
27 June 2021||SPIELBERG,||Verstappen grabs pole||Red Bull's Formula One championship leader Max Verstappen secured pole for his team’s home Styrian Grand Prix on Saturday, with Lewis Hamilton joining him on the front row. Hamilton qualified third but moved up because Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas, second fastest in qualifying, had a three-place grid penalty from Friday practice. Verstappen leads Hamilton by 12 points after seven rounds.  The starting grid: Front row: Max Verstappen (Red Bull), Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes); 2nd: Lando Norris (McLaren), Sergio Perez (Red Bull); 3rd: Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes), Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri); 4th: Charles Leclerc (Ferrari), Fernando Alonso (Alpine); 5th: Lance Stroll (Aston Martin), George Russell (Williams); 6th : Yuki Tsunoda (AlphaTauri), Carlos Sainz (Ferrari); 7th: Daniel Ricciardo (McLaren), Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin); 8 th : Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), Nicholas Latifi (Williams); 9th: Esteban Ocon (Alpine), Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); 10th: Mick Schumacher (Haas), Nikita Mazepin (Haas).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-grabs-pole/article34996451.ece
27 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Mega final inaugurated||Kerala Tourism Minister P.A. Mohammed Riyaz inaugurated the Koneru Humpy Trophy mega final of the Chess Kerala Women’s Grand Prix tournament here on Saturday. The top 50 players from the seven leg preliminary Grand Prix tournaments are taking part in the mega final.    Six players from Kerala including five women have been called for the national basketball coaching camp for FIBA Asia Cup. The camp will be held in Bengaluru from June 30 to July 26. Stephy Nixon, P.G. Anjana, Aneesha Ceetus, R. Sreekala and C.S. Anu Maria are the women players while Sejin Mathews is the lone male player.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mega-final-inaugurated/article34997030.ece
27 June 2021||Kozhikode,||Harika in semifinals||Dronavalli Harika moved into the semifinals of the Women’s Speed Chess Championship, shocking Anna Muzychuk of Ukraine. She won 13.5-8.5. Also through to the last four was China’s Hou Yifan, who defeated Bibisara Assaubayeva of Kazakhstan 13.5-9.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harika-in-semifinals/article34996800.ece
27 June 2021||Buenos Aires,||Three-way fight for last two quarterfinal spots||Peru, Ecuador and Venezuela are in the fight for the last two spots in the Copa America quarterfinals. The prize is likely Lionel Messi’s Argentina. The top four in each group advance to the knockout stage. Group B has Brazil with nine points, followed by Colombia and Peru with four, Venezuela at three, and Ecuador counting two. Colombia is the only team that has already played all of its four group games. If Peru doesn’t lose to Venezuela on Sunday it will advance for sure. Ecuador needs to beat host and defending champion Brazil. Ecuador can still advance with a defeat as long as Venezuela fails to win against Peru and the goal difference doesn’t change much. After three matches, the Ecuadorians have minus one and the Venezuelans minus three. Group A has been decided with Bolivia missing out after three defeats. Argentina leads with seven points, followed by Paraguay with six, Chile five, and Uruguay four. Whoever finishes in the fourth position will face Brazil. Uruguay needs to beat or draw with Paraguay on Monday to leave Chile in fourth place. Chile has already played all of its four group matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-way-fight-for-last-two-quarterfinal-spots/article34996822.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 08:06 IST,||Sudoku — June 27, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-27-2021/article34997385.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||All eyes on the creator||A few months ago, artist-storyteller Raghava KK sent a painting to his friend Madhan Karky. The Chennai-based lyricist was so inspired by it that he penned a few lines and sent it to a music composer, who weaved in a tune.  This was then given to a visualiser, who, without knowing anything about the origin of this creative pursuit, created imagery. “Isn’t it beautiful; the way energy flows from one form to another?” says Karky. He is trying to recreate this through Canvas, a virtual tool that streamlines a content creator’s online presence across platforms and helps create new avenues of income. Conceptualised by entrepreneurs Vignesh Ramaswamy, Raghava KK and Madhan Karky, Canvas hopes to make life easier for creative people. “Post the pandemic, people are looking at creators in a different light,” explains Vignesh, who has established four start-ups. “The route was always creation, discovery and then monetisation, which is why creators are forced to think about numbers even before embarking on anything. We’ve shifted this model to creation, monetisation, distribution and then discovery,” he says. Apart from striving to be a safe space for creative pursuits such as art, photography, podcasting, writing, music and filmmaking, it will also offer freedom to its users. For instance, an author can choose to keep his work free, or choose to monetise it partly. “Imagine if a writer keeps most of his chapters for free and opts for a paid format for the last few portions or its climax; it opens exciting possibilities,” says Karky, who adds that the tool brings together technological offerings that most creative people use (like WordPress, YouTube and Facebook) under one roof. Canvas, set to roll out in July as an exclusive by-invitation tool, will be launched in India and the U.S., with Singapore being added later this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-eyes-on-the-creator/article34997086.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The real and the imagined||“What is the use of stories that aren’t even true?” Haroun asks his father in Salman Rushdie’s delightful and inexplicably underrated crossover novel. Rushdie suggests the issue it raises, the relationship between the “world of imagination and the so-called real world”, has occupied most of his writing life. In Haroun.., the imaginative realm and its sea of stories win the allegorical battle over silence and censorship. In Languages of Truth , Rushdie takes the argument further, marshalling more than merely functional or utilitarian reasons, important though they are, to declare that the worlds of the real and imagined are inextricably twinned. Blurred lines The real and unreal are just ideas of a world where facts are slippery, elusive and changeable, thereby rendering the line between fiction and reality indistinct and smudged, he says. Rushdie argues his case both ways. On the one hand, fiction, even the literature of the fantastic, that magical “protean shape-shifting” kind he admires, illuminates the real and true, even if this is arrived at by a different route. On the other, in a world where reality isn’t quite realistic, isn’t it misguided to think that all naturalistic fictions are necessarily real? “A naturalistic novel is entirely capable of being escapist: read a little chick lit and you’ll see what I mean,” he writes. Textbook metaphysics this may not be, but there are passages in Rushdie’s essays which sit at the informal cusp, if something like this exists, between literary criticism and the philosophy of language. It may be tempting to see this as the writer’s despairing attempt to defend or promote magic realism which, having had its heyday, has been somewhat overtaken for the moment by other genres of literature such as the autobiographical. While he does get a touch acerbic about the proliferation of memoirs (“Self-regard has never been so well regarded. Self-exposure has never been so popular, and the more self that is exposed the better.”), the essays provide a wonderful insight into the making of Salman Rushdie, the writer. The fatwa and after Some of these are in the form of interesting biographical nuggets. For instance, before his first novel Grim us, he had four unpublished texts, one of them with a secondary character called Saleem Sinai born at the moment of Indian Independence, who was famously reborn in Midnight’s Children . His experiences — be it of racism as a schoolboy in Britain (to “be someone else’s Other”), the Ayatollah’s appalling fatwa, and the people he met and the friendships he struck — are interwoven in his critical appraisal of his life and work or other writers, ranging from Shakespeare and Beckett to Roth and Vonnegut. Unlike his friend Harold Pinter, a writer who couldn’t bear to explain his work, Rushdie displays keenness as well as an uncanny awareness about what he was setting out to do. The essays crackle with intelligence and erudition, and to Rushdie’s credit, he isn’t constrained by stuffy academic hauteur, writing on popular personalities such as Mohammed Ali and Carrie Fisher. There is much to love and commend here, including a lovely little piece on Hans Christian Andersen, which draws attention to the darkness and amorality in some of his fairy tales; there is a sharp and discerning essay on adaptation (which savages Danny Boyle’s Slumdog Millionaire for its tawdry sentimentality), a searing account of India’s hijra community; and a scholarly reflection on Emperor Akbar and the making of the Hamzanama (which he argues privileges the magical over the religious). It is likely that the few essays which touch on politics at the end will receive a fair share of attention. His positions on issues such as freedom, liberty and free speech is absolute, neither blinkered by ideological dogma nor determined by one-dimensional labels such as left and right. His own experience after the fatwa, recounted in Josef Anton, could have something to do with this. While radical Islamists were expectedly hostile, Rushdie was bewildered by the opposition, or at the very least the lack of support, among the Left and liberal intelligentsia. Withering eye on dogma Like his friend Christopher Hitchens, that witty and combative polemicist who passed away a decade ago, Rushdie is something of an equal opportunity offender when it comes to religious extremists and the threat they pose to liberty. Hindu bigots, Christian conservatives, Muslim fundamentalists — no one is spared his withering eye. But as he suggested in Josef Anton , and in interviews after the release of the book, the new importance accorded to hurt sentiments and offended sensibilities, in this scornful and judgmental age, goes well beyond perceived religious insults. Religious intolerance has become resurrected in a secular form, he argues convincingly, in one of the essays written not so long ago. “If I had stood before you a decade ago, I might have argued that religious extremism was the greatest threat to liberty we faced. I did not foresee what seems to be a secularisation of that fanaticism.” In a climate where the disagreeable and the unpleasant are censored, he asks “Who will guard us from the guardians?” He poses the question rhetorically, but one could not help thinking it might be the germ for another fine and engrossing book.  The reviewer is former editor of The Hindu.  Languages of Truth: Essays 2003-2020 Salman Rushdie Penguin Random House  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-real-and-the-imagined/article34996764.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The drongo in the window||Thrissur’s sepulchral lockdown quiet had begun to get on my nerves. The sound and fury of the heavy pre-monsoon showers, which had long been overdue and knew no lockdown, provided much-needed relief from the overwhelming silence. Just the other day, after a couple of hours in front of my computer with the heavy rain providing welcome background music, I got up for a stretch and a glass of water. As I moved to the kitchen past my bedroom door, I saw I had a visitor. On the window grille across the room, with its back to me, perched a small lean black bird with a longish tail hanging limp. Drenched tail I stood rooted to the spot. I did not like to scare it away. It appeared in silhouette and I could not readily identify it. By and by, I noticed its forked tail, the fork indistinct because the tail feathers were drenched. I thought it was a drongo. It had not seen me. It remained still. So did I. It had been my practice of late to stand at my seventh floor window every morning and evening and view the world below. Often, I would spot a drongo perched on a power line. The sight brought back memories of my old walks on the Thrissur temple grounds when I used to see not only drongos but also several other birds such as mynas, sparrows, egrets and jackdaws. As a boy I had seen drongos in my village where the bird was known as katthirivaalan , the scissor-tailed one. Much later, as an adult, I had learned from my illustrated bird book that the drongo is known in Malayalam as aana-raanchi — literally elephant lifter. That had intrigued me no end. Calling a 50-60 gram bird an elephant-lifter is making a mountain out of a molehill. But the bird has rare fighting qualities. It fights off birds much larger than itself. It is known for its “dive-bombing” — pecking on the head from above — of much larger birds. It is said the early bird gets the worm. I have yet to see an earlier bird than a drongo. I have seen drongos in the dark hour before dawn feasting on termite flies fluttering around a streetlight. As large swarms of these flies rise to the light, a handful of drongos, perched on the power line, take turns diving into them and returning to their perch with a fly or two in their beak. Termite flies also surface in swarms late evening and then, too, the drongos are there to feast on them at some streetlight. Late to bed and early to rise! The heavy downpour had abated. My visitor suddenly took off, leaving me stranded in my musings. I hadn’t had a visitor (man, beast or bird) in at least a month. The drongo kept me eloquent company for a a couple minutes. Most important, it gave me something to share with my bird-loving grandson. pmwarrier9@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-drongo-in-the-window/article34996737.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The odour of dreams||This is the first collection of short stories from an accomplished poet, with all but one story revolving around India’s city of dreams. Rochelle Potkar, who grew up in Kalyan on the edges of Bombay, which is part of what is now known as the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, demonstrates her intimate connect to the city’s denizens with an easy verve. From the bylanes of Kamathipura to the Ambarnath fast local, from the hopeful textile mill employee of 1980s’ Bombay now serving as a security guard in the very malls that have replaced the mills and become the cemeteries of the aspirations of thousands of mill workers, to the “humid passion” with which Flora Fountain’s second-hand booksellers operate, places and people are brought alive with Potkar’s skilful keyboard strokes. The plots serve as the canvas on which she paints the metropolis’ various hues, taking you close to the sights, sounds, smells and sweat levels unique to Bombay. As Salman Rushdie, quoted in the introduction by Selma Carvalho, says, “almost every sentence [here] bears a touch of the poetic”, as the poet’s lyricism seeps into her prose. A few editing lapses serve as minor distractions. For instance, in the longest story, Paranoia, where different protagonists leading parallel, unfulfilled lives find a catharsis of sorts from the founts of their troubles, a key character’s name flips between Preeti Vaani and Preeti Jain on alternate pages. One hopes future editions will fix such errors. Quite a few stories stand out — in particular, Parfum , with its olfactory delights wrapped in irony, The Arithmetic of Breasts with its wonderful twists of phrases, and  my personal favourite, Our Lovers, with its pithy take on oft-misplaced notions of fidelity. A few culminate abruptly just as the reader is getting invested in their characters’ fates. Of course, abruptness is often a necessary tool to ensure a short story remains, well, short. But wielding it with finesse, as Raymond Carver, John Cheever or Dorothy Parker did, is a rare art form. But Potkar’s maiden short fiction compilation has more hits than misses, and her style is unique and refreshing. This is a voice that one hopes will evolve further with time and throw up bigger, better manuscripts to relish.  Bombay Hangovers Rochelle Potkar  Vishwakarma Publications  Rs. 280||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-odour-of-dreams/article34996743.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Satyajit was here||The last time I was in Kolkata, I was stumped by the number of little cafés I saw in every corner of the city. They were bustling with life, peopled by the young, who sat with their lattes and laptops. The sight — though vastly different — reminded me of the city’s old coffee houses, where people once voiced and shaped their dreams over cigarettes and coffee. Coffee houses were as much a part of the city, as, say, the Victoria Memorial. So, I was happy to find a chapter on coffee houses in a new book called A Taste of Time: A Food History of Calcutta by Mohona Kanjilal. The India Coffee House on Chittaranjan Avenue, it says, was one of the two venues originally selected by Coffee Board of India in Calcutta, the other being the Albert Hall Coffee House on Bankim Chatterjee Street. Albert Hall, founded in April 1876 by philosopher-social reformer Keshab Chandra Sen, was the meeting place of the city’s intelligentsia, Kanjilal writes. “It is believed that Surendranath Banerjee founded the Indian National Association (also known as Indian Association) here, in 1876. The first Indian National Conference, which took place here in 1883, is said to have paved the way for the formation of the Indian National Congress in 1885. Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose attended a few political meetings held in this place.” Lords and commoners After the acquisition of Albert Hall by the Government of India, Coffee Board converted it into a coffee house in 1942. Albert Hall was now known as India Coffee House. It had two sections — the House of Lords and House of Commons. The difference between the two was stark. Coffee in the House of Lords cost 25% more than that in the House of Commons. “In the Commons, your coffee was brought to you with the milk already in it; you merely added the sugar. In the Lords, milk, sugar and coffee were produced on a tray in their separate receptacles and the customer paid for this refinement,” the book quotes from an essay written by the late British journalist, Philip Crosland. If there was “pandemonium” in the Commons, the Upper House was sedate, Crosland writes — “A table near the door was almost invariably occupied by the Chief Secretary to the West Bengal government, whose name I have forgotten, immersed in The Statesman crossword. In the centre of the room was a galaxy of talent from an advertising agency. One of their number would be Satyajit Ray, yet to find fame as a filmmaker, but a quarter way through the making of Pather Panchali .” The black umbrella Over the years, Kanjilal writes, India Coffee House came to be popularly known as the College Street Coffee House because of its proximity to College Street. This was where poetry was written, films conceptualised, revolutions plotted. Not much, though, was thought about its food, though Kanjilal also waxes eloquent about the menu. “Fluffy omelettes and flaky patties are a reminder of the legacy left behind by the British, as are the vegetable, cheese, chicken and egg sandwiches, and cutlets.” At the heart of the menu, to my mind, was the adda . “College Street Coffee House has been a centre for intellectual and artistic discussions and political movements,” Kanjilal writes. Among the regulars were filmmakers Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen and Ritwik Ghatak; actors Utpal Dutt, Soumitra Chatterjee and Aparna Sen; economist Amartya Sen; writers Sunil Gangopadhyay and Samaresh Majumdar. Gangopadhyay, she says, often didn’t have money to pay for coffee, and would leave behind his black umbrella as credit. It says something about the humble beginnings of the late poet-author, who later gained great fame. But doesn’t it say a lot more about a coffee house that agrees to keep a poet’s black umbrella as collateral?  A table near the door was almost invariably occupied by the Chief Secretary to the West Bengal government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/satyajit-was-here/article34996746.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Shadows of the mind||Children can be creepy. Dozens of disembodied, dead children creepier still. When they crowd around our protagonist, slipping cold hands into his for comfort or when his bed covers are lifted and “cold little bodies climb under it and cuddle close to him,” it can only be the prelude to a sinister turn. And it is. However, the payoff doesn’t quite live up to the promise; it may raise an eyebrow but won’t make your hairs stand on end. In Venita Coelho’s Dark Tales , a collection of 11 “ghost stories from India”, dark and grisly things occur, but if the intent is to excite fear, then something is lacking. The story above, ‘The Lost Children’, and ‘Jaan’, starring another creepy child, do succeed, somewhat, in building up a foreboding atmosphere. The best of the lot though is ‘An Interview with Death’, in which a bored, stoned journalism student, who needs to interview a common man, encounters ‘Death’ — who looks “as aam an aadmi as you could get” — and your heartbeat does quicken towards the end. Others fall flat. In ‘Last Local Home’, a young woman is assaulted by would-be-rapists on a train but fights them off with supernatural strength. Her boyfriend then devours them — and that’s all. Perhaps it’s a piece of social commentary, some wished-for retribution, but as a story in its own right, there’s very little to it. Some fall more successfully into the genre of horror comedy. ‘The God of All Drunks’ is a real blast from the past, combining the most clichéd stereotype of the ugly American tourist with an age-old parable about angering the gods. All these stories are more concerned with mixing commentary on Indian society — from Naxalites to the Nirbhaya case — with gruesome and supernatural elements than with horror as such. But all too often, the commentary is clunky, and sometimes it turns out to be a red herring. In ‘The Lost Children’, a police officer is forced to stop investigating a case when it turns out powerful men could be implicated, but this is incidental and has no bearing on how the plot resolves itself.  Dark Tales: Ghost Stories from India Venita Coelho India Penguin  Rs. 250||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/shadows-of-the-mind/article34996750.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A soulless attempt to challenge gender stereotypes||Are you happy being a woman? When Isabel Allende posed this question to some of her female friends and acquaintances, they responded that they embraced womanhood, unlike Sylvia Plath who said that her most awful tragedy was to be a woman. The reasons they gave though were trite generalisations: they said they have more empathy and solidarity than men; they aim to nurture, not destroy; and they are happy to express, not suppress, their emotions. In The Soul of a Woman , part memoir and part introduction to feminism, Allende challenges, as she has done for years, these age-old stereotypes that refuse to die. “Have you noticed that individualism and selfishness are considered positive traits in men and defects in women,” she asks. “[Sexual abuse] didn’t happen to her because she was pretty; it happened simply because she was female,” she writes about a young woman’s experience. Unconventional life Allende has lived an unconventional life. She became “a feminist in kindergarten” when her father abandoned her mother Panchita in Peru, forcing the family to return to her grandparents’ home in Chile, where machismo thrived. Allende bristled at the treatment of her mother and the housemaids. Her daughter’s rebellious nature worried Panchita so much that she consulted doctors about it. Allende’s “visceral reaction to male chauvinism” led her to co-found and work at a feminist magazine called Paula , which questioned domestic violence even while organising beauty pageants. Allende recalls some traumatic incidents in her life that have shaped her beliefs as well as the strong female characters in her books. Six decades ago, she helped her 15-year-old friend Celina get an abortion, which is illegal in Chile. It was a messy, bloody affair. Strongly advocating for abortion to be decriminalised, she writes that “control over one’s fertility is a human right.” In Rajasthan, in the 90s, while driving down a deserted roadside, Allende came across some poor women who handed over a parcel of rags to her. She unwrapped it and discovered to her horror that the women had tried to get rid of a girl child. “She has appeared in my dreams for years,” she writes of the little girl. “I dream that she has had a miserable life, I dream that she died young. I dream that she is my daughter or my granddaughter.” It was the abiding memory of that trip that pushed her to create the Isabel Allende Foundation. Poor definition In the book’s broad sweep, Allende addresses briefly violence against women, abortion, sexuality, vanity, and economic independence. But she remains unfocused. She ruminates for pages on old age and euthanasia. She provides a list of the secrets of a full and happy life. She talks about erotic passion. And she also quotes horrifying statistics on rape and domestic violence from around the world. The discordant observations, memories and statistics make this otherwise gifted writer’s work disappointing, even pedestrian. “My definition of feminism is not what we have between our legs but what we have between our ears,” she writes. Surely a feminist of her stature would have a better definition? Allende has lived a fascinating life. When her father’s cousin, Salvador Allende, the elected President of Chile, was overthrown by a military coup led by General Pinochet, she was blacklisted as a journalist and forced to flee the country to Venezuela. It was there that she wrote her brilliant debut, The House of the Spirits , first conceived as a letter to her dying grandfather. The book catapulted her into the literary world and was followed by many other successful novels. She has won the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the National Book Foundation’s Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters. Given her enormous success as a writer, The Soul of a Woman comes as a surprise. It truly leaves much to be desired.  The Soul of  a Woman Isabel Allende Bloomsbury  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-soulless-attempt-to-challenge-gender-stereotypes/article34996762.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on June 27, 1838, this person was an Indian novelist and journalist who wrote many satirical, scientific and critical novels in Bengali. He is referred to as Sahitya Samrat (Emperor of Literature) in Bengali,, and his most famous work was Anandamath , which follows a couple struggling during the famine of 1770. A song he wrote for this story was later set to music by Rabindranath Tagore, and its first two stanzas took on importance at the national level. Who is this writer and what was the song? 2Born on June 27, 1880, this woman was an author and political activist who was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1953. She was very good friends with Mark Twain and wrote 12 books herself, including one when she was 11. She was a founder of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and was an outspoken advocate for women’s rights and a strong supporter of birth control. Who was this woman who was the first person with deafblindness to earn a college degree? 3On June 27, 1923, Capt. Lowell Smith piloted a De Havilland DH-4B for 37 hours when he broke 16 world records for flight distance, speed and duration. During the flight he became the first person to be part of a then dare-devil mid-air manoeuvre along with Lt. John Richter in another De Havilland. What did they do which enabled Capt. Smith to break these records? 4Born on June 27, 1939, this singer-songwriter and composer was known for his innovative experiments in his compositions for 33 years. He gave a special preview of his first big hit ‘Jaago sone waalon’ to a bunch of kids he caught stealing mangoes from his garden. He had a passion for harvesting chillies with around 200 varieties and loved playing the harmonica, which he featured in many songs. Who is this artist who was given a nickname because as a child he supposedly cried in the fifth note of a scale? 5On June 27, 1955, the very first legislation regarding this safety feature was enacted in Illinois. This was in response to the increase in automobile-driver deaths, especially because of new cars that could hit 80 miles an hour. Four years later, Swedish inventor Nils Bohlin came up with a design for the feature that is pretty much unchanged till date, and refused to patent it so that it could become a standard feature in all cars. What safety feature is this? 6On June 27, 1960, this compound was artificially synthesised in Cambridge, Massachusetts. It was a specific form of a vital compound that plays a major role in sustaining life on Earth. The compound absorbs energy from blue to red wavelengths but does not absorb the green portions of the spectrum. What is this compound whose job is that of a primary electron donor? 7On June 27, 1967, the world’s first machine of this kind was installed at the Enfield branch of Barclays Bank in London. The first user was BBC1 sitcom star Reg Varney. The machine was the brainchild of John Shepherd-Barron who had the ‘Eureka!’ moment while having a bath. His first idea was for chocolates but later changed to the purpose it became most useful for. First marketed as DACS, how better do we know this machine? 8On June 27, 1972, this now legendary computer company was founded by Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney in Sunnyvale, California. This company was responsible for the formation and eventual worldwide popularity of the modern video-game industry including video arcades. The company is named after a Japanese term that refers to a group of stones in danger of being taken by an opponent in a game. What company is this whose first game was Pong? 9On June 27, 1973, the eighth James Bond film Live and Let Die was released in the U.S. Based on an Ian Fleming novel of the same name it was the debut of a certain actor as James Bond. He would go on to play the iconic role for a record seven movies in total. He had earlier come to prominence playing the lead role of Simon Templar in a British mystery thriller series. Who was this actor who was known for his punny punch lines? 10Born on June 27, 1980, this cricketer was born in South Africa and eventually went on to lead the English National team. He holds the record for being the fastest player to cross 2000 runs in One Day International cricket, and has the second-highest run total from his first 25 tests, coming behind Sir Don Bradman. Who is this cricketer who is often voted ‘most complete batsman’ and goes by his initials KP? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34996774.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A home so near, yet so far||The hoolock gibbon father didn’t want his son around anymore. In the forests of Jeypore-Dehing, Assam, the older black-furred male shook bamboo stems while croaking menacingly, sending the subadult fleeing. Kashmira Kakati couldn’t help being amused and feeling sorry at the same time. It was time the young primate set off and made his way into the world. The blonde mother paid no heed to her son’s predicament, focusing her attention on the younger offspring. The parents were not being hard-hearted. This was their way of ensuring grown sons didn’t take over their territory in the future or mate with their mothers. Confined Hoolock gibbon couples stay within the strict confines of their arboreal territory, howling in chorus when defending their trees and strengthening their bonds. Adult males may rarely sneak into neighbouring territories to check out a fruiting tree. The females and their dependent offspring don’t step out of their turf. “They are glued as a family, eating and sleeping together,” says Kakati. Raised within a tight-knit group, the young male wasn’t familiar with the world outside his home. “He had nowhere to go nor did he know any other gibbons besides his family,” says the researcher. Afraid of leaving the comfort of the family home, he lurked on the margins, careful to remain out of sight of his father. “He kept popping up here and there,” says Kakati. “I was sad for him, unwanted by his own family.” One afternoon, the scientist, who had been observing the parents, suddenly discovered the young male primate and his little brother had disappeared. She scanned the canopy but couldn’t find them. Had a predator taken them? Had that been the case, she would have heard the panicky calls of the mother and father. What could have happened to the brothers? Unperturbed, the older gibbons continued to feast on ripe figs. Had they not noticed the missing baby? Perhaps there was nothing to worry about, or maybe they didn’t care. The researcher packed up her knapsack in the evening with rising disquiet. And then... Early the next morning, Kakati returned to the site for another day of fieldwork. She spied the missing youngsters making their way through the canopy. While the little fellow reunited with his mother and clung to her belly, the older one stopped at a distance. The researcher realised the almost full-grown gibbon hadn’t been able to face another night of sleeping alone and had kidnapped his brother to keep him company. The parents knew what had happened and weren’t concerned by their disappearance. Even if they thought little of the incident, the scientist was relieved that the young primates were fine. Some hope Kakati had one more reason to be disturbed for subadult gibbons getting the boot. Territorial vacancies occur when an adult male or female dies. In small patches of forest such as Jeypore-Dehing, youngsters kicked out by their parents are doomed since such openings are rare. In large tracts, however, they stand a better chance. After years of nurturing their young, do the parents brace themselves for the separation? Are they sorry for their bewildered offspring? It’s hard to say. “Dispersal is interesting but difficult to study,” says the researcher. “It’s heart-wrenching to see the subadults being terrified. They don’t want to leave and keep coming back.” Kakati also gathered data from a different part of the forest where another hoolock gibbon couple was trying to convince their grown daughter to move on. Although the parents weren’t as forceful in their efforts, the young hoolock was still compelled to lie low. Instead of kidnapping a sibling, the lonely primate preferred hanging out with the researcher, who was collecting samples of plants. Any company was preferable to none.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-home-so-near-yet-so-far/article34996783.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A stone, a star and the pearlthread surf||What is poetry’s place while a deadly pandemic rages on: do we read it as a prayer or a lament? As our isolation aggravates our sense of alienation, do we default to poetry? If not, where do we turn to collectively grieve? Days before the second wave hit, I got a copy of Hunchprose ,  Ranjit Hoskote’s slim, dazzling collection of poetry. Over the course of the last two months, almost reflecting the iterative, aimless way life has unfolded, I’ve engaged with his work in all manners of reading: intermittently, haphazardly, repetitively, blankly, meditatively. In a recent interview, Hoskote said that these poems were written in 2018, 2019, before our lives became hostage to a relentless virus. Reading his poems with this information in mind, one marvels at how prescient the work is today. Drowning voices Seeking an entry point that will pin down the emotional blanket of this book, I want to begin with ‘Lemuria’, a long polyphonic, multi-part poem appearing towards the end. Hoskote references Susan Hiller’s work, The Last Silent Movie (it is to her that this poem is dedicated). In that video, voices of the last speakers of endangered and extinct languages are built into a sequence while the screen remains blank even as subtitles convey the translation of these disembodied tongues. This reminder of death and disappearance evokes the funereal idea of the poem as a speech act before humanity vanishes.  His name comes to you like the light/ a star began transmitting a million years ago;/ a message so long in streaming/ from a source so distant/ it can’t tell you the source is dead.  Reading the work while taking a compulsive break from doom-scrolling, one realises how much this sense of dead and drowning voices pervades Hunchprose — where poetry is the last witness, a silent grieving for the end of times. The theme of a distant past that revisits us in the form of an apocalyptic future also runs through the work.  You’re one dotted line away from extinction here/ one glass skin away from escape/ a landscape returns/ to dust in every jar  Being trapped in time is a constant refrain. Hoskote’s poems remind us that we are stuck inside the hourglass, like a stray pigeon “on the wrong side of the glass.” The estrangement that accompanies highly atomised life under neoliberalism is captured when he writes, In this town/ ask for directions in whispers/ tell no one your birth name . In a poem titled ‘Homer’, Hoskote asks, What was his crime? and answers, Tell them at home he was taken hostage by his own fictions. Hoskote carries the role of the poet with seriousness and humility, interrogating his own engagement in a society that is dominated by other forms of text/ speech/ address. Hunchprose is a nod to both the intuitive nature and the not-prose nature of poetry; it is also a nod to Victor Hugo’s Hunchback of Notre Dame . There is nothing under the sun which is not material for poetry. And there is a case to be made here about how poetry lets itself get heard. Dramatic tension Hoskote is one of the best artistic minds at work in India today. Inevitably, the wealth of his experience as a curator, cultural theorist and critic informs and infuses his rich and resonant poetry. Adept at interlinking religious, historical and mythical voices, and playful while moving between languages, the poetry in this volume is a delight. Ghalib and the Gita and the myth of Varaha turn up, as does a nirguni bhajan of the saint-poet Kabir. Hoskote’s poems reclaim the plurality we inhabit, a plurality that is constantly under threat. Language is spontaneously recalibrated; the poems are rife with fresh coinages and compound words. The poem, ‘Protest’, makes our thoughts turn to Kashmir under occupation, to the farmers’ protest, to the many Shaheen Baghs around the country.  hand on the placard   fist around the stone   hand around the flagpole   fist around the stone   hand around the baton   fist around the stone   grip the flint-edge clarity   of breath ebbing from stone  Here, poetry steps out of nervous cadences and becomes a chant, slowly accelerating, taking us on a split-second journey from non-violent, approved modes of protest to the violence of a repressive state, which, in turn, provokes the counter-violence of the people. It is a testament to Hoskote’s genius that he packs such visual power, pulsating energy and dramatic tension in so few words.  Hunchprose is also populated with parrots and fireflies and cormorants; with spiky trees and marigold petals and pearlthread surf. I am filled with regret that I couldn’t quite accommodate in this review the richness of the natural world which Hoskote evokes in verse after verse. Perhaps this misgiving comes from my search for the political, from my desperation to seek and affirm humanity. I quote my favourite lines from Hunchprose :  Never forget those who stretch hide   into leather   they can craft drums that bring   down palaces  I come away from his poetry having found what I sought. The writer is a poet, novelist and translator.  Hunchprose Ranjit Hoskote Penguin Hamish Hamilton  Rs. 499    Ghalib and theGitaand the myth of Varaha turn up, as does anirguni bhajanof the saint-poet Kabir||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-stone-a-star-and-the-pearlthread-surf/article34996748.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The right to make a choice||Society and patriarchal mindsets have often silenced women’s voices, but some have defied misogyny in a trailblazing manner. Bypassing stifling conventions, Saeeda Bano took the less travelled path and became the first Indian newsreader for All India Radio’s (AIR) Urdu service. Her delightful memoir, Off the Beaten Track, translated by her granddaughter Shahana Raza from the Urdu Dagar Se Hat Ke, captures the heart of Saeeda Bano’s journey. Liberal Bhopal The memoir unravels Saeeda Bano’s personal saga and her forthright exploration of the socio-cultural landscape of pre and post-Independence India. Born in a middle class Muslim family of Bhopal, Saeeda Bano’s childhood was soaked in the liberal cultural values of the city that she treasured and embodied throughout her life. She writes that in Bhopal, “Nawab Sultan Jahan Begum was worried about the wellbeing of her female subjects and wanted to eradicate ignorance in their lives by making provisions for them to receive a proper education. She was also keen to liberate women from a life of social confinement.” When her family moved to Lucknow, the young Saeeda found the atmosphere repressive for women initially. But things were changing there as well under British influence. Residents of the city were witness to the fact that the British gave immense importance to education. More schools opened for girls, and Saeeda took full advantage, choosing to live life on her own terms — “carefree, outspoken, daringly bold and extremely mischievous.” In 1933, despite an emotional four-page letter to her father resisting wedlock, she was married off to Abbas Raza, a civil Judge from an affluent family of Lucknow. However, Saeeda always felt that her husband never respected her individuality, and their married life was scarred by their shared indifference. While in Lucknow she would listen to the radio and Begum Akhtar and wish her voice too could be heard on the air waves. Soon radio station officials were seeking out educated women to participate in discussions and debates. Saeeda got invites to narrate stories or compere discussions. Evenings would often be spent at Begum Akhtar’s home, an impeccable hostess. Tumult in Delhi When Saeeda’s husband left home in Lucknow to stay in Bhopal, she applied for an announcer’s job in AIR Delhi and got it, arriving in Delhi in August, 1947. She delivered her first news bulletin on August 13, quite a historic feat. Through the communal violence that erupted in Delhi, she was escorted to and from the studio by the police and was rostered to read the news only during the day. She writes a chilling account of the mayhem and recalls taking shelter with her son and other Muslim families at Rafi Ahmed Kidwai’s home. The lesson she wants everyone to remember is that “the only way to save ourselves from witnessing the destructive results of the seeds of hatred we have sown, is to not let these feelings grow roots.” Filled with anecdotes — she was once invited to Teen Murti Bhavan by Jawaharal Nehru for tea and home-made brown bread — Saeeda Bano’s unconventional journey to be her own person sets an example for future generations. The lucid translation by Shahana Raza makes the book a joy to read.  The reviewer teaches English at Jamia Millia Islamia University.  Off the Beaten Track Saeeda Bano Translated by Shahana Raza Zubaan/ PRH  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-right-to-make-a-choice/article34996760.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||English Win-glish||Dear Agony Akka,  I have specialised in my chosen field of psychophysics and I have many advanced degrees in the subject. I am now teaching in one university in north India. I spent many years of my life becoming expert in above mentioned field and have also branched out into its sub-sections like Psycho-acoustics, Neuronal Response and Neurotoxicology etc. I am by nature a modest man, but I wish to inform that I have two Ph.Ds. So, it is a mystery to me that when lockdown has come and so many hundreds of Zoom conferences are being held every single day, I am not being invited to even one as expert speaker. Even TV panels are not calling me. My wife is asking what is the use of so many degrees. And I am myself getting little inferiority complex. Please help. — Scientific, Superior Human    DearSSH,  This is important question you have raised and similar questions are being asked by many doctors, scientists, engineers and diplomats. Why they are not being invited to speak on the hundreds of fora that have bloomed like cacti in desert sands during the lockdown? From one organisation alone daily I am getting 2-3 notifications for online sessions on topics ranging from vegan food to Ray’s cinema to flea-powder varieties to foot-and-mouth disease in cattle. Now I am giving one-time all-encompassing answer that can be used by all who have written to me feeling deeply about being neglected. First of all, whether or not you are expert must come last. First, get into Clubhouse and Spaces type platform where everybody is always singing and talking. Also acquire large number of followers on Twitter and Facebook. You must also try to get blue tick on Twitter, which is a delightfully capricious exercise that is not based on whether you are a bot or not, but mostly on some sort of ancient tribal barter formula. One expert is trying to crack the code and I will tell you answer also. Secondly, you must learn good English. If you know how to build rocket to moon but can only speak Maithili, then nobody is caring. But if it is the opposite, i.e., you are speaking fluent English but you don’t know the difference between propellent and pest repellent, then you can be invited for many conferences ranging from string theory to string instruments, sometimes on same day. You only need to change background image. Thirdly, try to get transfer to New Delhi. It will make you automatic expert in most subjects, and you will be invited to talk about political crisis in Karnatak or ancient water-harvesting system in Keral. Remember to wear slightly faded kurta and hold masala vadai in hand while talking. Fourthly, you can take baby steps in public speaking by first sending reworked CV to TV channels. In new CV, you must not mention your degrees. You must measure and share your voice decibel levels, number of tweets per day, and your opinion about Kangana Riot. Once you pass this acid test, you will soon be invited on panels discussing election results, feminism, Indo-Pak relations and more. Fifth and slightly important point. What is this funny subject you are studying? Anybody knows? Anybody cares? Focus on cinema, cricket, religion. Mug up the number of runs Tendulkar has scored in this life and past life. Or write one book about how to suck up to CEOs and how to organise successful cocktail party. It will make you instant choice for every talk show. If you and wife can do all this together, both can be invited. — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/english-win-glish/article34996772.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A difficult extraction||Many players holding the South hand would rush into Blackwood after partner’s strong raise. They would end up at the five-level missing three aces. This South was a wily veteran who had been down this road before. Instead of Blackwood, he used a sequence that commanded North to cuebid a red ace at the four level if he had one. Good bidding, as even 10 tricks would be a challenge. The opening heart lead went to the jack and queen. East tried to cash the ace of hearts, but South ruffed and led the king of spades. East chose to duck. It was tempting to try to reach dummy with a club ruff. South would make an overtrick if East had three or more clubs. East, however, was known to have started with three spades and at least five hearts, so South did not want to risk playing him for three clubs. Instead, South tried for the “Dentist’s Coup.” He cashed two high clubs, extracting two clubs from East, and exited with a diamond. East won with his ace, but he could not prevent dummy from gaining the lead in order to lead a spade toward the queen. Sharp-eyed readers will note that East could have done better by executing a “Dentist’s Coup” of his own. East should have won the king of spades with the ace, cashed the ace of diamonds, and exited with a club. Too hard? South was known to have six spades and one heart, and he had bid clubs twice in the auction. Hard maybe, but not too hard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-difficult-extraction/article34996777.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Two kinds of people||Until a few years ago, I ran a small restaurant in Vellore. We had two kinds of clients. At lunch time, a group of labourers from the nearby cement factories would come in with hungry stomachs. They carried 50-kg sacks on their backs from the lorries to the godowns and back all day. When they came, they were tired, famished and covered in cement dust. The first time they came in, I cringed, as my spotless floors were soon covered in dust. But then I saw them eat. The rice and sambhar disappeared quickly and after the first round, it was rice and rasam. It took us some time to get used to each other. Slowly they began asking questions. “Why are you, a woman running this place?” “Oh, you’ll close down in two months…” Then two months later as we were still open, I noticed a new respect and affection for me. I, in turn, tried to look out for them too. I chose fresh vegetables to give their lunch variety. I found them picking them out and placing them in one corner of the plate. Just give us potatoes and pickle, they said. One day one of them said, “Amma, we work hard until our bodies ache so much; we drink hard to ease the pain. That is the only life we know. But we want more than this for our children.” And one by one they told me how well their children were doing in local schools. Their faces beamed, their voices so full of pride. My other clients used to come in mainly in the evening — they were the privileged sons and daughters of the wealthy from all over India. Most grumbled that they were sent here by their parents and would rather be somewhere else, doing something else. Some of them would spend the afternoons having coffee, watching TV, playing board games. One day, some of the cement workers and the students were there at the same time. I introduced them to each other and told them what the other was doing. One group of students was playing carrom and invited some of the labourers to join the game. After a while all of them had a loud, boisterous game. I watched from the sidelines, quietly happy. The great differences of class, background, language had all been conquered and for a while they were all just men enjoying a game. This harmony that I saw made me think about a time when another group came in and asked, “Can’t they sit outside?” and when I replied, “No,” they made a rude face at me behind my back. After a few months, it pleased my heart no end to hear that some of the students were helping out with the workers children’s education — from giving special classes to playing cricket. What is it that makes some people respect the poor and reach out to them, while another set treats them with disdain? ushajesudasan@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/two-kinds-of-people/article34996739.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-child policy||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced that people with more than two children — barring tea garden workers and SC and ST communities — will gradually become ineligible for benefits under certain State-funded schemes. Sarma had recently blamed Bengali-origin Muslims for having large families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/two-child-policy/article34996729.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Delta plus||Concerns mounted as the Delta plus coronavirus strain — a variant of Delta, first identified in India — was found in at least 12 countries. In India, with cases observed in several States, the government termed it a ‘variant of concern’, indicating increased transmissibility, and advised States to increase testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/delta-plus/article34996731.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Lahore blast||At least three people were killed and 21 injured in a car bomb attack in Lahore’s Johar town, not far from the residence of Mumbai terror attack mastermind and Jamat-ud-Dawa chief Hafiz Saeed. The powerful blast damaged buildings and destroyed vehicles . Policemen guarding Saeed’s house were among those injured, and the attack led to rumours that Saeed was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lahore-blast/article34996733.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Under Such a Sheltering Sky||J.D. Khan  Independently published $3.95 (Kindle price) It is 1971. East Pakistan is in the throes of a brutal conflict. Two young men find themselves caught up in the tumultuous events, one battling to preserve the unity of Pakistan, the other fighting for an independent Bangladesh. Their paths cross in unpredictable ways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/under-such-a-sheltering-sky/article34996741.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Daddy’s Girls||Danielle Steel  Pan Macmillan India Rs. 450 In this story about three sisters, Caroline, the youngest, flees her father’s ranch as early as she could to become a wife and writer. Gemma, the father’s favourite, is a major TV star. Kate, the eldest, stays to work on the ranch, forsaking relationships for a father who takes her for granted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/daddys-girls/article34996752.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Murder At Daisy Apartments||Shabnam Minwalla  Speaking Tiger Books Rs. 399 On Day 46 of the lockdown in May last year, Baman Marker, the chairperson of Daisy and Lily Apartments, is found poisoned. The apartments are sealed, so the murderer could have only been one of the residents. Fifteen-year-old Nandini Venkat, a devourer of murder mysteries, starts an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/murder-at-daisy-apartments/article34996756.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A Kashmiri Century: Portrait of a Society in Flux||Khem Lata Wakhlu  HarperCollins Rs. 599 A writer and social worker offers a glimpse into the lives of Kashmiris, Hindus and Muslims, and how they dealt with the changes over the past one hundred years. Khem Lata Wakhlu chronicles the socio-political and cultural landscape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-kashmiri-century-portrait-of-a-society-in-flux/article34996758.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Fiercely Female: The Dutee Chand Story||Sundeep Misra  Westland Sport Rs. 399 Dutee Chand was dropped from the 2014 Commonwealth Games on the charge that she was ineligible to compete as a female athlete. She appealed; the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne suspended the ban. Misra writes about its impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fiercely-female-the-dutee-chand-story/article34996766.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from Plants||Berona L. Montgomery  Harvard University Press Rs. 1,292 (Kindle price) This volume enters into the depth of botanic experience and shows how society may be improved by appreciating better what plants give us. Montgomery says plants “know” what and who they are, and they use this knowledge to make a way in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lessons-from-plants/article34996768.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Policy Maker’s Journal||Kaushik Basu  Simon & Schuster Rs. 699 Politics, policy-making and encounters with world leaders, this is an insider account of Basu’s years as chief economic adviser to the Indian Government and then chief economist at the World Bank. He writes about the inner workings of the government and the Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/policy-makers-journal/article34996770.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Freed: Fifty Shades Freed as told by Christian||E.L. James  Arrow Rs. 499 In E.L. James’ new take on the world ofFifty Shades, Christian Grey is about to marry Anastasia. But is he husband material? Post marriage, their passion is intact but Ana’s defiant spirit continues to stir Christian’s darkest fears and tests his need for control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/freed-fifty-shades-freed-as-told-by-christian/article34996754.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3156||Across  1 Credit’s bad? Switch to these! (5,5) 6 Conceited runner? Not half! (4) 9 After Disruption, find Free Church deviation (10) 10 A little misty-eyed ... because of this? (4) 12 Dog’s fine, in Ghana mobile hospital, dressing removed from wounds (6,5) 15 Offered response when director quit (having undergone censorship) (7) 16 Hold about: dull way of learning subject in food science (7) 17 Five gold cases aunt misappropriated somewhere in South Pacific (7) 19 Qualifying match entered, reserve gets roasted again? (7) 20 After training, Perth girl is more nimble (11) 23 Treats ... treats injury (4) 24 In Tianjin, Tim ate lychees with a certain warmth (10) 25 Rod’s called out in hellish water (4) 26 Cash in kind of roll from S African politicians (5,5)  Down  1 Commercial retrospective repeatedly displaying nihilistic art (4) 2 Polish expert (4) 3 Ultimate success, stealth deployed by the French: I don’t like it (3,4,5) 4 Got back engraved bust right away (7) 5 Displaying un chose, his art mimicked plumbing, primarily! (7) 7 Everyman ‘so robust’: on the contrary, he reached age of 969! (10) 8 German quality of woodwinds: always wanting more (10) 11 Loft and hearth he renovated for spouse (3,5,4) 13 Apologies and attempts to hide a piece of underwear (10) 14 At last, Danny Dyer runs a reform school, of sorts (3,7) 18 Before today, author Sinclair seen with pained expression (2,2,3) 19 Ingredient of madeira is ... insidiously ... some old grapes (7) 21 Fantastic, seeing a jewel mounted (4) 22 We’re told to set kind of update (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3156/article34996780.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Kiwis victorious||New Zealand triumphed over India by eight wickets to win the inaugural ICC World Test Championship, a two-year league competition that began with the 2019 Ashes series. In the final, played at Southampton’s Rose Bowl, Kyle Jamieson, who took five wickets for 31 in the first innings, was man of the match. Winning their first major ICC title in 21 years, the Kiwis received $1.6 million and the Test Mace — formerly awarded to the top side in the ICC rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kiwis-victorious/article34996717.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Dowry deaths||Within a span of 24 hours, three young women died in Kerala, allegedly due to dowry-related harassment, sparking outrage. Vismaya, 24, (in pic) who was found dead in Kollam, had texted her family about being harassed for dowry. Suchitra, 19, was found hanging in her in-law’s home in Vallikunnam; and Archana, 24, succumbed to burns in Thiruvanathapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dowry-deaths/article34996719.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Third Front?||Representatives of eight opposition parties — NCP, AITC, AAP, NC, SP, RLD, CPI(M) and CPI — met at NCP supremo Sharad Pawar’s Delhi residence. It was organised by the Rashtra Manch, a cross-party platform founded by Yashwant Sinha. The Congress’s absence sparked rumours of a ‘Third Front,’ but five Congress leaders had reportedly been invited and did not attend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/third-front/article34996721.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||McAfee dead||John McAfee, creator of one of the world’s most widely used antivirus programs, was found dead in a prison in Spain. McAfee, 75, who was wanted in the U.S. for tax-related offences, died, allegedly by suicide, soon after Spain’s highest court approved his extradition to the U.S. He was arrested last October at Barcelona’s international airport. He had led a scandal-ridden personal life with a history of legal troubles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mcafee-dead/article34996723.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||In the bank||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) transferred assets worth Rs. 8,441.50 crore, seized from accused fraudsters Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, to public sector banks who the three had allegedly defrauded of Rs. 22,585.83 crore overall. The ED had seized Rs. 18,170.02 crore in total — more than 80% of the loss. This came as Modi lost the first stage of his appeal against extradition from the U.K., and amid the ongoing attempt to extradite Choksi from Dominica.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-the-bank/article34996725.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Unfree press||Apple Daily, a pro-democracy newspaper in Hong Kong, shut down following persecution. Its owner, jailed tycoon Jimmy Lai, was one of the first to be charged under the draconian national security law, which was deployed again to raid the newsroom, arrest editors, and freeze the newspaper’s assets. The 26-year-old tabloid printed a million copies of its last edition — more than 10 times the usual — which were snapped up by Hong Kongers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/unfree-press/article34996727.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Blindness burden in India: restoring vision to the needy||About 9.1% of the world’s population in 2019, 703 million people, were 65 and over: the result of an acceleration in the ageing of the world populace. By 2050 it is estimated that this will rise to 1.5 billion (15.3%). As populations age, there is an increasing disease burden of vision-related disorders. Several of the most common reasons for blindness or moderate-to-severe visual impairment – cataract, under-corrected refractive error, glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy are avoidable if there are mechanisms available for early detection and intervention. Offering treatment to prevent or restore vision would be a noble deed of great value. Indeed, many nations across the globe are bravely doing their best, offering vision restoration with great commitment. Data for the last 30 years, from a major study on the global burden of eye disease, published in The Lancet in February 2021, has noted that although much progress has been made in reducing blindness in this period, there is much scope for reducing the impact of blindness and vision impairment in our society. There is considerable variation between countries. There are over 1.5 crore people over the age of 50 with cataracts in the world today. A further 8.6 crores have severe refractive errors which can be corrected by properly prescribed spectacles. It is vital that more countries should get involved in this effort in their regions so that the number of needlessly blind people reduces in number. Needless blindness Peninsular India, comprising Karnataka, some eastern parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Puduchery, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, has a population of about 36 crores. About 13 lakhs of these are blind, with 76 lakhs suffering from easily correctable cataracts and refractive errors. If we can devise viable methods to reduce this needless blindness by offering treatment modes, that would be a major advancement in reducing this burden. Notable centres Indeed, there are three notable centres in the peninsular area, the Aravind Eye Care System at Madurai, Sankara Nethralaya in Chennai (and Bengaluru), and the L. V. Prasad Eye Institute in Hyderabad.The former two cater to the needs of blind people in the city and its suburbs, and Aravind also caters to people in several districts in Tamil Nadu through mobile facilities, and free treatment for the needy; so does Sankara Nethralaya through similar facilities in Chennai and its suburbia, and at Bengaluru and its suburbia, catering to the needy poor for free). L V Prasad Eye Institute has set up a system that covers the states of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, (and Nanded in Maharashtra) by establishing what has become known as the Rural Eye Health Pyramid. This pyramid comprises over 208 rural “Vision Centres”, situated at the bottom tier of the pyramid, each of which offers eye care services to a local rural population of about 500 people, essentially free of charge, by providing spectacles, and advising the cataract patient to go to the nearest ophthalmologist and so forth. A crucial link to communities is the number of ‘vision guardians’, individuals trained to be involved in their local environment and communicate with people about eye health. In the second tier of the pyramid are 21 Secondary Centres such as rural eye care clinics, for people in the districts. We have three Tertiary Centres (each with its branches), which also do research work in ophthalmology, besides their regular clinical activities. The Quaternary Centre at the top of the pyramid at LVPEI Hyderabad oversees and monitors in real-time the work being carried out at the tiers and corrects what needs to be done, around the clock. What is most appreciable is the readiness with which local merchants and other public-spirited individuals from all the tiers of the pyramid have come forward to support the cause of the Rural Eye Health Pyramid- a total of about 1,000 at the village level (bottom of the pyramid) and about a dozen at the secondary centres at the district level. These are the local equivalents of the Gates or the Tata Foundations, and we are deeply obliged to their philanthropy. More pyramids needed What about other ophthalmology centres across India? Yes, e.g., Aditya Jyot Centre, which caters to Mumbai, particularly Dharavi, where a million people live in a little over 2 square km of space; Project Prakash in Delhi and Western U.P., and at Ahmedabad, Haryana, and elsewhere. They are no doubt analysing the Pyramid Model, improving on it and will come out with their versions, based on the geographic and demographic conditions, and we welcome them and help them, in case they need. Indeed, we need more pyramids across the whole of India so that no one in our nation be needlessly blind al all; let all of India enjoy Vision 20-20! dbala@lvpei.org  A study noted that there is much scope for reducing the impact of blindness and vision impairment in our society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/blindness-burden-in-india-restoring-vision-to-the-needy/article34996528.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling vaccine hesitancy challenge in rural India||In rural India concerns about COVID-19 vaccines are now increasingly commonplace. People voice their concern about what will happen to them if they get vaccinated and have doubts that the government is sending inferior quality vaccines to them. Vaccination sessions in local health centres often see very few or no takers. From a public health and equity perspective, this is a cause for worry. The fear of vaccines and rural communities not only resisting but also outright rejecting vaccination is a reality. A few weeks ago, villagers in Barabanki (UP) jumped into a river to escape COVID-19 vaccinators. Efforts by local health authorities to create awareness are of little avail. There are contrasting dimensions to COVID-19 vaccine rollout: one where people are enthusiastically accepting it and the other of resistance. There are many diverse factors at play in this, which may go beyond the health concerns and have more to do with socio-anthropological aspects of health-seeking behaviour. Vaccine hesitancy Vaccine hesitancy is not a recent phenomenon. It is neither limited to a particular community or country, nor have we seen it only in the context of COVID-19. Various studies have shown that the acceptance of vaccines among African-American communities is relatively low in the U.S. Polls have also shown significant hesitancy among Hispanics and people in rural areas. We have also seen vaccine hesitancy among the urban and the more educated or ‘aware’ populations, with pockets of populations of socio-economically well-off communities refusing to get their kids vaccinated. While vaccine hesitancy can lead to a firm rejection of vaccines, there’s also a possibility of people changing their perceptions over time. Socio-cultural context Most of our fears and apprehensions stem from a deep impact of something adverse or unfavourable that we have personally experienced or our social circles have experienced. Over time these become our beliefs, our innate guards. In the context of the concerns described at the beginning of this article, we must look at vaccine hesitancy from a distinct lens of fear and not necessarily scepticism for new vaccines. These individuals, and the communities they belong to, are probably not really challenging medical science, or questioning vaccine trial results, adequacy or inadequacy of evidence. Rather, they seem to indicate deep-seated fears and belief in conspiracies, the fear of perhaps being discriminated and deceived and of being omitted (from societal benefits). Parts of rural Rajasthan, where we have seen high vaccine refusal rates, are also often poorly resourced, and often tribal. Communities in this region here have believed that the widespread poverty and the general backwardness that they had been pushed into is a result of historically institutionalised discrimination imposed on them by those in power. They believe that they have been systematically alienated of their land rights, forest rights and kept deprived of basic education and health care. All of this has led to a state of despondency and, more than that, a very strong feeling of distrust and resentment against government institutions and those in power. Such contexts cannot be ignored while we try to understand what might be fuelling the extreme fear and resistance around COVID-19 vaccine. . Building trust Communities might not see the impact of a vaccine instantly, as it’s usually preventive in nature rather than curative. People are used to taking medications when they are unwell or in pain, and they may feel better almost immediately, but that’s not the case with vaccines. On the contrary, vaccines administered to a healthy person may lead to occasional side-effects like fever, body aches, etc. Add to that rumours about deaths post-vaccination, and it may not be so easy for people to get convinced about the vaccines. Responses to vaccines must also be discussed and analysed in conjunction with and in comparison to uptake of other health care services by a particular population. Addressing vaccine hesitancy in rural India would first of all require health systems to be honest and transparent. Create awareness, let people know how vaccines work, how they help prevent a disease, what are the probable side effects and how they can be managed. Health authorities need to be comfortable about people raising questions, while providing them answers as best as possible. Moreover, it’s important to be patient with them. In most cases, it would take time before they change their minds, if at all. Being cognisant of local cultural sensitivities and working with trusted intermediaries is important in this effort. Sustained and meaningful efforts need to be made to build trust, gain confidence of communities and meet their expectations. This would also require seeing them as equals, treating them with dignity and acknowledging their fears. To do this, governments and the health functionaries will need to break out of their conventional notions and beliefs around people’s healthcare-seeking behaviours and understand and address their fears and apprehensions. They will also need to rethink and alter their communication strategies and move beyond ceremonial awareness drives and campaigns to interventions that are truly engaging and which make the communities feel important and valued. Even more crucial is to engage communities in planning, execution and monitoring of health care services at all levels. Create fora where they can freely convey what they want and how they want it to be delivered, where they can share how they feel about government policies, programmes or services and where they can hold people and systems accountable for gaps without the fear of being subjugated. Also, governments at both Union and State level must commit to investing more on health care and prioritising primary health care services. Quality health services in all aspects, and not just in sporadic efforts such as pandemic vaccination campaigns, should be delivered. Once we establish these, we might start seeing communities respond favourably and supportively to public health efforts.  (Chhaya Pachauli is associated with Prayas, Chittorgarh, and Jan Swasthya Abhiyan and works on public health issues. Anant Bhan is a researcher in global health, bioethics and health policy.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/tackling-vaccine-hesitancy-challenge-in-rural-india/article34996536.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Clues from meteorite to Earth’s mantle||On November 13, 2015, a meteorite fell near the town of Kamargaon in Assam, India. It weighed a little over 12 kg and scientists decoded its mineral composition and classified it as a chondrite, a variety of stony meteorite. A new study has now shown that by studying this meteorite and its minerals we may find new clues about the Earth’s lower mantle. Layers of the Earth “We are always interested in knowing how this planet of ours was formed. The Earth has different layers - the upper, very thin crust, followed by the intermediate silicate mantle which starts from 30 km to 2,900 km depth, and then the centre iron-nickel alloy core. The mantle faces high temperature and pressure. So by studying these meteorites which may have experienced similar high pressure and temperature conditions, we can understand the inaccessible mantle layer in detail,” explains Sujoy Ghosh from the Department of Geology and Geophysics at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. He is one of the authors of the paper recently published in Geophysical Research Letters.  Previous studies had noted that the Kamargaon meteorite contains minerals such as olivine, pyroxene, plagioclase and chromite. Olivine is also found in Earth's upper mantle. It breaks down into bridgmanite and magnesiowustite in Earth’s lower mantle conditions. This breaking down is an important reaction that controls the physical and chemical properties of the Earth's interior. Olivine dissociation Using new high-resolution electron microscopy and spectroscopy, researchers studied this dissociation reaction of olivine in the Kamargaon meteorite. They noted an alternative mechanism and reactions that may be driving the transformation of olivine. “It is possible that when materials are transported to the lower mantle by convection or subduction, there would be high-temperature conditions in the lower mantle that would cause this dissociated reaction,” adds Dr. Ghosh. The results suggest what processes and reactions may be involved in the formation of Earth’s lower mantle. Sucked by gravity “This meteorite originated from the asteroid belt, between Mars and Jupiter, and was somehow sucked by Earth’s gravity. By studying different meteorites, we can understand in detail about their parent body and in the process understand our own planet and its formation,” adds first author Kishan Tiwari, research scholar, IIT Kharagpur. “The question remained, however, if this process we identified could actually occur in nature. The mechanism needs to be verified in natural terrestrial samples in future studies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/clues-from-meteorite-to-earths-mantle/article34996526.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Why bacteria develop multi-drug resistance||During evolution, the fitness costs experienced by bacteria under constant and fluctuating environments pose an unsolved problem. One way of seeing this is through the example of multi-drug resistance. It is not clear why some bacteria evolve multi-drug resistance while others do not. New research from the Population Biology Lab at IISER Pune could hold a key to this and a similar class of puzzles. Public health menace Multi-drug resistance is a menace in public health, however it is a fascinating problem to an evolutionary biologist who sees it from this angle: possessing multi-drug resistance implies that the bacteria is adept at handling multiple antibiotics simultaneously. This would increase its fitness appreciably. Given that antibiotics exert a very strong selection pressure, it would appear that every bacteria in nature can become multi-drug resistant, which is not the case. “One of the reason given for why that does not happen is fitness cost,” says Sutirth Dey, in whose lab the study was carried out. When bacteria become fit in one environment, they either lose fitness or fail to increase fitness in other environments. “Our study is showing that when the environment is fluctuating, large (but not small) populations can by-pass this effect,” he adds. Yashraj Chavhan, Sarthak Malusare, and Sutirth Dey studied populations of small and large sizes across different constant and fluctuating environments and then subjected the evolved populations to whole-genome, whole-population sequencing analysis. They found that small populations acquire a certain set of mutations which allow them to survive in one environment while paying a cost in others. Large populations also develop these mutations but, in addition, have certain compensatory mutations that together give them fitness to survive in different environments. Thus, population size determines the kind of mutations available to the bacteria, which in turn, leads to the type of fitness costs they evolve. Population size matters In the paper, published in Ecology Letters, the group studied approximately 480 generations of E. coli in four types of steady environments consisting of different carbon sources: galactose, thymidine, maltose and sorbitol; also in one fluctuating environment in which the carbon source changed unpredictably between these four. Bacteria cannot use all carbon sources similarly. “Which carbon source is available impacts the bacterium’s ability to survive and grow. Since this is a very basic requirement for survival and growth, we decided to study what the availability of different kinds of carbon sources does to their evolution,” says Prof Dey. The study showed that, all else being equal, whether the bacteria pay fitness costs or not will depend on the population size they evolve in. Further, on doing whole-genome, whole population sequencing, the researchers found that the larger populations contained greater number of mutations. The smaller populations only had mutations related to metabolism of one kind of carbon source whereas the larger populations had known mutations for metabolism of multiple types of carbon sources. “We believe that this is the reason that the larger populations were able to bypass the costs,” he clarifies.  Our study is showing that when the environment is fluctuating, large (but not small) populations can by-pass this effect. Sutirth Dey IISER, Pune||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/why-bacteria-develop-multi-drug-resistance/article34996531.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Long journeys||Do insects migrate? Which insect has the longest migration route? Many dragonflies, beetles, butterflies, locusts and moths are known to migrate during the breeding season and the distance travelled varies with species. Most insects travel in large groups and scientists have been studying these movements for several years. A recent study ( PNAS ) noted that the painted lady butterfly (Vanessa cardui) can make 12,000 to 14,000 kilometre round trips. This is the longest annual insect migration circuit so far known. Found in sub-Saharan Africa, the butterfly is able to travel to Europe, crossing the Sahara Desert when weather conditions are favourable. The caterpillars thrive in wetter winter conditions of sub-Saharan Africa and the adults migrate to North Africa during wet spring. They then cross the Mediterranean Sea to reach Europe. Simulations in the laboratory showed that favourable tailwinds between Africa and Western Europe help these insects in transcontinental travel. They fly about one to three kilometres above sea level with a maximum speed of around 6 metres per second. The researchers studied a similar butterfly species and calculated that the painted lady may have enough body fat to sustain 40 hours of non-stop flying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/long-journeys/article34996530.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Having a pineapple moment||As the world celebrates International Pineapple Day tomorrow, Mumbai-based Studio Beej is all set to launch Ananas, a clutch made of Piñatex. A fresh take on their evening clutch, Ditya, the new handmade variant is aimed at popularising the bio-textile made from the leaves of the pineapple plant. Globally, it is used by brands such as H&M, Paul Smith, and Hugo Boss. This is not the Studio’s first experiment with Piñatex. Last year, they used it in a cross body bag (Laya), a hobo bag (Ananta), and Ditya. With these offerings, the brand joins the list of international names like Chanel, H&M, Hugo Boss, and Nike — who recently launched the seven-sneaker Happy Pineapple Collection — that work with the plant-based alternative to leather. The startup launched in 2020 is the brainchild of Arundhati Kumar, who believes that being sustainable must go beyond being just eco-friendly. “There are other companies in India who are working with eco materials such as Arture [cork, Desserto or cactus leather], Aulive [Piñatex, cork], but we are the only company that dabbles in multiple sustainable materials. We were the first to bring cactus leather into the country,” says Kumar, whose line of wallets, clutches, bags, belts, laptop sleeves made of bio-based-materials marry the aesthetic of Indian craft with the ethical practices of conscious living. “We currently work with four main materials — cork from Portugal, Piñatex from Spanish company Ananas Anam [which sources from the Philippines], Desserto from Mexico, and Khesh from West Bengal.” Cork is the bark of the tree which is harvested responsibly every nine years, explains Kumar, adding that it is light because one-third of its cellular structure is air. “So a big bag, unlike one made of leather, will never weigh you down. It’s completely recyclable and comes with cotton backing. It’s also naturally antibacterial and antimicrobial.” While earlier bags were designed by her, the new launch has been crafted by their creative director, Abhijit Datta. Recycled zippers and handloom linings Kumar goes on to explain how Desserto is vegan leather derived from the Nopal Cactus of Mexico, and Khesh is made from old cotton saris torn into thin strips and re-woven to make a colourful fabric. “When we curate a product, while we do look at the hero material, we also try to minimise the impact of the accessories we use.” Bag linings are sourced from Bengaluru-based Khaloom, which creates handloom material from recycled yarn, and occasionally upcycled material from discarded umbrellas is also used. Zippers come from Japanese company YKK which makes them from recycled PET plastic, and logos are embroidered. “We live in a time when customers want transparency. We put out supplier and certification details on our website so they can decide whether the product fits into their conscious buying mode,” says Kumar, adding that their delivery packaging is made of jute and recyclable cardboard. Now exploring While these materials are the core of Studio Beej, she speaks of two other cutting-edge materials she’s currently exploring: Malai from Kerala, made from coconut waste, and Mirum from the U.S. that combines natural fibres like corn and rice husk with rubber waste. While Kumar is keen on using homegrown materials, she says not much R&D is happening in India. So, will the worlds of luxury and sustainability meet easily? “Sustainable is going to be the new luxury. Luxury is going the conscious way. From Hermes to Fossil, and Nike, every brand is working on such materials,” she concludes.  Products are priced between Rs. 850 and Rs. 14,500. studiobeej.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/having-a-pineapple-moment/article34997087.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Why Zumba when there’s Rambha?||Rejoice, young literary mitron . It is a golden time for aspiring writers who dream of contributing to India’s intellectual discourse. Suddenly, wonderful opportunities are raining from the sky like renegade petals from a pushpaka vimanam doing loops. Are you yearning to project our culture and literature globally? Then look no further, all you Saraswati seekers. Young scribes, use these copyright-free ideas as starting points and write many, many books that bring back our lost glory. Apsarobics for Heavenly Bodies  Everyone wants to be fit. Unfortunately, the lucrative fitness market has been cornered by the diabolical West. It is time to wrest it back with an unbeatable book on fitness that goes back to Vedic times. Why should one cross-train or do Pilates in unflattering tights when one can lose weight dancing like Rambha and her sister Apsaras in sequinned bustiers to a Raj-Koti tune? Imagine how strenuous it must have been for these ageless women to distract stubborn sages deep in penance. Share the six-pack secrets of our divine damsels in an unbeatable fitness book reeking of our culture. Sweet Dreams with Kumbhakarna They say health is wealth. And we know sleep is health. Today, almost everyone is sleep-deprived. And again the West has misled us into believing that sound sleep can be achieved only through evil allopathic medication. Let the world know about the very first sleeper cell in history, Kumbhakarna. Unveil the secrets of how this original Samrat of Somnology could sleep through palace remodelling work, bickering concubines, forest fires, and war with not a care in the world. Teach the world to snore without pills like our Vedic ancestors did. Maricha & Subahu’s Essential Guide to Disruption What do all the biggest businesses today — like, say, Netflix, Uber, Airbnb — have in common? They are all disruptors. The West, that villain again, has been pretending for far too long that the concept of disruption is somehow something they invented. We are the original disruptors. And the true brand ambassadors are Messrs Maricha and Subahu. A book on them is long overdue. Let the world learn from them. While the West has upstarts, we will have a fresh wave of start-ups. Organic Farming the Shakuntala Way Today, every morsel of food we put into our mouths is contaminated with toxic pesticides and foul antibiotics that have been introduced into them only because of faulty western thinking. What better way to detox than to follow Shakuntala’s Vedic Agri Tech. After all, any of our ancient books will tell you that during her apprenticeship at Sage Kanva’s ashram , she was in charge of the veggie patch. Young writers, let us show the West that nothing beats wholly organic deer dung and peacock urine when it comes to growing wholesome vegetables, not to mention mood-enhancing mushrooms. Bakasura’s Barbecue Recipes Other than Padma Lakshmi, who has been showing the West the power of curd rice (in her lovely food videos, attired in fetching gear), our culinary versatility has been sadly underrepresented. Bakasura, if you ask me, has got a bad rap. He wasn’t a gluttonous man-eater as purported. In today’s world, he’d be called a foodie. He’s like the guy who pushes you out of the way at the buffet queue to get his sixth helping of Nargisi kofta . Time we did a recipe book in his honour. If he was eating humans for all three meals, I’m sure he must have used some pretty interesting condiments, and techniques to spice things up. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-zumba-when-theres-rambha/article34997089.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Oxygen demand dips to 82 MT, expected to fall further: govt.||The daily medical oxygen demand of the city has dropped to 82 MT from 972 MT in the beginning of May and is expected to fall further for the rest of June, according to Delhi government data shared with The Hindu . Also, about half of the new COVID-19 cases in the city in June are people between 30-60 years of age and of these cases, 267 were children below the age of 14 years. Dip in cases The oxygen requirement has steadily decreased through June, from 181.4 MT on June 2 to 82.01 MT on June 22. It has been going down as both new and active COVID-19 cases have been decreasing in the city. In April-May, during the peak of the second wave, the city had faced a grave oxygen crisis and people had died in hospitals as healthcare facilities ran out of oxygen. There were 7,093 new cases during the period, of which 3,358 cases (47.3%) were people between 30-60 years of age, according to the data. Also, 2,369 (33.3%) were people less than 30 years of age. “The COVID-19 infections have always been more among younger people as they move around more. But severe cases, who need hospitalisation, are mainly elderly people and people with comorbidities,” said Sumit Ray, Head of Department of Critical Care at Holy Family Hospital. However, the breakdown of data on new cases is not the same as the data from the official bulletin. Only Delhi residents “The Delhi government gets a list from the ICMR every day which has details of positive cases from tests conducted. That data is divided district-wise and age-wise,” a government official said. “However, the districts then check this data and many people in the list turns out to be not living in Delhi and coming from Noida or Gurugram and getting tested in Delhi. These cases are excluded from the health bulletin as they do not live in Delhi. So, the cases in the bulletin will be lesser,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/oxygen-demand-dips-to-82-mt-expected-to-fall-further-govt/article34996959.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi parks, golf courses to open tomorrow||City parks, gardens and golf courses will be allowed to open from Monday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) stated in an order on Saturday. Apart from these, the order stated, marriage ceremonies at banquet halls will be allowed up to 50% of their capacity, gyms and yoga institutes, too, will be permitted to open up to 50% capacity from Monday. The Capital reported 85 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,33,675, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, nine deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,961. A total of 72,920 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate was 0.12%. Of the total cases, 14,07,116 people have recovered and there are 1,598 active cases. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that more than 2 lakh people were vaccinated on Saturday, the highest number of daily vaccinations till now. “In Delhi, 2,05,170 people have been given vaccine doses. For the last three days, more than 1.5 lakh people are being vaccinated continuously. The Delhi government is rapidly trying to protect people from a possible third wave by vaccinating them,” Mr. Sisodia said. AAP MLA Atishi said about 1.5 lakh doses of vaccines are being administered daily and according to this, the Central government should give at least 45 lakh doses to Delhi in July. She said that the vaccination stock of Delhi is currently around 8.39 lakhs and vaccine stock is available for five days as per the current vaccination pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-parks-golf-courses-to-open-tomorrow/article34996964.ece
27 June 2021||Jammu,||‘Centre must follow-up on meet outcome’||The Centre must follow-up on the positive outcomes of the recent all-party meeting in Delhi for early restoration of democracy in Jammu and Kashmir, Congress leader G.A. Mir said on Saturday. Mir, who is the president of the Congress’ Jammu and Kashmir unit, was among 14 leaders of eight different parties from the Union Territory who attended the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 24. Four former Chief Ministers Mehbooba Mufti of the PDP, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah of the National Conference and Ghulam Nabi Azad of the Congress were at the meet along with former Deputy Chief Ministers Tara Chand, Nirmal Singh, Kavinder Gupta and Muzzafar Baigh. Mr. Mir said all the political parties responded to the call of the Prime Minister and this was a positive indication for the way forward. “Now, it is for the Prime Minister to respond to this gesture, and the ball is in the court of the Centre to follow-up the positive outcome of the meeting and create a conducive atmosphere for the early restoration of democracy in Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. Briefing senior Congress functionaries here on his return from Delhi, Mr. Mir said the party’s delegation, which was led by Mr. Azad, played its role in the right earnest, according to the guidance of the Congress high command. “Ball is in the court of the Centre now for the positive outcome of the deliberations of the all-party meeting, in which the Congress placed people’s priorities rightly, as per the aspirations of the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. Mr. Mir said that Mr. Azad initiated the deliberations and highlighted the priorities of the people of Jammu and Kashmir to move ahead for restoration of democracy at the earliest. Issues highlighted The issues highlighted by the Congress in the meeting were heard with great patience and attention by Prime Minister Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, the J-K Congress chief said. Restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s Statehood at the earliest before Assembly elections and transparent delimitation exercise were among many issues that were raised by the Congress, Mr. Mir said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-must-follow-up-on-meet-outcome/article34996946.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||RSS chief should clear stand on ‘Ram Mandir land scam’: AAP||AAP MP Sanjay Singh on Saturday urged the head of RSS to state his stand on the alleged scam related to the Ayodhya temple land deal. He also questioned why various government investigation agencies are silent on the issue. “I have written a letter to RSS head Mohan Bhagwat and have asked for a time to meet him. I will hand over all these documents to him as proof of the scam related to land and corruption by the BJP and members of the trust. I would like the RSS head to take note of it and objectively clear his stand on the scam,” Mr. Singh said. The AAP leader said that the alleged scam is an attempt of the BJP to hurt the feelings of Hindus. “Today, the Prime Minister convened a meeting with the members of the Ram Janmabhoomi trust working for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Only the BJP and its malice is to be blamed for the construction work that has halted since the last one and a half years,” Mr. Singh said. “I want to ask the PM, did you ask them why they failed to pay the dues for the construction of the Ayodhya Temple yet? Who all are receiving the share from the scam money that is reaching the top? Which members from the BJP and the trust are involved in this,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rss-chief-should-clear-stand-on-ram-mandir-land-scam-aap/article34996962.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Reining in the Big Four||The story so far: On Thursday, the U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee voted to advance six Bills outlawing business practices that sit at the core of tech companies such as Google, Facebook, Amazon and Apple. The package of Bills, which would stop the Big Tech from competing on the platforms they run, will become law once they are passed in the House and in the Senate. These Bills constitute the biggest action to come out of the anti-trust scrutiny these companies have been facing in the U.S. over the last few years. While many nations have taken legal or legislative routes to limit the influence of the Big Four, this is the first major move on their home turf. What is ‘anti-trust’? Anti-trust is an American term for laws meant to prevent unfair business practices such as monopolisation, which leads to fewer choices for consumers and higher prices. A prime example of anti-trust law in action is when Microsoft was sued in 1998 for giving away the Internet Explorer web browser for free with its Windows operating system, which led to the collapse of browser-maker Netscape. Microsoft was found guilty of using its market dominance in operating systems to build a monopoly in browsers and was forced to open up Windows to other developers. The major anti-trust laws in the U.S. are the Sherman Act of 1890 and the Clayton Act of 1914, and the Federal Trade Commission is charged with upholding them. The evolution of technology has, however, taken the edge off these anti-trust laws. A report submitted in October last year after a 16-month probe by the U.S. Congress stated that since rise in consumer prices is the currently accepted indicator of unfair practices, it is difficult to gauge the actions of companies like Google and Facebook that make money off advertising and give many products away for free. The new package of six Bills that is now in Congress is an attempt to add more teeth to anti-trust proceedings against new-age tech firms. What’s in the Bills? The Platform Competition and Opportunity Act would prevent big tech companies from nipping competition in the bud by buying up smaller rivals, like what Facebook had done by buying up Instagram for $1 billion. The Ending Platform Monopolies Act would prevent companies from becoming players on their own platforms, like how Amazon sells its own brands, competing with smaller retailers that use its e-commerce platform; Apple’s chokehold over developers on App Store is another example. The Augmenting Compatibility and Competition by Enabling Service Switching (ACCESS) Act promotes interoperability, forcing platforms to let users take data such as contacts lists and profile information with them while migrating to other platforms. The Merger Filing Fee Modernization Act increases the government fee on large corporate mergers to help fund anti-trust law enforcement. The American Choice and Innovation Online Act would prevent companies from giving preferences to their own products in the marketplaces they run, such as Google search results prioritising YouTube videos or Amazon highlighting its own brands. The State Antitrust Enforcement Venue Act would prevent companies from shifting anti-trust cases to courts that could be favourable to them. Will they become law? Over the last few years, the Big Tech has lost favour with both political parties in the U.S. While Republicans perceive an anti-conservative bias in these companies on issues such as free speech, Democrats have been up in arms over weak data privacy and fake news proliferation. These Bills enjoy support primarily from the Democrats, with some Republicans thrown in. However, legislative procedures such as a filibuster may force the Bills’ supporters to get more Republicans on board. The 50-50 split in the Senate, which is the Upper House, will be another obstacle to surmount. The tech companies also have their supporters in both camps. According to news reports, some Republican legislators see these laws as excessive government control on private enterprises, which is anathema to the conservatives. On the other hand, for some Democratic legislators from California, on whose turf these companies sit, any loss to these companies translates to a loss in incomes and employment in their domains. How will the move affect India? Any behavioural change that these companies may be forced to adopt in the U.S, which is their largest market, would likely be adopted in all their global markets as well. India already has versions of some of these laws, such as the one that prevents Amazon from selling brands that it owns on its platform. If implemented globally, a level playing field for brand visibility on Google and Amazon will benefit retailers in India.  India already has versions of some of these laws. If the new rules are implemented globally, a level playing field for brand visibility on Google and Amazon will benefit retailers in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reining-in-the-big-four/article34996460.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP wants Kejriwal to quit over oxygen ‘misuse’||The BJP on Saturday staged a protest outside a government hospital here demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for the mismanagement of oxygen supply in the Capital during the second wave of COVID-19. Led by Rohtas Nagar MLA Jitendra Majahan, party workers demanded the registration of a murder case against the Chief Minister for the deaths of several innocent citizens in Delhi outside the Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital in east Delhi where Mr. Kejriwal’s effigy was also burnt. “The Delhi government has proved to be a complete failure in dealing with the second wave of the pandemic in the Capital despite claiming to have spent nearly Rs. 47,000 crores on healthcare infrastructure in the last six years,” Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said. No facilities upgraded “Not a single new hospital was opened nor were healthcare facilities upgraded; not even a single ventilator was purchased nor new ICU beds added in hospitals; only publicity was being carried out at the expense of taxpayers’ money,” Mr. Bidhuri also alleged. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, holding the Delhi Chief Minister responsible for the loss of lives in many States due to lack of oxygen, said if he did not apologise for mismanagement in the next 24 hours the BJP would launch a citywide mass movement against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-wants-kejriwal-to-quit-over-oxygen-misuse/article34996960.ece
27 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||DCs in Odisha asked to find ‘a day for children’||The Odisha government has directed all District Collectors to spare a day in a quarter for addressing grievance of children and protection of their rights. The order came in wake of allegations over non-convening of different committees meant for protection of child rights. Nine committees There are at least nine different committees constituted for children in the district as well as panchayat level. But, members of committees fail to meet regularly. Seven district-level committees have been formed from monitoring and evaluation of schemes to reviewing and sanctioning foster care funds and from monitoring standards of childcare institutions to hearing of cases related to juveniles in conflict with law. When asked, Director of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Arvind Agarwal said, “though there are many committees, members do not meet at regular interval which defeats very purpose of formation of committees. Collectors have been asked to fix one day in a quarter and review all activities of all committees at one place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dcs-in-odisha-asked-to-find-a-day-for-children/article34996943.ece
27 June 2021||Guwahati,||Sorry for Kimin row, says Border Roads Organisation||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has issued an unconditional apology to the people of Arunachal Pradesh for the “inadvertent mistake” of using the wrong name of a place without any “mala fide intention”. The organisation had attracted flak for “renaming” Kimin, a small town in the State’s Papum Pare district about 75 km from capital Itanagar, as Bilgarh of Assam, during a programme attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on June 17. “The unfortunate incident is nothing more than an inadvertent mistake, just happened in the pressure of organising the event while racing against the time. In no way, BRO had even an iota of mala fide intention of hurting the sentiments of the people of Arunachal Pradesh. It should be taken as an unconditional apology, due to the emotive connection that BRO has with people of the State,” the organisation said in a statement on Saturday. The BRO said the confusion was created due to miscommunication. It claimed that someone in their rank had mistakenly noted Kimin being in Assam during a casual discussion over the proposed event to inaugurate a road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sorry-for-kimin-row-says-border-roads-organisation/article34996944.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. aims to plant 33 lakh saplings this year||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Saturday inaugurated the yearly plantation drive ‘Van Mahotsav’ from Garhi Mandu. All 70 Assemblies will witness plantation under the leadership of MLAs on Sunday. The government plans to plant 33 lakh saplings this year under the campaign. “The Kejriwal government’s efforts in the last six years have reduced pollution levels in the Capital by 25%. I appeal to the people to participate in this plantation drive,” Mr. Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-aims-to-plant-33-lakh-saplings-this-year/article34996963.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP seeks CVC intervention in DTC matter||The BJP on Saturday apprised the Central Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) of the alleged “grave financial irregularities” in the procurement of 1,000 low-floor DTC buses. BJP Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta sought CVC’s intervention to punish the alleged culprits and cited the “arbitrary manner” in which the work order for 1,000 low-floor buses was put in abeyance. “The timing of withdrawing the purchase order of 1,000 low-floor DTC buses is suspicious. Just when financial bungling has come out in the public domain and an investigation ordered, the Delhi government seems to have hurriedly put the lid on the matter, hoping the allegations would die down,” Mr. Gupta alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-seeks-cvc-intervention-in-dtc-matter/article34996957.ece
27 June 2021||New Delhi,||Light rain expected today: IMD||Parts of the city received light rainfall on Saturday evening. There is forecast of “light rain” and “partly cloudy sky” on Sunday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “Mostly central and north Delhi received light rain. Our station in Palam did not receive any rain,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional centre of the IMD, said. “Prevailing meteorological conditions suggest that no favourable conditions for further advancement of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and Punjab during next 7 days,” the IMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/light-rain-expected-today-imd/article34996961.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||UB40’s India collab||UB40, the hitmakers who created emotive reggae versions of songs like ‘Red Red Wine’ and ‘Can’t Help Falling Love’, leverage their global popularity in their latest album, a collaboration-heavy offering called Bigga Baggariddim . Released on June 25, it features Jamaican reggae veterans like Winston Francis and Inner Circle, plus the newer wave of Caribbean artists like Leno Banton, Protoje, Koffee and Chronixx and Blvk H3ro. Where the scope of Bigga Baggariddim actually gets global is with their inclusion of New Zealand-based roots reggae band House of Shem and Indian vocalist-producer General Zooz aka Zorawar Shukla, part of the party-starting crew Reggae Rajahs. The latter leads the song ‘Roots Rock Reggae’, which released on June 18.Bigga Baggariddimsees UB40 hand the reins to their collaborators, letting them take over all vocal duties throughout 15 tracks. “It reflects that our career has been truly international. It’s a source of pure joy and we wanted to reflect that in this record,” says drummer Jimmy Brown.  Listen on Apple Music, Spotify, Pandora, and YouTube Music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ub40s-india-collab/article34997090.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Cookies and cookalongs||Add to all the focaccia, sourdough, and pan pasta experience you racked up last year with ITC Master Chef’s live cookalong,Recipes Made Easy. Hosted by chefs Kirti Bhoutika and Akanksha Khatri (winner and finalist ofMasterchef Indiaseasons 5 and 6 respectively). 5 p.m., in.bookmyshow.com. But if you’d like to skip kitchen time, Ricky’s Cookies presents ‘Mango Binge’, with golden Imampasand in Sunny Days cookies (Rs. 90), a rice pudding (Rs. 210), and a baked custard (Rs. 200). Details: rickyscookies.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cookies-and-cookalongs/article34997088.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Get your laugh on||Prepare for a comedy Sunday. Here’s the roster: actor-comic Vipul Goyal will ponder dreams, arranged marriage, and more inHumorously Yours(5 p.m., Rs. 599); Parvinder Singh will take to Zoom withPunchliners. Expect his family and pandemic observations to star in his rib-ticklers (6 p.m., Rs. 349). And finally, multi-lingual comic Vivek Muralidharan — who switches between English, Tamil, Hindi and Telugu — will bring his brand of socio-political humour inBits & Pieces(8 p.m., Rs. 199). All tickets on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/get-your-laugh-on/article34997091.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Bajpayee teaches acting||He’s fresh offThe Family Man Season 2and raking up kudos for his role in Netflix’sRay(a series inspired by the works of filmmaker Satyajit Ray). But Manoj Bajpayee is still making time for his fans, to share some acting tips and anecdotes. His 2.5-hour masterclass, powered by learning and entertainment platform Unluclass, will cover everything from cracking auditions, breaking down the script, and improvising, to training your voice and even dealing with criticism. Sign up for Rs. 999, on unlu.io||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bajpayee-teaches-acting/article34997092.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Off the loom||There’s a new handloom brand in the market. Founded by Mumbai-based Prachi Saraf — a designer who fine-tuned her skills at her family’s business house — Vyusti is just days old and is a for-profit social enterprise that works directly with weavers in Karnataka and Maharashtra. Withdhotis,duppattas, saris, shawls and stoles, the inventory is limited at the moment, but the Chitradurga, Karvat Kati, Paithani, Himroo, and Bagalkot weaves are tempting. From Rs. 2,700 (for a silkdupatta) onwards, on vyusti.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/off-the-loom/article34997093.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Cartoon hour||There’s no escaping screens, but you can introduce kids to a paper-and-pencil hour. HobbyStation is organising a doodling workshop for children. The Zoom workshop will teach fun sketches and help improve concentration, memory, and problem-solving skills.Rs. 250, 3 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. Alternatively, there’s the Cartoon Classroom with Ajit Narayan, who’s worked with publishing houses such as Pratham Books. Learn to draw comic strips, animal cartoons, and more. 6 p.m., Rs. 699. Register: in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cartoon-hour/article34997096.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramen to that||Cool rainy days are best enjoyed with a steaming hot bowl of ramen. Bengaluru’s newest delivery service, NaruNoodle Bar, launched a few weeks ago with ex-Toit and Permit Room chef, KavanKuttappa (who’s also had stints at Eleven Madison Park, Le Bernardin, and Momofuku in New York). The ramen fan puts up the week’s menu for pre-orders every Thursday, with delivery on Sunday. The last couple of weeks have seen kits for a gorgeous Truffle Tori Paitan and a Green Chilli Miso. Approx Rs. 800 onwards on @eatnaru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ramen-to-that/article34997101.ece
27 June 2021||June 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Raise a toast||Dram alert. John Distilleries (of the internationally-acclaimed Paul John Indian Single Malts) has launched a new blended whiskey, Roulette. A balance of peated and unpeated malts, with a 42.8% ABV, it has been matured in ex-bourbon casks. Available in Goa at the moment. Rs. 850 for 750 ml. At jdl.in. Meanwhile, Diageo India will launch Epitome Reserve, the country’s first small-batch, craft 100% rice whisky, by the end of July. With 2,000 bottles, the woody spirit has notes of dried fruits, toffee caramel and vanilla. diageoindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/raise-a-toast/article34997106.ece
