28 June 2021||Srinagar/ New Delhi,||Suspected drone attack on IAF Jammu station leaves 2 injured||In the first instance of a drone attack on a defence installation in the country, unmanned aerial vehicles are suspected to have dropped and detonated two explosive devices at the Jammu Air Force Station on Sunday, leaving two Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel injured. “Two low-intensity explosions were reported in the technical area of the Jammu Air Force Station. One caused minor damage to the roof of a building while the other exploded in an open area. There was no damage to any equipment. A probe is on,” an IAF spokesman said. The explosions took place around 1:40 a.m., within six minutes of each other. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh termed it a “terror attack”. “An FIR under Sections 16,18, 23 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Section 3 of Explosive Substance Act and Sections 307, 120-B of the IPC has been lodged into the incident,” Inspector-General of Police Mukesh Singh said. The high-security station is a technical airport and hosts helicopters and transport aircraft only. A National Investigation Agency (NIA) team, besides the IAF teams, visited the site. A few individuals were questioned, officials said. Security agencies suspect the use of a drone or a quadcopter in the attack. “We are piecing together the evidence at the site,” an official said. The attackers may have been operating the drone in close vicinity of the air base as the quadcopter believed to have been used has limited range, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suspected-drone-attack-on-iaf-jammu-station-leaves-2-injured/article35009543.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath reaches Ladakh, to review ground situation||The dedication of Indian soldiers and veterans towards the country is an “exemplary example”, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday soon after arriving in Ladakh on a three-day visit. Official sources said the Minister will carry out a comprehensive review of India’s operational readiness in eastern Ladakh amid a stalemate in the next stage of disengagement with China at several friction points. ‘Govt. committed’ Addressing veterans in Leh, Mr. Singh said the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to roll out the ‘One Rank One Pension’ scheme, ending a decades-long wait, was testimony to the government’s unwavering commitment towards the welfare of ex-servicemen. “Our aim is to take care of you in the same way as you all have taken care of the security of the country,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajnath-reaches-ladakh-to-review-ground-situation/article35009540.ece
28 June 2021||Kochi,||Rs. 1,416-crore package to bail out MSMEs||The State government has announced a relief package of Rs. 1,416 crore for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) as part of the second tranche of support to help the sector tide over the pandemic-induced crisis. The support includes interest subvention, relief in payment of rentals on standard design factories under various agencies such as Kinfra and KSIDC, and subsidy support for new enterprises, especially those in the industrially backward districts such as Kasaragod, Wayanad and Pathanamthitta. Announcing the package at a webinar organised in connection with the World MSME Day celebrations on Sunday, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said MSMEs could avail themselves of the assistance from July to December. He said the State was looking keenly at responsible investment even as the investment climate had tremendously improved. Socially responsible, sustainable and environment-friendly investments were the ways to face our future, he said. Chance for defaulters The Minister said entrepreneurs who had defaulted on loans from the KSIDC would be allowed to seek restructuring of the loans. The Corporation would provide low interest loans worth Rs. 100 crore to 150 MSMEs. Another low interest loan scheme was being worked out for Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) returning to State. Mr. Rajeeve said the first Pinarayi Vijayan government had succeeded in helping 68,000 new MSMEs to take root. These units provided employment to an estimated 2.42 lakh people. The first of the enterprises under the ‘One District One Product’ programme was expected to get off the ground soon with a scheme launched under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ banner to create micro enterprises. The Minister said around 145 online applications had been received by the Industries Department and over 100 units were expected to be launched within a short time. The Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) and the Industries Department had joined hands for the ‘One District One Product’ programme, which is being implemented across the country identifying unique products which are strengths of each district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-1416-crore-package-to-bail-out-msmes/article35009789.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Registration fee to be bank-transferred||To bring about transparency and efficiency in the registration processes, Minister for Commercial Taxes, Registration and Stamp Law P. Moorthy has called for certain reforms. They include online payment of registration fee by registrants, adherence to guideline value irrespective of the last registered price of property in the same survey number, and the launch of a grievances cell for the public to file complaints on phone, WhatsApp and email. At review meetings held in the last one month, Mr. Moorthy issued a series of instructions to the Sub-Registrars that should be followed with immediate effect under the direct supervision of senior officials, sources in the Department told The Hindu on Sunday. Instructions were given to make sure that applicants seeking registration of documents should make payment of fee from their bank accounts. The practice in a majority of the cases now is that the document writers, who have offices close to the sub-registrar offices, allegedly make payments from their accounts on behalf of the registrants and receive cash payments from them later. Where there was difficulty in making online payments, e-seva counters would assist registrants make the transaction. Efforts were being made to enable members of the public to pay stamp duty and registration fee at nationalised banks, the sources said. “This paves the way for corruption since many document writers bill the applicants over the actual charges in the name of processing fee and service charges. During several raids conducted by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption in recent times, cash disproportionate to the registration fee and the stamp duty was recovered from the offices of the document writers,” a senior official said. The official said there was a misconception among members of the public that purchase of stamp papers was compulsory for registrations, which was contrary to the fact. The Registration Department collects a stamp duty of 7% and registration fee of 4% for registration, gift, exchange of properties. ‘A sentiment’ “Registration can be done on a plain paper and there is actually no need for any physical stamp papers. Stamp duty can also be paid partly by bank transfer. For instance, if the stamp duty for registering a document is Rs. 25,000, the entire money can be paid online or stamp papers worth some part of it can be purchased and the remaining settled online. It is just a sentiment among the people to use stamp papers for registrations,” the official said. As for the issue of Christian marriage certificate, which has to be obtained from the Registrar-General of Marriages, Chennai, Mr. Moorthy directed the officials to issue copies of such certificates in all districts to avoid unnecessary travel by the applicants to the State capital. Guideline value Mr. Moorthy directed officials not to rely on the last registered value of property in a given survey number and instead stick to the guideline value. “If a land in a particular survey number has been registered for a value that is higher than the guideline value for any reason, it need not be binding on another person buying property in the same survey number to match that...the guideline value should remain the benchmark,” the Minister was quoted as saying at a review meeting. Asked why would a registrant register a property at a higher price, Mr. Moorthy said some people going for home loans would increase the value for a higher funding component. “It is not fair to impose the higher registered price as the guideline value for others,” he said. Among the other suggestions made by the Minister were to minimise pendency in the issue of documents on the same day and creation of a public grievances cell in Chennai with the contact numbers and email address displayed at all sub-registrar offices. Tamil Nadu Registration Department Officials’ Association president S.E. Vasudhevan welcomed the reforms. He said these measures would prevent unwarranted allegations of corruption against registration officials and instil confidence in people since the system would become transparent.  Some people going for home loans will increase the value for a higher funding component. It is not fair to impose the higher registered price as the guideline value for others||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/registration-fee-to-be-bank-transferred/article35009634.ece
28 June 2021||KURNOOL,||Heavy rain inundates Mantralayam town||Heavy rain in Kurnool district led to the inundation of several areas in Mantralayam town and Kurnool city on Sunday. The road communication between Kurnool and Kodumuru, and Kurnool and Adoni were snapped. The meteorology officials said that Kodumuru received 12 cm of rainfall in 24 hours, while the district on an average received 3.5 cm of precipitation till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. Heavy downpour continued in the afternoon too.. “The Fire Services Department personnel from Yemmiganur rescued 30 farmers who were trapped in a stream at Nadavadam. The personnel took the help of ropes and brought the farmers to safety,” said District Fire Officer Srinivas Reddy. At Tummalavanka vagu on the Kurnool-Adoni road, a lorry carrying gas cylinders got stuck with the driver inside the cabin. When he shouted for help, the villagers reached the lorry with the help of ropes and rescued the driver. They also pulled out the lorry from the stream after toiling for one hour. Traffic disrupted The Yeyyimagnur-Ralladoddi road was cut off and traffic on many State Highways was stalled till noon. The drains in Kurnool city began overflowing, inundating some low-lying areas. The Fire Services Department personnel also rescued 70 heads of cattle and a shepherd, Nageswar Rao, who was trapped in the flood waters of the Hundri, near Remadur, in Kallur mandal. The District Fire Officer said on receiving a call from Kallur tahsildar, the Kurnool unit went to the spot and rescued the cattle and the shepherd using inflatable rubber boats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-inundates-mantralayam-town/article35009533.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Missing boy gets reunited with parents||The reach of social media proved to be the hero in a missing case after a young boy was successfully reunited with his parents, bringing a happy ending to the story. The police and an autorickshaw driver also played vital roles in ensuring that the boy was back with his parents within three days. It all began when Marilingappa, 10, the only son of Bhimappa and Bhimavva, labourers from Raichur, ventured out to Sampigehalli to visit his aunt on Thursday, but lost his way. The family was residing in Vijayanagar at an under- construction site where they were working. His parents returned from work and realised that their son was missing and started searching for him. Meanwhile, the Yelahanka beat police, who found the boy, took him to the station and sounded an alert at the control room before circulating his information along with his photograph on social media and WhatsApp groups of staff members of the station with a request to share the information to help find the parents. Their efforts proved fruitful as an autorickshaw driver from Vijayanagar, who is acquainted with the couple and the missing boy, received the forwarded message and sounded out the parents on Saturday. The parents, along with the autorickshaw driver, rushed to the station and after formalities were completed, the boy was handed over to the parents. After counselling the parents, Yelahanka inspector K.P. Sathyanarayana decided to take care of the boy’s education and assigned constable Basavaraj Patil to admit him to a government residential school in Raichur and supervise his education. This is the second such incident in a short span of time. On June 5, the beat police rescued a six-year-old girl, Shrusti, near Yelahanka railway station and using social media, managed to trace the parents and reunited them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/missing-boy-gets-reunited-with-parents/article35009576.ece
28 June 2021||Belagavi,||Mann Ki Baat has helped frame policies for inclusive development, says Minister||“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has established a direct connection with the people through Mann Ki Baat. That helps the Union government come up with various welfare programmes. This was not the case earlier. Previous Prime Ministers stayed in ivory towers and did not reach out to the people. That is how they failed to feel the pulse of the people,’’ Minister of State for External Affairs and president of the Dakshin Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha V. Muraleedharan said in Dharwad on Sunday. This was the first visit of the leader to the Sabha office in Dharwad, after assuming charge as its national president. “Mann Ki Baat, an initiative of Mr. Modi, has taken the BJP government near to the people. Through this, the Prime Minister himself is speaking out to the people and hearing their grievances. This has helped the government understand the ground realities better and frame policies for the inclusive development of all,’’ he said. “The Modi government has provided strong and effective administration. It is leading India on the path of progress in all sectors. We believe in minimum government and effective administration,” he said. He performed Bhoomi Puja for a Ganesh temple on the institute premises, planted saplings and held a meeting with office-bearers and academics. He felicitated doctors, students and COVID-19 warriors at the C.B. Guttal Ayurveda Institute and B.D. Jatti Homoeopathy Institute for their service during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mann-ki-baat-has-helped-frame-policies-for-inclusive-development-says-minister/article35009732.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Chennai not to hold vaccination camps today as civic body runs out of stock||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will not conduct any vaccination camp on Monday as it ran out of vaccine doses by Sunday. The website, recently launched by the GCC for booking slots, had a notification on Sunday evening that read, “No vaccination camps organised tomorrow.” Nor did the GCC publish the list of vaccination centres and doses available at each centre for Monday, which it does daily. Senior officials of the GCC said the city had utilised all the supplies it had received four days ago. “Once we get the data from all the centres on doses administered today [Sunday], we will know if any of the centres has any little stock left. Some urban community health centres may have a few hundred doses left, which will be administered to those walking in tomorrow [Monday],” an official said . Sources said a special drive planned for advocates and staff of the Madras High Court, which is to be inaugurated by Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee, will, however, be conducted on Monday. The GCC has been carrying out vaccination through 45 vaccination centres and 19 urban community health centres, besides outreach inoculation at markets and other places. On Friday, the city administered 39,366 doses, the second highest number of doses since vaccination began.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-not-to-hold-vaccination-camps-today-as-civic-body-runs-out-of-stock/article35009615.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||VMC to levy user charge on garbage collection||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) will begin collecting ‘user charges’ from households and commercial establishments for doorstep collection of garbage from July as per the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 issued by the Central government. The VMC decided to collect Rs. 30 per household per month in slum areas and Rs. 120 in non-slum areas. For shops and commercial establishments, it will be between Rs. 200 and Rs. 15,000 per month depending on the type of establishment and the amount of garbage generated. The proposal has been approved by the municipal council. Collection of user charges on garbage has been made a precondition for the release of funds from the Centrally-sponsored schemes like Swachh Barath Mission and AMRUT. The civic body planned to begin collection in September 2020 at Rs. 50 per household but postponed it following a backlash from the public. To start with, the VMC will collect the user charges in six wards – 4, 10, 27, 36, 39 and 42 – which were selected for a special sanitation drive. “The user charges will be used only to improve sanitation,” Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said in an interaction with reporters. Households and establishments would have to pay a late fee of Rs. 15 and Rs. 100 respectively if the payment was made after the 7th of every month. For function halls and five star hotels the user charge is Rs. 15,000 and for three-star hotels and hospitals with over 40 beds it is Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vmc-to-levy-user-charge-on-garbage-collection/article35009531.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Monsoon becomes active in State||Monsoon set its course with rain lashing several parts of the State on Sunday, even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast heavy downpour for the next two days. The Director of IMD here K. Nagaratna said this was the second widespread rain with intensity in the State after June 13. There were a few other widespread spells with lesser intensity in between. Ninety per cent of the State recorded light to moderate rain during the day and it was likely that there will be more rain in the night, she said. Rains were also likely in many districts of Telangana under the impact of upper air cyclonic circulation extending up to 4.5 kms above mean sea level and tilting high towards south-westwards. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places in Telangana. The average rainfall in Hyderabad as recorded at the IMD observatory at Begumpet till 5.30 p.m. was 22.6 mm with chief amounts recorded in Malkajgiri, Musheerabad, Maredpally, Uppal and Kapra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-becomes-active-in-state/article35009751.ece
28 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Intermediate results to be released today||Intermediate second year results will be released on Monday in tune with the government’s decision to cancel the exams and pass all the students who paid the examination fee. Students will be given the marks scored in the first year and this will be applicable to all the subjects. Those who have failed in the first year subjects and applied again will get the minimum passing marks of 35. Students with backlogs from earlier years will also be given 35 marks. All students will get 100% marks for the practical exams. Those students dissatisfied with this system can improve their marks by writing the exams whenever they are held after the COVID-19 situation improves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/intermediate-results-to-be-released-today/article35009752.ece
28 June 2021||Guwahati,||For Mizoram students, it’s a struggle to ‘catch the tower’||In the age of work-from-home, students in Mizoram are studying from anywhere with a signal strong enough. They are also sharing smartphones — a rarity in rural areas where relatively good 2G connectivity makes them an “unnecessary buy” — available in the village to attend online classes or sit for exams. K. Vapaphai and 19 other college students in Mawhrei, a village in southern Mizoram’s Siaha district, have taken a temporary break from trekking five to six kilometres in different directions in small groups to “catch the tower” for logging on to their online classes. The reason: their undergraduate exams ended a week ago. But for more than two months, walking up and down the hills and through jungles for classes was as good as travelling to his government college, about 70 km away in district headquarters Siaha. “We had to buy smartphones. But buying one did not guarantee us Internet access. We had to turn a road, tree, hilltop, bridge, riverbank or any structure into our makeshift classroom to study,” he said. If that were not enough, they had to subscribe to more than two Internet service providers because catching the signal of any of them was a matter of chance. Connectivity is not the only issue, said Mizoram University Students’ Council president David Lalrinchhana. “Access to electricity is an issue in many villages, as a result of which phones are redundant. Also, many in the rural areas cannot afford smartphones for their children to study online.” To add to students’ woes, road-widening and construction projects have led to the damage of optical fibre cables, snapping connectivity. “We have taken up the issue with the Chief Minister and officials,” said Mr. Lalrinchhana, a postgraduate student of English and Mizo literature.  They huddle on roads, atop trees, mounds and structures seeking connectivity for online classes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-mizoram-students-its-a-struggle-to-catch-the-tower/article35009534.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crippled by India’s vaccine export ban, Bhutan seeks help||With no vaccines in sight, and just days to go for Bhutan’s deadline for giving its eligible population of half a million people their second dose of COVID-19 vaccines, India’s smallest neighbour is searching for any alternative that could help, its Health Minister said. A spurt in the number of “Delta variant” cases coming in from Bhutan’s southern border with India is adding to the worries that its healthcare system could “collapse” in the event of the pandemic spreading. Officials in New Delhi said no decision had been taken on when to provide Bhutan the promised second doses of Covishield, indicating that only a political decision to deliver them could change that as Bhutan needs the doses in the next two weeks. However, sources said New Delhi was actively involved in helping Bhutan facilitate the vaccines from “elsewhere”. “We are praying that countries will come forward to help Bhutan out, understanding the risks that we have as a small nation, understanding the health system that we have as a small nation,” Health Minister Lyonpo Dechen Wangmo told The Hindu in an exclusive interview, speaking from Thimphu, where she just completed her 21-day quarantine after returning from the Global Health Assembly in Geneva. She said the Bhutan government was “optimistic” about procuring the vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crippled-by-indias-vaccine-export-ban-bhutan-seeks-help/article35009535.ece
28 June 2021||New Delhi,||Resurgence of pandemic ‘speculative’ for now: govt.||The possibility of a resurgence in COVID-19 infection is “speculative” and will depend on the “behaviour” of citizens and the virus, the Union Health Ministry told the Supreme Court. “Possibility of any such resurgence would be speculative at this stage. However, the possibility of resurgence would depend on the behaviour pattern of the virus and the behaviour of the citizens, whether they follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour or not,” the Ministry said. The Ministry said there was no “global scientific evidence” that the coronavirus would target children. “Though there is no global scientific evidence of virus selecting to affect a particular age group, the Central government has ensured that all State governments are geared up to deal with any such potential threat to children,” its affidavit filed through Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati noted. It added that the government had received many requests for door-to-door vaccination, especially for the elderly and the disabled. However, there were several “valid and germane reasons” against it, the Ministry said. These span from risk of high vaccine wastage to “increased time” involved in visiting beneficiaries. Other reasons include addressing Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) in an adequate manner in a home-setting, protocol of 30-minute observation post vaccination, break in cold chain of the vaccine due to frequent opening of the vaccine carrier at every household, health risk for vaccinators. No jab for children On vaccination of children below 18 years, the government said, as of now, “companies manufacturing COVID-19 vaccines in India have only been given ‘Emergency Use Authorisation’ for vaccinating people of 18 years age and above. Therefore, COVID-19 vaccines are not recommended for persons/children less than 18 years due to the fact that the clinical trial cohort during phase 1, 2 and 3 did not cover children below 18”. Nevertheless, the government informed the court that the Drugs Controller General of India had on May 12 permitted Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials on the healthy volunteers aged between two and 18 years for its vaccine, Covaxin. “The enrolment process for this trial has also begun,” the affidavit said. The government said the States had been cautioned to maintain a “continuous vigil” and plan in advance for any exigencies that may arise due to resurgence of the pandemic. It said the Empowered Groups were reconstituted on May 29. These groups include ones on emergency management plan and strategy, emergency response capabilities, augmenting human resources and capacity building, and oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/resurgence-of-pandemic-speculative-for-now-govt/article35009541.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers’ delight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-delight/article35009580.ece
28 June 2021||MYSURU,||Storage higher in major reservoirs this year||Almost four weeks after the onset of monsoon, the cumulative storage across 13 major reservoirs in Karnataka is higher than the storage during the same period last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/storage-higher-in-major-reservoirs-this-year/article35009578.ece
28 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana govt. extends lockdown till July 5||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown in the State by another week till July 5, but allowed university campuses to open for research scholars and practical classes in laboratories. Anganwadi centres and creches will remain shut till July 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-govt-extends-lockdown-till-july-5/article35009693.ece
28 June 2021||Pune,||Entry to non-technical courses after HSC results||The admission process for non-technical courses in Maharashtra will start once the HSC (Class 12) results are declared, State Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/entry-to-non-technical-courses-after-hsc-results/article35009857.ece
28 June 2021||Pune,||MVA govt. will complete full 5-year term: Pawar||Ruling out speculation of any discord among the allies of the Maha Vikas Aghadi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the tripartite government would complete its full five-year term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-govt-will-complete-full-5-year-term-pawar/article35009858.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. faces a tough choice on interest rates||The Union government has a tricky political decision to make over the next couple of days, with the quarterly reset of interest rates on small savings schemes due on June 30. A cut in small savings rates at this point would be an “unpopular” move and further hurt households amid a surge in inflation, according to economists. Sharp cuts in the rates for the current quarter on instruments, including the Public Provident Fund (PPF) and National Savings Certificates (NSCs) announced on March 31, were rolled back within hours amid the West Bengal Assembly election campaign. While there are no polls around the corner now, retail inflation has shot up sharply to 6.3% in May this year after averaging 6.2% through 2020-21. Inflation is expected to stay elevated around 5.5%-6% through 2021-22. Moreover, household savings have been shrinking significantly for two quarters in a row even before the second COVID-19 wave, as per recent Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data on savings rates for the third quarter of 2020-21. “If you go strictly by the formula set for small savings rates, they may need to cut rates to some extent. But I think the government will not do it this time as it will be a very unpopular move due to the rising inflation and declining savings rates,” CARE Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis told The Hindu . However, the government will also have to weigh the costs of leaving the rates unchanged on its borrowing plans. Recent auctions Some recent auctions of 10-year government securities (Gsecs) have struggled to find takers at the interest rates being offered by the Central bank. No bids were received for such an auction held last Friday, which suggests borrowing from the market at low rates may not be sustainable. The RBI has often blamed the high administered interest rates on small savings for poor transmission of its rate cuts in the economy. Mr. Sabnavis said the government must revisit the formula adopted since April 2016 that links small savings rates to Gsecs’ rates, as they are not really market-determined, but being managed by the Central bank. Policy rethink needed “This is a tad convoluted. The RBI is ensuring rates don’t rise through a policy-induced stance of managing the yield curve, so the gsec rates are getting divorced from reality. Even the market is signalling [that] the RBI needs to pay more to raise government borrowings, with Friday’s auction eliciting no bids,” he said. Bengaluru Dr. B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University Vice-Chancellor N.R. Bhanumurthy said the extent of rate cuts on small savings should be carefully calibrated. “We can’t give a shock that discourages financial savings by effecting sharp rate cuts like those announced last time. We are a savings-dependent economy and need a policy that gives them the same importance as investments,” he said. Small savings rates had been slashed between 0.5% and 1.4% on different instruments in April 2020, bringing the PPF rate to 7.1% from 7.9%. The PPF returns were further slashed to 6.4% for the first quarter of 2021-22, before the government reversed the move citing an “oversight”. The range of rate cuts proposed at the time was 0.4% to 1.1% on various instruments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-faces-a-tough-choice-on-interest-rates/article35009340.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Drones are now a favoured terror tool||The dropping of explosive devices from drones in the technical area of the Air Force Station in Jammu triggering blasts in the early hours of Sunday was the first such instance in India. However, over the past two years, drones have been deployed regularly by Pakistan-based outfits to smuggle arms, ammunition and drugs into Indian territory. “The Air Force Station is about 14 km from the border. Though the local police suspect that the drones were flown from across the border, it is yet to be established beyond doubt. High-quality explosives were apparently used,” said an official in the know of the developments. “Drones fly low and therefore cannot be detected by any radar system ... preliminary findings suggest that the target was to damage a helipad inside the station.” The official said the incident could be an extension of the trend of Pakistan-based syndicates using drones to smuggle drugs and weapons into the Indian side, apart from conducting aerial surveillance. According to government figures, 167 drone sightings in 2019 and 77 in 2020 were recorded along the border with Pakistan. In January 2021, the Jammu & Kashmir Police caught two persons while they were picking up a consignment of 16 grenades, two AK-74 rifles, nine AK magazines, a pistol and ammunition, which were smuggled via drones. In another case, the Punjab Police seized 11 grenades that were air-dropped from Pakistan in December 2020. In October 2020, the Army shot down one drone along the Line of Control in the Keran sector of J&K. A case of dropping arms was reported when the Border Security Force shot down a UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) near Rathua village in the Hira Nagar sector of Jammu on June 20 last year. The drone was transporting an American-made M4 rifle, several grenades and ammunition. In another case, in the intervening night of June 3 and June 4 last year, a consignment was dropped through three drone sorties outside Dharamkot Randhawa in Gurdaspur in Punjab. The consignment included two MP-9 guns, six pistols and Rs. 4 lakh in counterfeit currency. It later turned out that the consignment was sent via drones at the instance of Pakistan-based Khalistan Zindabad Force chief Ranjeet Singh Neeta. On September 21, 2019, the Punjab Police had busted a pro-Khalistan terror module and seized five AK-47 assault rifles with 16 magazines, four pistols of China make with eight magazines, nine grenades, 472 cartridges, Rs. 10 lakh in counterfeit currency, and five satellite phone sets. That consignment had also been dropped by drones. “The use of drones by Pakistan-based elements has been a major cause of concern. All tech-based solutions are being explored to counter it. Anti-drone jammers cannot be that effective in the border areas, but they can be deployed at security-sensitive installations to prevent such attacks in future,” the official said. Weaponised drones were first used by the Islamic State in northern Iraq in 2016 and then in Syria. Another emerging challenge for the security forces is the increasing use of improvised explosive devices. On Sunday, one such device weighing about 5 kg was also found by the Jammu Police, raising suspicion over the involvement of the same group in both cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drones-are-now-a-favoured-terror-tool/article35009352.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shed vaccine hesitancy and get inoculated soon, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged the country to shed vaccine hesitancy and get themselves inoculated soon, and to trust science and scientists to combat the threat of the COVID-19 which still remains among us. He spoke to some residents of Dulariya village, a tribal area in Betul district of Madhya Pradesh, during his monthly radio broadcast Mann ki Baat (straight from the heart), after they shared their fear of getting vaccinated after rumours of its “ill effects” spread in their village. Over 31 crore vaccinated “More than 31 crore Indians have taken the vaccine. I have taken both doses. My mother, who is nearly 100 years old, has also taken it. Trust science, not rumours and trust our scientists who have worked day and night to develop these vaccines which, along with masking and social distancing are our only armour against this shape-shifting disease,” he said. Mr. Modi also hailed the fact that over 86 lakh vaccine doses were administered on a single day on June 21 at the start of the new phase of inoculation under which all adults are being given free jabs by the Union government. He also paid tributes to Guru Prasad Mohapatra, Secretary in his government who died from COVID-19 recently, saying the officer worked overtime to make arrangements to ramp up oxygen production and supply during the recent wave even as he was battling the disease himself. “Corona has snatched him away from us. There are countless people who have never been discussed. Our tribute to every such person would be that we follow the COVID protocol fully, get our vaccinations done,” Mr. Modi said, noting that Doctors Day fell on July 1, a community that continues to be at the vanguard of the fight against the pandemic. In his broadcast, he also paid tributes and remembered the contribution of Indian sprint legend Milkha Singh, who died earlier this month. Mr. Modi hailed Singh’s contribution to Indian sports, and said he will always cherish his interactions with the athlete. Singh died in a Chandigarh hospital after a month-long battle with COVID-19. Struggles of athletes Mr. Modi also shared the struggles and triumphs of Olympics-bound Indian athletes, and said people must not build any pressure on these sportspersons but “cheer for India”. He said Guruprasad from Chennai had written to him appreciating his respectful references to Tamil Nadu and its language and culture and the frequent citing of Tiruvalluvar’s Tirukkural. “He says he has compiled all these references in an e-book and would like it uploaded on the Namo App [Prime Minister Modi’s personal app]. I have assured him I will do so,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shed-vaccine-hesitancy-and-get-inoculated-soon-says-modi/article35009359.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delta variant cases rise in Bhutan||Bhutan’s Health Minister Lyonpo Dechen Wangmo has said the number of COVID-19 cases of the Delta variant from towns bordering India has been rising, with the country registering more than 2,000 cases, though only one fatality has been recorded so far. The spurt in cases comes even as the country is facing a worrying vaccine gap to immunise its eligible population after India banned exports following its deadly second wave. Bhutan has reached out to at least 16 countries other than India in the last few weeks. In an effort to step up “non-pharmaceutical” solutions, even Bhutan’s King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck has been travelling by road and foot to remote villages around the country to reinforce the use of masks and sanitising hands. “I think the global community must understand that Bhutan does not have a mature health system, like many of the countries in the region do, and for example, we have only one intensive care unit [ICU] doctor. So if our health systems were to get overwhelmed, it would basically collapse our system,” Ms. Wangmo explained. Speaking to The Hindu from Thimpu, Ms. Wangmo said the country was open to all options to ensure that its citizens get their second dose within the 14 week deadline. This includes “mixing and matching” or heterologous inoculation, using a different second vaccine. “Above all, it is also a very good opportunity to generate some very good scientific data as well,” Ms. Wangmo added. The Narendra Modi government had sent 5,50,000 Covishield doses as part of its ‘Vaccine Maitri’ programme to Bhutan by March 21. With the first tranche delivered and the second dose promised within “eight to twelve weeks”, the Bhutanese government set about vaccinating nearly 93% of its adult population between March 27 and April 6. The ‘Vaccine Maitri’ programme was, however, suspended in the wake of the deadly second COVID-19 wave that hit India in late March. In April, after cases in India began to rise, New Delhi reportedly informed Bhutan that there would be a delay, but Bhutan still hoped that the doses would be delivered by the end of June, when 14 weeks would have elapsed. Ms. Wangmo said that after consulting a few international experts, the government has now decided to extend the gap to 16 weeks, but needs the second doses delivered by mid-July at the very latest for the vaccines to be efficacious. While the global COVAX alliance has promised to send 20% of Bhutan’s requirement of AstraZeneca vaccines, these might only be delivered by August, and the U.S.’s announcement on June 21 that it would distribute 16 million U.S.-made (Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson) vaccines in Asian countries, including Bhutan, has not clarified when these may arrive. India hit record highs in vaccine production and distribution last week, but the government has “no plans currently” to restart its ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative for Bhutan, three senior officials told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delta-variant-cases-rise-in-bhutan/article35009338.ece
28 June 2021||Pune,||No differences in MVA govt.: Pawar||Ruling out speculation of any discord between the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress in the functioning of the Maharashtra government, NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the tripartite ‘Maha Vikas Aghadi’ government, led by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, was running smoothly and that it would complete its full five-year term. Speaking in his stronghold Baramati, Mr. Pawar further stressed that coordination between three ideologically opposed parties in running a government properly was one thing and that the right of each party to increase its strength was quite another. “There is a consensus among all three parties in this coalition. There are no differences or any rifts. There is always a joint discussion of my colleagues in these three parties on strategic issues,” said Mr. Pawar. Mr. Pawar’s remarks come amid reports of tensions between the three MVA partners, with the Congress’s recent announcement of fighting polls alone and the Sena’s alleged frustration at being dominated by the NCP. “We came together on issues while forming the MVA government … we are aware that some questions arise while running a government. So, a mechanism in form of a core committee was set up to resolve these questions. Leaders of all the three parties — Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan from the Congress, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil from the NCP and Industries’ Minister Subhash Desai and Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde representing the Sena — are part of this committee,” he said.  “Increasing the respective strengths of all three parties and engaging in organisation-building is only natural. All three parties in the coalition are agreed on this endeavour. That does not mean there are any differences...” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-differences-in-mva-govt-pawar/article35009356.ece
28 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Era of suppression must end to make dialogue credible’||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti said on Sunday that the dialogue process initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Jammu and Kashmir’s mainstream leadership could gain credibility by ending what she called an “era of oppression and suppression” in the Union Territory, and in understanding that a dissenting voice was not a criminal act. “Give the people right to breathe and rest will follow later,” the former Chief Minister said, terming the PM’s meeting with a 14-member delegation from Jammu and Kashmir here on Thursday as a way forward to end the “sufferings of people” in the erstwhile State now under Central rule. Onus on Centre Ms. Mufti, who was part of the delegation, made it clear that the onus was on the Centre to make the dialogue process credible, and said the Centre should initiate confidence-building measures and also ensure protection of jobs and land. “When I say allow people to breathe, I mean that today, any dissenting note from any side has to cool his or her heels in the prison. Recently, a man was jailed for expressing his sentiments that he had lots of hope from a Kashmiri adviser. The Deputy Commissioner concerned ensured that he was in jail for a few days despite being granted bail by the court,” Ms. Mufti toldPTIin an interview here. At the landmark meeting, Mr. Modi had said he wanted to remove “ Dilli ki doori ” (distance from Delhi) as well as “ Dil ki doori ” (distance between hearts) in an effort to bring Delhi closer to the people of J&K. “ Dil ki doori has to be decreased with the people of Jammu and Kashmir and for that, all the draconian orders passed have to stop. Jobs and land rights have to be protected,” the PDP president said. “First and foremost, the era of suppression and oppression has to come to an end and the government has to understand that a dissenting voice is not a criminal act. The entire State of Jammu and Kashmir, and I will refer to it only as a State, has become a jail,” she said. Maintaining that she had taken part in the Delhi talks only to apprise the Central leadership of the problems faced by the people, Ms. Mufti said, “I have not come for any power politics as my stand is clear that I will not contest any elections until the special status of Jammu and Kashmir is restored.” Ms. Mufti also reiterated that she would not contest elections if J&K remained a Union Territory. “I have made it clear many times that I would not contest any elections under the Union Territory, but at the same time, my party is also aware of the fact that we will not yield political space to anyone. We contested the District Development Council elections held last year,” she said.  Give the people the right to breathe and rest will follow later Mehbooba Mufti PDP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/era-of-suppression-must-end-to-make-dialogue-credible/article35009345.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Get vaccinated and motivate others’||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday visited his native village, Paraunkh, in Kanpur, as part of his five-day visit to Uttar Pradesh, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. This was the first visit of Mr. Kovind after taking over as President, it said, adding that he visited his ancestral house that has been converted into a community centre for the village. Addressing a public event, the President said he always derived inspiration from his birthplace to go forward and work for the country. “The President also remembered many prominent people of his village who have played a major role in strengthening the ideals of social unity, religious tolerance, harmony, awareness for education and consciousness of duties in the village environment. He said these values impacted his thinking,” it said. He said when he was in school, the village only had primary education facility and students had to go out for secondary school. “He said he had felt at that time that if there had been a secondary school there, even children who did not get an opportunity for education would have been able to pursue higher studies and would not have been deprived of the benefits of education. In those days, it was almost impossible to send girls out of the village to pursue education. He was happy to note that today, the children of Paraunkh village are getting education at the Veerangana Jhalkari Bai Inter College.” He emphasised the importance of education, saying it opened up new opportunities for development. On the COVID-19 pandemic, he said it had caused great disruption and the adverse impact was pervasive and tragic. “Many people have lost their loved ones. To fully eradicate this pandemic, we still need to be extremely cautious. He said Uttar Pradesh, the most populous State, has taken comprehensive and effective steps for investigation, prevention and vaccination to curb the spread.” He said there had been an increase in health awareness because of the pandemic and there was a need to highlight the importance of personal and public hygiene. “The President said the vaccination drive is going on all over the country and also in Uttar Pradesh. He said vaccine is like a shield for protection against the coronavirus. Therefore, one should not only get vaccinated oneself but also motivate others to get vaccinated,” said the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Later, the President attended another event at Pukhrayan, where he said he had started his public life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/get-vaccinated-and-motivate-others/article35009350.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,||1.64 million vaccine doses administered on Sunday||India administered 1.64 million new doses of COVID-19 vaccines until 9 p.m. on Sunday. Rajasthan recorded the highest number of vaccinations (0.24 million) followed by Gujarat (0.22 million) and Chhattisgarh (0.17 million). Between June 1 and 26, 4.06 million doses were administered daily in India on average. At the current rate, a total of 1,089.10 million doses can be administered by December 31, 2021, which is around 791 million doses less than those required to fully vaccinate all adults (1,880.37 million doses). To fully inoculate all adults by the end of this year, 8.25 million doses need to be given daily on average in the country. About 28.1% of adults in India, 59.3% of those aged above 45, and 66.6% of people aged above 60, were administered at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8.30 p.m. on Sunday. While 19.4% of the country’s population has received at least one dose, only 4.1% are fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. 45,217 new cases India recorded 45,217 new COVID-19 cases until 8.45 p.m. on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,02,77,659. As many as 958 new deaths were also registered taking the tally to 3,96,741. Kerala reported 10,905 new infections, followed by Maharashtra (9,974) and Tamil Nadu (5,127). Maharashtra recorded 405 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (91) and Karnataka (89). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/164-million-vaccine-doses-administered-on-sunday/article35009370.ece
28 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha sarpanch helps villages overcome hesitancy||In the past one month, Udit Pratap Singh Jyoti, a young sarpanch in Odisha’s Nuapada district, has doled out more promises than he did during his election campaign days. From shouldering the burden of a family upon the death of its breadwinner to footing hospital bills, Mr. Jyoti (29), has just kept showering promises. What made him embark on poll mode? His panchayat, the little known Kushumjore under Sinapali block, shares a border with Chhattisgarh. The remoteness and prevailing vaccine hesitancy had made difficult the task of local administration in inoculating the population. The young sarpanch’s assurances came in handy, and the administration is now just short of vaccinating 18 more people before achieving 100% population coverage for the first dose in the 45 years and above group in Kushumjore panchayat. The vaccines and their recipients are ready. By the first hour of Monday, Kushumjore is set to achieve the rare feat of vaccine saturation in Odisha. This is a no mean achievement. A few weeks ago, people were running away from the mere mention of vaccination, saying they would die in three months if they took the vaccines. “Though government authorities had been trying hard to persuade people to get the jab, it was not happening. People were expecting someone from the community to provide the assurance. I told people that I would shoulder responsibility for their family members if anything happened to them after vaccination. It instilled confidence among people,” said Mr. Jyoti. Kushumjore comprises five villages — Haldikhol, Nuaguda, Kaseipani, Kushumjore and Brahmaniguda. COVID-19 vaccination is probably the first major health response the people of this panchayat have come across. The nearest Primary Health Centre is situated at a distance of 15 km. Not all habitations under the panchayat can be reached by vehicle. “Of the 708 persons aged above 45 in panchayat, about 100 persons had received vaccine in April. However, when Chhattisgarh recorded COVID-19 deaths around that time, it made them panic. We were not able to convince people to get vaccinated thereafter,” said Bhairab Charan Panigrahi, an Ayush doctor in charge of the panchayat. Dr. Panigrahi said the vaccination team of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), Anganwadi workers, the sarpanch, and top block and district level officers, conducted meetings and went from door-to-door, appealing to people. After a lot of effort, the vaccination drive picked up pace from June 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-sarpanch-helps-villages-overcome-hesitancy/article35009364.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘May order of Covaxin yet to be supplied’||Bharat Biotech is yet to begin supply for a batch of vaccines, an order for which was placed by the Health Ministry in May, according to an affidavit filed by the Ministry in the Supreme Court on Saturday. The Health Ministry told the apex court that it expected to receive at least 51 crore doses from January-July. 32 crore of these have already been administered as of Sunday evening. In a break-up of the expected vaccine delivery schedule by the government, the Centre had ordered 3 crore doses of Covaxin since January that was to have been delivered until the end of May. It placed another order of 5 crore doses on May 5 that is expected to be delivered by the end of July. However, in its remarks in the affidavit on the “supply status” of the vaccine, the Centre notes that of this lot, “Covaxin was yet to start supply”. This, however, was based on information updated as of June 21 and it is possible that Bharat Biotech may have supplied some additional doses in the last week. According to data on the CoWIN website, as of Sunday, 3.8 crore doses of Covaxin have been administered so far been. As The Hindu reported on May 28, Bharat Biotech has stated that it took four months for a batch of Covaxin to be manufactured and readied for supply. Thus, production of batches of Covaxin that were initiated during March this year would be ready for supply only in June, the company had said in a statement. At that point, about 2-2.5 crore doses of Covaxin had reportedly been supplied. This implies that only the batches of the vaccine produced in April would be ready for supply by July. The government had earlier projected that Bharat Biotech is to scale up production to 6-7 crore doses a month from July-August and 10 crore doses a month from September. This works out to at least 52 crore doses from July-December, of which 40 crore is marked out from September to December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/may-order-of-covaxin-yet-to-be-supplied/article35009368.ece
28 June 2021||New Delhi,||Twitter’s interim grievance officer for India steps down||Twitter’s interim resident grievance officer for India has stepped down, leaving the micro-blogging site without a grievance official as mandated by the new IT rules to address complaints from Indian subscribers, a source said. The source said that Dharmendra Chatur, who wasrecently appointed interim resident grievance officer for India by Twitter, has quit the post. The social media company’s website no longer displays his name, as required underInformation Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021. Twitter declined to comment on the development, which comes at a time when the micro-blogging platform has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the new rules. Twitter now displays the company’s name in place of grievance officer, with a U.S. address and an email ID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitters-interim-grievance-officer-for-india-steps-down/article35009347.ece
28 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Mayawati rules out tie-up with AIMIM for 2022 U.P. election||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati ruled out any alliance with the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ithehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh election. Responding to a news report that the two parties would contest the election together, Ms. Mayawati said on Twitter, “This news is absolutely false, misleading and baseless. There is not even an iota of truth in it and the BSP strongly denies it.” Ms. Mayawati said apart from Punjab, the BSP would go it alone in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Her clarification comes amid speculation that her party would rope in smaller parties. Mr. Owaisi’s party is part of the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a loose formation of smaller outfits led by Om Prakash Rajbhar, president of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party. Mr. Owaisi said the AIMIM has decided to contest 100 seats in U.P. as part of the Morcha. “We have not had any talks regarding election or alliance with any other party,” Mr. Owaisi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mayawati-rules-out-tie-up-with-aimim-for-2022-up-election/article35009353.ece
28 June 2021||Srinagar,||NC leader hits out at Congress and People’s Conference||Hitting out at the Congress and the Peoples Conference, National Conference leader and Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi on Sunday said that leaders who called Article 370 ‘ sub judice’ and avoided taking a stand on the revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir were just being evasive. “Once it comes to the abrogation of the special constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir, the leaders shy away stating that the matter is sub judice,” said Mr. Masoodi. “The leaders take cover under the argument to create an impression, though deceptively, amongst the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh that they are with their aspirations, but cannot voice their viewpoint,” added the NC leader. CAA, farm laws Mr. Masoodi said 144 petitions against the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act ( CAA) did not dissuade political parties from making it an election issue. “Same is true about farm laws, where though the constitutionality of the laws is going through judicial scrutiny, the political parties are vying with one another to support the farmers’ agitation and call the challenged laws ‘black laws’,” said Mr. Masoodi. He added that people are not so gullible as the leaders believe they are, and that they very well understand the game plan. “The NC reiterates the principled stand that the restoration of August 4, 2019 constitutional position alone would lead to durable and lasting peace in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh and fulfil the aspirations of the people,” he said.  The leaders take cover under the argument to create an impression ... that they are with people’s aspirations Hasnain Masoodi National Conference leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nc-leader-hits-out-at-congress-and-peoples-conference/article35009354.ece
28 June 2021||Ballia,||U.P. BJP leader slams handling of COVID||Criticising the handling of the COVID-19 crisis in Uttar Pradesh, a BJP leader has claimed that at least 10 people died in every village during the second wave as no lessons were learnt from the first one. State BJP working committee member Ram Iqbal Singh, who made the remarks on Saturday, is the latest among the party’s leaders who have questioned the handling of the coronavirus infection in the State. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Singh rued that the Health Department did not learn any lesson from the first wave of COVID-19 which led to a large number of deaths due to the disease in the second wave. “At least 10 people died from every village in the State during the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic,” he alleged. The BJP leader also demanded that Rs. 10 lakh be given to the kin of those who succumbed to the infection. ‘Chief Minister misled’ He lamented that after 75 years of freedom, Ballia district with a population of 34 lakh, had “no doctors or medicines”. On being reminded that during his visit to Ballia, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had expressed satisfaction with the arrangements made by the Health Department, Mr. Singh said the officials had misled the Chief Minister. Last month, BJP’s Sitapur MLA Rakesh Rathore had expressed resentment over COVID-19 mismanagement and said that he feared a sedition charge for speaking up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-bjp-leader-slams-handling-of-covid/article35009357.ece
28 June 2021||New Delhi,||Don’t take action against Newsclick till July 5: HC||The Delhi High Court has ordered the Enforcement Directorate (ED) not to take any coercive action against news portal Newsclick and its editor Prabir Purkayastha until July 5 in an alleged money laundering case. Justice Jasmeet Singh gave the direction while issuing notices to the investigating agency on Newsclick and Mr. Purkayastha’s plea seeking a copy of the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) registered against them. Search operations Newsclick and Mr. Purkayastha contended that in February 2021, several search and seizure operations were carried out by the ED under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) at their office and residence. During the operation, Mr. Purkayastha was informed that an ECIR had been registered by the ED for the commission of an offence under the PMLA. Mr. Purkayastha said the ED had been continuing its investigation for over four months and Newsclick and himself have rendered full cooperation. The plea said he had not been supplied the copy of the ECIR, despite requests. It submitted that the ED had been providing the ECIRs in some cases as per their “pick-and-choose policy”. ED’s counsel Amit Mahajan said there was no concept of an ECIR under the PMLA, 2002. Justice Singh, while relying on the ruling the Supreme Court order, directed “that till the next date of hearing, no coercive action shall be taken against the petitioners [Newsclick and Mr. Purkayastha]”. The court also issued notice to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Delhi police on Newsclick’s plea to quash an FIR registered in August last year against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-take-action-against-newsclick-till-july-5-hc/article35009332.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Resurgence of pandemic speculative for now’||These span from risk of high vaccine wastage to “increased time” involved in visiting beneficiaries. Other reasons include addressing Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) in an adequate manner in a home-setting, protocol of 30-minute observation post vaccination, break in cold chain of the vaccine due to frequent opening of the vaccine carrier at every household, health risk for vaccinators. On the vaccination of children below 18 years, the government said, as of now, “companies manufacturing COVID-19 vaccines in India have only been given ‘Emergency Use Authorisation’ for vaccinating people of 18 years age and above. Therefore, COVID-19 vaccines are not recommended for persons/children less than 18 years due to the fact that the clinical trial cohort during phase 1, 2 and 3 did not cover children below 18”. Nevertheless, the government informed the court that the Drugs Controller General of India had on May 12 permitted Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials on the healthy volunteers aged between two and 18 years for its vaccine, Covaxin. “The enrolment process for this trial has also begun,” the affidavit said. The government said the States had been cautioned to maintain a “continuous vigil” and plan in advance for any exigencies that may arise due to resurgence of the pandemic. It said the Empowered Groups were reconstituted on May 29. These groups include ones on emergency management plan and strategy, emergency response capabilities, augmenting human resources and capacity building, and oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resurgence-of-pandemic-speculative-for-now/article35009335.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajnath reaches Ladakh, to review ground situation||He later interacted with 300 veterans, including Ashok Chakra winner Naib Subedar (Honorary) Chhering Mutup (Retd) and Maha Vir Chakra winner Colonel Sonam Wangchuk (retd). Listing various measures taken by the government for the welfare of veterans, Mr. Singh said a number of steps have been taken to address the issue of resettlement, including organising job fairs through Directorate General Resettlement, in which a large number of veterans were given employment. Later, Mr. Singh met the elected representatives of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Councils, Leh, Kargil and officials in Leh. During his visit, he will also inaugurate infrastructure projects constructed by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and interact with troops deployed in the region. He was accompanied by Army chief General Manoj Naravane and Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh R.K. Mathur. The BRO has taken up infrastructure development in a big way to beef up connectivity in the border areas. This is the Defence Minister’s first visit to the region since the first phase of disengagement in February, in which both sides pulled back thousands of troops, tanks and armoured vehicles from Pangong Tso  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-reaches-ladakh-to-review-ground-situation/article35009336.ece
28 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Court hands over victim to relative of accused||The Arunachal Pradesh State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (APSCPCR) has taken “grim note” of the decision of a local court to hand over a minor rape victim to her “local guardian” who happens to be a relative of the accused. The APSCPCR has also flagged the alleged refusal of the district court at Tezu in Lohit district to let a member of the local Child Care Institute (CCI) in while hearing the girl, a possible victim of child trafficking from Nepal. The girl worked as a domestic help at Roing, the headquarters of the adjoining Lower Dibang Valley district. “One of our members will be visiting Roing within two days to make an assessment of how the case has been handled. The decision of the court a few days ago could set a bad precedent,” APSCPCR chairperson Gumri Ringu said. “The court’s judgment is questionable, particularly because the CCI member or any caretaker of the girl was not allowed in during the hearing,” she added. The APSCPCR has also taken up the issue with the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights since the girl is a Nepal national. J.K. Lego, Superintendent of Police, Lower Dibang Valley, said he has written to the APSCPCR to take up the issue at the embassy level. The girl, less than 15 years old, was reported missing on March 2. The case took a turn when she told the police that she had been subjected to sexual abuse by her employer, following which the district Child Welfare Committee put her at the CCI. The accused was arrested and a chargesheet was filed against him on April 20. But he was out on bail later. Mr. Lego said the girl was brought to India from Nepal and worked in the house of one Aka Kalung. The sessions court directed the CCI to hand over the victim to a woman, identified as the girl’s “local guardian”. The woman turned out to be the sister-in-law of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-hands-over-victim-to-relative-of-accused/article35009337.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||It is a struggle to ‘catch the tower’ for Mizo students||He felt the University Grants Commission (UGC) should have factored in poor or no connectivity to reduce or exempt fees. “There is anyway no point of making students pay the fees in full when they cannot access laboratories, library and other facilities in college or university,” he said. Mizoram University’s Vice-Chancellor, K.R.S. Sambasiva Rao acknowledged the hardships faced by students in remote and rural areas in accessing online classes. But he also saw the silver lining. “The determination of the students to go the extra yard for connectivity underlines their academic interest. The fellow-feeling among the Mizo community has also come to the fore with any villager — even if not related to a student — letting his or her smartphone be used for classes or exams,” he told The Hindu . He also alluded to instances of civil society organisations such as the Young Mizo Association helping put up makeshift exam centres for the students in areas with Internet connectivity. “We also have a learning management system, a platform for digital learning from where students can download study material whenever they are able to. There are alternative methods if students contact their teachers concerned about not getting the academic programmes online,” Mr. Rao said. Mizoram University has about 3,000 students, of whom about 600 are from other States, including Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The university’s students from these States have better access to the Internet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-is-a-struggle-to-catch-the-tower-for-mizo-students/article35009341.ece
28 June 2021||New Delhi,||Mandatory installation of airbags in cars deferred||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has deferred by four months the mandatory installation of dual airbags for front seats in existing car models in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, a senior government official said on Sunday. At present, only the driver’s seat airbag is mandatory for existing cars models. In view of the prevailing situation, the Ministry has decided to defer mandatory installation of front passenger airbags in the existing car models till December 31, 2021, the official said on the condition of anonymity. “The Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers [SIAM] has asked for time. For new models, it’s already mandatory,” the official added. The Ministry had on March 6 said vehicles manufactured on and after April 1, 2021, in the case of new models, and August 31, 2021, in the case of existing models, should be fitted with an airbag for the person occupying the front seat, other than the driver. The step is aimed at improving passenger safety in case of an accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mandatory-installation-of-airbags-in-cars-deferred/article35009342.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Suspected drone attack leaves two injured||Union Defence Minister Rajnath also spoke to Air Chief Marshal H.S. Arora, Vice-Chief of the Air Staff of the IAF, regarding the incident. Western Air Commander Air Marshal V.R. Chaudhari is scheduled to visit the base to assess the situation. IAF chief, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, who is on an official trip to Bangladesh, is monitoring the situation from there, officials said. Earlier this year, the Border Security Forces (BSF) foiled a few attempts to drop weapons and drugs by using drones on this side of the International Border in Jammu’s Samba and Kathua belt. There have been warnings that Pakistan-based terrorist groups could attempt to target military bases with drones. After the drone attack on Saudi Aramco oil facilities in Eastern Saudi Arabia in September 2019, the armed forces held deliberations on the issue and put in place plans to procure counter-drone capabilities. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed an anti-drone technology for short ranges which was deployed for Prime Minister’s security during the Independence Day address last August. Last December, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh said that the Navy was procuring Smash-2000 rifles to counter drones, among other measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suspected-drone-attack-leaves-two-injured/article35009343.ece
28 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Cong. must be fulcrum of any anti-NDA alliance’||The Congress is a national party with a pan-India presence and it is quite natural that it should be the fulcrum of any national coalition against the BJP-led NDA, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav said on Sunday. In an interview with PTI , Mr. Yadav also said that the Congress was in a direct fight with the BJP in more than 200 Lok Sabha seats and should focus on them while allowing regional parties to be in the driver’s seat in other constituencies. Asked about the meeting of Opposition leaders and several civil society members at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Shared Pawar’s house here last week, the RJD leader said he was not aware of what transpired in the meeting. However, the former Bihar Deputy Chief Minister asserted that all like-minded parties should come together with a common minimum programme to defeat “this most oppressive, divisive, authoritarian and fascist government”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-must-be-fulcrum-of-any-anti-nda-alliance/article35009346.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Destiny is powerful||‘The ultimate rule that governs all beings is that the effects of one’s karma have to be borne by every individual. The wise, having internalised this truth, will always maintain equanimity and remain indifferent to joy or sorrow. In a way all actions of the jivas are controlled by their past karma just as the dance movements of puppet dolls depend on the way the actors pull the strings. There is no remedy for the inevitable.’ These enlightened views are expressed by one Sudarsana in the Devi Bhagavata when he is overwhelmed by the impact of Devi’s grace, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. How and why did Sudarsana deserve Her grace? In the story told by Vyasa, Sudarsana’s inherent good and devout nature helped him to accept whatever came his way including the unjust treatment by his own kinsmen. He had faced difficulties since childhood but he continued to propitiate Goddess Devi. So, once when his enemies tried to kill him in battle, Devi appeared in person and killed them. With his devotion thus strengthened Sudarsana is able to assess the implications of jivas in samsara. One thing is clear from this episode. All beings are bound by karma but karma is an insentient vastu. It cannot give the effects on its own. Likewise the jiva has no idea of his karma and his awareness of his past is limited. Nor can he be trusted to even punish or reward his own present acts bad or good impartially. Only the Supreme Force who is omniscient, omnipresent and omnipotent can be the dispenser of the effects of karma to each and every jiva according to individual deserts. What if He does this arbitrarily? The Brahma Sutra states that Brahman is the One Supreme Lord who has no partiality towards any being in this Srishti and so there is no room for this doubt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/destiny-is-powerful/article35009365.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC panel to meet Bengal victims||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) committee investigating complaints of post-election violence in West Bengal will meet victims and complainants on Sunday and Monday, the Commission said. The NHRC had set up the committee of officers on the direction of the Calcutta High Court on June 18. “The Committee, headed by Rajiv Jain, Member, NHRC has been touring various places of West Bengal and enquiring into the veracity of these complaints/allegations,” the Commission said on Sunday. As a part of its process, some committee members will meet stakeholders, victims and complainants in Salt Lake, Kolkata for three hours on Sunday evening and three hours on Monday morning from 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-panel-to-meet-bengal-victims/article35009348.ece
28 June 2021||JAIPUR,||First case of Delta Plus in Rajasthan||A fully vaccinated 65-year-old woman in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district has tested positive for the Delta Plus variant, making it the first case of the mutant virus in the State. The woman, who had received both the doses of Covaxin, has since recovered. Her sample was sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, on May 30 for genome sequencing and her diagnostic test report was received in Bikaner on Friday. Bikaner Chief Medical & Health Officer O.P. Chahar said it was the first confirmed case of Delta Plus in Rajasthan, though the woman was asymptomatic and had recovered completely. The Sardar Patel Medical College in Bikaner had sent 10 random samples of COVID-19 patients, including hers, to NIV for genome sequencing. The woman and her three family members, who were diagnosed with COVID-19, had recovered without any institutional treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-case-of-delta-plus-in-rajasthan/article35009366.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Tribal vaccine coverage better than average’||Vaccination coverage in tribal areas is “better” than the national average, the government claimed in the Supreme Court. In fact, more walk-in vaccinations are happening in tribal districts as compared to the national average. The gender ratio for people vaccinated was better in the tribal districts, the Health Ministry said. “Vaccination per million population in tribal coverage is better than the national average as on June 23. Ninety-seven out of 176 tribal districts are performing better than the all-India vaccination coverage,” the Ministry told the court. Statistics, as on June 23, presented in court shows that “doses per million population” on a national basis is 2,13,244 while in tribal districts it is 2,19,762. The male:female ratio is 54:46 (national) and 53:47 (tribal districts). The Centre said “exceptional” coverage of vaccination was observed even in districts with the most difficult and remote areas and with higher proportion of tribal population. A chart shows that up to 86.5% of the Schedule Tribe population in Ladakh, Lakshwadeep, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Tripura had at least one vaccine dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tribal-vaccine-coverage-better-than-average/article35009371.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Floating market||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/floating-market/article35009334.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro phase II will have two elevated levels||In the Metro phase 2 project, commuters travelling from Porur to Alwarthirunagar will see trains running in two elevated corridors, when the section opens for the public. The phase II project will be built with an estimated of cost of Rs. 61,843 crore, covering 118.9 km in three corridors. The double-decker section is common for the Madhavaram to Shollinganallur and Poonamallee to Light House corridors. The double-decker stretch from Porur to Alwarthirunagar, a distance of nearly 5 km, will have five stations — Porur, Alapakkam, Karambakkam, Valasaravakkam and Alwarthirunagar. In this stretch, the stations will common for both corridors. Porur alone will have two closely located stations. Tenders will be given out section by section. The double-decker stretch forms a part of the Porur to Power House stretch. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), the tender for building the double-decker stretch has been awarded to L&T, and the work will commence soon. “They should be open by early 2025,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-phase-ii-will-have-two-elevated-levels/article35009619.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No COVID deaths in 5 districts||The western districts of Coimbatore, Erode, Salem and Tiruppur recorded the most number of new COVID-19 cases in the State on Sunday. As many as 5,127 persons tested positive, including 649 in Coimbatore, 530 in Erode, 343 in Salem and 316 in Tiruppur. A total of 7,159 patients were discharged. In Chennai, another 308 persons contracted the infection, taking the tally of active cases in the district to 3,555. Nine deaths were reported. Among the neighbouring districts, Chengalpattu (248) and Tiruvallur (126) continued to see a large number of new cases. For the first time during the second wave, the State reported fewer than 100 deaths in a day. On Sunday, health officials recorded 91 deaths. Nagapattinam, Thoothukudi, Virudhunagar, Thanjavur and Ramanathapuram recorded no death. The State has a total of 70,817 beds available, including 38,536 oxygenated beds, 26,652 normal beds and 5,629 ICU beds. In Chennai, a total of 12,850 beds are available, including 8,159 oxygen-supported beds, 3,418 normal beds and 1,273 ICU beds. The Medical Department has suspended two private laboratories in Chennai and Tiruchi “for COVID-19 testing due to NABH accreditation suspension”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-deaths-in-5-districts/article35009647.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Malls in Chennai ready to resume operations||After staying shut for nearly two months, malls in Chennai will resume operations on Monday. Ahead of re-opening, most malls have vaccinated their employees and retail partners who operate out of their premises. “We have gone one step further to ensure that everyone working in the mall and in its stores are also inoculated. We are also arranging a programme to immunise those who have not got the jabs yet,” Munish Khanna, chief revenue officer, Express Avenue, said. “We have ensured that our employees and retail partners are vaccinated. Stringent safety measures are in place across the mall at multiple checkpoints, and we have adopted the efficient use of technology to maintain high levels of safety on the premises,” explained Pooja Patti, centre director, Phoenix Market City and Palladium, Chennai. Officials from most malls have said that more staff would be deployed to ensure that visitors do not take off their masks when inside the mall premises. Most malls are also expecting footfalls to be much higher than after the first wave. “This re-opening, we expect the recovery in footfalls and consumption to be faster than when we re-opened during the first wave,” Mr. Khanna said.  This re-opening, we expect the recovery in footfalls and consumption to be faster than during the first wave Munish Khanna Chief revenue officer, Express Avenue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/malls-in-chennai-ready-to-resume-operations/article35009629.ece
28 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||PMK releases shadow agricultural budget for 2021-22||PMK founder S. Ramadoss released the party’s 14th shadow agricultural budget dwelling on 75 specific areas and over 250 suggestions on Sunday, aiming to create and develop agricultural infrastructure and agricultural education infrastructure, to achieve an agricultural growth of 6% in Tamil Nadu from a negative growth in the past. Speaking at the launch, Dr. Ramadoss said that the total budget allocated for the agricultural budget would be Rs. 47,500 crore. “We are happy and we welcome the Governor's address which mentions that a separate budget for Tamil Nadu will be made by the State Government. We have focussed on 75 specific areas in the reports. Every year [in the shadow budget], we give importance to one aspect of agriculture and this year we have focussed on agricultural education,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said that there was a need to create cold storage facilities to safeguard perishable products like vegetables, flowers and fruits should be created along with massive storage facilities to store grains. The report also proposes linking Godavari-Cauvery rivers, expanding Cauvery-Gundaru river project, Athikadavu-Avinasi project and allotment of Rs. 1,00,000 crore worth water irrigation projects. PMK youthwing leader Anbumani Ramadoss said that the budget that will be created with the inputs of 100 bureaucrats by the State government has been prepared by the PMK. “Throughout India, we stand second in production of vegetables but we export only 1-2% because we lack cold storages. Almost 30% goes to waste due to this. If we are in power, we will create cold storages. To safeguard the grains produced, we will have to create massive storages. We need to create infrastructure for food processing, value-addition industries and transportation,” said Mr. Anbumani, adding, “For this year, the budget is for Rs. 47,500 crore, of which Rs. 12,100 crore will be distributed as subsidy and Rs. 15,000 crore for water irrigation projects. The State government has only allotted Rs. 11, 982 crore for the agricultural budget.” Mr. Anbumani said that the previous AIADMK government accepted PMK’s proposal of creating a ‘Protected Special Agricultural Zone’ in the Delta region. “[Former Chief Minister] Edappadi K Palaniswami announced the Delta region as ‘Protected Special Agricultural Zone’ and we did extensive campaigns. It is a big achievement. Ariyalur district should also be included as a part of the zone along with Kallanai region in Tiruchi. Former CM EPS also waived farmer’s loans. We hope the DMK will also implement these ideas,” he said, adding, “We will function as a responsible Opposition party — we will welcome the government if they implement good schemes and oppose the government if they pursue anti-people policies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-releases-shadow-agricultural-budget-for-2021-22/article35009653.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cheaper power bought through long-term agreements: Thangamani||Long-term power purchase agreements signed by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation with eight private suppliers during the AIADMK government provided for lower rates than those in other States, former Electricity Minister P. Thangamani said on Saturday. He was responding to the Comptroller and Auditor-General’s observation in a report for the year ending March 2018 that there had been an “avoidable expenditure” of Rs. 712.03 crore till 2018 after the agreements were signed. Lower rates Mr. Thangamani, who held the portfolio during 2016-21, said the agreements had fixed the price at Rs. 4.91 a unit, whereas the rate was Rs. 5.5 in other States. On the purchase of solar power at Rs. 7.01 a unit, he said that in a few other States, the cost was at Rs. 15. At one point, the per-megawatt cost of installing a solar power plant was Rs. 8 crore to Rs. 10 crore. But it had come down to Rs. 3 crore at present. This was why solar power was being available at a cheaper rate than in the past. Besides, unlike in other States, neither land nor fixed cost was being offered in Tamil Nadu for putting up solar power plants. On the power utility suffering losses, Mr. Thangamani, who recalled how the CAG had criticised the working of the power utility during the DMK government of 2006-11, argued that what was important was how a unit of power was being supplied to people and not the increase in the power utility’s revenue. Free power “Only in Tamil Nadu are all domestic consumers getting 100 units for free [bi-monthly] and farmers getting three-phase supply free for 24 hours.” The government auditor would often make critical observations on the Union and State governments. “But this cannot be called irregularity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cheaper-power-bought-through-long-term-agreements-thangamani/article35009624.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Demand for gold loans spikes in T.N. as lockdown brings down income levels||Rajalakshmi, a home-maker, recently pledged five sovereigns of gold — something she has acquired over the last four years — at a public sector bank in Chennai to meet her expenses. Until COVID-19 broke out, the 48-year-old was working as a domestic help at two houses (earning Rs. 4,000 a month per house). Her husband was a cook at a small restaurant earning Rs. 7,000 a month. “I lost my job last year as many houses stopped allowing housemaids. The restaurant where my husband worked wound up in January; he has just now found another job. I have to pay my daughter’s school fees and son’s college fees. I had some savings which was not sufficient, so I thought I would pledge my gold ornaments for the time being,” she said. The branch manager of this bank said that before the pandemic struck, the bank had 5-7 people walking in a month to pledge gold; but now customers are stepping in almost every day to avail themselves of these loans. Women customers “More women are coming to pledge gold to help the businesses of their husbands and pay school/college fees and even the hospital bills of their loved ones. The number is going up day by day,” he pointed out. In Tamil Nadu, co-operative banks had disbursed Rs. 30,000 crore in gold loans during the fiscal 2020-21, according to R.G. Sakthisaravanan, Additional Registrar and Managing Director, Tamil Nadu State Apex Co-Operative Bank Limited. The bank had a gold loan portfolio of Rs. 1,000 crore and the 23 District Central Co-operative Banks had a portfolio of Rs. 6,000 crore as on March 31 this year. Normally, the demand for jewel loans would be more during the April-June quarter for payment of school and college fees, Mr. Sakthisaravanan said. “Most of our branches are working limited hours owing to the lockdown and we are slowly resuming our regular operations. We are expecting our loan disbursement to gain momentum in the coming days,” said George M. Jacob, executive director, Muthoot Finance. Loan waiver likely An official said co-operative banks were going slow on gold loan disbursement with a gold loan waiver expected from the State government. Minister for Co-operation I. Periyasamy recently said the government would soon issue an order for waiving off loans against gold of up to 5 sovereigns, one of the DMK’s election promises.  Most of our branches are working limited hours owing to the lockdown and we are slowly resuming our regular operations. We are expecting our loan disbursement to gain momentum in the coming days||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-gold-loans-spikes-in-tn-as-lockdown-brings-down-income/article35009639.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID registers case against 10 police officers||The CB-CID have registered a case against 10 policemen, including an Assistant Commissioner and inspector, in connection with a case filed against them by a businessman accusing them of detaining him in a farm house and forcing him to hand over his properties to another person in 2019. A Chennai-based businessman, in his complaint, said some police officers, including an Assistant Commissioner of Police, who were then serving in Chennai, had held him under illegal detention, along with his mother, fiancée and her brother, in a farmhouse two years ago. They forced him to hand over his properties. Business partners The complainant claimed that he had entered into a business venture with a couple of friends many years ago, but later wound-up operations. Though the settlement was done among partners through bank transfers, he had claimed that the police officers, who were allegedly acting at the behest of one of the partners, took the businessman to the police station in September/October 2019, and threatened him with dire consequences. The State police headquarters had asked the CB-CID wing to investigate the incident. “We have registered a case and started an investigation,” a CB-CID officer said.  The Chennai-based businessman said the policemen, including an Assistant Commissioner had held him under illegal detention, along with his mother, fiancée and her brother, in a farmhouse||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-registers-case-against-10-police-officers/article35009632.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Easing of curbs may increase virus transmissibility: expert||Any relaxation in the COVID-19 lockdown may increase the transmissibility of the virus, especially with the emergence of the highly infective mutants and the lack of vaccine uptake, says V. Ramasubramanian, a member of the medical expert committee. Commenting on the impact of the variants, the senior consultant, infectious diseases department, Apollo Hospitals, told The Hindu on Sunday that though the vaccine efficacy might be compromised against the mutants, it was believed, based on real life evidence, that two doses of Covishield would give a protection of 60% against the Delta variants. Efficacy is not known “The efficacy against the Delta Plus variant is not known. It is intuitive that the Delta Plus variant can trigger another surge in India, especially if the complete course of the vaccine uptake is delayed. This could be the third wave later this year. It is still speculation, not prophecy or prediction,” he said. Asked how different the variant was from the earlier ones, Dr. Ramasubramanian said the Delta variant was first identified in India in December 2020 and believed to have been responsible for the second wave. It was also believed to be 70% more infectious than the British (Alpha) variant and 100% more transmissible than the original Wuhan virus. “It is felt that the Delta virus is more severe in its symptoms and complications, leading to severe infections in younger persons without co-morbidities. It could also have a better ability to resist conventional treatments, but that has not been established yet. The Delta Plus variant has mutations over and above the Delta that could make it more sinister in terms of its infectiousness and transmissibility. It may also respond less effectively to the currently available monoclonal antibody cocktail. The current vaccine efficacy may also be compromised against the Delta Plus variant,” he said. Asked why the new variant was described as a “variant of concern”, he said it was characterised by the presence of mutations in the spike protein which attaches itself to the receptor in the human respiratory tract. “The Delta Plus variant has extra mutations, which may make it more transmissible and resistant to the current treatment modalities.” There were no significant differences in the symptoms due to the variants, though severe infections in younger persons, without co-morbidities, were seen during the second wave. The treatment protocols remained the same, but the effectiveness of the monoclonal antibody cocktail might be compromised, he said. Dr. Ramasubramanian, who is also the director of Capstone Clinic, said there was an increased need to do genetic studies of more samples to define which type of strain was in circulation. Any increase in the number of cases, increased test positivity rate or bed occupancy would warrant restrictions. Asked whether the virus could be air- or water-borne, he said it spread predominantly through droplets, and by air to a limited extent. “There is an urgent need to increase vaccine uptake and complete the two doses at the earliest to ensure a better protection against the variants,” he said.  There is an urgent need to increase vaccine uptake and complete the two doses at the earliest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/easing-of-curbs-may-increase-virus-transmissibility-expert/article35009642.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Evaluation norms go down well||The evaluation criteria announced by the Tamil Nadu government for the Class 12 results have been welcomed by a majority of teachers and headmasters. They have said this is the best possible option given a year of uncertainty the students have gone through. Government school teachers have welcomed the decision to give more weightage to Class 10 marks over Class 11 and 12. “There are around 6 lakh students at government and aided schools who were to take up the board exams this year. For many of them from schools in rural areas, no assessments took place except when they came back to schools for a while in January in Class 12,” said Patric Raymond, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation. With both the Central Board of Secondary Education and the State Board having accorded some weightage to the Class 11 scores, the focus is also on the need for students to work consistently through both years of higher secondary education. 20% of the Class 11 written board exam scores are to be considered for evaluation. The Class 12 students, awaiting their results, were able to write all but one paper in each stream in the Class 11 board examinations in March 2020 before the schools closed for COVID-19. “In cracking entrance exams and college education, the Class 11 syllabus has an important part, and is the foundation for higher education. The syllabus is qualitatively and quantitatively a jump for State board students after Class 10, and both students and teachers have to take it seriously,” said N. Vijayan, correspondent, Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School. Only a few years ago did the School Education Department begin conducting board examinations for Class 11 too, stating that the portions, aimed at preparing students for the final board examinations, were often neglected in favour of the Class 12 portions at several schools. The principal of a private school in Chennai said that for the students awaiting the Class 12 results, the Class 11 board examinations which took place in March 2020 had been a tough one. “While we were surprised that the Class 10 marks were given more weightage than Class 11, we will have to sensitise our students to the need for being committed in their preparations from Class 11,” he said. “Students who are focused on preparing for the NEET and other entrance exams have been taking the Class 11 portions seriously for the last few years. Going forward, all students should be consistent, and for this, we have been advocating a semester system that will ensure a consistent academic preparation at the higher secondary level,” said K.P.O. Suresh, president, Tamil Nadu Post-Graduate Teachers’ Federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evaluation-norms-go-down-well/article35009645.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Milk producers want State to give subsidy of Rs. 5 per litre to Aavin||Milk producers have urged the State government to give a subsidy of Rs. 5 per litre of milk to Aavin, which has reduced the sale price by Rs. 3 per litre. The Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers Federation, whose popular brand is known as Aavin, will stand to lose Rs. 270 crore a year due to the price reduction. “The various district unions attached to the federation are already running at a loss and farmers’ dues of Rs. 500 crore are yet to be paid. The unions are also repaying loans of about Rs. 250 crore taken to pay farmers’ dues,” said K. Muhammed Ali, State general secretary, Tamil Nadu Milk Producers Association. He went on to say that unless this step was taken, Aavin would slowly sink into a debt trap and farmers would have to depend on private dairies for survival. “Milk consumers did not ask for a price reduction. It was the government’s decision and therefore it should subsidise the loss. The people are asking for a reduction in fuel prices, which the government refuses to give,” he pointed out. In a statement here, the State general secretary called for restructuring of Aavin, which procures around 32 lakh litres of milk daily. “During the last regime, the 17 district unions were further divided and increased to 25 unions. This led to an increase in number of employees and additional expenses. Cooperatives can only spend up to 2% of their turnover on administration. This is not being followed in Aavin,” he said. The Tamil Nadu Milk Producers Welfare Association's M. G. Rajendran said that the government should consider increasing milk procurement prices. “A high-level committee of experts from various bodies including Veterinary College and National Dairy Development Board should be constituted and the hike should be based on their recommendations. The last hike was in 2019. We have been seeking an annual hike since input prices keep going up,” he said.  A panel of experts from various bodies, including Veterinary College and National Dairy Development Board should be constituted. The hike should be based on its recommendations M. G. Rajendran Tamil Nadu Milk Producers Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-producers-want-state-to-give-subsidy-of-rs-5-per-litre-to-aavin/article35009656.ece
28 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||How a tough operation rolled out to save patients||Immediately after the DMK entered office on May 7, it faced the first litmus test: the second wave of COVID-19 going out of hand and a large quantum of liquid medical oxygen required by government hospitals to save the patients. As the other States faced an oxygen shortage, the Tamil Nadu government formed a task force to draw up a plan to source oxygen from various parts of the country. The task force was headed by Industry Secretary N. Muruganandam and included the then Tangedco Chairman P.K. Bansal, the then Metrowater Executive Director T. Prabhushankar, K. Nanthakumar and several other IAS officials. The State had a total production capacity of 450 metric tonnes of oxygen, in the private sector, and the large number of COVID-19 cases in the first week of May meant the requirement for liquid medical oxygen went up because over 200 metric tonnes was supplied to other southern States, including Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, Mr. Muruganandam said. The government also foresaw the need for sourcing 200 metric tonnes of oxygen daily from other States. On a letter written by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, the Union government allotted oxygen from Odisha and West Bengal. A plan was drawn up to transport oxygen from these States by tying up with Southern Railway, the Indian Air Force and private logistics companies. But the plan ran into a hitch: sourcing oxygen from the eastern corridor required cryogenic tanks, which the State did not have. Mr. Bansal said that when the operation started, the State had neither cryogenic tanks nor tank trucks that were all privately operated. Mr. Bansal got three tank trucks from a private company, thus helping the State and Southern Railway launch the roll-on and roll-off (Ro-Ro) service for faster transport of oxygen. On some occasions, the tank trucks were flown on Indian Air Force planes. In the meantime, the government received four cryogenic tanks from the Netherlands, which were taken to Kalinganagar in Odisha. These cryogenic tanks, of 20-metric tonne capacity each, helped to bring more oxygen to the State — and at a faster rate. A tank truck could hold only 15 metric tonnes. Even as the empty tanks were going to Rourkela in Odisha, the first cryogenic tanks carrying oxygen landed in Thiruvallur on May 10. Mr. Bansal said that at one point, 34 cryogenic tanks were bringing oxygen, including 12 purchased by the government from China. State officials were deputed to places where the oxygen factories were located to thrash out the issues in logistics. IAS officials Manish Narnaware, Nishant Krishna, A. Periyasamy and Abishek Tomar were sent to Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh for coordinating with the local authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-a-tough-operation-rolled-out-to-save-patients/article35009644.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Journalists, activists thank Chief Minister||Representatives of the Alliance for Media Freedom (AFMF), led by its president N. Ram, called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday at the latter’s camp office in Chennai, and thanked him for announcing that all cases registered against media houses during the erstwhile AIADMK regime would be withdrawn. A representation signed by them, along with the chairman of the Asian College of Journalism (ACJ), Sashi Kumar, said: “The AFMF places its appreciation and gratitude to this announcement, which protects the freedom of expression, which is the undertone of a democracy.” Senior journalists R. Bhagwan Singh and Nakkeeran Gopal; Network for Women in Media India’s (NWMI) Lakshmi Subramanian and Induja Ragunathan; and AFMF convenor Peer Mohamed accompanied Mr. Ram. “If Tamil Nadu is leading the country in terms of education, medical facilities and social defence, the free press has had a major role to play in it. You [Mr. Stalin] have taken this good decision, as you have come from a political tradition that protects the freedom of the press. We are confident that the freedom of the press will be protected under your government,” the AFMF said in its representation. Non-violent protests Environmental activists, led by G. Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal, also called on Mr. Stalin, thanking him for announcing that cases against those involved in non-violent protests against neutrino project, the Sterlite plant and the hydrocarbon project, among others, would be withdrawn.  If Tamil Nadu is leading the country in terms of education, medical facilities and social defence, the free press has had a major role to play in it Alliance for Media Freedom||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/journalists-activists-thank-cm/article35009631.ece
28 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Reshuffle of IPS officers||The State government has announced a minor reshuffle of IPS officers in Tamil Nadu. While J Loganathan, IG, Armed reserve has been posted as Additional Commissioner of police, headquarters, Greater Chennai Police, M Ganeshmoorthy, who used to occupy the post has been transferred and posted as IG, headquarters in the existing vacancy. M Rajarajan, deputy commissioner of police, Law and Order, Tirunelveli city, has been posted as superintendent of police/principal, police recruit school, Perurani, Tuticorin. S. Senthil, who used to hold the post has been posted as commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police, Poonamallee. T. P Suresh Kumar, commandant,Tamil Nadu Special Police, Poonamallee. has been posted as deputy commissioner of police, Law and Order, Tirunelveli city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reshuffle-of-ips-officers/article35009651.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cooum’s first treatment plant to open in 2 months||The modular sewage treatment plant constructed in Chetpet, as part of the Integrated Cooum River Eco-restoration Project (CRRT), would be commissioned in two months. Four plants are being constructed, and the others will take some more time for completion. On Sunday, Shivdas Meena, Additional Chief Secretary, Municipal Administration and Water Supply; Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation; and other officials inspected the plants. The largest treatment capacity among the four plants would come up on Langs Garden Road, Pudupet. The plant at Chetpet has the capacity to treat one million litres of sewage daily. The other plants will come up along the Cooum near College Road, near Choolaimedu railway bridge and near Chennai Bypass Road, Maduravoyal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cooums-first-treatment-plant-to-open-in-2-months/article35009617.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Restore Anglo-Indian special quota: association||The Anglo-Indian Suburban Front has requested the Assembly to pass a resolution urging the Union government to restore the special reservation for nomination of Anglo-Indians to the Parliament and State legislatures, which was discontinued under the Constitutional Amendment Act, 2020. “This was based on an erroneous enumeration of 296 Anglo-Indians in the 2011 Census, and compiling them under an Anglo-Indian religion, when the term refers to our community,” A. Roy Rozario, the founder and president of the front said. On Saturday, he met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin with a list of requests from the community. He also urged that the special leave petition, pending in the Supreme Court since 2002, be vacated, and the reservation of a seat for Anglo-Indians in engineering and other professional courses be restored. He requested that the mandatory post of inspector of Anglo-Indian schools be restored. He urged Mr. Stalin to provide jobs to at least 100 Anglo-Indians over the next five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-anglo-indian-special-quota-association/article35009654.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ATM case: second accused brought to Chennai||The city police brought Virender Rawat, the second person arrested from Haryana in connection with the series of thefts reported in SBI ATMs across the city, to Chennai on Sunday. Special teams are camping in Haryana and the search is on for seven more accused involved in the case. A gang was involved in more than 14 cases of theft in SBI ATMs with cash deposit facilities between June 15 and 18. The investigation revealed that the accused who had come from Haryana had committed the offences. Around Rs. 45 lakh in cash was stolen from the ATMs in the city. Special teams were formed to crack the case. They nabbed one Amir Arsh, of Ballabgarh, Haryana, with the help of the Haryana police recently. During interrogation, he revealed the involvement of his friend Virender Rawat in the ATM thefts at Ramapuram, Chinmaya Nagar, Pondy Bazaar, Vadapalani, Velachery and Taramani. Based on inputs from Amir, the police arrested Virender Rawat. He was brought to Chennai on Sunday by a flight. He will be remanded in judicial custody after interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atm-theft-case-second-accused-brought-to-chennai/article35009655.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Foreigners steal cash from vehicle showroom in Sriperumbudur||Two foreigners distracted the owner of a two-wheeler showroom in Sriperumbudur and stole Rs. 60,000 from the counter on Friday. Based on the shop owner’s complaint, police are searching for the suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foreigners-steal-cash-from-vehicle-showroom-in-sriperumbudur/article35009620.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Incentives for getting vaccinated||As vaccine hesitancy is a matter of concern, DMK MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin has started offering incentives to residents of his Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni constituency to get them inoculated. So far, around 90,000 residents have been vaccinated in the facilities in his constituency. “This includes people from other constituencies as well, who participated in the vaccination drive to get the incentives,” Mr. Udhayanidhi told The Hindu on Sunday. When the second lockdown was implemented, he started distributing a bag of essentials to families in his constituency. He has distributed a total of one lakh bags containing rice, edible oil, wheat flour, rava and condiments. “I started distributing an additional bag to those who came forward to get vaccinated, and this [incentive] continues,” he said. Two vaccination camps — one in Chepauk and another in Triplicane — are being organised on a regular basis, and he personally visits houses, requesting people to take part in the camps. “There is a hesitancy among sections of people and I started offering incentives. The bag contains face masks, hand sanitisers, multi-vitamin tablets, ingredients for kabasura kudineer and essentials such as rice and other provisions,” he said. During his tour in the constituency, he also saw to it that those who needed immediate assistance were given it right away. On Friday, he took Sarojini, a victim of filariasis, in his car to his constituency office and presented her a sewing machine. “It happened in a matter of two hours,” said Ms. Sarojni, a resident of Chintadripet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incentives-for-getting-vaccinated/article35009625.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for stealing bike of policeman||The police arrested a 19-year-old youth, who allegedly stole a police head constable’s motorbike from the Thousand Lights police quarters during the early hours of Sunday. According to the police, Irudayaraj, a head constable at the Flower Bazaar traffic police station, parked his two-wheeler outside his house after returning from duty around 10 p.m. Janakiraman, of Ice House, a petty offender, stole the bike from the spot and fled. However, the Ice House police station personnel, who were involved in a vehicle check, intercepted him as he was pushing the stolen vehicle. The police checked the vehicle registration number and found that the owner was Mr. Irudayaraj. The police nabbed Janakiraman and handed him over to the Thousand Lights police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-stealing-bike-of-policeman/article35009621.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Textile shops, jewellers to reopen in 23 more districts||The Tamil Nadu government announced on Sunday that textile and jewellery shops in 23 more districts (category-II districts) would be allowed to function from Monday morning. These shops could function between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. without air-conditioning and by allowing only 50% of their customers, an official release said. The fresh relaxations were allowed on representations from members of the public and traders’ associations. The release said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin appealed to members of the public to make use of the additional relaxations responsibly, complying with the Standard Operating Procedure. The category-II districts are Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Kanniyakumari, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet, Sivaganga, Theni, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Tirupattur, Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi, Tiruchi, Vellore, Villupuram and Virudhunagar. The government has already allowed non-air-conditioned textile and jewellery shops in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts to operate from June 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-shops-jewellers-to-reopen-in-23-more-districts/article35009640.ece
28 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||VCK’s three-day protest||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Sunday announced protests for three days, from Monday to Wednesday, against the BJP’s policies in Tamil Nadu. He said the party would put forward seven demands such as reduction in excise duty on fuel, monthly assistance of Rs. 7,500 to families that have lost their livelihoods and ensuring adequate number of vaccines to the State according to its population, among others. He said the BJP’s policies had crippled the economy, and led to a rise in the price of essentials. “Left parties and the VCK will organise continuous protests against the BJP. I invite democratic forces to join us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-announces-protests/article35009665.ece
28 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Baahubali plays hide and seek as foresters step up bid to radio-collar it||Baahubali , a tusker known for routinely entering villages near Mettupalayam, remained inside the forest on Sunday, as Forest Department officials started efforts to tranquillise the animal and radio-collar it for the purpose of study. The tusker was located inside the Odanthurai reserve forest area, around 3 km off the Department’s timber depot on the Mettupalayam-Kotagiri road, when the operation was halted for the day on Sunday evening. After not showing up for two days, the tusker, aged 35-40 years, was spotted on the peripheries of the forest area of the Sirumugai forest range, near Vedar Colony, on Saturday night. Multiple teams of frontline workers and five veterinarians waited at different locations, expecting the elephant to come out of the forest. However, the tusker limited its movement within the forest. Utmost caution District forest officer D. Venkatesh told journalists that frontline workers were tracking the tusker with utmost caution, as other elephants were also moving inside the forest. “It is a very active and clever elephant,” Mr. Venkatesh said about Baahubali , adding that the animal did not cross the Kotagiri road to enter the Mettupalayam forest range limits after the arrival of kumkis at the timber depot for the operation a few days ago. The elephant used to cross the road before the arrival of kumkis . “It might have sensed the presence of the kumkis through smell,” he said. According to him, the use of drones to track the elephant was not practical on the terrain, which was dense with thorny bushes and trees. He said the operation would continue on Monday.  The use of drones to track the elephant is not practical on the terrain, which is dense with thorny bushes and trees D. Venkatesh District forest officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/baahubali-plays-hide-and-seek-as-foresters-step-up-bid-to-radio-collar-it/article35009627.ece
28 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. Commissioner asked to remove anomalies in Class One postings||Officials in Coimbatore Corporation are looking up to the State government and new Commissioner to remove anomalies in posting officials to Class One posts. The anomalies had cropped up in the last few years as officials who managed to gain favour with the then political dispensation went to Chennai, obtained favourable posts even though there were incumbents, and the Corporation officials here exceeded their powers in transferring those incumbents, said sources. As per Section 106 of The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 it was the State government that appointed persons to posts included in Class One category and the class included all heads of departments in the Corporation other than Commissioner and officers appointed to assist the Commissioner. By virtue of being the appointing authority, it was the Government – in this case the Secretary Municipal Administration Department - that had the powers to transfer the Class One officers – Assistant Commissioners of the five zones, Revenue, Accounts, Personnel, Town Planning Officer, City Engineers and two executive engineers, City Health Officer and Assistant City Health Officer In the last few years, a few officials who found favour with the then political dispensation obtained favourable orders even when there was no vacancy, the sources said and added that to accommodate the officers who had the orders, the then Corporation administration transferred the incumbents. The Corporation administration that transferred the incumbents had no powers as it was only the Government (Secretary) that should transfer the officials. Engineering wing The anomaly that existed at the heads of department level was also present in the engineering wing and markedly at that. The Corporation had a city engineer, two executive engineers for works and an executive engineer for planning (Town Planning Officer). Of the two executive engineers for works, one was to get two wards, the other three with the post of assistant commissioner of a zone. But the way the Corporation had gone about concentrating powers in a few engineers and cutting to size other engineers had demoralised the force, the sources said. Likewise, the Corporation had also erred in giving to an engineer on deputation the post reserved for engineers who had risen to its ranks had also upset a few. The sources further pointed out that same anomaly also existed in the health and sanitation wing, where a officers in the rank of sanitary officers had been side lined to make way for juniors who were now serving as zonal sanitary officers in-charge. The Corporation sources said they looked forward to the new government and present Corporation dispensation to set right the system and respect seniority. Corporation officials said they would look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-commissioner-asked-to-remove-anomalies-in-class-one-postings/article35009658.ece
28 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||ATR restricts group visits to tribal settlements||The authorities of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) have denied visit of outsiders as group to the tribal settlements in its limits coming under the Pollachi Forest Division. Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Director of ATR and District Forest Officer of Pollachi Forest Division, said in a statement that the measure was to prevent COVID-19 spreading to the tribal hamlets. As per the new restrictions, non-governmental organisations, charitable trusts, volunteers and individuals who wish to donate relief materials to the tribal settlements have to get permission from the forest range officer of the respective area in advance. One person representing the NGO or trust accompanied by Forest Department staff will be allowed to visit settlements. The statement said that the Department has been taking various measures for the welfare of the residents of the 17 tribal settlements in Pollachi Forest Division areas of ATR due to the COVID-19 induced lockdown. Similar restrictions were already introduced for 17 tribal settlements in Tiruppur Forest Division areas of ATR.  The Hindu on Sunday had highlighted how tribal settlements in the western region started to report COVID-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic, reason for which included visits by outsiders according to the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atr-restricts-group-visits-to-tribal-settlements/article35009690.ece
28 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Airport medical team felicitated for saving elderly passenger||The medical team at the Coimbatore International Airport recently resuscitated a 72-year-old woman passenger whose blood sugar level plunged drastically (hypoglycaemia). A release issued by the office of the Airport Director said the passenger, who travelled with her family by an IndiGo flight from Hyderabad on June 18, felt drowsy as the aircraft was nearing Coimbatore. Suspecting hypoglycaemia as she was diabetic, the airline staff gave her sugar. But, that did not help stabilise her. As the flight landed at the airport, she became unconscious and unresponsive. The airline staff immediately declared a medical emergency and the three-member medical team at the airport rushed to the aircraft. They did a quick examination and found that the blood sugar level was only 27 mg, which was dangerously low. They provided fluids and dextrose intravenously, as she was unconscious. She was shifted from the aircraft to an ambulance on the periphery of the parking bay. The team continued with resuscitation, after which she regained her consciousness and was stabilised. She went home later, the release said. Airport director R. Mahalingam and S. Raja Sabapathy, Chairman, Department of Plastic, Hand and Reconstructive Microsurgery and Burns at Ganga Hospital felicitated the team on Friday. Mr. Mahalingam thanked Ganga Hospital for providing the service of the paramedics at the airport round-the-clock, with an ambulance, for the past three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-medical-team-felicitated-for-saving-elderly-passenger/article35009672.ece
28 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water supply improvement work to resume||After a long lull, drinking water supply improvement work in the old city area is all set to resume. Sources said the go ahead to resume the work came from the top officers in the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department at a meeting held in Chennai. The approval was given because the Coimbatore Corporation, which was implementing the project with Suez India Pvt. Ltd. as contractor, was in a quandary after the recently concluded Assembly election because the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, when in opposition, had openly opposed the project. Prior to the Assembly election, during the COVID-19 lockdown in 2020, the company had to go slow on executing the project because of labour migration. Though the labour returned around December 2020-January 2021, work did not resume in the pace that the Corporation had wanted. Then came the Model Code of Conduct, election and change in government, the sources pointed out and said they had resulted in a situation where the company could not complete the work even in R.S. Puram, the first locality where it started the work in 2019. As per the contract the Corporation had signed with the company, it was supposed to complete the work to relay all the drinking water pipeline in the old city area – 60 wards – in four years, by 2023. Along with the challenges was also the problem of the Corporation delaying payment to Suez India Pvt. Ltd. for taking over the maintenance of the existing drinking water supply system. As of June 2021, the civic body owed around Rs. 100 crore to the company, the sources said and added that this had affected the company’s financial ability to execute the work. All this was set to change as the top bureaucrats had given the nod to resume the work. But there was one last hitch – the company mobilising labour. It had started to source the labour from various parts of the country and by July 15, work would resume on ground, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-improvement-work-to-resume/article35009689.ece
28 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bharathiar University changes evaluation pattern||The way Bharathiar University evaluates students of its graduate and post-graduate programmes is set to change starting this academic year. The university would give equal weightage for internal and external assessments and this was decided at the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs meeting that was held on Wednesday, said Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj. So far, the evaluation system gave 25% weightage to internal assessment and the rest to external assessment. The change was in keeping with the university moving towards outcome-based education, where it would continuously evaluate students. Under this system, the university had asked colleges to take into account students’ performance in first, second and pre-final examinations, group discussions, quiz, seminar, etc. Or, any such evaluation system that faculty deemed fit, Mr. Kaliraj said and added that the system would become not only student centric but also give more say to the faculty. After every evaluation, the university had asked colleges to immediately upload results. The internal evaluation results along with external evaluation would determine students’ marks and result. To ensure transparency in the system and that students got fair evaluation, the university had asked colleges to establish department-wise grievance redress system. If students were dissatisfied with the first-level of the grievance redress mechanism, they could then approach the principal concerned and further the university itself. Mr. Kaliraj also said that the university made a detailed presentation of the system to the State Higher Education Department, obtained its approval and held consultation with various stakeholders. The next step was the university placing before the Syndicate the minutes of Wednesday’s meeting. And, thereafter it would come into force, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathiar-university-changes-evaluation-pattern/article35009669.ece
28 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Blood donation drive launched||More than 50 units of blood were collected on the first day of the voluntary blood donation drive launched by the Rotary Club of Coimbatore Meridian and Coimbatore branch of the Indian Medical Association here on Saturday. District Collector G.S. Sameeran inaugurated the drive at the IMA hall in the presence of the Deputy Director of Health Services S. Senthil Kumar and District Blood Transfusion Officer A. Mangayarkarasi. According to organisers, 150 persons had registered for the voluntary blood donation. Blood collected in the camp till 3 p.m. on Saturday was handed over to the blood bank at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Units collected after 3 p.m. and collections in the coming days were for the IMA blood bank, organisers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/blood-donation-drive-launched/article35009667.ece
28 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held with 200 litres of IMFL in Coimbatore||A special team of the city police and personnel from the Kuniyamuthur police station on Sunday seized around 200 litres of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) from a warehouse on Sundakamuthur Road. The police arrested two men namely Sankar (32) of Manaparai in Tiruchi and Vignesh (37) from Natham in Dindigul who had stocked the liquor at the warehouse belonging to Selvaraj, said the police. The police inspected the warehouse based on specific information and found 1,130 bottles of IMFL made in Karnataka. According to the police, the two men were engaged in illegal sale of liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-200-litres-of-imfl-in-coimbatore/article35009659.ece
28 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Gang robs woman of jewellery||Four men trespassed into a house at SIHS Colony here on Saturday and robbed the resident of 11.5 sovereigns of jewellery and four mobile phones on Saturday. The police said S. Manimegalai (38), a resident of phase-II at Indira Nagar, SIHS Colony, was targeted by four men on Saturday afternoon. They threatened her of assaulting and took away the jewellery and mobile phones from the house. The men also assaulted two persons, Prabhu and Kumar, who came to the woman’s help. They suffered injuries on head and thigh. The gang did not attack another woman named Sindhu who was in the house, the police said. The Singanallur police registered a case based on a complaint lodged by Ms. Manimegalai. The police said the investigation wing headed by inspector Sundarapandiyan was on the lookout for the four men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-robs-woman-of-jewellery/article35009674.ece
28 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Collector visits Chinnampathy hamlet||Collector G.S. Sameeran on Sunday visited the Chinnampathy and Puthupathy tribal hamlets in Madukkarai taluk after a few persons tested COVID-19 positive. A release from the district administration said, the Collector accompanied Assistant Collector (Training) Sharanya, Revenue Divisional Officer A.J. Senthil Arasan visited the localities and interacted with the residents. On learning about S. Sandhya, who was teaching 20 children at her house, the Collector appreciated her and gifted books. He told the girl that he was happy to note that even during the pandemic period, she was going out of her way to teach the children who were unable to go to school. He also visited the Walayar inter-State check post, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-visits-chinnampathy-hamlet/article35009673.ece
28 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas on June 28 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.:  Pattanam and Peedampalli sub-stations: Part of Vellalore, Kavery Nagar, Muthu Nagar, Krishna Colony, Pasumbon Nagar, Karavali Salai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35009688.ece
28 June 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Goods train derails near Bommidi||Train service was disrupted for over an hour when a goods train heading towards Chennai derailed between Lokur and Bommidi around 8.45 a.m. on Sunday. According to officials from Salem Railway Division, an empty goods train heading towards Chennai departed from Mecheri around 6 a.m. The 18th wagon of the train derailed around 8.45 a.m between Lokur and Bommidi. Railway officials said the wagon derailed following coupling issues between wagon 16 and 17. Railway staff and technicians indulged in re-railing in the train and it was re-railed by 12.20 p.m. The officials also examined the track and said there were no issues in it. A departmental inquiry would be conducted into the issue. Due to the derailing, two train services to Chennai, Train No.02680 Coimbatore – Chennai Central Intercity Express and Train No.06628 Mangalore – Chennai Central were affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goods-train-derails-near-bommidi/article35009684.ece
28 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK and power cuts inseparable’||Power cuts and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) are inseparable, said AIADMK MLA Natham R Viswanathan here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, after opening the MLA's office at Natham, the Assembly constituency from where he was elected, he said that he had been a minister for electricity for seven years during the AIADMK regime in the past. "I never knew that squirrels were responsible for the frequent power interruptions these days in many parts of the State...," he added. He alleged that the Electricity Minister Senthil Balaji's inexperience and poor understanding of the real issue had resulted in unannounced power cuts. The AIADMK, while in power, had bagged awards as a State with surplus power. Many companies, including MNCs, had been attracted to Tamil Nadu. However, even before the government could start functioning, the power cuts had irked the people, Mr Viswanathan said and added that this was just the beginning and that bad days were waiting at the doorsteps. He also said that whenever the DMK came to power, maintenance of law and order was a challenge. This has also started now in the State, he charged. While the DMK during the electioneering made promises, the Governor's address at the Assembly had nothing tangible about the objectives of the government. The stoic silence on the NEET showed their disregard for students. To a query, he said that the people had not voted out the AIADMK. "Some strategies went wrong for the party in the election," he admitted, but did not elaborate. However, he said that the people cannot be deceived as they would be closely watching the moves of the government and the AIADMK would play its role as an Opposition in a constructive manner, he stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-and-power-cuts-inseparable/article35009832.ece
28 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two more die after taking ‘nutrition’ tablet, two held||The Erode district police on Sunday arrested two persons in connection with the murder of three women, who were offered poisonous substance under the pretext of ‘nutrition’ tablets near Chennimalai. According to the police, the deceased were identified as Mallika (55), her daughter Deepa (30) and their farm worker Kuppammal (65). Karupanna Gounder, Mallika’s husband is under treatment at a private hospital in Coimbatore, police said. On Saturday, while the four persons were at Karuppana Gounder’s house in Chennimalai, an unidentified person approached them to be coming from a COVID-19 special camp and offered them tablets and left the place. The four persons consumed the tablets and complained of nausea and other ailments within a few moments. Neighbours rushed them to hospital. However, Mallika died on the way to hospital. Karupanna Gounder and Deepa were taken to a private hospital in Coimbatore where Deepa died on Sunday and Kuppammal died at the government hospital in Salem on Sunday. Police on Sunday arrested two persons, Kalyanasundaram and his neighbour, a college student Bodesh Kumar. According to the police, Kalyanasundaram and Karupanna Gounder had financial disputes and Kalyanasundaram used Bodesh Kumar to offer poisonous tablets to the family. Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-die-after-taking-nutrition-tablet-two-held/article35009686.ece
28 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Counselling through toll free helpline||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India and National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences is providing psychosocial support and mental health services during the COVID-19 pandemic and the public can dial the toll free number 080-46110007. A release from Collector H. Krishnanunni said people from any part of the country can call up the number and avail the support that is offered in 12 languages, including Tamil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-through-toll-free-helpline/article35009670.ece
28 June 2021||ERODE/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Adhere to COVID-19 safety protocols’||Collector H. Krishnanunni advised the public to adhere to State government’s guidelines to make Erode district COVID-19 disease free. In a release, Mr. Krishnanunni said the State government had extended lockdown till 6 a.m. on July 5 and advised the public to adhere to guidelines issued by the State government. According to a release, until Saturday, 87,110 have been affected with COVID-19 in Erode and 81,849 persons have recovered, 4,695 persons are under treatment. As many as 3,97,928 have received COVID-19 vaccination in the district. The Collector advised the public to not venture out of their house unnecessarily and follow COVID-19 safety protocols when they were venturing out. In Salem, Collector S.Karmegham said the State government had provided relaxations for various businesses in the district from Monday and these businesses were advised to operate only within the permitted timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adhere-to-covid-19-safety-protocols/article35009685.ece
28 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Be courteous while interacting with the public: SP tells police officials||Superintendent of Police E. Sai Charan Tejaswi has advised the police officials to be courteous while interacting with the public and to prevent any untoward incidents. The SP interacted with the police officials here and advised them to maintain high standards during policing. He advised them to be polite, courteous and firm while interacting with the public. He added that personnel need not react emotionally if someone tried to instigate them and advised them to make video recordings in such situations. He advised the officials to provide CSR or FIR copies to the public or an acknowledgement when they visit the station with a complaint. Mr. Tejaswi advised officials to take preventive action against potential offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-courteous-while-interacting-with-the-public-sp-tells-police-officials/article35009661.ece
28 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||GRH gets oxygen generator plant||Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan and Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy inaugurated an oxygen generator plant at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here on Sunday. The plant, costing Rs. 32.50 lakh, was sponsored by Rotary Club of Madurai West. The plant can generate 200 litres per minute. Addressing mediapersons after the inauguration, Mr. Thiagarajan said that after the DMK government took charge, the Chief Minister had instructed to take measures on a war-footing to contain the spread of COVID-19 across the State. At that time, the oxygen supply was highly insufficient in hospitals in Madurai. “There was a night when there was an acute shortage in supply of oxygen to the GRH. We took efforts to solve the problem at a close call. At that time, we had promised that the situation will be changed to ensure the availability of sufficient oxygen in the district,” said Mr. Thiagarajan. So, initially oxygen tankers were brought in from other States through trains. Then enquiries were made about oxygen generators being used at hospitals in other States. So, currently the GRH has three sources of oxygen. First is the supply of liquid oxygen, oxygen generator plants and oxygen concentrators. Even if there was a third wave, there would not be such a grave oxygen shortage. He said that joint efforts of the officials helped in bringing down COVID-19 cases in Madurai to below 100. Delta Plus variant When asked about cases of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus, the Minister said that the government currently has access to only one laboratory for performing genome sequencing. “We are planning to get necessary devices to perform the genome sequencing in the State,” he added. The committee set up for monitoring fees charged in private hospitals has so far helped in refunding money to patients in 12 cases in Madurai district. In another case, a hospital was denied permission to treat COVID-19 patients, he added. Rotary Club of Madurai West president L. Ramanathan, past president T. Ravee, and secretary M. Balasubramanian, among others, were present. Along with the funds of Rotary Club of Madurai West, Paramount Textile Mills, Solartis Technology Services, and Energy Livingscapes and Associates, also contributed for the oxygen generator plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grh-gets-oxygen-generator-plant/article35009844.ece
28 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK trying to divert attention of people from issues: Udhayakumar||Unable to keep its poll promises, the DMK government was trying to divert the people’s attention from current issues by finding fault with the previous government, said AIADMK MLA R. B. Udhayakumar here on Sunday. It promised to scrap NEET during the poll campaign. But, after coming to power, the DMK remained silent. When the issue was raised by the AIADMK inside and outside the Assembly, the DMKto handle it, had preferred to divert the attention by tabling the CAG report. The AIADMK would not be cowed down by such tactics. “Is the DMK ready to discuss the CAG report of 2006-11, when DMK was in power,” he asked. Instead of concentrating on preventing the COVID-19 pandemic and conducting vaccination drive in rural areas, the DMK was picking holes in the past schemes like an opposition party. Former electricity minister S. P. Velumani had clearly explained the numerous steps taken in the TANGEDCO and the measures which had driven it as a surplus power State. In the NEET issue, the Congress introduced the concept and the DMK, which was its ally, had also endorsed it. The late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa opposed the NEET tooth and nail. After her demise, the AIADMK government led by Edappadi K Palaniswami also passed a resolution in the Assembly against the NEET and went to the Supreme Court, but in vain. Hence, the then government made arrangements for free coaching to the students to pass the competitive exam. Such was the stand of the AIADMK and hoped the DMK government would not play with the children's future. The AIADMK advocates’ wing had conducted a training camp at Kunnathur, in which senior advocates spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-trying-to-divert-attention-of-people-from-issues-udhayakumar/article35009848.ece
28 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||834 TNSTC buses to be back on road in Madurai||A total of 834 buses will be operated from Monday in Madurai district, following the relaxation of lockdown norms. As per the recent relaxation of lockdown norms, intra-district and inter-district bus movement can resume in the 27 districts which come under categories 2 and 3. Madurai, which falls under this category, will operate 834 non-air conditioned buses with 50% occupancy ratio. On Sunday, all buses were sanitised and cleaned. Out of the 834 buses,714 are city buses, including all-women buses. A senior TNSTC official said that officials will be deployed at important bus stops to ensure that safety precautions were followed. Additional number of buses will be deployed depending upon the patronage for the buses. All passengers must wear face masks. They have to undergo thermal screening before entering the buses, added the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/834-tnstc-buses-to-be-back-on-road-in-madurai/article35009841.ece
28 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Men in uniform show they do care||Constables of 1999 batch, under the aegis of Uthavum Uravugal, have donated Rs. 14.76 lakh to the family of one of their batchmates, Syed Mohammed, who recently passed away. The batchmates, who are now Head Constables, handed over cash and receipts of fixed deposits made in the name of Syed Mohammed’s wife and three children on Sunday. Syed Mohammed was attached to Tirunagar police station of Madurai City police. The batch of 2,817 police personnel has been helping the family of the deceased batchmates for the past few years. “Usually, it will take a few months for the family to get pension. In the meantime, the family, that has lost the breadwinner, might be in financial trouble too, in the form of debts. So, we decided to jointly help the families in trouble,” one of the batchmates said. The batchmates had contributed Rs. 500 to Rs. 4,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/men-in-uniform-show-they-do-care/article35009846.ece
28 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector checks health of cow||Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar on Sunday inspected the health condition of a cow which suffered burn injuries at Alwarpuram here. Joint Director of Animal Husbandry (in-charge) A. Ravichandran said the department received a call from an animal activist on Saturday reporting about the cow. “We provided first aid and on Sunday morning we traced the owner to Alwarpuram,” he added. “The cow has marked almost 80% recovery and it will be discharged from the veterinary clinic after four days,” he said. The Collector instructed police to investigate how the animal, aged around 5, sustained burns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-checks-health-of-cow/article35009836.ece
28 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online training programme on solar installation||MSME Technology Development Centre (PPDC), Extension Centre, Madurai, will conduct a five-day online training programme on solar installation from July 5 between 10 a.m. and 12 noon. This programme has been arranged with a view to encouraging aspiring entrepreneurs. Persons aged above 18, who are interested in joining the programme, can visithttp://www.ppdcagra. dcmsme.gov.inor contact 86670 65048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-training-programme-on-solar-installation/article35009839.ece
28 June 2021||MADURAi,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 131.85 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 480 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 64.17 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,588 cusecs and a discharge of 2,043 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,456 mcft. Rainfall recorded in Madurai region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Mettupatti 7, Thekkadi 1.4 and Periyar dam 1.  Tirunelveli Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 132.15 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 457.68 cusecs and a discharge of 1,809.55 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 81 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 194 cusecs and a discharge of 75 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35009850.ece
28 June 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||84 new cases in Madurai||Madurai district recorded 84 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday to to take the tally to 72,066. A total of 76 persons were discharged from various hospitals and three fatalities recorded, raising the death toll to 1,084. Virudhunagar district reported 68 fresh cases and 89 discharges. With no fatality, the district’s death toll remains at 521.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/84-new-cases-in-madurai/article35009837.ece
28 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry Cabinet assumes office||The five-member Council of Ministers of Puducherry's first NDA government, led by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, was sworn-in on Sunday, 50 days after winning the Assembly election on April 6 to form the 15th Legislative Assembly. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan administered the oath of office and secrecy to the Ministers. A. Namassivayam (BJP), K. Lakshminarayanan, C. Djeacoumar and Chandirapriyanga (AINRC) and Sai Saravanan Kumar (BJP) were formally inducted in that order. All of them took the oath in the name of God. Following the swearing-in, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy and the newly sworn-in Ministers felicitated the Lt. Governor. Ms. Soundararajan also felicitated the Chief Minister and his team. This marks Mr. Rangasamy's record fourth term as Chief Minister of Puducherry — he was Congress Chief Minister in 2001-2006 and 2006-08. When he was ousted mid-term in 2008, he floated a break-away party, the All India NR Congress, and rode to power in the 2011 election to return to the CM's chair. His Cabinet in the fourth stint as Chief Minister features a balance of veterans in Mr. Namassivayam, Mr. Lakshminarayanan and Mr. Djeacoumar and new faces in Ms Chandirapriyanga, the first woman Minister in 41 years, and Mr. Saravanan Kumar. Earlier, the ceremony began at a makeshift pavilion in front of the Raj Nivas with the national anthem and the State song Vazhvinil Semmaiyai Seibaval Neeye (Tamizh Thai Vaazhthu) . A readout of the Presidential notification of June 25 on the appointment of the five Ministers by Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar followed. L. Murugan, BJP president of Tamil Nadu was among the guests. Representatives from the Opposition were conspicuous by their absence. The function was held amid tight security and restrictions on invitees due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The swearing-in of the Cabinet comes seven weeks after the NDA alliance of AINRC-BJP-AIADMK came to power when the results of the April 6 Assembly election were announced on May 2. While Mr. Rangasamy was sworn-in on May 7, the Cabinet formation hit a roadblock due to intense wrangling between the principal allies, the AINRC and the BJP, to find a mutually agreeable power-sharing arrangement. Mr. Rangasamy's hospitalisation for COVID-19 treatment in the second week of May froze all negotiations for a few weeks. Eventually, with the prodding of the BJP national leadership, the allies hammered out an agreement wherein the BJP would forego its demand for the hitherto non-existent post of Deputy Chief Minister, and settle for the Speakership and two Ministerial berths while the AINRC would keep the Deputy Speaker post along with three Cabinet positions. Even without the Deputy CM post, the BJP is making a remarkable entry into the legislative-governance sphere of the Union Territory with the Speakership, two Ministers, six elected legislators and three nominated MLAs. A remarkable place to be for a party which last had a token presence in the Assembly in 2001 with a sole elected MLA in A.M. Krishnamurthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-cabinet-assumes-office/article35009649.ece
28 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Efforts under way to trace fisherman’||Minister for Environment-Climate Change, Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan on Sunday said efforts to trace a missing fisherman of the district were in full swing. The fisherman, Vaseekaran, who belonged to Vadakku Pudhukudi village in Manamelkudi panchayat union, accidentally fell into the sea from his boat on Saturday. Mr. Meyyanathan met his family members and consoled them. He also handed over Rs. 50,000 from his personal fund as temporary relief. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Meyyanathan said Mr. Vaseekan ventured into the sea for fishing on Saturday morning and went missing after he accidentally fell into the sea. The Fisheries Department was taking steps to rescue him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-under-way-to-trace-fisherman/article35009896.ece
28 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. continues surveillance on suspected movement of leopard||The Forest department personnel conducted searches on Sunday after residents of Kandhampatti claimed movement of a leopard in a sugarcane farm on Saturday evening. Forest department personnel surveyed the area using drones and conducted combing operation in the farm. They also tried to identify pug marks from the place. District Forest Officer R. Murugan said that the entire farm was being monitored for any suspicious animal movement. He said that the pug marks collected from the place did not match with that of any carnivore and it was that of dogs. ppublic living in the vicinity of the farm have been alerted and they have been advised to contact forest department personnel if any suspicious animal movement was noticed. On Saturday, two women, who went to collect grass for cattle in a sugarcane farm near Kandhampatti. claimed that they saw a leopard in the farm and immediately alerted forest and police personnel. Cages were also set up here to trap the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-continues-surveillance-on-suspected-movement-of-leopard/article35009681.ece
28 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Former HM functionary held||The Salem City Police on Sunday arrested former Hindu Munnani functionary Chellapandian and his accomplice Tamilarasan for threatening police personnel who were indulged in vehicle checking at Kondalampatti roundabout. Chellapandian on Friday indulged in quarrel with the policemen at the check post reportedly for collecting a fine of Rs. 200 from his friend Murali for travelling without masks on Thursday night. A video of the exchange went viral on social media platforms and a case was registered against Chellapandian and Tamilarasan. The police arrested them on Sunday and they were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-hm-functionary-held/article35009683.ece
28 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Compensation given to to Murugesan’s family||Collector S. Karmegham handed over of cheque for Rs. 10 lakh to the family of A. Murugesan, a farmer, who died following police brutality here recently. Mr. Karmegham visited the family at Yedayapatti on Saturday and promised all assistance on behalf of the State government as per guidelines, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-given-to-to-murugesans-family/article35009682.ece
28 June 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||State will consider plea to install statue of Bharathi in Kadayam, says Speaker||The State government would take steps to install the statues of renowned poet Subramaniya Bharathi and his wife Chellammal at Kadayam in the district, said Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Speaker M Appavoo on Sunday. Speaking at the 124th wedding anniversary of the poet, Mr. Appavoo was confident that the government under the leadership of M.K. Stalin would consider genuine suggestions. Lauding Bharathi for his progressive ideas, which were firm and loud, Mr Appavoo said that unmindful of the consequences, Bharathi spelt out clearly whatever he deemed it right. In those days (early 1900-11), when education was accessible to a select community, his views rattled many people. The poet faced many challenges in his life. His simplicity in life and uprightness, which reflected on his many poems, were relevant even today. The poet Bharathiwould always be remembered and cherished for his values, the Speaker said and assured that the government would support the initiatives of the Sevalaya in establishing a manimandapam for the late poet in his hometown. Earlier, Sevalaya founder Muralidharan welcomed the gathering. He said that many philanthropists were waiting to contribute for establishing a manimandapam and even a museum. Collector Gopal Sundar Raj presided over the function. On the occasion, the Speaker gave away welfare assistance to the economically weaker section. Competitions were organised through virtual mode to mark the anniversary and prizes were given to the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-will-consider-plea-to-install-statue-of-bharathi-in-kadayam-says-speaker/article35009833.ece
28 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Sterlite offers basic infrastructure at govt. hospitals in Thoothukudi and Tiruchendur||Sterlite Copper has provided basic infrastructure at the Government Hospitals in Thoothukudi and Tiruchendur. In a press release issued on Sunday, the company said it renovated the third floor at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thoothukudi, added 70 oxygen-supported beds and 75 7,000-litre capacity oxygen cylinders. The companyhad been producing medical grade oxygen at its plant here and supplying it to several hospitals in Tamil Nadu and other States free of cost. In Tiruchendur GH, the company provided 42 beds, including 10 critical care beds, and 32 oxygen-supported beds, along with COVID care medical equipment. The company, in addition to ensuring availability of oxygen, had also provided vital medical equipment to government hospitals in Thoothukudi, Thiruchendur, Kayalpattinam, and Primary Health Centres at Mappillai Oorani Pudukottai, Kailasapuram, and Urban Primary Health Centres in Madathur, Ganesh Nagar, Fatima Nagar, Threspuram, Cruzpuram, Tharuvai Road and Mullakadu in Thoothukudi. The medical equipment provided to the GHs included nebulisers, oximeters, suction machines and bipap machines, all of which are essential for critical COVID patients and other emergency cases. Sterlite Copper had generated and despatched over 1200 tonnes of liquid oxygen to over 23 districts in Tamil Nadu as of June 26. A new cylinder bottling unit had also been set up. Vedanta group had committed to build 1,000 critical care beds in 10 locations across India to support COVID-19 patients. Group Chairman Anil Agarwal had pledged Rs. 150 crore this year to fight the pandemic, over and above the Rs. 201 crore earmarked by the company last year for providing relief to those affected, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sterlite-offers-basic-infrastructure-at-two-ghs/article35009691.ece
28 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pediatric infrastructure being augmented to counter 3rd wave||In the wake of predictions by a section of virologists of a possible third wave, the district administration has shifted its focus to augmenting pediatric infrastructure in government hospitals. Revenue and health authorities went through the toughest period in May due to unprecedented rise in COVID-19 cases during the second wave. With patients requiring oxygen heading to hospitals in droves, they had to work overtime to increase oxygen-supported beds in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) and other hospitals in the district besides establishing beds at Covid Care Centres. To avoid the “unpleasant situation”, the authorities have begun steps to ramp up infrastructure to face a possible third wave. Since it is perceived to attack children, the focus is on to create more facilities to treat them. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that he had conducted a series of meetings with health authorities on ramping up pediatric infrastructure in government hospitals. A total of 100 beds had so far been established at MGMGH and other hospitals. There were not many beds in ICUs in pediatric medical care. But the situation might warrant more beds in ICUs to treat vulnerable age groups. “It is a challenge to increase the infrastructure in pediatric wards. We will successfully face the challenge,” Mr. Sivarasu said. The State government had been making efforts to create more infrastructure and chances for recruiting more pediatricians for government hospitals were bright. A multi-pronged approach would be followed to keep COVID-19 infections under control during the third wave. Vaccinating as many people as possible was one of the significant options. The district had a population of about 30 lakh. Nearly 8.5 lakh people were below the age of 18. Those above 18 years of age accounted for about 21.5 lakh. Of them, 5.5 lakh people had already been vaccinated. The vaccination drive had picked up pace. Steps had been taken to vaccinate the remaining 16.5 lakh people as early as possible. “If we vaccinate around 50% of the adult population, we believe that we can successfully handle any situation,” Mr. Sivarasu said. Infrastructure had been created to vaccinate one lakh people a day. The problem was on supply of vaccines, he added.  If we vaccinate around 50% of the adult population, we believe that we can successfully handle any situation S. Sivarasu Tiruchi Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pediatric-infrastructure-being-augmented-to-counter-3rd-wave/article35009889.ece
28 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||School heads relieved with timely supply of textbooks||Heads of government and government-aided schools are relieved over timely supply of textbooks to students ahead of beginning of classes for 2021-22. The process was initiated last week in the district. Textbooks are being supplied from storage points in every block. Revamp of the departmental administrative structure two years ago has made the process easier, according to official sources. Now that all school-level activities are under the control of the office of chief educational officers, the supply chain from district educational officers to block education officers and finally to schools is being monitored with relative ease. “About 75% of the textbooks have been supplied to students over the last few days. The task will be completed during this week. The department is also contemplating delivery of books at the doorstep of students by teachers under the supervision of school heads, said G. Arivazhagan, Chief Educational Officer, Tiruchi. School heads feel that the prompt distribution of books to students is meant to ensure that there is no pruning of portions. Students at lower levels will continue to be engaged through Whatsapp groups and provision of books will help in giving home assignments to students, teachers say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-heads-relieved-with-timely-supply-of-textbooks/article35009883.ece
28 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cash dole, grocery items distributed to temple priests||Priests without monthly income and performing daily puja in temples controlled by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department in the district were given cash dole of Rs. 4,000 each and kits containing grocery items on Sunday. The relief was distributed on the directive of the Chief Minister in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. At a function held at Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple, Minister for Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply K.N. Nehru gave away the cash assistance and kits containing 15 grocery items to some priests of Ranganathaswamy Temple, Mariamman Temple at Samayapuram, Jambukeswarar Temple at Tiruvanaikoil and Vekkaliamman Temple at Woraiyur. Collector S. Sivarasu, Srirangam MLA M. Palaniandi, Regional Joint Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department R. Sudarshan and executive officers of the four temples were present at the event. In a similar function organised at Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple, Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi distributed cash assistance and grocery items to 16 priests of the temple. The total number of beneficiaries in Tiruchi district was 603, said a senior HR & CE official here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-dole-grocery-items-distributed-to-temple-priests/article35009894.ece
28 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Bus services to resume today||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has geared up to resume inter-district and intra-district bus services on Monday following relaxations announced by the State government. Ahead of resuming the services, the government buses were cleaned at the respective depots in Tiruchi region and sanitised on Sunday. Barring districts which fall under Category - I, government buses would be operated to other districts and within Tiruchi district, said a senior TNSTC official. The services, which were suspended in view of the spike in COVID-19 positive cases, would be resumed at the crack of dawn on Monday, said the official and added that the vehicles would be operated with 50 % occupancy and in compliance with the standard operating procedures. Bus drivers and conductors have been provided with masks and the vehicles would be sanitised after the completion of every trip, the official further said. Passengers wearing masks would alone be allowed to travel, he said. Buses would not be operated to places such as Karur, Salem, Erode, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai, Namakkal and Tiruvarur where COVID-19 cases have remained high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-services-to-resume-today/article35009899.ece
28 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report less than 800 fresh cases||The central districts on Sunday reported 768 fresh COVID-19 cases. The number of deaths, too, witnessed a decline with 19 patients succumbing to the viral infection. All districts in the region reported less than 10 deaths. Seven patients succumbed to the viral infection in Tiruchi district. Tiruvarur recorded four deaths, while three patients each succumbed in Ariyalur and Karur. One death each was reported in Perambalur and Pudukottai districts. No death was reported in both Nagapattinam and Thanjavur districts. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region with 244 patients reporting positive. The district has continued to report a significant dip in numbers over the last few weeks and has reported less than 300 cases for the first time since April. In Tiruchi district, 191 patients tested positive, while Nagapattinam reported a significant drop with 72 fresh cases. Pudukottai reported 69 cases, while Tiruvarur reported 60. Meanwhile, Ariyalur reported a spike with 63 fresh cases. Karur had reported a sharp dip with 46 patients testing positive for COVID-19, while Perambalur district reported 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-less-than-800-fresh-cases/article35009892.ece
28 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Teachers prepare a booklet on Kalvi TV’s lesson schedule||Teachers at the Panchayat Union Middle School in Pirattiyur have readied a booklet containing the timings of classes and comprehensive schedule of lessons to be telecast on Kalvi TV. The guide enables students to be focussed on lessons pertaining to their class. Speaking about the guide, K. Asha Devi, school headmistress, said that class teachers conducted parent-teacher meetings online and learnt that children have been missing out on attending classes on Kalvi TV as they were not aware of the timings. “The child cannot sit in front of the TV and wait for long”, she said. Hence, each class teacher took the initiative to print out a guide for their classes and it will be handed to the students soon. “We have asked the parents to visit the school and meet the class teacher before starting classes this year. We would love to meet the students too, but that is not possible now as their safety is more important,” Ms. Devi said. Number of admissions to the Prattiyur Panchayat Union Middle School is amongst the highest in the city. “Prior to the COVID-19 lockdown last year, we had 240 students. We saw a massive increase in last academic year’s admissions itself. By the end of the year, we had 557 students. Now, within a week, our total strength has gone up to 700,” Ms. Devi said. She attributes the increase in admission to the pandemic, due to which students are unable to go to school. “Most parents in Prattiyur had borrowed money to send their children to private schools. They are unable to afford it now,” she said. The Panchayat Union Middle School has all the facilities that a private school has, and without the hefty fee amounts, so the parents are happy to send their children to school here, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-prepare-a-booklet-on-kalvi-tvs-lesson-schedule/article35009891.ece
28 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||GDP Hall to be air-conditioned||The Grievance Day Petition (GDP) hall at the Collector’s Office will be equipped with air-conditioners soon. It has been a long-pending demand of the people, who wait in long queues to submit petitions to the Collector every Monday. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that a sum of Rs. 35 lakh had been earmarked for providing AC facilit. The work had started and it would be over within 15 days. He said that a two-wheeler parking lot had been established in the Collector Office at an expenditure of Rs. 20 lakh under the sponsorship of Lion Dates company. Due to the pandemic, weekly GDP meetings were not being conducted but petitions could be sent through WhatsApp (9445461756).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gdp-hall-to-be-air-conditioned/article35009890.ece
28 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Woman, son die in road accident near Tiruchi||A 40-year-old woman and her son died after a container lorry rammed the two-wheeler in which they were travelling on Tiruchi-Chennai national highway at Irungalur near here on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as D. Saroja and D. Dhanapal, 9, of S. Kannanur. Four persons were travelling in the two-wheeler that was being driven by Saroja’s brother Ramasamy. They were returning after attending a condolence event at Perambalur when the accident occurred in the morning, police sources said. Ramasamy and his son Vishnu sustained injuries. The lorry driver, Sivakumar,was detained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-son-die-in-road-accident-near-tiruchi/article35009897.ece
28 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 87.49 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,884 cusecs and the discharge was 15,001 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article35009900.ece
28 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 vaccinated on NIT-T campus||National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi (NIT-T) administered vaccines to 310 persons at a vaccination camp conducted on its campus on Saturday. The exercise was supported by the district adminsitration and NIT-T alumni association. Under its RECAL CARES initiative, the REC/NIT Trichy Alumni Association provided oxygen concentrators to the campus hospital and awarded scholarships to students who lost their parents. It also forwarded fund for development of a mobile oxygen generator, food rations, equipment and support to PHCs and GH surrounding the campus. NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas presided over the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-300-vaccinated-on-nit-t-campus/article35009902.ece
28 June 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Don’t sell beef, tahsildar tells meat stall||Minister for Revenue K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran on Sunday ordered an inquiry into an incident where Avinashi tahsildar M. Tamilselvan allegedly asked a meat stall owner not to sell beef. The Minister tweeted on Sunday that the Tiruppur Collector had been asked to conduct an inquiry. Further action would be taken soon, the Minister said in reply to a video posted by a Twitter user, which showed the tahsildar asking the meat stall owner not to sell beef. The incident took place in Kanankulam, near Avinashi, on Saturday. Parties and organisations such as VCK ,Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam, Adi Tamilar Peravai and Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front have condemned the action of the tahsildar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-sell-beef-tahsildar-tells-meat-stall/article35009635.ece
28 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine hesitancy slowing efforts to inoculate differently-abled||Vaccine hesitancy is slowing the district administration’s efforts to vaccinate 5,429 persons with disabilities against COVID-19 in the Nilgiris. According to figures from District Differently Abled Welfare Office, 988 persons, or 18% of the total number of people living with disabilities who are eligible for the vaccine, have been administered the COVID-19 vaccines in the last week. “Awareness campaigns were organised prior to the immunisation drive, with Non-Government Organisations and volunteers involved in spreading information among the population that the vaccines were safe,” said R. Malarvizhi, District Differently-Abled Welfare Officer The volunteers were used to identify the differently-abled persons in the district, and health workers had been sent to their homes to administer the vaccines, officials said. “However, there is still hesitancy among the targeted population, with one out of every four to five persons refusing the vaccine,” said Ms. Malarvizhi. “People call us to get the vaccine, and some of them then have second thoughts stating that they are undergoing treatment, or have other underlying medical issues,” she added. Officials said they would continue to visit the homes of the 5,429 people who had been identified to get the vaccine, and monitor their health after they took the vaccine, while those persons who refused the vaccine would be sensitised to the benefits of being vaccinated against COVID-19. “We expect the vaccination drive aimed at differently-abled persons to scale up considerably in the coming weeks, and hope to get all eligible persons above the age of 18 vaccinated soon,” added Ms. Malarvizhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-hesitancy-slowing-efforts-to-inoculate-differently-abled/article35009678.ece
28 June 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Sam Manekshaw remembered on death anniversary||The 13th death anniversary of Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw was commemorated on Sunday at the Parsi Cemetary Ground in Udhagamandalam. “As part of the ceremony wreaths were laid on behalf of the CDS, all three Service Chiefs, Commandant, Defence Service Staff College and the Station Commander,” a release from the Madras Regimental Centre said. Mr. Manekshaw was the first Indian army officer to be promoted to the rank of Field Marshal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sam-manekshaw-remembered-on-death-anniversary/article35009679.ece
28 June 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Hairball removed from stomach of 15-year-old||A 15-year-old girl with decreased appetite, weight loss and repeated episodes of vomiting was found to have been ingesting her own hair over the past two years, in a rare medical condition called the Rapunzel’s Syndrome. The teen was clinically evaluated and doctors were shocked to find a large chunk of hair in her stomach. According to Dr. R. Raja Mahendran, surgical gastroenterologist of RRM Gastro Hospital, the girl was brought to the hospital recently with complaints of abdominal pain and vomiting. “Initially, we thought that it was an abdominal mass but a closer examination with endoscopy revealed that the teen had a habit of ingesting her own hair,” he said. A team of doctors led by R. Raja Mahendran, conducted a surgery and removed a hairball weighing nearly 1.5 kg from her stomach, he said. This is probably the first such case of a patient suffering from Rapunzel’s Syndrome in Villupuram, he said. The bunch of hair had spread from her stomach to the small bowel before it was removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hairball-removed-from-stomach-of-15-year-old/article35009650.ece
28 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Ministers inspect site earmarked for new Virudhunagar Collectorate||Minister for Revenue K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, and Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu on Sunday inspected a site for construction for new building for the Collector office here. Along with the district officials, including Collector, J. Meghanath Reddy, the Ministers inspected a sprawling expanse of land. “The present Collectorate building was constructed 35 years back and with the growing number of departments, the building does not have adequate space for daily functioning,” Mr. Ramachandran said. Besides space constraint, the building did not meet the infrastructure like modern communication to suit the changing requirements. “Even if we want to make necessary changes to accommodate additional facilities, the old building is not suitable for re-modelling. Hence, we made the rudimentary inspection to see if adequate land was available to construct the new building,” Mr. Thennarasu said. Mr. Thennarasu said that the existing District Development Council hall was too small to have meetings. Along with the chamber of the Collector, other offices, a big conference hall and facilities for war room with modern communication system will be proposed in the new facility. “We will take up this issue with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who will make the final call,” Mr. Ramachandran said. Virudhunagar MLA A.R.R. Seenivasan, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Executive Engineer (Public Works Department – Construction) A. Ganesan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-inspect-site-earmarked-for-new-virudhunagar-collectorate/article35009835.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 649 new cases, seven deaths||A total of 649 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 2,17,828. The district had 5,608 patients undergoing treatment at hospitals and in home isolation. As many as 1,156 persons recovered on Sunday. Seven more persons died of COVID-19 and the official toll increased to 2,010. No vaccination today Coimbatore Corporation said there would be no vaccination in the city on June 28. Tiruppur district reported 316 new cases while 421 persons recovered. The district had 1,911 active cases on Sunday. The toll increased to 744 after six more persons died of the disease. In the Nilgiris, 118 people tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 28,104. The toll stood at 160 on Sunday while 700 persons are undergoing treatment. In Salem, the daily load of positive cases reduced below 400-mark on Sunday with the reporting of 343 cases. According to health officials, 312 cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, 198 cases were reported. Erode district reported 530 cases, Dharmapuri 109 and Krishnagiri 114 cases. As per bulletin, five deaths were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, two deaths were reported. Two deaths were reported in Krishnagiri, three in Dharmapuri and four deaths in Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-649-new-cases-seven-deaths/article35009676.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai not to hold vaccination camps today as civic body runs out of stock||The highest of 49,010 doses was administered on April 16. Highlighting that the GCC was vaccinating at a high rate as shown by the 39,366 doses administered on Friday, GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the civic body would resume vaccination at a similar speed once the supplies arrived. The State faced an acute shortage at the start of June, following which the situation improved. Decline in doses When asked whether the remaining districts were also facing a similar shortage for Monday, a senior official of the Medical and Family Welfare Department said that while the State was running out of stock, the availability of doses in all districts would be known only late on Sunday after the number of doses administrated during the day was available. The total number of doses administered across the State came down from 3,72,618 doses on Saturday to just 89,402 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-not-to-hold-vaccination-camps-today-as-civic-body-runs-out-of-stock/article35009637.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Registration fee to be bank-transferred||“Registration can be done on a plain paper and there is actually no need for any physical stamp papers. Stamp duty can also be paid partly by bank transfer. For instance, if the stamp duty for registering a document is Rs. 25,000, the entire money can be paid online or stamp papers worth some part of it can be purchased and the remaining settled online. It is just a sentiment among the people to use stamp papers for registrations,” the official said. Christian marriage certificate As for the issue of Christian marriage certificate, which has to be obtained from the Registrar-General of Marriages, Chennai, Mr. Moorthy directed the officials to issue copies of such certificates in all districts to avoid unnecessary travel by the applicants to the State capital. Guideline value Mr. Moorthy directed officials not to rely on the last registered value of property in a given survey number and instead stick to the guideline value. “If a land in a particular survey number has been registered for a value that is higher than the guideline value for any reason, it need not be binding on another person buying property in the same survey number to match that...the guideline value should remain the benchmark,” the Minister was quoted as saying at a review meeting. Home loans Asked why would a registrant register a property at a higher price, Mr. Moorthy said some people going for home loans would increase the value for a higher funding component. “It is not fair to impose the higher registered price as the guideline value for others,” he said. Minimise pendency Among the other suggestions made by the Minister were to minimise pendency in the issue of documents on the same day and creation of a public grievances cell in Chennai with the contact numbers and email address displayed at all sub-registrar offices. Tamil Nadu Registration Department Officials’ Association president S.E. Vasudhevan welcomed the reforms. He said these measures would prevent unwarranted allegations of corruption against registration officials and instil confidence in people since the system would become transparent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registration-fee-to-be-bank-transferred/article35009668.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Of the six places shortlisted for establishing Kalaignar Memorial Library in Madurai, Ellis Nagar is apt. It is near the modern Periyar bus stand where works are nearing completion. Moreover, the road is wide and the area is serene. P. K. Ashok, Madurai   It is gladdening to see at least 150 persons waiting in queue to get vaccinated against COVID-19, even as early as 7 a.m. at Elango school near Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. But they have to stand in line for hours for their turn. Since the GRH is a postgraduate teaching institution with adequate manpower, the vaccination can be done for extended hours – from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. - so as to facilitate social distancing and shorten waiting period. M. Selvaraj, Madurai   The South Central Railway plans to extend the daily Hyderabad-Tambaram Charminar Express to Kanniyakumari via Madurai and Tirunelveli, and even the timings have been finalised. It should be approved by the Railway Board and the Thiruvananthapuram division as Kanniyakumari comes under it. MPs from all southern districts must exert pressure on the Railway Minister and officials concerned to make it possible. Kanniyakumari District Railway Users’ Association Nagercoil   The small bus shelter on High Ground Road in Palayamkottai near Christhu Raja Higher Secondary School poses danger when buses stop here when students come out of the school. Many representations have been made to shift it to the eastern side where plenty of space is available. But, now a bigger bus shelter is being built there. I request the authorities to reconsider the move soon, as the lives of students is more important. Rajakumar Arulanandham, Palayamkottai   Drinking water supply is erratic in Kothaiseri in Puliyoorkurichi panchayat near Eruvadi in Tirunelveli district. Moreover, for a population of 2,000, only one public tap is functioning. I request the authorities to provide better drinking water facilities in the village. A. Kaja Nazimudeen, Eruvadi   I received an SMS that 20 kg of free rice had been issued to me and send a message to a particular mobile number in case of any grievance. I promptly sent an SMS as I did not receive the commodity from my ration shop on Maalaipettai Street in Virudhunagar. But even after so many months, there is no reply or action. Calling that number was also in vain. The civil supplies authorities should ask the officials concerned to respond promptly to calls and messages of the aggrieved public. M. V. Ponnuchamy, Virudhunagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article35009842.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||Department of Women’s Studies Bharathidasan University, and Women Entrepreneurs Association of Tamil Nadu: National MSME Day, Seminar on ‘Entrepreneurship Development : Schemes and Opportunities with Government’ Google Meet, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article35009901.ece
28 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Our house is in order, says Joshi||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi has denied that there is infighting in the State BJP cadre. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has been giving good administration and the party high command too has commended him on his work,” he said. “The State government is not on a ventilator. The lungs of this government are functioning well; hence, there is no need for a ventilator,” he said. He was speaking to journalists after participating in a Dakshin Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha programme in Dharwad on Sunday. “That there are problems in the State BJP is a myth created by the media. The BJP’s house is in order and well controlled and the organisation is well knit,” he said. According to him, visits by some MLAs to the Suttur Mutt in Mysuru were to pay respect to the seer’s mother who passed away recently. Such developments should not be seen as political, he said. Mr. Joshi reacted to Minister C.P. Yogeshwar’s statement that some MLAs had written exams and it was up to the high command to pass or fail them, saying that he had no idea in which university Mr. Yogeshwar had given those examinations. “But, we know for sure that BJP general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh is the vice-chancellor of the university and he has already declared the result in favour of Chief Minister Mr. Yediyurappa,’’ he said. About a possible expansion or reshuffle of the Union Cabinet, Mr. Joshi said that it was the prerogative power of the Prime Minister to expand his Cabinet or take up reshuffling. “No other Ministers in his Cabinet can comment on this,’’ he said. As of now, there is no information on either the expansion or reshuffle or who will be inducted or expelled. It is media speculation that some Ministers may be dropped and some new ones may be inducted. “But nothing will be known well in advance in the Modi government and I cannot comment on such issues,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/our-house-is-in-order-says-joshi/article35009736.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kodagu, Kolar districts register jump in cases||Barring two districts, the remaining in the State have seen a downward trend in the number of COVID 19 cases reported during the week ending on June 26 when compared with the previous week. According to an analysis done by the State COVID-19 war room, the only two districts that have seen an increase in the number of cases from the week before to the week ending on June 26 are Kodagu and Kolar. The number of cases in Kodagu jumped from 831 in the previous week to 926 in the current week. Meanwhile, the number of cases in Kolar jumped from 83 in the last week to 89 this week. Overall, the number of cases reported across the State in the week before was 36,491, while it declined to 23,702 in the last week. V. Ponnuraj, who is in charge of the war room, said that barring certain pockets in rural and urban areas which are seeing an increase in the number of cases, most districts were seeing a downward trend, which is a positive sign. The war room has also analysed the top 20 towns and villages in the State that have been the worst hit over the last week. The worst hit urban area is Somwarpet in Kodagu district, which has reported 71 cases as against the previous week’s 26 cases. The worst hit village in the State is Yavakapadi located in Kodagu district, where 35 cases were reported as against only one in the previous week. M.K. Sudarshan, chairman of the COVID Technical Advisory Committee, said people should not let their guard down. “With the lockdown curbs easing now, many people who were restrained earlier are now able to move freely. How people behave in the coming days in this new freedom will decide the next course of the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-kolar-districts-register-jump-in-cases/article35009589.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP targeting 70% vaccination coverage by July-end||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has set an ambitious target of vaccinating at least 70% of the adult population by the end of July. In a few days, 50% of the adult population in the city will be vaccinated against COVID-19. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of low-key Kempe Gowda Jayanti celebrations at the BBMP head office here on Sunday, civic chief Gaurav Gupta said in preparing for the third wave, the BBMP was focusing primarily on improving vaccination coverage. “Over one lakh citizens were vaccinated on Friday and Saturday. In another two days, 50% of the adult population will be vaccinated. While the gap between first and second dose for Covishield is 12 weeks, it is six weeks for Covaxin; we will ensure there are enough vaccines available for the second dose,” he said. Stating that the BBMP was organising vaccination camps in many places, he urged citizens to avail themselves of the service . With marriage halls also opening from Monday, Mr. Gupta said that citizens must get permission for events/weddings from the zonal joint commissioners. “They must provide the complete guest list and permission will be accorded to each guest on the list individually. This way, the responsibility is both on the event organisers and owners of halls/convention centres/hotels, etc.,” he said and added that marshals had already been directed to monitor such events to ensure that COVID-19-appropriate behaviour is adhered to. Some restrictions had already been imposed in districts bordering neighbouring Maharashtra, where travellers from that State were required to possess a negative RT-PCR certificate or be vaccinated, at least first dose. Similar restrictions are also being considered for districts bordering neighbouring Kerala, he said. The BBMP had set up special desks at Kempegowda International Airport and at railway and bus stations to monitor travellers. “We will be placing extra vigil here,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-targeting-70-vaccination-coverage-by-july-end/article35009585.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 3,604 new cases, 89 deaths||Karnataka reported 3,604 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total to 28,34,630. Of these, 788 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. With 89 new deaths, the toll rose to 34,743. There have been 23 deaths of patients owing to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 7,699 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total recoveries to 26.98 lakh. The State now has  1.01 lakh active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 2.18, the Case Fatality Rate touched 2.46. As many as 1.64 lakh tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in the State, including 1.25 lakh RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-3604-new-cases-89-deaths/article35009590.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘BJP govt. looting people to help corporates’||Accusing the BJP government in the State of “indulging in loot”, CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat on Sunday said the government was looting the public to help corporates. “The pandemic management in Karnataka has been marked by corruption and a communal approach. It is a looting government,” she said, participating in an online protest organised jointly by five Left parties and two secular ones. “The BJP government is following an unethical and immoral approach towards COVID-19 management,” she said. Referring to corruption, she said that the bed-blocking scam has been among the issues reported. “[Union Home Minister] Amit Shah’s blue-eyed boy’s name is Surya. But he only brings darkness,” she said, referring to MP for Bengaluru South Tejasvi Surya, who communalised the bed-blocking issue. Ms. Karat also said the ideological framework of the BJP government at the Centre to deal with the pandemic was influenced by the RSS. During the worst of times, when the fight should have been united, religion was used to divide, she added. “The pandemic has been approached without a plan.” She said that when India was in the grip of the pandemic and witnessing the highest wholesale price index in 11 years, the purchasing power of the people had collapsed. “While the Centre has helped corporates with tax concessions and financial help, there has been no cash transfers to the poor,” she said. Referring to the dilution of Essential Commodities Act earlier by the Centre, she said that the importance of price control mechanism is more profound now when the price of commodities has gone up. “The cost of a litre of mustard oil has doubled in one year,” she said. She also said that without ramping up vaccination, it would be difficult to face the third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-govt-looting-people-to-help-corporates/article35009596.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||600 samples sent for genome sequencing||Around 600 samples of infected people in the State have been sent for genome sequencing, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has said. The Minister said told reporters that there were two cases of the Delta Plus variant of Coronavirus reported in the State, and the rise in cases of the new variant in Maharashtra and Kerala border is a matter of concern for the State. He added that randomised tests would be conducted for those entering the State. As for vaccination, he said more than 45 lakh people in the State had received both the doses. Priority for parents Parents of children who are aged below 10 would be vaccinated on priority, said Dr. Sudhakar.The Minister has decided to bear the educational expenses of nine children from Chickballapur district who lost their parents due to COVID 19. He said Rs. 1 lakh would be given per child. He also announced that a government medical college would be built and inaugurated in Chikkaballapur next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/600-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing/article35009592.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rekha case: Two prime accused held||The West division police on Sunday night arrested slain former councillor Rekha Kadiresh’s sister-in-law Mala and her son Arul in connection with the murder. With this, seven persons have been arrested so far and efforts are on to track down others involved in the murder. According to the police, Mala and Arul are the prime accused in the case. Their names cropped up after the police grilled Peter, Surya , Stephen, Ajay, and Purushotham, who were arrested soon after the murder on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rekha-case-two-prime-accused-held/article35009586.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru Habba from next year||The State government will organise a three-day annual Bengaluru Habba from next year to mark the birth anniversary of Bengaluru founder Nadaprabhu Kempe Gowda. The announcement came on Sunday from Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also the vice-chairperson of the Kempegowda Heritage Area Development Authority. Speaking at the 512th birth anniversary of the Bengaluru founder, he said Bengaluru Habba, a cultural event, would be celebrated from June 26 to 28 annually. Regarding the proposed 108 ft. statue to be installed at the Kempegowda International Airport, he said though the statue should have been installed by now, the work had been delayed owing to COVID-19. The work was in progress at Ram Sutar work station in Noida and the statue would be ready by February next. “A central theme park spread over 23 acres, depicting the history of Nadaprabhu’s lifetime will also come up,” he added. In all, he said that 46 spots had been identified as heritage spots related to Kempe Gowda, which are spread across a forest area of 15,000 hectares. “The related land acquisition process has been initiated,” the Deputy Chief Minister said. On the occasion, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa also flagged off the Kempe Gowda Study Centre to be built on Jnana Bharathi campus of Bangalore University at a cost of Rs. 45 crore. A postal cover was also released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-habba-from-next-year/article35009587.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) puts off protest plans||The Janata Dal (S), which had planned to stage a protest against price rise on Monday, has postponed its plans after the Bengaluru police denied the party permission on account of the pandemic. Criticising the government for denying permission, JD(S) youth wing president Nikhil Kumaraswamy asked why this was done when the government gave permission for the Congress protest seeking to bring petroleum products under the GST regime. “We had decided to hold the protest following COVID-appropriate behaviour. Despite mentioning that in the letter to the police, permission has been denied. The government is muzzling the move to protest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-puts-off-protest-plans/article35009595.ece
28 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tourists can visit Jog Falls||In the wake of heavy rain in the Sharavathi river valley, water is gushing down with high volume at Jog Falls near Sagar in Shivamogga district and the Tourism Department has decided to allow tourists to visit the place from Monday. Assistant Director of Tourism Department H.S. Ramakrishna told The Hindu that visitors should follow the appropriate COVID-19 behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourists-can-visit-jog-falls/article35009737.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||‘Cap on treatment charges impractical, insensitive’||COVID-19 patients who opt for treatment at private hospitals might continue to incur higher charges despite the price ceiling announced as members of Telangana Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (THANA) have termed the recently-issued government order (GO) in this regard as ‘impractical’ and ‘insensitive’. Association president P. Praveen said their representation on the charges submitted to the Health department was not considered while THANA representatives said it is difficult for them to offer treatment at the recently capped charges. Sources in the Health department have said that complaints against excess charges were lodged even after issuing the GO. Two GOs similar The State government issued two GOs related to capping of the charges for COVID-19 treatment and diagnostic tests at private hospitals and nursing homes. GO no.248 was issued on June 15 while GO no. 401 was issued a week later. The treatment charges are based on the ward the patient is admitted to. It was divided into three categories in the two GOs — charges for routine ward plus isolation fixed at Rs. 4,000, ICU without ventilator plus isolation at Rs. 7,500, ICU with ventilator and isolation at Rs. 9,000. When the two GOs are considered, there were a few changes in services excluded. Difference in GOs In the GO no 401 issued on June 22, it was mentioned that the charges are not applicable to patients subscribing to insurance schemes or those being treated under various MoUs, agreements between hospitals and different sponsored groups or corporate entities. Besides, charges for COVID-19 investigations such as HRCT, IL-6, and ambulance services too were mentioned in the order. Consultations Similar to the first wave, family members of COVID-19 patients decried that the cost of treatment at corporate and private hospitals were astronomical. Some had to take loans or sell their jewellery/ other property. After consulting THANA and Telangana Superspeciality Hospitals Association, the GO 401 was issued a few days ago. However, THANA members said the second GO was similar to, if not worse than, the first GO issued on June 15. They have listed out seven reasons which led to hike charges in the past one year — four-fold hike in salaries of the staff; free COVID care for their family members, lodging and boarding facilities; huge payments to consultants and specialists; cost of investigations; infrastructure development; high electricity and biomedical waste disposable charges; and finally, 10-fold increase in oxygen cylinder cost. Dr Praveen said that the private hospitals took load of around 70% of COVID-19 patients. Association representatives have also stated that the treatment was provided at huge personal risk to them and their family members. They said that 1,350 doctors and para medical staff lost lives in the first and second wave. “We reiterate that it’s going to be troublesome and difficult for us to be able to give COVID care at such poor costs as mentioned in the second GO,” THANA representatives said. They have requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and senior Health officials to show them a way forward and arrive at a more scientific and accommodative pricing that allows them to continue providing COVID care.  It’s going to be difficult for us to be able to give COVID care at such poor costs as mentioned in the second GO. Representatives of THANA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cap-on-treatment-charges-impractical-insensitive/article35009601.ece
28 June 2021||Khammam,KARNATAKA||Probe into ‘custodial death’ under way: DGP||A detailed inquiry is under way into the recent “custodial death” of Dalit woman Mariyamma, a native of Komatlagudem in the district, at Addagudur police station in Yadadri-Bhongir district and stern action will be taken against those found guilty as per the law to prevent recurrence of such incidents, said Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy. The Director General of Police flew down to the town from Hyderabad in a helicopter to console the bereaved family on Sunday. Mr Reddy visited a private hospital in the town where Uday, son of Mariyamma, is undergoing treatment for injuries he suffered allegedly due to custodial torture. He enquired about his health with doctors at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-into-custodial-death-under-way-dgp/article35009605.ece
28 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccine drive for college students from today||The Department of Health and Family Welfare will commence a 15-day drive on Monday to vaccinate students aged 18 and above in Dakshina Kannada. In addition to students of degree, engineering and paramedical colleges, diploma and ITI students will also be vaccinated along with teachers and non-teaching staff. Vaccination will be taken up in select educational institutions which students can attend with their college identity cards and Aadhaar cards. Nodal Officer for Vaccination B.V. Rajesh said that at present the government has given a target to vaccinate 1.79 lakh persons, including students, teachers and non-teaching staff. Of these, 11,500 will be vaccinated on Monday. Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P S. Yadapadithaya said that the university has given instructions to colleges to co-ordinate with the Health Department to get their students, teachers and non-teaching staff vaccinated by, at least, July 15. The university has organised vaccination camps on its Mangalagangotri campus and the University College campus on June 29. Mangaluru Taluk Medical Officer Sujay Bhandary said that more than 1,000 students and teachers will be vaccinated on the premises of P. Dayananda Pai and P. Satish Pai Government First Grade College on Car Street here on Monday. Vaccination will begin at 9 a.m. A release from the Health Department said that the nodal officers and authorities of educational institutions should contact the department and fix dates and venues to vaccinate their students and staff members. Colleges should actively take part to make the vaccination drive a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-drive-for-college-students-from-today/article35009744.ece
28 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minor girl rescued for second time in Udupi||A minor girl who had been rescued from the Fisheries Harbour in Malpe of Udupi in a driver against child labour last year was rescued for the second time when she was found begging with her mother in Udupi on Sunday. The girl aged nine was again admitted to the Bala Mandir at Nittur in Udupi. Social worker Vishnu Shetty, who rescued the girl, admitted her ailing mother to the district government hospital for treatment. An official from the District Child Protection Unit said that the officials from the unit had rescued the girl in Malpe last year. But as per procedure, the girl was allowed to go with her mother after the latter assured the officials that she would not send her daughter again to work. She had brought her Aadhaar card to prove her identity and had taken her daughter back home. No family members have come forward to help them so far, the official said. As per the order of the District Child Welfare Committee, the girl will be taken care at the Bal Mandir. She will not be sent back with her mother as there is all possibility of the mother again pushing her daughter back to beggary, the official added.  ‘She will not be sent back with her mother as there is all possibility of her mother again pushing her daughter back to beggary’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-girl-rescued-for-second-time-in-udupi/article35009742.ece
28 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Halls, choultries allowed to hold marriage events from today||Halls, resorts, hotels and choultries can hold marriage functions in Dakshina Kannada starting Monday. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, who issued an order to this effect, said that not more than 40 persons should attend a marriage. They should follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Guests attending marriages should obtain passes from the local urban local bodies and gram panchayats. The permission for holding marriages should be obtained from the urban local bodies, including Mangaluru City Corporation, city municipalities, town panchayats and gram panchayats. Only one marriage function should be allowed at a time in one venue, the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/halls-choultries-allowed-to-hold-marriage-events-from-today/article35009743.ece
28 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||DKS slams CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s failure to visit Chamarajanagar after the tragic death of 24 persons because of oxygen shortage in the district hospital came under sharp focus during Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar’s visit on Sunday. The KPCC chief, who visited the houses of the victims to present a cheque for Rs. 1 lakh each, took a dig at the Chief Minister for not visiting the district to console the bereaved. Mr. Shivakumar said Mr. Yediyurappa was afraid to face the anger of the people. He also said the State intelligence had alerted the Chief Minister of the outrage among the public over the government’s handling of the COVID-19 situation and had advised him against visiting Chamarajanagar. But, the Congress leader said, the Chief Minister should have shown courage and faced the people. Mr. Yediyurappa may be from Shivamogga, but he should not forget that he is Chief Minister of the entire State, he said. Mr. Shivakumar also said the “chair” was important to the BJP leader. When asked if Mr. Yediyurappa may have failed to visit Chamarajanagar because of the “jinx” of Chief Ministers losing power after visiting the district, he did not give a direct reply. “It is left to him. But I have come…,” he said.  ‘Played down’ He criticised the State government for initially playing down the tragedy by claiming that only three persons had died. Later, when the Congress team visited the town, it turned out that many more people had died in the tragedy, he said. He termed the deaths a “murder” committed by the government and also countered the government’s claims on the number of COVID-19 deaths in the State. In the next legislature session, the Congress will seek a death audit, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-criticised-over-failure-to-visit-chamarajanagar/article35009597.ece
28 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain lashes Raichur, Yadgir districts||Heavy rainfall that lashed Raichur and Yadgir districts from late on Saturday night to Sunday has left a trail of devastation in many parts of the two districts. The main streams and rivers are flowing full. Low-lying areas have been inundated with rainwater and also water from overflowing drains due to blocks in some villages in Maski and Manvi taluks in Raichur district. According to reports, 10 goats and 15 hens were washed away near Shankar Nagar in Maski town. Officials are yet to confirm about damage or loss, including the lives of animals. Gandhi Nagar area in Maski town was the worst affected as many houses in the locality were surrounded by rainwater and residents were seen throwing out water that had entered their houses. Road connectivity between Utanoor-Dotarabanda in Manvi taluk and Maski to Kavital was closed after water from streams flowed onto the roads. Power supply was disrupted after poles were uprooted. Even Raichur, Yadgir, Shorapur, Sindhanur, Shahapur and other places were affected by heavy rain. Many houses in different localities in these places were surrounded by rainwater. According to a press release, the rainfall recorded in the two districts was: Maski taluk 86.7 mm, Lingsugur taluk 65mm, Sindhanur taluk 59.2 mm, Manvi taluk 45.7mm, Sirwar taluk 42.5 mm, Deodurg taluk 35.1 mm, Raichur taluk 34.9 mm, and Shahapur taluk 33.6 mm, Hunsagi taluk 32.5 mm, Shorapur taluk 31.5 mm, Wadagera taluk 21 mm, Yadgir taluk 18.6 mm and Gurmitkal taluk 11.4 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-lashes-raichur-yadgir-districts/article35009739.ece
28 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Mantralayam flooded by rainwater||The famous pilgrim village of Mantralayam in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh was badly affected by torrential rainfall on Sunday. However, the famous temple of Sri Raghavendra Swami is safe despite rainwater flooding the surrounding areas. The bus stand and other prime locations were inundated after water overflowed from a river nearby. Water was flowing at knee level on the main roads leading to the temple from the main traffic circle in the village. Businessmen running stationery, puja material and essential commodities shops faced heavy losses after water gushed into their shops. The Karnataka Guest House was also surrounded by water. Rainwater disrupted a marriage arranged in the kalyan mantap near the temple. Road connectivity between Raichur and Mantralayam was cut off. The authorities of Sri Raghavendra Swamy Mutt later informed the media about the declining water level in the flooded areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mantralayam-flooded-by-rainwater/article35009741.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors||During Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s recent visit to Shivamogga, officers made a 3D blueprint presentation on the airport coming up at Sogane village near the district centre. The exterior design of the passenger terminal, as displayed in the presentation, resembled a lotus. The Congress raised objections to the design arguing that the BJP had chosen a design resembling its party symbol. It urged the government to change it, citing previous court judgments ruling against parties in power which spent public money for structures resembling their party symbol. However, leaders of the BJP have defended the design. MP for Shivamogga B.Y. Raghavendra maintained that the design was not shaped like a lotus “exactly”. He said the Congress, when in power, had named many projects after its own leaders. RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa went on to suggest it was indeed lotus, but the flower represented goddess Lakshmi and not any party.   Former Minister and Congress MLA Tanveer Sait(in picture)sought to counter the public statements favouring Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah as the “next Chief Minister”, but he did so by projecting himself for the coveted post. While arguing against the personality cult gripping politics, he said even he was an aspirant for the Chief Minister’s post. “But that does not mean I should have my followers say so in public…,” he said, before emphasising the need for the Congress to face the next Assembly elections under collective leadership as bringing the party to power was the first priority. He contended that all MLAs of the ruling party who can efficiently shoulder responsibilities should aspire to become Chief Minister, but the final choice for should be left to the party’s senior leadership. Significantly, these remarks by Mr. Sait, who has been maintaining a distance from Mr. Siddaramaiah, particularly after the furore in the party over his decision to support the JD(S) in the mayoral polls of Mysuru, came after he accompanied to Suttur Mutt the former KPCC president G. Paramesh- wara and hosted him at his residence in Mysuru.   BJP leader and MLA for Mudigere M.P. Kumaraswamy seems to be frustrated over not being able to meet Ministers in the State Secretariat. To express his anguish over the absence of Ministers in the Secretariat, he made a video and circulated it on social media. In the video, he lashed out at Ministers for their absence and raised the question that if MLAs were not able to meet them, what would be the fate of party workers and ordinary voters. Ministers have been visiting the Vidhana Soudha only during Cabinet meetings. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa visits the Secretariat at least twice a week, but Ministers don’t attend their offices at all, he rued. “MLAs do all kinds of tricks to become Ministers, but once they doso they are least bothered about discharging their duties,” he said. Sathish G.T. Laiqh A. Khan Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors/article35009600.ece
28 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Literary sojourn to beat lockdown blues||The COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown have brought the world to a standstill. But it has helped many to hone their skills and unleash creativity. Fourteen-year-old Mumtaz Mariam, a Class X student of Bethany Central School, Nangiarkulangara, used the lockdown to fulfill her dream of becoming an author. She has authored and self-published an ebook titled My Journey . The 34-page book is a collection of six poems in English, one short story and a poem in Malayalam, and a poem in French, which is a translation of one of her English poems.  My Journey touches upon contemporary issues, the environment, and scientific imagination. “I have won prizes in poetry and story writing competitions, but never thought of publishing a book until COVID-19 began to affect the world. I started reading voraciously to kill boredom during the lockdown. I wrote a few poems and stories and all the works in My Journey were written during the period,” says Mumtaz, a resident of Kumarapuram, near Haripad. The story Bhoomiyum Chovvayum is a tale written in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. It tells the story of a couple who came to Earth from Mars to enjoy a vacation and faces numerous difficulties such as oxygen shortage and environmental issues. It vividly narrates human-nature relationships, the importance of friendship, and so on. Her poems have catchy titles— Epistemophilia , Floccinaucinihilipilification , Pluviophile , Don’t Know how? , My Father and Gandhian . The French poem Ne sais pas comment? is a translation of the English poem Don’t Know how? . The Malayalam poem is titled Mamaram . “I have worked hard to publish the book. Children would like to read books written by children and I hope my book will be read and my many,” Mumtaz says. She is the daughter of Abdul Kamal and Subitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/literary-sojourn-to-beat-lockdown-blues/article35009868.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||Leadership woes continue in Karnataka Congress||Coming close on the heels of a perceived feud in Congress between the Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar over who the next Chief Minister would be, another group is set to meet the central leaders on Monday over the issue. Party sources said that B.K. Hariprasad, MLC, and former Union Minister K.H. Muniyappa are in Delhi to apprise the central leaders about the development between the camps of Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar. On Saturday, the two leaders met former Deputy Chief Minister G. Parameshwara to discuss the developments here. “The group that does not associate in either of the camps believes that the fight for leadership will cost the party dear. They left for Delhi on Sunday afternoon to meet AICC leader K.C. Venugopal,” a source said, adding that they were likely to meet him on Monday. “They would be asking for the intervention of the central to control both the groups.” Sources said that such public statements by the followers of Mr. Siddaramaiah or Mr. Shivakumar’s response to these statements did not augur well for the party before it even came to power. “There are a number of leaders and legislators, especially from North Karnataka, in the party who are not associated with the two factions and have not taken the developments in the party lightly,” the source said. In a related matter on Sunday, Dr. Parameshwara and Dinesh Gundu Rao, both former KPCC presidents, met to discuss the developments in the party, including the recent statements on the next CM candidate, party sources said. Meanwhile, the KPCC Disciplinary Action Committee said it had taken suo motu notice of the recent events of elected representatives and party members expressing their views in public. A release signed by DAC chairman K. Rahman Khan and convener Nivedith Alva said that the suo motu notice has been taken up in light of AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala forewarning elected representatives and party workers against making public statements. The committee members, who met online for a discussion on Sunday, decided to hold a physical meeting at the earliest to discuss the issue. “Giving public statements on who the next Chief Minister would be is in violation of party discipline. We discussed the issue at the meeting,” Mr. Khan told presspersons. “Legislators should not make public statements. Those who have joined the party from outside have to learn the party discipline.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leadership-woes-continue-in-karnataka-congress/article35009373.ece
28 June 2021||Kannur,KERALA||CPI(M) expels member for ‘role’ in smuggling case||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has taken action against Sajesh, who allegedly arranged a vehicle for Arjun Ayanki, a suspect in the Karipur gold smuggling case. Sajesh, who was a member of the CPI(M) Moiyaram branch committee, has been suspended from party membership for a year. The party concluded that Sajesh was not vigilant. Earlier, the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) had also expelled Sajesh, after his name cropped up in the gold smuggling case. The party district secretariat has decided to take action against all those associated with illicit activities under the cover of the party. Car found A car believed to have been used by Arjun Ayanki was found hidden among bushes in a hilly area opposite to Government Medical College Hospital at Pariyaram here on Sunday. The police had been on the lookout for the car in connection with the Ramanattukara accident and the gold smuggling case. Though the number plate was found removed, the police could identify the car by means of its engine number and chassis number. The car was shifted to the police station. Though the car was found three days ago near the Azheekal port, it was missing by the time the police and the Customs officials reached the spot. The car belongs to Sajesh. The police said even his close friends did not know that Sajesh owned such a car. The car was apparently used by Arjun Ayanki from the day it was bought. When the car went missing from Azheekal, Sajesh had filed a complaint with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-expels-member-for-role-in-smuggling-case/article35009808.ece
28 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||More oxygen beds, paediatric ICUs in Ernakulam soon||Additional beds with oxygen supply and paediatric intensive care units will be made operational in Ernakulam soon, according to District Collector S. Suhas. In case there is another surge in cases, a total of 872 additional beds with oxygen supply will be readied by July 15 to handle it, the Collector said. In the government sector, 1,794 beds with oxygen supply are already functional, while 1,314 such beds have been set aside in the private sector. Additional beds with oxygen supply are mostly being set up at community health centres and taluk hospitals, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. While 225 ICU beds are currently functional in the government sector, 47 more are being added by July 15, the Collector said. In private hospitals, a total of 430 ICU beds are available. An analysis by the surveillance team based on the district’s population pegs the ICU bed requirement between 600 and 1,000, he added. A total of 592 ventilators are available. Of these, 336 are at government facilities, and 256 are at private ones. For paediatric COVID care, 40 beds are being readied over the next two weeks as part of paediatric intensive care units, Mr. Suhas said at an online briefing. Dr. Mathews confirmed that 20 of them would be at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), while another 20 would be set up at the Ernakulam General Hospital. At the makeshift COVID care facility on the BPCL premises, 400 beds with oxygen supply will be set aside for paediatric COVID cases, the Collector said. Of the 1,000 beds that have been readied in two tents and one school at the BPCL facility, around 300 are being managed by four private hospitals, Dr. Mathews said. In addition to the BPCL facility and the medical college, the COVID care centres at the Aluva District Hospital, Ernakulam General Hospital, Samudrika Hall on Willingdon Island, and the facility at Adlux convention centre are being retained as long-term arrangements to meet any possible rise in cases, he said. Since the COVID care facility at PVS Hospital will be closed soon, the dialysis unit at the hospital is being shifted to the Aluva District Hospital. Oxygen plants are being installed at INHS Sanjivani, Ernakulam General Hospital, and North Paravur, Fort Kochi and Kothamangalam taluk hospitals, the Collector said. The recently installed plant at the MCH is operational, while the plants at the Aluva District Hospital and the Muvattupuzha General Hospital will be functional by the first week of July, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-oxygen-beds-paediatric-icus-in-ernakulam-soon/article35009791.ece
28 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam, Kozhikode districts record over 1,000 cases each||A total of 1,103 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Sunday, and a test positivity rate of 9.48% was recorded when 11,638 tests were done. As many as 12,701 people are either under treatment for the infection or are in isolation after testing positive. Elamkunnapuzha and Malayatoor-Neeleswaram recorded 37 new cases each, while Kunnathunad and Pallipuram saw 36 each. Thrikkakara and Thripunithura registered 33 new cases each, followed by Kalamassery with 32, Kadamakudy with 24, Chendamagalam and Vadakkekara with 23 each, and Karumaloor with 21. Chellanam reported 19 cases. A total of 1,532 people were considered to have recovered, and 38,068 people remain in quarantine. While 254 people were discharged from treatment centres, 87 were admitted. In Kozhikode The test positivity rate (TPR) in Kozhikode continued to stay above 10% when the district recorded 1,046 new cases on Sunday, maintaining a TPR of 10.91%. As many as 1,049 people recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, the police registered 270 new cases for COVID protocol violation in the district. While 62 cases were for not following physical distancing and not closing shops on time, 208 people were booked for not wearing mask. (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-kozhikode-districts-record-over-1000-cases-each/article35009799.ece
28 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Minister calls for plan to decongest Vyttila||Officials of the PWD (NH Wing), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and the city traffic police must conduct a joint inspection of Vyttila and find a temporary solution to the mounting traffic snarls despite the commissioning of the six-lane flyover at the junction, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas said at an online meeting on Sunday. The PWD and other agencies concerned must also ready a comprehensive master plan to bring about seamless and signal-free traffic at the junction on the basis of a traffic study and redesign the junction in a scientific manner. Land acquisition too could be thought of, if needed. The projected manifold increase in traffic along the NH Bypass must be kept in mind while readying a scientific and sustainable master plan, he told officials. The meeting was convened in the backdrop of increasing public unrest over traffic hold-ups at Vyttila and Kundannoor. The condition of roads at Kundannoor Junction is particularly bad owing to undulations over paver blocks laid by the PWD on the Maradu and Thevara sides of the flyover. Pedestrians at the two junctions too have found the going tough as footpaths have been dismantled. Mr. Riyas directed officials to consider the proposals in a report submitted by the PWD (NH Wing) in 2019 on redesigning the bottlenecked junctions. Mayor M. Anilkumar, Hibi Eden, MP; P.T. Thomas, MLA, District Collector S. Suhas, District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju, and RTO P.M. Shabeer attended the meeting. It took special note of the fact that buses alone operated around 5,000 trips daily from the Vyttila Mobility Hub. Incidentally, the PWD has not paid heed to repeated requests from the police to lessen the circumference of the roundabout it built beneath the flyover at Vyttila, and to chip off traffic islands that protrude into the carriageway of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-calls-for-plan-to-decongest-vyttila/article35009803.ece
28 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Industries centre to come up at Kakkanad||An exhibition centre for industries will be set up at Kakkanad in two years, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said. Speaking at the World SMEs Day celebrations on Sunday, the Minister said that the centre with all the latest facilities for industrial units to interact at various levels would be ready at an estimated cost of Rs. 30 crore. He said the COVID-19 crisis had created a difficult situation for SMEs and the industrial sector. A grievance redressal system for the industrial sector with legal backing would be in place in the State soon. A three-member committee, headed by K. Ellangovan, Principal Secretary, Industries, tasked to prepare the blueprint for a statutory system had already prepared a draft, which was now under legal examination. The Minister said that the grievance redressal mechanism would be a major step towards improving the investment climate in the State. The effort of the government was to improve the State’s ranking in terms of ease of doing business. There are around 1.43 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises in the State, which are employing around nine lakh people. Mr. Ellangovan said that SMEs in Kerala, especially in sectors like food processing, information technology, engineering and space, had deployed latest technological innovations and were churning out value-added products. He said SMEs were being celebrated because, according to global accounts, such units accounted for about 90% of all the industries and 70% of the employment. They also contributed 50% of the global GDP. In Kerala too, SMEs accounted for about 90% of the industrial units, playing a big role in the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industries-centre-to-come-up-at-kakkanad/article35009796.ece
28 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Land for metro extension to be ready by December||The acquisition of a total of 6.29 acres of private land and 43 cents of railway land needed for the Kochi metro’s Phase 1-B S.N. Junction-Thripunithura extension will be completed in four months, District Collector S. Suhas has said. Its social-impact assessment (SIA) was approved in May, following which a Section 11 (1) notification (under Land Acquisition Act, 2013) was issued a week ago, he added. Kakkanad extension On the metro’s phase-B extension to Kakkanad, he said a total of 386 (land) holdings were to be acquired in the 10-km Palarivattom-Infopark reach. From this, 30 parcels of land were handed over to Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) and 156 awards (to compensate landowners) were passed. Their possession can be taken up any time and handed over to the metro agency. All holdings will be handed over to KMRL by August. The agency need not wait till then to begin road-widening works, since it can be done in plots that were handed over. The survey to acquire land in the 1.20-km Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium-Palarivattom stretch is getting over and the land will be handed over to KMRL by December. There is good coordination between metro and revenue officials, Mr. Suhas said. Water metro He said land has to be acquired for 21 of the total 34 jetties of Water Metro. The draft declaration to take over land for 14 jetties was published, and a compensation package will be shortly announced. Land for the balance seven jetties, for which S. 11 (1) notification was issued, will be acquired on the basis of an expert committee report. He said joint inspection of land is needed for the Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS). A special officer has been appointed to oversee land acquisition, and an SIA will follow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-for-metro-extension-to-be-ready-by-december/article35009800.ece
28 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KWA cleans its pipelines||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) on Sunday cleaned its pipelines which had got contaminated after a petroleum product that leaked from a BPCL pipeline at Ponnurunni entered the adjacent water supply line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-cleans-its-pipelines/article35009793.ece
28 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||M.G. Road-NH Bypass stretch development in three stages||The long-overdue M.G. Road-Pullepady-Thammanam-NH Bypass Road will be developed in three stages, it was decided at an online meeting chaired by Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Sunday. The road will shortly be widened into four-lane in areas where land acquisition is over. Mayor M. Anilkumar said around 80% of land on the Kathrikadavu-Karanakodam stretch had been acquired. The remaining will be acquired on priority basis. Land acquisition will be completed on the Kathrikadavu-Padma Junction (on M.G. Road) stretch, and the Chakkaraparambu (on NH Bypass)-Thammanam-Karanakodam corridor later. The Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB), which took over the project execution from the PWD, will shortly ready a detailed project report (DPR) to widen the narrow, congested and ill-maintained road, which was owned by the Kochi Corporation till recently, into a four-lane stretch. The Pullepady overbridge will be widened, while a decision is awaited on an overbridge at Kathrikadavu, over the Thammanan-Pullepady Road. District Collector S. Suhas has been directed to fast-track land acquisition for the road, convene meetings every month, and to apprise the Minister of the progress of works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mg-road-nh-bypass-stretch-development-in-three-stages/article35009792.ece
28 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Central institutes violate reservation norms: MP||Central institutes like IITs, IIMs, IISc., IISERs, NITs and IIITs continue to violate reservation norms, says K. Somaprasad, MP, based on the information accessed through Right to Information (RTI) Act. Despite Central Education Institution (Reservation in Admission) Act-2006 and Central Education Institution (Reservation in Teachers Cadre) Act-2019, their provisions are reportedly not yet implemented at PG and PhD levels. The MP says that Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), Bengaluru, continues to violate reservation norms and according to the admission figures of the past five years, released by Ministry of Education in Parliament, less than 20% of the total PhD admissions were in the non-general categories. “There were zero PhD admissions from Scheduled Caste (SC) and Other Backward Classes (OBC) categories in two consecutive years. The SC, Scheduled Tribes (ST) and OBC representation in PhD admissions were 9%, 2%, and 8% respectively. For Master of Technology and Master of Design, ST representation was at 6%. SC representation in MTech courses was 14%.” Mr. Somaprasad has approached the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes demanding immediate intervention. “During the 2015-2020 period, none of the 23 IITs provided the required proportions of admissions in PhD. The figures for 2020 revealed that several individual departments have a total disregard for the reservation provisions in PhD admissions.” 892 seats lost He adds that 20 IITs failed to admit enough SC students and 14 IITs recorded low admission rates of OBCs. “A total of 892 seats were lost to SC/ST/OBC categories due to the non-implementation of reservation policy,” he says. He observes that over 60% of teaching faculty posts for SC and OBC categories are still vacant at the IIMs along with 93% of professor posts for ST category at the Central Universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-institutes-violate-reservation-norms-mp/article35009804.ece
28 June 2021||Kollam,KERALA||1,115 people test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,115 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,013 recoveries on Sunday. While 1,112 patients contracted the virus through contact, three health workers also tested positive. Kollam district currently has 33,020 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 16,12,222. The Health Department has traced 2,76,070 primary and 17,555 secondary contacts of the cases. Alappuzha The district logged 657 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 9.66%. Of the fresh cases, 644 people contracted the disease through local transmission. The 657 cases include 65 reported from Alappuzha, 47 from Cherthala South, 38 from Mulakuzha, 28 from Panavally, 27 each from Cherthala and Pulinkunnu, and 20 from Vallikunnam Kottayam As many as 428 persons including two health workers tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the district was 7.41%. With 54 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Madappally, which recorded 50 cases . Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 343 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 342 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of four cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR was 9.5%. With 438 recoveries, Pathanamthitta has 4,540 active cases.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1115-people-test-positive-in-kollam/article35009871.ece
28 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Online training in milk production||Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting an online training programme in milk production on June 29 from 11 a.m. Registration should be done by June 28. Dairy farmers can whatsapp their name and details to 9947775978 or call 04762698550 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-training-in-milk-production/article35009864.ece
28 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||One arrested on charge of rape||The Mundakkayam police on Sunday arrested a person who had allegedly raped a 21-year-old woman after offering to marry her. The accused was identified as Vinu Mon, a native of Mukkoottuthara near Erumeli. The arrest followed a complaint by the victim that the accused, a priest in a temple near Mundakkayam, had sought sexual favours from her after promising to marry her. Subsequently, the accused reneged on his promise and got engaged to another girl. Attempts by the victim’s relatives to settle the issue through negotiations with the accused and his family too failed to yield any results. Following this, the victim lodged a complaint with the Mundakkayam police, which, in turn, booked a rape case. The accused was produced a magistrate and remanded in custody, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested-on-charge-of-rape/article35009870.ece
28 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Woman kills daughter, attempts to end life||In a shocking incident, a 38-year-old woman attempted to end her life after strangulating her 12-year-old daughter to death in Koottickal on Sunday. The incident took place around 4 a.m. when the woman, Laijeena, killed her daughter Shamna and jumped into a well. Police and fire personnel reached the spot and rescued the woman. The girl was taken to a hospital but was declared brought dead. The investigators recovered a note written by Laijeena. Preliminary investigations suggested that the woman had been undergoing treatment for mental illness. Mundakkayam police booked a case for murder. The victim’s father, Shemeer Khan, has been working abroad.  Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling Maithri - 0484-2342703||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-kills-daughter-attempts-to-end-life/article35009869.ece
28 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Recognition for MGU VC||Adding another feather to his cap, Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University in Kottayam, has been ranked first in a list of best scientists from Kerala, prepared by Germany-based European Science Evaluation Centre. A statement by the varsity said Mr. Thomas was ranked 19th among Indian scientists and 35th among Asian scientists. Of the 35 persons selected to the list from Kerala, as many as 18 belonged to the MGU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recognition-for-mgu-vc/article35009865.ece
28 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Abandoned buildings turn safe dens for drug peddlers||Poor surveillance of abandoned government and private buildings within city limits has come as a boon for many drug peddlers in Kozhikode. Late-night meetups for selling smuggled drugs are now common at these buildings, taking advantage of local residents’ reluctance to enter such premises out of fear. Buildings near Kozhikode and Vellayil railway stations now top the list where some of the rough sleepers are also reportedly helping drug peddlers for a quick buck and drugs. Miscreants have also started using a number of deserted buildings along the Kozhikode beach road. “Police patrol is there in such locations but illegal entrants are cunning enough to evade such checks,” said an official with the Railways here. He said the demolition or renovation of such buildings and proper security measures were the practical solutions for the problem. Despite frequent complaints from commuters and traders, murky corners of the Palayam bus stand and some of the old buildings near Puthiyara are also continuing to be safe havens for drug addicts. Some of the suspected drug peddlers in the urban area have moved to wetland fields in the suburbs, posing a challenge for enforcement squads. Many local residents’ associations have put up cautionary boards against such gangs. Surveillance cameras have also been installed along some of the village roads to monitor vehicles and persons. A police officer from Elathur station said there were many occasions when the police team carried out aerial inspection using drone cameras for tracking such gangs near a wetland area at Puthiyangadi. He said some of the local residents were seemingly reluctant to disclose information on such gangs fearing retaliatory action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abandoned-buildings-turn-safe-dens-for-drug-peddlers/article35009802.ece
28 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||ODF+ status for Kozhikode Corporation||The Kozhikode Corporation is reaping the benefits of a work well done, having been conferred with the Swachh Bharat Mission’s ODF+ status. It is the first corporation in the State to achieve the landmark and one of the very few in the country. ODF+ status is conferred on local bodies with ODF status that have gone beyond it to better their situation with respect to public hygiene, maintenance of public toilets, and construction of public toilets. The Kozhikode Corporation was declared Open Defecation Free (ODF) in 2016. “We had to upgrade some toilets that were in less than sanitary conditions and build only a few new ones, together around 1,500,” said Shajil Kumar P., Health Supervisor of the corporation. “We built some new community toilets, renovated a few, but more importantly, ensured that they were maintained well. We had instructed the managements of shopping centres and commercial complexes to ensure that their toilets were clean,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/odf-status-for-kozhikode-corporation/article35009790.ece
28 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Huge spirit, fake toddy haul in Palakkad||In a pre-dawn raid on the properties of a toddy shop licencee at Anakkappara near Vadakkanchery on Sunday, Excise teams seized 1,435 litres of spirit and 2,000 litres of fake toddy. The raid was conducted following a tip-off. The Excise Enforcement squad and Excise officers from Alathur jointly raided the toddy godown owned by one Soman Nair at 5 a.m. His house was also raided. Ten cans of spirit were recovered from under a cot in Nair’s house. Fake toddy mixed with spirit was found in cans outside the house. The Excise team seized 31 cans of spirit from a rubber sheet shed at Pandaramkode. Seven workers were arrested. The Excise team also seized four vehicles used for transporting spirit and confiscated Rs. 11.65 lakh from them. The Excise intelligence wing had found that Nair’s 30-odd toddy shops were selling spirit-mixed toddy. Officials said they could zero in on the culprit after watching his movements for several weeks. The arrested are Vincent, 56, from Ettumanur; Baiju, 50, from Alathur; Chandran, 65, from Thrissur; Sasi, 46, from Kuzhalmannam; Sivasankaran, 50, from Chittur; Vasudevan, 59, from Vadakkanchery, and Parameswaran, 57, from Padur. Apart from members of the Enforcement Squad, Excise Circle Inspectors K.V. Sadayakumar, Mohammed Riyas, and G. Krishnakumar, Inspectors T.R. Murukesh Kumar, K.V. Vinod Kumar, S. Madhusoodhan Nair, and C. Senthil Kumar were in the 28-member team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/huge-spirit-fake-toddy-haul-in-palakkad/article35009795.ece
28 June 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||TDB explores ways to diversify finances||In view of the continuing fall in its income following the pandemic, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) is exploring ways to diversify its finances to tide over the crisis. According to TDB president N. Vasu, preliminary discussions are on to identify the options in view of the disruption of the board’s economic model as the second wave of the pandemic has spiralled the decline in revenue out of control. “The financial profile of the TDB has diminished to the point of virtual invisibility so that it cannot sustain without the State’s support any more. In this backdrop, preliminary discussions are on whether the board can leverage the idle property in its possession and generate sustainable income,” he said. As part of it, the board seeks to re-purpose about 3,000 acres of prime land by establishing remunerative projects with the help of investors from outside. “The investment plans may be prepared in a way that these projects do not affect any of the temples under the board or the rituals, while also retaining with the board the legal rights over the land. It, in turn, may also help proper upkeep of the properties that are under constant threat of encroachment,” he said. Monthly expenditure The TDB has suffered a loss of about Rs. 600 crore since March 2020. With some 5,500 employees on its rolls and almost same number of pensioners, it incurs around Rs. 50 crore every month. The income from Sabarimala, which used to be the board’s main stay for long, fell to Rs. 21 crore during the last pilgrimage season as against Rs. 270 in the previous year. The uncertainty over the length of the pandemic-induced disruptions has only exacerbated the fears of the next season also becoming a financial disaster. During the previous fiscal, the TDB received a financial assistance of Rs. 90 crore from the State government in two instalments. In view of the continuing distress, it has once again approached the State government for an emergency short-term assistance. Meanwhile, official sources said the TDB was also looking to take over the virtual queue from the Kerala Police from the upcoming Mandalam-Makaravilakku season. It is in view of a severe underutilisation of the daily quota of pilgrims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tdb-plans-to-leverage-idle-property-for-revenue/article35009378.ece
28 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||4,081 houses built by Corpn. under PMAY||A total of 4,081 houses have been completed till date under the Pradhan Mantri Awaz Yojana (PMAY) in the city Corporation, while sanction has been accorded to a total of around 10,000 houses. Taking into account all the local bodies in the district, the number of houses completed stands at 10,047 and the number of sanctioned houses at 13,694. The PMAY officials in the city Corporation are currently ready with the eighth Detailed Project Report under the project. This DPR is meant to provide houses for families which had purchased land with funds provided by the Corporation. More than 600 landless families had purchased land last year using the plan funds of the Corporation. Under the scheme, a family from the general category living in a municipal Corporation area got Rs. 5.25 lakh to purchase a maximum of 3 cents of land. Beneficiaries from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes categories got Rs. 6 lakh. The Scheduled Caste Development fund was also used for this purpose. Preliminary work “We had completed the preliminary work on the eighth DPR sometime back, but it has now been delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Other than the 4,081 completed houses in the seven DPRs till now, 6,000 are in various stages of completion,” says a PMAY official at the Corporation. Since the launch of the Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project of the Left Democratic Front government in 2017, the funds for individual houses under the PMAY too has gone up as part of the government’'s policy to provide funds uniformly across all housing projects. Till then, the total funds including the shares of the Union Government, State Government, the local body and the share of the individual, for the PMAY project was Rs. 3 lakh. After being clubbed with the LIFE project, this has gone up to Rs. 4 lakh, the highest such amount for housing projects across States. The individual contribution has also been done away with in the State, bringing relief to many families who used to struggle to find this amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4081-houses-built-by-corpn-under-pmay/article35009876.ece
28 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Customs to issue notice in foreign currency case||The Customs (Preventive), Kochi, is reportedly poised to proceed against those involved in the foreign currency smuggling angle of the case relating to the illegal import of contraband gold from Dubai into Kerala via the diplomatic channel of the UAE consulate here. A senior official said the department was preparing show-cause notices against individuals who allegedly helped the kingpins of the racket plough back the proceeds of the crime into the UAE during the 2019-20 period. The Customs case is that the accused had spirited away the illicit profit in foreign currency to Dubai with alleged official protection.  The agency suspects that the accused had possibly dodged Customs inspection at airports by travelling with high-ranking State government officials or political functionaries. The case is politically touchy. The agency had summoned top political functionaries in the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and their staff members as part of its probe. Investigators said the stash of cash moved abroad also included the bribe received by the suspects for nudging the multi-crore UAE Red Crescent contract to build apartments for the poor in Thrissur in the direction of a private builder. Likely respondents The potential respondents reportedly includes two top UAE officials at the consulate and an Egyptian citizen who handled accounts at the diplomatic mission. The agency had also brought under the ambit of its investigation a bank official who helped the accused convert the illicit profit to foreign currency. Customs investigators claimed to have evidence, including confessional statements, bank documents, air travel itineraries, and depositions from witnesses, about the illegal movement and conversion of the foreign currency. In addition, an investigator alleged the accused regularly handed over the proceeds to the racketeers at a crowded shopping district in Dubai. Customs Act Officials said the agency would issue the notices under Section 124 of the Customs Act. Commissioner Sumit Kumar is the adjudicating authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-to-issue-notice-in-foreign-currency-case/article35009809.ece
28 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Major drug haul in Thiruvananthapuram||The Thiruvananthapuram City police seized nearly 130kg of ganja worth around Rs. 70 lakh in the State capital during two separate operations conducted early Sunday. A 59-year-old Tamil Nadu native, identified as Muhammed M. of Madukkarai in Coimbatore, was caught by the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF) team in Pettah with alleged possession of 110kg of ganja, City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Travel route The accused, who purportedly smuggled the consignment in a vegetable-laden lorry from Andhra Pradesh via Coimbatore and the Walayar inter-state border, is believed to have reached the city late Saturday. The contraband was found to have been packed in 46 packets that were hidden on an isolated ground near the Pettah bridge. Terming the operation as a “tribute to Thiruvananthapuram city on the occasion of the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking (observed on June 26)”, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Vaibhav Saxena, said the narcotics substances was brought in bulk quantity to be distributed among retailers in the city. The accused, who is an auto-rickshaw driver, has his roots in Thrissur.  Criminal antecedents However, it was yet to be known if he had any criminal antecedents in Kerala. Nonetheless, the police have received information regarding the other members of the racket including Keralites. Around the same time, the Poojappura police caught Kattachal native Sreeram, 24, with alleged possession of 11kg of ganja from his house. He purportedly smuggled the contraband from Bengaluru on train early in the day. His associate, Sreekanth, had been arrested by the Thiruvalam police, with around 3kg of ganja a week ago. The Poonthura police had also confiscated 8.5kg during an operation held a day ago, official sources. Since the launch of the lockdown, the State capital has been witnessing a spurt in drug smuggling cases. Around 350kg of ganja have been seized by the police in various operations within three months. Around 40 grams of the synthetic drug MDMA had also been confiscated.  Since the launch of the lockdown, the State capital has been witnessing a spurt in drug smuggling cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-drug-haul-in-thiruvananthapuram/article35009873.ece
28 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||10,905 cases in State||The State reported 10,905 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 1,03,996 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate on the day was 10.49%. The case graph is showing a rising trend in many districts and hospitalisations are stagnating as the number of new cases have been remaining steady in the State. While a spurt in disease transmission when lockdown restrictions are lifted is an expected event, public health experts caution that the State cannot allow the epidemic curve to rise again. Targetted testing and focussed containment efforts will have to taken up in all districts to ensure that there is no resurgence of the second wave 62 more deaths The State’s active case pool on Sunday had 99,591 cases, with 12,351 recoveries. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 12,879 with the State adding 62 recent deaths to the official list. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 1,910 on Sunday, which took the number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals to 25,690. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients showed a significant dip to 2,211, with those patients requiring ventilator support dropping to 883. District-wise Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number with 1,401 cases. The other districts with new cases are Kollam 1,115, Ernakulam 1,103, Malappuram 1,103, Kozhikode 1,046, Palakkad 1,010, Thrissur 941, Kasaragod 675, Alappuzha 657, Kannur 562, Kottayam 428, Pathanamthitta 343, Idukki 275 and Wayanad 246.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10905-cases-in-state/article35009815.ece
28 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel formed to draft new fisheries policy||The State government has constituted an eight-member expert committee for preparing a new draft fisheries policy for the State. The panel headed by the Additional Director of Fisheries, Dineshan Cheruvat, has been tasked with revisiting the existing fisheries policy and drafting a new document “taking into consideration emerging challenges and latest developments in the sector with the aim of hastening the socio-economic development of the fishing community.” Four months’ time The government has given the committee four months to prepare and submit the draft after due consultations with stakeholders. Among other things, the draft will suggest ways and means to improve efficiency in the fisheries sector to generate better income for fishermen and farmers through sustainable development. The new policy will give thrust on the development of aquaculture through integrated and eco-friendly farming methods, optimum utilisation of available water resources in the State, diversification of the species bred, ornamental fishery and disease surveillance. Terms of reference The committee will look at the overall socio-economic upliftment of the coastal communities in the State, potential of alternative livelihood and employment generation, and fisheries-coastal tourism. The panel’s terms of reference include the safety of fishermen at sea, disaster management, strengthening of cooperative sector in fisheries and various laws and regulations governing the sector. Further, in preparing the draft, the committee will also cover aspects related to marketing, value addition and quality assurance of fish and fish products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-formed-to-draft-new-fisheries-policy/article35009811.ece
28 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A tribute to Messi from fans of Pozhiyoor||In Pozhiyoor, a fishing village near the Tamil Nadu border in the district, football is ingrained in the cultural fabric of society. It was once used as a vehicle for social transformation by the Church when drugs and illicit liquor threatened to ruin the youth. Football offered better prospects for self advancement and many players from this tiny village have found their way into the top teams in the country. In the past two years, the COVID-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc and football took a back seat. However, a sense of normalcy has now returned to the village with the restrictions eased by the Kerala government. For football fans of Pozhiyoor, the Copa America and Euro 2020 could not have started at a better time. Large cut-outs of Neymar, Messi and Suarez have taken vantage positions around the village. A group of Argentinian football fans have taken their love for superstar Lionel Messi to another level. The Messi fans of Pozhiyoor have erected a life-size statue of the Argentinian player at Pozhiyoor Junction. The 169-cm statue made of clay and resin was built within a week by sculptor Jibin Kumar who is a hard-core Messi fan. “We had planned this some months ago. But it was delayed for various reasons. I suggested the idea again when the Copa America began and everyone backed me. It is our tribute to Messi and I think it is the first life-size statue of Messi in Kerala,” said Jibin. The statue was unveiled on June 24, Messi’s birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tribute-to-messi-from-fans-of-kerala/article35009380.ece
28 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,401 new cases in capital, 1,734 recoveries||The district recorded 1,401 COVID-19 cases and 1,734 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 10,737 on Sunday. The test positivity rate increased marginally to 10.59%. While most cases have been attributed to contact transmission, the source of infection was unknown in 83 cases. Five health workers were among those who tested positive for the infection. The district authorities placed 2,570 more people in quarantine and permitted 2,193 others to conclude self-isolation during the last 24 hours. There are currently 40,570 people who are undergoing quarantine in the district.  Most cases are due to contact transmission and source of infection is unknown in 83 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1401-new-cases-in-capital-1734-recoveries/article35009875.ece
28 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Call to turn capital into garbage-free district||The district conference of the Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) ended here on Sunday, with resolutions being passed seeking measures to resist atrocities against women, and an integrated project for converting Thiruvananthapuram into a garbage-free district. The society’s outlook towards women should undergo a change and a social intervention is necessary for upholding democratic values within families, the parishad said. It also urged the State government to make amendments to the six-decade-old Dowry Prohibition Act. The parishad passed a resolution seeking an integrated project for transforming Thiruvananthapuram into a garbage-free district. Eleven lakh households and 1.4 lakh establishments here generate nearly 800 tonnes of organic wastes and 200 tonnes of inorganic wastes daily. Third resolution A third resolution passed by the parishad sought a campaign, linking the Departments of Education and Social Justice and the Kudumbashree units, for encouraging the use of reusable menstrual products that are safe. The district conference elected K. Anil Narayanaru and S. L. Sunil Kumar as district president and secretary of the Parishad respectively. T. Kumar and B. Lily have been elected vice-presidents, and V. K. Nandanan and V. Jinukumar, joint secretaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-turn-capital-into-garbage-free-district/article35009878.ece
28 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Greens seek CBI probe into tree felling||Over 50 environmentalists and organisations have demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the illegal felling of reserved trees at Muttil in Wayanad and from assigned lands elsewhere in the State. They submitted a joint statement to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan with copies to Revenue Minister K. Rajan, Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy and other bureaucrats. Stating that the Revenue Department’s circular and the controversial order issued on March 11 and October 24 last had paved way for the alleged crime, the petitioners found fault in the government’s stance that there was no need to investigate the circumstances under which the orders had been issued. The accused They accused that the then Revenue and Forest Ministers and the officials in their offices of were responsible for the illegal orders. They were sceptical of the ongoing investigation against the backdrop of the Chief Minister dismissing the possibility of any oversight while issuing the orders. They demanded amendments to the laws to bestow farmers the right to cut trees legally from their assigned lands. Signatories The signatories include Kerala State Biodiversity Board former chairman V.S. Vijayan, environmentalists N. Badusha, Sridhar Radhakrishnan, Kusumam Joseph, T.P. Padmanabhan, Sobheendran, Harish Vasudevan and John Peruvanthanam, S. Babuji, S. Usha and J. Devika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-seek-cbi-probe-into-tree-felling/article35009816.ece
28 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Junior health inspector arrested||The Museum Police on Sunday arrested a junior health inspector of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation for allegedly attempting to molest a sanitation worker. The Corporation has suspended the accused, Aji R. According to the police, the incident happened within the office premises on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/junior-health-inspector-arrested/article35009877.ece
28 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||IB team visits quarry||Investigating agencies are yet to crack the mystery behind the blast at an abandoned quarry at Vazhakode near Wadakkanchery in Thrissur a week ago. A team of Intelligence Bureau officials visited the quarry and examined the blast site. The team, which examined the reports of the police, Crime Branch, and explosives wing, also took statements of those staying near the quarry. Experts had reported that high-capacity explosives were involved in the blast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ib-team-visits-quarry/article35009797.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lockdown fallout||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-fallout/article35009881.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fitness unlocked||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fitness-unlocked/article35009806.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Prayer time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prayers-during-pandemic/article35009382.ece
28 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur records lowest positivity rate in 85 days||Anantapur district on Sunday recorded the lowest COVID positivity rate in the second wave after 85 days with only 188 testing positive (2.51%) in the last 24 hours ending 10 a.m. on Saturday. The previous low was recorded on April 2 this year at 0.95% when only 26 persons tested positive. The positivity rate had touched 10.03% by April 14 when 294 cases registered. The daily toll too came down in the district that registered one death during the period, taking the cumulative figure to 1,042. Kurnool district reported two deaths, taking the toll to 815. The district reported 121 new infections on Sunday. The district received 65,000 vaccine doses on Sunday and a mass immunisation programme would be taken up on Monday and Tuesday, said District Medical and Health Officer Rama Giddaiah. Vaccination drive Anantapur district has vaccinated 8,10,197 persons with first doses and as many as 2,15,108 persons have received two doses so far. The district administration is expecting to receive at least 60,000 doses, after which the vaccination drive would be resumed on Monday and Tuesday. Meanwhile, Anantapur Range Deputy Inspector General of Police Kanti Rana Tata along with Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu went round several localities in the city on Sunday and appealed to people not to be complacent. “Just because the number of new cases are coming down, you should not lower your guard,” Mr. Kanti Rana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-records-lowest-positivity-rate-in-85-days/article35009545.ece
28 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 hospitals penalised||Joint Collector A. Siri on Sunday imposed a penalty of Rs. 20 lakh on Harshitha Hospital in the city for charging more than the stipulated rate under Aarogyasri. The administration collected Rs. 39 lakh from 14 hospitals. In case of overcharging, hospitals would have to pay 10 times the excess fee collected and face criminal cases, Dr. Siri added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-hospitals-penalised/article35009546.ece
28 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HDK questions Kerala’s move to change Kannada names of villages||The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday questioned the Kerala government over attempts to change the names of certain places in Kasaragod district to Malayalam. “It has come to my notice that the Kerala government has begun the process of changing the Kannada names of some of the villages in Manjeshwar of Kasaragod into Malayalam. Kasaragod is a place that has close ties with Karnataka. Kannadigas as well as Karnataka have a cultural bond with the people of Kasaragod,” he tweeted on Sunday. In fact, he said, Kasaragod has remained as a symbol of linguistic harmony and coexistence. “Though Kannada- and Malayalam-speaking people are in equal numbers in Kasaragod, they are living in a harmonious manner,” he said, adding that there was a need to protect this in future as well. “In these times, which are marked by politics being played on emotions,it is inevitable to protect linguistic harmony.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hdk-questions-keralas-move-to-change-kannada-names-of-villages/article35009375.ece
28 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police, forest officials to step up vigil at picnic spots in Chittoor||With an increase in the movement of public at some of the scenic locations in Chittoor district, officials of the police and forest departments have intensified surveillance at picnic spots. Though the movement of tourists picked up last year after the first wave ebbed, the surge came to a standstill in April when the second wave struck the district. But now again, with some respite in COVID infections for a few days now, coupled with relaxations at the border check posts with Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, there is a steady increase in arrival of picnic lovers at the Horsley Hills, Kaigal, Talakona, Ubbalamadugu and Kailasanatha Kona and some lesser known waterfalls, which are yet to open to the public. ‘Many places yet to open to public’ The officials said that visitors who arrive there without knowledge about the closure still in force are made to return. Tourism Manager (Chittoor) D.V. Chandramouli Reddy said that all the picnic spots were yet to open to the public. Though some of the tourists were reaching Talakona waterfalls without knowledge about its closure, they were allowed to reach up to the Lord Shiva temple, and entry into the waterfalls zone was strictly barred. Forest Range Officer (Satyavedu) J. Prasada Rao said that a negligible number of tourists was coming to the Ubbalamadugu falls (also known as Tada falls) from Chennai, but they were made to return. “Our staff are alert to the possibility of some tourists entering the reserve forest around the waterfalls through some porous routes. The waterfall at Nagalapuram hills is also under strict surveillance,” he said. Meanwhile, a police officer in Chittoor said that some of the picnic spots were equipped with digital surveillance following the Vijayawada incident in which a woman was sexually assaulted on the banks of Krishna river. Apart from the police post at Horsley Hills, the patrolling was intensified at Kaigal waterfalls zone near Baireddipalle, close to Karnataka border. The Kaigal spot has a history of miscreants attacking tourists, including assaults on women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-forest-officials-to-step-up-vigil-at-picnic-spots-in-chittoor/article35009548.ece
28 June 2021||GUDIVADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman suffers burns||A woman, Ch. Lakshmi, suffered burns when her daughter-in-law Swaroopa allegedly poured hot oil on her after a dispute over money matters, at Mandapadu village in Krishna district on Sunday. The victim was admitted to government hospital in Gudivada. The Two Town police registered a case and reportedly took Swaroopa and her husband Shiva Narayana into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-suffers-burns/article35009553.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana govt. to borrow Rs. 1,000 cr. more||The State government decided to raise another tranche of open market borrowings (OMB) on Wednesday to meet its immediate financial commitments including the payments still due under the Rythu Bandhu scheme. The government will raise Rs. 1,000 crore state development loan through auction of securities by the Reserve Bank of India. This will take the entire open market borrowings during the first quarter of the current financial year to Rs. 13,500 crore, probably the highest quantum of OMB during a single quarter in recent years. This is Rs. 1,000 crore higher than Rs. 12,500 crore raised during the first quarter of the previous financial year when revenue fell steeply following the lockdown imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictions that followed. The government has raised Rs. 12,500 crore loans from open market so far this year and this includes Rs. 7,500 crore obtained in four tranches during June alone. The amount being mobilized by the government is much higher than the quantum it had projected to the RBI ahead of the start of the fiscal year. The government has indicated that it is willing to mobilise loans of Rs. 8,000 crore during the first quarter of the current year. But, Wednesday’s OMB of Rs. 1,000 crore will take the total quantum raised during the quarter to Rs. 13,500 crore. According to senior officials, the government had to opt for fresh OMBs because of the low revenues as well as increased commitments on account of the spree of welfare programmes, including Rythu Bandhu, the farmer-centric scheme entailing an expenditure of over Rs. 7,500 crore for each of the two instalments operational in the State. Coupled with this was the impending implementation of the revised pay scales which would involve an additional outgo close to Rs. 1,000 crore a month on the State exchequer. The government had obtained time for payment of arrears of revised pay scales in cash due from April announcing that they would be paid in due course. But it is reported to be contemplating to pay cash arrears of about Rs. 1,000 crore to different categories of employees for June before the end of July second week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-govt-to-borrow-rs-1000-cr-more/article35009376.ece
28 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa constituency bags lion’s share in housing||With the government planning a mega grounding ceremony on July 1, 3 and 4, officials of the Housing Department in Kadapa are busy making arrangements for the launch of the flagship scheme ‘Navaratnalu – Pedalandariki Illu’. They plan to launch construction for 14,000 houses on each day. Of the 95,649 houses sanctioned under the first phase for the entire district, Kadapa constituency alone has bagged 26,392 houses, accounting for 27%. As many as 18,572 houses will be built in 15 layouts in the first phase, while 7,820 houses halted for various reasons would be actively pursued. According to Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, a mason is required to build 25 houses and as such it requires around 525 masons for executing the task. In fact, 60% of the houses sanctioned in the district have been earmarked for municipalities, while mandals in the rural areas will get 40%. Corporators and councillors have been entrusted the task of monitoring the housing activity in their respective divisions/wards and ensure construction within the stipulated time. Jagananna colonies Though the houses are to be constructed in phases, the district administration is laying special focus on developing Jagananna colonies as integrated townships. “The activity involves various departments like Panchayat Raj, revenue, housing, electricity and so on. Officials from all the departments are being roped in to ensure coordination. The colonies will emerge as self-sustainable townships,” Joint Collector (Housing) Dhyana Chandra H.M. told The Hindu . There are three options in executing the project, viz., the government building houses and handing over to beneficiary, the latter building the house using the construction material given by government and the third is, government paying for the material procured and constructed by the beneficiary. Even as the intricate processes are monitored through a mobile app that maps a mason to 25 houses in a vicinity, steps are on to rope in construction manpower in large numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadapa-constituency-bags-lions-share-in-housing/article35009550.ece
28 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mobile facility soon to screen patients for cardiac ailments||A mobile facility (ambulance) will be launched for screening of cardiac ailments in Kadapa district that witnesses 9% mortality rate in patients suffering from the diseases. The Rotary Foundation of the U.S.A. has released $76,695 (nearly Rs. 56 lakh) under a global grant to the Rotary Club of Kadapa, which will be used to procure the ambulance, says its president C. Sivarami Reddy, who draws inspiration from Hyderabad Public School Chairman Fayaz Khan, known for his altruistic attitude. State-of-the-art equipment “The ambulance will have the state-of-the-art equipment ensemble including an EGC and 2D echo device. The vehicle will screen the patients for cardiac disorder in rural areas,” said the Rotary Club governor B. Chinnapa Reddy. In many cases, people tend to attribute chest pain to gas trouble or muscle spasm, without knowing that it may be a sign of cardiac ailments, says club assistant governor and a medical practitioner V. Pratap Reddy, who donated Rs. 7.5 lakh for the cause. Rehabilitation centre Mr. Sivarami Reddy and treasurer Sharif contributed Rs. 1 lakh each. Dr. Pratap Reddy says a rehabilitation centre for senior citizens is also in the pipeline. A similar grant was given to the Rotary Club, Tirupati a few years ago for procuring a mobile cancer screening facility for the benefit of women in Rayalaseema region. The ambulance is being managed by the SVIMS super speciality hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mobile-facility-soon-to-screen-patients-for-cardiac-ailments/article35009549.ece
28 June 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) suspends two local leaders accused of rape||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has suspended two of its local leaders who were booked by the police on the charge of raping a branch committee member at Vadakara here in Kerala. The preliminary action, subsequent to the police inquiry, was taken by the party’s Vadakara local committee. On Saturday, the police registered a First Information Report after receiving a complaint from the woman. According to her petition, CPI(M) Muliyeri branch secretary P.P. Baburaj and another local leader T.P. Lijeesh raped her on different occasions nearly three months ago. The complainant said Baburaj had sexually assaulted her first. Lijeesh, who came to know about the incident afterwards, used it as a tool to blackmail her for sexual favours, she alleged. Duo on the run Police sources said the woman had reportedly received death threats many times when she tried to take legal recourse. After the incidents, she had to reportedly undergo treatment for mental shock in various hospitals, they said. Her statement has already been recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Vadakara police said the two suspects had been booked under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code. They were absconding. They would be taken into custody soon, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-suspends-two-local-leaders-accused-of-rape/article35009512.ece
28 June 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Storage improves in major reservoirs||Almost four weeks after the onset of the southwest monsoon, the cumulative storage across 13 major reservoirs in the State is higher than the storage during the same period last year. Against the cumulative gross storage capacity of 860.27 tmcft, the actual storage was 403.01 tmcft as of Sunday. The cumulative storage during the same period last year was 248.36 tmcft, according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). Though the monsoon has been weak in the past week, it was fairly vigorous during the preceding three weeks, which helped to augment the inflow into dams. Linganamakki, Supa, and Varahi reservoirs have a cumulative storage capacity of 328.18 tmcft, against which the actual storage was 129.21 tmcft on Sunday. This amounts to 39% of the combined storage, which is mainly used for generating hydel power. The combined storage in the three reservoirs during the same period last year as 64.53 tmcft. The major reservoirs in the Cauvery basin include the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS), Hemavathi, Kabini, and Harangi, and against the cumulative storage capacity of 114.57 tmcft, the actual storage was 58.44 tmcft on Sunday; it was 42.85 tmcft on the same day last year. In the Krishna basin, the main reservoirs include the Bhadra, Tungabhadra, Ghataprabha, Malaprabha, Alamatti, and Narayanapura. The cumulative gross storage capacity in these reservoirs is 417.52 tmcft, against which the actual storage on Sunday was 218.96 tmcft. It was 140.98 tmcft on the same day last year. A month to go Though the rains have abated in the past week, the southwest monsoon lasts till the third week of August before its gradual withdrawal, and hence there is an adequate window for the storage in the reservoirs to improve. While the cumulative rainfall across the State for the past one week was 50% below normal, the cumulative rainfall from June 1 to 26 indicated an 8% surplus and was hence classified under “normal” as per the norms of the IMD. Against the normal rainfall of 167 mm, the State received 180 mm of rain from June 1 to 26, as per the KSNDMC. While rainfall in 19 districts in the State fell under normal (+19% to -19%) category, it was classified as excess (20% to 59% above normal) in seven districts, large excess (60% above normal) in two districts, and deficit (-20% to -59%) in three districts (Mysuru, Mandya, and Dakshina Kannada).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/storage-improves-in-major-reservoirs-of-karnataka/article35009372.ece
28 June 2021||Nellore,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flamingo Festival held in virtual mode||Noted poet Kutikuppala Surya Rao has exhorted one and all to emulate the flamingos which travel thousands of miles and come to Nellore for nesting. Inaugurating the 7th edition of mutilingual Flamingo Festival in a virtual mode organised by the Navasahiti International, in coordination with the Pen India, late on Saturday, Dr. Surya Rao, honorary president of Navasahiti International, Andhra Pradesh Chapter, said that humans are close-knit with flamingos, which live in colonies. “Flamingos are symbol of migration. Migration is the dawn of civilisation and module of urbanisation,” noted Dr. Surya Rao, a researcher in HIV medicine. An alumnus of Andhra Medical College, Dr. Surya Rao discerned the relationship between humans and birds which had taught him to discover new things. Poetry festival president Perugu Ramakrishna saidpoets from across the country and abroad including Spanish poet from Uraguay Maria Fernanda Vila MigLiaro, Dr. S.V.Surya Prakash Rao, founder president of Navasahiti International(Chennai), Dr. Rajavanti Mann from Chandigarh, Dr.Biplab Maji from Midnapore took part in the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flamingo-festival-held-in-virtual-mode/article35009911.ece
28 June 2021||NELLORE / ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recoveries outnumber new cases in Nellore, Prakasam||A day after registering zero deaths, South Coastal Andhra Pradesh saw four deaths, taking the toll to 1,808 in the region in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. So far, 904 patients each had succumbed to the virus in the districts of Nellore and Prakasam, a health bulletin released by the government said. The health situation continued to improve with more persons recovering when compared to fresh admissions. The overall cases count reached 1.47 lakh in the region as 193 persons in Nellore and 461 persons in Prakasam tested positive. The number of recoveries was more by 175 when compared to fresh admissions, as 514 patients in Prakasam district and 317 patients in Nellore district recovered during the period. Meanwhile, the police in the two districts stepped up patrolling and booked cases against those stepping out of their homes during the curfew period. Nellore District Additional Superintendent of Police V. Venkataratnam led the police personnel at the VRC Centre in enforcing the curfew. She appealed to the people to venture out of their homes only in case of an emergency. ‘No room for complacency’ Overseeing the curbs put in place in Ongole, Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal cautioned that there could be no room for complacency as the cases might go up if people did not follow the restrictions put in place to prevent the spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-in-nellore-prakasam/article35009552.ece
28 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajahmundry man to scale Mt. Elbrus||Rajamahendravaram-based mountaineer Achanta Umesh has been selected for the 10-day Mount Elbrus Summit-2021 expedition, which will commence on August 8 in Russia. At a height of 18,510 feet above sea level, Mt. Elbrus is the highest peak in Europe. Hyderabad-based Transcend Adventures has selected him for the expedition. The 33-year-old mountaineer thanked his coaches Sekhar Babu and K.V. Surya Prakash on his selection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rajahmundry-man-to-scale-mt-elbrus/article35009922.ece
28 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases fall below 3,000 in Srikakulam||The number of active COVID-19 cases has come down to below 3,000 and stands at 2,860 in the Srikakulam district. The number used to be nearly 20,000 in April and May. The ongoing vaccination programme has controlled the spread of coronavirus in the district, according to officials. As many as 2,409 persons are in home isolation, 109 were admitted to COVID Care Centres and 342 were hospitalised for treatment. Out of 5,112 tests conducted, 131 persons tested positive on Sunday. So far, 1,18,170 were affected by COVID-19 in the last two years and nearly 500 people died of the dreaded disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-fall-below-3000-in-srikakulam/article35009927.ece
28 June 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four drown at Pukkallapalem beach||Four youngsters drowned at Pukkallapalem beach in Kaviti mandal of Srikakulam district on Sunday. According to the police, the youth hailing from Borraputtuga went on an outing to the beach. The bodies of Sai Lokesh (21), Tirumala (17) and Manoj Kumar(21) were traced by evening. The police personnel with the support of fishermen have been searching for another youth Gopichand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-drown-at-pukkallapalem-beach/article35009912.ece
28 June 2021||T. NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Denied mobile phones, two minor boys ‘end lives’||Two minor boys ended their lives in separate incidents reported from Koyyalagudem and T. Narsapuram mandals of West Godavari district respectively, as their parents allegedly refused to buy mobile phones for them owing to financial problems. Puram Venkata Sai Chandu (10), a fourth standard student from Mutyalampeta village, jumped into a cheruvu on Saturday. “The boy had asked his father Srinivas to purchase smart phone for him. With Mr. Srinivas refusing to buy the phone, Sai Chandu had an argument with his mother and left home. He jumped into the cheruvu and drowned,” said T. Narsapuram police Sub-Inspector Ramakrishna. A case has been registered and investigation is on, said Jangareddygudem DSP Ravi Kiran. In another incident, M. Venkata Raju (16), son of Satyanarayana from Ponguturu village in Koyyalagudem mandal, allegedly consumed pesticide a few days ago for teh same same reason. Venkata Raju, who was pursuing his Intermediate education, died while undergoing treatment. The Koyyalagudem police have registered a case, the DSP said. People with suicidal thoughts can seek help by dialling the ‘1092’ helpline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/denied-mobile-phones-two-boys-end-lives/article35009510.ece
28 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases in Kerala stay above 10,000||Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) remained in the 10%-11% range and the State reported 10,905 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The TPR for 1,03,996 samples was 10.49%. Cases showed a rising trend in many districts and hospitalisation rates were flat. Public health experts called for targeted testing and focused containment efforts. Kerala had 99,591 active cases on Sunday. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatalities stood at 12,879 with the State adding 62 deaths to the official list. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 1,910 on Sunday. Total ICU admissions of critically-ill COVID patients in public and private hospitals dropped to 2,211, with patients requiring ventilator support dropping to 883. Cumulative cases ever since the pandemic began were put at 28,88,894 cases. Thiruvananthapuram district reported the highest number with 1,401 cases. Other districts added cases as follows: Kollam 1,115, Ernakulam 1,103, Malappuram 1,103, Kozhikode 1,046, Palakkad 1,010, Thrissur 941, Kasaragod 675, Alappuzha 657, Kannur 562, Kottayam 428, Pathanamthitta 343, Idukki 275 and Wayanad 246. Karnataka reported 3,604 new cases on Sunday, taking the total to 28,34,630. Of these, 788 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. With 89 new deaths, the toll rose to 34,743. The TPR for the day touched 2.18%.  Less than 1,000 cases The decline in cases in Telangana continued a week after lockdown was lifted on June 20. On Sunday, the State recorded less than 1,000 cases after a gap of 86 days as 748 people tested positive for the virus, and comparatively fewer tests were administered. While 1.1 lakh to 1.3 lakh samples were tested in a normal day, only 81,405 were tested on Sunday. Eight more persons died. Of Sunday’s cases, the highest of 121 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, followed by 61 in Khammam, 50 from Karimnagar and 49 from Rangareddy. Andhra Pradesh reported fewer than 5,000 infections for the seventh day in a row and the TPR of samples analysed during the period was 5%. In the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, 33 deaths and 4,250 infections were reported. The TPR of 95,327 daily samples was 4.46%. Krishna district reported the highest toll of eight in 24 hours, Chittoor six, East Godavari and Srikakulam four each, Nellore three, and Guntur and Kurnool two each. East Godavari reported 890 new infections, Chittoor (673), Prakasam (461), West Godavari (417), Krishna (399), Guntur (309), Nellore (193), Anantapur (188), Visakhapatnam (187), Kadapa (179), Srikakulam (131) and Vizianagaram (102).  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Vijaywada bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-cases-in-kerala-stay-above-10000/article35009515.ece
28 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||CS offers prayers at Tirumala temple||Chief Secretary Adityanath Das offered prayers at the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala on Sunday. He was accompanied to the sanctum sanctorum by the priests and officials. After darshan, pundits showered Vedaseervachanam on him and his family members. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy offered him ‘Theertha Prasadam’ and a memento. TTD Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti was also present. Earlier in the day, the Chief Secretary paid a visit to Sri Varaha Swamy temple now under ‘Balalayam’ (renovation).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cs-offers-prayers-at-tirumala-temple/article35009914.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records fewer than 5,000 cases for seventh day in a row||The State has reported fewer than 5,000 COVID-19 infections a day for the seventh day in a row and the test positivity rate of the samples analysed during the period was 5% while the number of infections were 29,309. It was the lowest weekly tally after 10 weeks since mid-April. In the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, 33 deaths and 4,250 infections were reported taking the toll to 12,599 and the cumulative tally to 18,79,872. The number of recoveries and recovery rate increased to 18,22,500 and 96.95% respectively as 5,570 patients recovered in the past day leaving 44,773 active cases.  Test positivity rate The test positivity rate of the 95,327 samples tested in 24 hours was 4.46% and the overall positivity rate of the 2.17 crore samples tested remained at 8.65%. Krishna district reported the highest toll of eight in 24 hours while Chittoor reported six deaths. East Godavari and Srikakulam reported four deaths, Nellore three, and Guntur and Kurnool two each. Kadapa and Visakhapatnam reported zero deaths while the remaining four districts reported one death each. East Godavari reported 890 new infections and was followed by Chittoor (673), Prakasam (461), West Godavari (417), Krishna (399), Guntur (309), Nellore (193), Anantapur (188), Visakhapatnam (187), Kadapa (179), Srikakulam (131), Kurnool (121) and Vizianagaram (102). The district-wise total number of cases reported so far is as follows: East Godavari (2,61,180), Chittoor (2,18,488), Guntur (1,61,518), West Godavari (1,60,378), Anantapur (1,53,536), Visakhapatnam (1,48,168), Nellore (1,26,772), Kurnool (1,21,694), Prakasam (1,20,375), Srikakulam (1,18,215), Kadapa (1,05,913), Krishna (1,00,832) and Vizianagaram (79,908).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-records-fewer-than-5000-cases-for-seventh-day-in-a-row/article35009908.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BEE to conduct energy audit in spinning mills, cold storages||After finding tremendous potential for saving energy in refractories during a pilot project in East Godavari district, the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) is going to conduct energy audit and technology assessment in spinning mills, cold storages and dal processing units in the State and identify Energy Efficient (EE) technologies in select MSME clusters upon a request by the AP-State Energy Conservation Mission (AP-SECM). According to an official release, a study of 26 refractory units in East Godavari district by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) revealed that there is a scope for conserving 10% (8.3 Million Units) of the energy consumed by them per annum amounting to a financial saving of Rs. 5.56 crore at current tariffs. Their production of refractory material is 62,500 tonnes per year. The pilot project is a part of the BEE’s national programme of mapping the energy - intensive Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), which has been entrusted to TERI. In a webinar on EE measures undertaken by the BEE on Sunday, it's Director Milind Deore said the findings of TERI study were promising and similar projects could be taken up in other MSME sub-sectors. He observed that MSMEs account for 33% of the national manufacturing output and about 28% of the GDP as a whole. State Energy Secretary N. Srikant said the MSMEs took a severe beating due to COVID-19 and EE measures would give them the much-needed relief. ReSTART package Special Chief Secretary (industries and commerce) R. Karikal Valaven said the government gave a big boost to the industries in the form of a ReSTART package under which a financial assistance of Rs. 1,110 crore was being given to about 90,000 MSMEs to help them overcome capital and certain operational constraints. Additional industrial adviser to Government of India (MSMEs) D. Chandra Sekhar, BEE assistant director P. Shyam Sundar and TERI officials N. Vasudevan and Pawan Kumar Tiwari were among those who took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bee-to-conduct-energy-audit-in-spinning-mills-cold-storages/article35009917.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varla complains to Centre against two police officials||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary Varla Ramaiah has urged Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla to initiate action against AP CID Additional DG P.V. Sunil Kumar and Krishna District Additional SP Moka Satti Babu for their “unconstitutional and divisive activities.” Mr. Ramaiah wrote a letter to Mr. Bhalla in this regard on Sunday. Mr. Ramaiah also lodged a complaint to this effect with the Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training, Union Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions. Mr. Ramaiah claimed that there was video proof of the two police officers making “anti-India statements and praising terrorist activities,” in total disrespect for the country’s sovereignty. “It is sad that the two officials are not only promoting hatred between two communities but also making statements undermining the Constitution and the ideals of B.R. Ambedkar,” the TDP leader alleged. Appropriate action should be taken against them in order to safeguard the constitutional spirit, social fabric and harmony in Andhra Pradesh, he said. “It is necessary to file sedition case to prevent the senior police officers from carrying out their divisive activities,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varla-complains-to-centre-against-two-police-officials/article35009603.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social workers are key change agents: DU professor||Sanjai Bhatt from Delhi School of Social Work, University of Delhi, and national convener of the Campaign for National Council of Social Work Education (NCSWE) said that the NCSWE Bill would be the way forward for five lakh professionals as it would usher in rapid and sustainable development. Addressing a webinar on ‘Scope for Social Work Profession with National Council of Social Work Education’, organised by the Department of Sociology and Social Work in Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU), Guntur, he threw light on the draft NCSWE Bill-2021. Prof. Bhatt appealed to the social work professionals to strengthen the campaign with an effective and collective approach. He appreciated the States that had started the campaign and represented to the policy-makers and public representatives regarding the Bill. “Social workers are needed to develop human relations, they are the key change agents to bring progress in total health, education, economic conditions and social empowerment,” he said, adding that the course was designed with in-house and field work practicum. He said the Bill aimed to bring progressive changes in the field of social work education and effective practices. Pointing to the fact that South India had 50% of social work institutions in the country, he said the campaign should be taken as a flagship and advocated at a high level. ANU Vice-Chancellor P. Rajasekhar stressed the need of social work professions in the government administration services to achieve comprehensive development in health, education, nutrition, poverty and social justice among other key aspects, especially in rural and tribal areas. Webinar chairperson and Head of the Department of Sociology and Social Work, ANU, Saraswati Raju Iyer said the Bill, when implemented as law, would build more capacities and outcomes in the field of social work education and practice, and open up wide opportunities for research. ANU Rector P. Varaprasada Murthy said social work education was an integral part of in-house and field work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-workers-are-key-change-agents-du-professor/article35009556.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sexual assault case: police release photographs of suspects||The Guntur Urban district police that are investigating the alleged sexual assault on a girl on Krishna riverbank have released the photographs of two suspects who are at large. A 20-year-old girl who went for an outing with her boyfriend to the Pushkar Ghat at Seetanagaram village in Tadepalli manal was allegedly sexually assaulted in the evening on June 19. The Police released the photographs of suspects – Venkat Reddy and Krishna from Chirala and Machilipatnam – who have been absconding since the incident and their mobile phones have been switched off. Investigation officers of the Guntur Urban and the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate, who visited the spot, picked up many suspects from Krishna and Guntur districts and questioned them. “We have rounded up many suspects including rowdy-sheeters, ganja addicts, blade batch offenders, who often frequent to the riverbank. However, the main accused are at large,” an investigation officer said on Sunday. TDP stages dharna Meanwhile, TDP leaders and women organisations blamed the government, saying that the accused were yet to be arrested even a week had passed after the incident. Women activists of the TDP staged a dharna at the Pushkar Ghat demanding that accused be arrested at the earliest and that police protection be provided to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sexual-assault-case-police-release-photographs-of-suspects/article35009915.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KLU students bag plum job offers in placements||Students of KLU Deemed University campuses in Vijayawada and Hyderabad have bagged more than 3,000 job offers in national and international companies in campus placements during 2021, according to university’s in-charge Vice-Chancellor N. Venkatram. Representatives of top companies such as Amazon, Deloitte, AND, Axile, Optum and NCR participated in the recruitment drive and selected students from B.Tech, M.Tech, MBA. BBA and B.Sc UG and PG courses, Mr. Venkatram said. While 526 students had been selected for Dream companies, 906 landed jobs in Super Dream companies. He said MBA students were offered Rs. 10 lakh annual package, while those pursuing M. Tech bagged an annual package of Rs. 15 lakh. The highest annual salary offered so far was Rs. 25 lakh, he said, and informed that representatives of more than 20 multi-national companies were expected to visit the university to conduct campus placement drive. University’s Placement Dean S. Venkateswarlu said students who register their names for placements were given special training. The academic curriculum was designed to groom the students into all-round personalities. He said besides national companies, students were made to undergo a six-month internship in German, Japanese, American and Taiwanese companies. He said despite the pandemic, students were given training in the online mode and even the campus recruitment drive was conducted in the virtual mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/klu-students-bag-plum-job-offers-in-placements/article35009555.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Phase 2 works of fishing harbour inaugurated||Transport and I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah formally inaugurated the second phase development works of Gilakaladindi fishing harbour in the district and unveiled a plaque on Sunday. The works are being taken up at Rs. 348 crore. Through the dredging works taken up now, he said 10.50 lakh cubic meters of sand, up to 14 feet deep, would be removed in the sea, which would be helpful in fishing for next 50 years. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Venkataramaiah said that the community dependent on fishing had been demanding for dredging in the sea since 2009. He said with the support of the Central and State governments 10 fishing harbours were being developed across the State. Mr. Venkataramaiah said that a 790 meter wall would be built so that 500 fishing boats can be harboured at once. The works will be completed in the coming two years, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/phase-2-works-of-fishing-harbour-inaugurated/article35009909.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to take part in Disha app event tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will attend a promotional event on Disha app at Gollapudi on June 29. The app has a single-touch SOS button that alerts the police control room in case of distress and ensures speedy response. Alerts will be sent to the family of the woman or girl in distress. Five numbers of family and friends can be added for receiving alerts. It has an option ‘Track My Travel’ for guidance during travel. ‘Dial 100’ and ‘Dial 112’ numbers are also available . The app has been downloaded by 16 lakh women so far. The government is promoting it by conducting a special drive with the staff of village and ward secretariats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-take-part-in-disha-app-event-tomorrow/article35009916.ece
28 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 youth drown in Krishna||Three persons drowned in the Krishna river at Pedapulipaka village in Krishna district on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as K. Govindu (22), K. Satish (21) and P. Sai Srinivas (25). They went into the river to take a bath. Fire personnel retrieved the bodies. The Penamaluru police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-youth-drown-in-krishna/article35009554.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Oxygenating all hospital beds necessary to breathe easy’||The Visakhapatnam district has already seen two waves of COVID-19 and the second one was a very severe one. In the first wave that extended from March 2020 to March 2021, the cases recorded were close to 60,000 and the deaths were around 400. But in the second wave that lasted just about four months from March to till date, the district recorded close to 90,000 cases, with April and May being the months when the cases peaked to around 70,000. The death toll was also over 600. Both the waves have been a learning experience for the district administration, as well as the medical fraternity. “During the first wave, we saw a gradual increase in cases, with the peak months being July and August. During that period we were still grappling with the treatment for the pandemic and virus was not that virulent and the progression of the disease was over a period of time that ranged from one week to 15 days. The dependence on oxygenated beds or ICU was not that heavy,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar told The Hindu . But according to him, the second wave saw an unprecedented demand for oxygenated beds, as the mutant virus was highly virulent and the progression of the disease was very fast. There were a number of cases, when a patient had become serious within 48 hours and had to be put on steroids and oxygen, he added. For the medical fraternity, the second wave was a big learning experience as it hit fast and hard. The biggest learning experience was the need for oxygenating all available beds. “During the second wave, we had sourced about 7,000 beds, both private and government hospitals, and of which around 1,000 were ICU beds and around 3,000 were oxygenated beds. Practically, the remaining 3,000 beds were of no use and that was a big learning experience,” said Dr. Sudhakar. As of now, in a 100-bedded hospital, around 10 are ICU beds and about 20 are oxygenated. Learning from the past the district administration has now decided to provide some system of oxygen to all the beds. Through GO No. 57, the State government has mandated that every hospital, including in the private sector, with about 100 beds, should have at least 100 D-type oxygen cylinders in reserve and one oxygen generation plant. In 50-bedded hospitals, there should be at least 50 D-type cylinders and the DMHO has been asked to look into it. This will act as a preparatory measure for the possible third wave, he said. During the second wave, the government hospitals such as KGH, VIMS and Chest Hospital, have come as a rescue. “In the KGH CSR block, all the 500 beds are oxygenated. Similarly in VIMS all the 400 and 280 beds in the GHCCD (chest hospital), are oxygenated. These beds had pulled us out of the second wave, with some support from the 80 odd private hospitals, which were notified as COVID hospitals under category A and B,” said Dr. Sudhakar. The way forward is to oxygenate all beds in all hospitals in the district, to fight the pandemic in the future, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygenating-all-hospital-beds-necessary-to-breathe-easy/article35009921.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||People’s movement needed to preserve Telugu, exhorts Venkaiah Naidu||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has stressed the need for a people’s movement to preserve Telugu and complement the efforts of the government in delivering the benefits of the language and traditions to the future generations. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu participated as the chief guest at the sixth annual ‘Rashtretara Telugu Samakhya’ conference held virtually from the city on Sunday. Highlighting the power of language to unite people across generations and geographies, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu called for a concerted effort to preserve, enrich and propagate native languages, cultures and traditions. “Telugu people should come together onto a single platform for the cause of Telugu language and revitalisation of our local traditions,” he said. Stating that the neglect of a language would lead to its decline, the Vice-President felt that it was the duty of every individual to preserve and promote one’s mother tongue, without belittling other languages and cultures. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu also underscored the need for primary education to be in one’s mother tongue, as envisaged by the National Educational Policy-2020. Myth dispelled He noted that the persons presently occupying top constitutional offices in the country, including the President, the Vice-President, the Prime Minister and the Chief Justice of India, had their primary education in their mother tongues, which disproved the popular myth that learning in one’s own mother tongue would not help them in succeeding in their chosen life goals. The Vice-President also called for more initiatives in translating Telugu literature into other Indian languages, thereby spreading the richness of Telugu language and tradition far and wide. Appreciating the fact that many cultural organisations continued their work online in the wake of the pandemic, he suggested that efforts be intensified to integrate language and technology in the same spirit. Noting that there were more than a thousand organisations outside the Telugu States for the preservation and propagation of Telugu language, the Vice-President commended the initiative of the organisers in coming together onto a common platform called ‘Rashtretara Telugu Samakhya’. Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Minister for Women and Child Development and Social Welfare, Government of West Bengal, Shashi Panja, former Deputy Speaker of Andhra Pradesh Mandali Buddha Prasad, president of All-India Telugu Federation C.M.K. Reddy and president of Rashtrethara Telugu Samakhya Sundara Rao were among those who were present in the virtual event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/peoples-movement-needed-to-preserve-telugu-exhorts-venkaiah-naidu/article35009511.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Draft notification on property tax undemocratic: former bureaucrat||Former Energy Secretary E.A.S. Sarma has said that the draft notification issued by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) on property tax hike, ignoring the recently-elected GVMC council, is ‘unconstitutional’ and ‘undemocratic’. Mr. Sarma was speaking at a webinar, organised jointly by Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Association (VARWA) and Visakha Residential Colony Associations Federation (NIVAS), on ‘Property tax on capital value’ here on Sunday. He said that the government should have presented a White Paper giving expenditure and income and explained the need for enhancing the tax. General Secretary of Uttarandhra Abhivruddhi Vedika, A. Aja Sarma, called upon all sections of the people to oppose the government’s decision. CEO of Symbiosis and Vice President, IT Park Association, O. Naresh Kumar, said that it was inhuman to bring in such an ordinance levying high taxes when people were in distress due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Association (APFERWAS) president K.S.N. Murthy spoke. Members of VARWA and NIVAS have decided to organise dharnas at the GVMC office and all zonal offices in the city on June 29 against the tax hike. VARWA General Secretary B.B. Ganesh called upon people to participate in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/draft-notification-on-property-tax-undemocratic-former-bureaucrat/article35009929.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adhere to all safety precautions, Vizag police chief appeals to people||Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha has appealed to people to cooperate in implementation of COVID-19 protocols by adhering to all safety precautions. The positivity rate in Visakhapatnam has come down to less than 5 %. By strictly adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, it could be brought down to 1%, he said. People should come out of their homes, only if it was absolutely necessary, Mr. Sinha said. Addressing the media near Kali Matha temple at R.K Beach Road here on Sunday, Mr. Sinha said that the city police have taken all measures to ensure strict implementation of the curfew in the city. He said that the police have been working in two shifts – from 6 p.m. to 12 a.m. and 12 a.m. to 6 a.m. as part of enforcement. The police teams have been divided into two pickets – evening and night pickets. The evening picket comprises 42 law and order teams, 38 traffic teams and 19 crime teams. The night pickets include 35 L&O teams, 24 traffic teams and 37 crime beat police teams, he said. The Police Commissioner said that since May 5, when the State government announced partial curfew, to June 26, the city police teams have booked 1,989 FIRs against people for violating curfew norms. Between April 27 and May 4, the police teams have slapped fines of Rs. 100 against 50,000 people for moving in public places without masks. After the State government announced implementation of curfew, the police teams have, so far, imposed fines of Rs. 500 each on about 70,000 people for not wearing masks in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adhere-to-all-safety-precautions-vizag-police-chief-appeals-to-people/article35009932.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Multidisciplinary approach needed to manage mucormycosis’||Facial pain, facial swelling and loss of vision due to COVID-19 require clinical examination and surgical intervention followed by radical anti-fungal treatment and proper follow-up, says Rupa Vedantam, Professor of ENT, CMC, Vellore. She was addressing a virtual conference as a distinguished speaker on ‘Diagnosis and management of mucormycosis’ at the 75th continuing medical education (CME) update on COVID-19, organised by Andhra Medical College (AMC) on Sunday. Mucormycosis (black fungus) requires a multidisciplinary approach with specialists from various disciplines like otolaryrngology, anaesthesia, diabetology, pathology, radiology, nephrology, prosthodontics, ophthalmology and neurosurgery dealing with the case. A nasal endoscopy and fungal culture have to be done and a CT scan of the patient taken. Rajsekhar Vedantam, Professor of Neurosurgery, CMC, Vellore, gave a presentation on ‘Neurosurgical intervention in mucormycosis’. He said that the role of neurosurgeons in the ultimate outcome of mucormycosis patients was minimal like debridement of the infected brain tissue. Earlier, in his opening remarks, Vinod Kumar V, Project Director, AP Health Systems Strengthening Project (APHSSP), spoke of his association with Andhra Medical College. P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, AMC, said of the 186 mucormycosis patients treated at KGH, a majority had prior COVID-19 infection and only two patients had no COVID-19. M.V. Vijaysekhar, neurosurgeon, AMC/KGH, said that nine patients were operated for intracranial extension of mucormycosis. Minimally invasive procedures were done in two cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/multidisciplinary-approach-needed-to-treat-mucormycosis/article35009559.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy sailor, woman held for silver ‘heist’||The city police arrested two persons, including a woman, for allegedly committing theft of 4.5 kg silver ornaments worth Rs. 90,000, from a jewellery shop here on Sunday. The arrested were identified as Rajesh (23) and Amrita Poonam (42). According to the police, Rajesh working as a sailor in the Indian Navy along with Amrita had allegedly gained entry into a jewellery shop at NAD Junction by breaking open the shutters in the early hours of June 23. They allegedly made good with silver ornaments from the iron safe locker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-sailor-woman-held-for-silver-heist/article35009934.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam dist. sees 187 new COVID cases||COVID-19 cases continue to decline in the district with 187 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours, ending Sunday morning. The cumulative tally has increased to 1,48,680. For the first time, since the beginning of COVID-19 second wave, the district has not reported any death in the last 24 hours. The death toll stands at 1,020. As many as 252 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered from the dreaded disease in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,44,774. The active cases declined to 2,886.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-dist-sees-187-new-covid-cases/article35009933.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rly. official inspects new Dabpal-Gidam double line||Commissioner for Railway Safety, South Eastern Circle, S. Mitra, inspected the newly- constructed double line of 11 km between Dabpal-Gidam section. Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, ADRM (infra) Akshay Saxena and other branch officers accompanied him for the inspection. The inspection was completed successfully and authorisation received. It is part of the doubling project of the KK line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rly-official-inspects-new-dabpal-gidam-double-line/article35009928.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||200 kg ganja seized, two arrested||The district police arrested two persons, who were allegedly transporting 200 kg ganja in a vehicle on NH-16 near Pulaparthi Junction, under Yelamanchali police station limits, in the district on Sunday. Case booked Sources said that the accused were allegedly transporting the ganja from the interior parts of the Agency and were heading towards Tuni. A cases was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-kg-ganja-seized-two-arrested/article35009935.ece
28 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dial Your Mayor’ today||Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari will participate in ‘Dial your Mayor’ programme on June 28. According to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) officials, the programme will be held from 10.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and citizens having grievances can call on the toll-free number 1800-4250-0009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dial-your-mayor-today/article35009930.ece
28 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BSP seeks notification to fill SC, ST backlog posts||Bahujan Samaj Party(BSP) Vizianagram district president Pandranki Venkataramana on Sunday asked the State government to take steps immediately to fill all backlog posts as thousands of SC and ST unemployed youngsters have been waiting for jobs. Addressing the media here, he said upper age limit should be increased as posts were not filled for the last seven years. Mr. Venkataramana alleged that the release of job calendar to fill only 10,143 posts had shocked the unemployed youth as they were waiting for recruitment of all 2.35 lakh vacant posts. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to fill all the vacancies during his padayatra taken up when he was in opposition. Notifications were not issued for DSC and other jobs. It created unrest among the youngsters,” said Mr. Venkata Ramana. The party leaders Syed Bhukhari, Ch. Madhav and Nazir Pathan were present in the media conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bsp-seeks-notification-to-fill-sc-st-backlog-posts/article35009924.ece
28 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector inaugurates polyclinic||Vizinagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Sunday inaugurated Amma Polyclinic in Rayagada Road of Parvatipuram to ensure quick treatment for those injured in accidents. Speaking on the occasion, he promised to provide staff and facilities at the clinic. Parvatipuram MLA Alajangi Jogarao said that establishment of polyclinic helps patients needing immediate first-aid. He said that lives of patients could be saved by providing timely medical aid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-inaugurates-polyclinic/article35009926.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joy returns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joy-returns/article35009920.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting for buyers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiting-for-buyers/article35009938.ece
28 June 2021||BASVAPUR (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Orphaned siblings get a new house||Sunday, June 27, was a memorable day in the life of Golla Srilatha and her brother Prashanth when they moved into their new house with a bedroom, hall and a kitchen. The children lost their father Mallesham in 2016 and mother Suguna in 2019. Srilatha had completed her Intermediate while Prashanth had passed 10th class. They were staring at an uncertain future. Relatives proposed to marry off Srilatha so that a major responsibility could be fulfilled. However, she vowed not to marry till Prashanth completed his education. Her story was published in a vernacular newspaper and many people came forward to extend financial assistance. A person instantly extended Rs. 50,000 to them. Lakshmi, a Telugu woman settled in Gujarat also extended assistance. A. Raghu of Winners Foundation came forward to get the house constructed. Bhikshapati, a TRS leader, Krishna Kumar, a college principal, Dr. Chakrapani, Dr. Shankarbabu, District Jail Superintendent Shiva Kumar, Surakanti Rajender, a journalist, M. Nanda, a software professional, Ramesh, ZPTC, Andol and some others joined hands and saw that the construction of house was completed. Both the sister and brother held the house warming ceremony on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/orphaned-siblings-get-a-new-house/article35009770.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One week into unlock, decline in coronavirus cases continues||The decline in COVID-19 cases in Telangana continued a week after lockdown was lifted from June 20. The cases in second wave of the pandemic peaked between the third week of April and May first week. Gradual decline in cases were recorded thereafter. The State government imposed night curfew from April 20, and implemented lockdown from May 12 with relaxation between 6 am and 10 am. After gradually extending the relaxation hours, the lockdown was completely lifted from June 20. When week-wise cases are considered, signs of the second wave can be noted from mid-March. The highest of 54,492 cases were recorded in April third week and 43,839 in May first week. It declined thereafter. During the June 21-27 period, only 7,411 people tested positive for coronavirus. On Sunday, the State recorded less than 1,000 cases after a gap of 86 days. Only 748 people tested positive for the virus and one of the reasons for the low detection is comparatively fewer tests. While 1.1 lakh to 1.3 lakh samples are tested in a day, only 81,405 were examined on Sunday. The last time less than 1,000 cases were detected was on April 1 this year (965 cases). Eight persons died. Of the 748 cases on Sunday, the highest of 121 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by 61 in Khammam, 50 from Karimnagar and 49 from Rangareddy. So far, the State has tested 1.83 crore samples, leading to the detection of over 6.2 lakh cases. Of the total, 14,302 cases were active while 6,02,676 have recovered and 3,635 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-week-into-unlock-decline-in-coronavirus-cases-continues/article35009758.ece
28 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Plans for OGH overhaul remain only on paper||As another death-knell has been sounded for the Osmania General Hospital (OGH), a 2013 plan to save the heritage building and improve the medicare in the facility appears to be the only hope. The plan, which has been through multiple iterations, now exists in four formats according to its creators. “We made the plan without compromising the heritage character of the campus. OGH’s visibility and the presence on the site is very important for the city. Architecture is judged by the visibility,” says conservation architect G.S.V. Suryanarayana Murthy about the plan by Kshetra which was submitted in January 2013. This was much before the Telangana government unveiled its plan to pull down the building and build two skyscrapers in their stead in 2015. The architects submitted a 500-page report that detailed every room, ventilator, jack-arch, and later additions to the vast complex. The four plans with one that estimated a Rs. 345 crore outgo with addition of 91,000 sq metres to Rs. 535 crore outgo for an addition of 137,450 sq metres are from 2020. The plans involve new buildings spaced around the old heritage site by limiting their height to 19.2 metres. “The heritage building has a height of 16.2 metres and it will continue to dominate the site visually. The additional buildings will help improve the quality of healthcare in tune with modern times,” says Mr. Murthy. In 91-92, around 62% of the budgetary allocation to the hospital was spent on salaries, 20.98% on consumables, 2.49% on food, 0.73% on equipment, 8.79% on water and electricity and 0.05% on transport. There was zero allocation for maintenance of the building. The result is there for us to see. In 1995, Japan stepped in to help improve the OGH. Nearly two decades later, things brightened up for the OGH when K. Rosaiah, former Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh, visited the hospital in 2010 and issued a GO. MS313 allocating Rs. 200 crore over three years to build a multi-storeyed complex on about 12 lakh sqft. space. The plan involved demolishing the Nursing College and Hostel to create six acres of open land for undertaking the construction. The heritage building was to be renovated. But the plans remained on paper when Telangana was carved out as a separate State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plans-for-ogh-overhaul-remain-only-on-paper/article35009764.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 10L each for 11,900 SC families||A meeting of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with Scheduled Caste MPs, MLAs, MLCs and other leaders across parties decided to deposit Rs. 10 lakh each in the bank accounts of below-poverty-line SC families as part of the Chief Minister’s Empowerment Programme for these sections. In the first phase, it was decided that the direct benefit transfer (DBT) would be extended to one hundred families in each Assembly constituency. A total of 11,900 families in 119 Assembly constituencies of the State will benefit with a budget of Rs. 1,200 crore, a release said after the meeting. Initiating the proceedings, Mr. Rao said the government was geared for the uplift of SCs in a phased manner and wanted a transparent programme without scope for lobbying in identification of beneficiaries. Mr. Rao felt the need for SC youth to explore self-employment opportunities in industrial and technological fields. They were so far dependent on land-based livelihoods. He proposed a DBT scheme on the lines of Rythu Bandhu and social security pensions and invited suggestions from participants. The scheme would be irrespective of SC sub-plan. CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram said the swift action of the government in the lockup death of SC woman Mariamma at Addagudur police station in Nalgonda district instilled confidence in the SCs. Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka also complemented the Chief Minister for the initiative in tackling lockup death. He urged the government to fill SC backlog posts in government service. He sought equity participation for SCs in companies against value for assigned lands with them. He expressed the hope that officials would execute the plans of Mr. Rao effectively. CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy appealed to Mr. Rao to promote marriages across SCs and other forward communities and deal strongly with attacks on SCs as a measure to boost their confidence. Former Minister Motkupalli Narasimhulu praised the Chief Minister and said the meeting would be permanently etched in the hearts of the public. Later, Mr. Rao asked officials to survey the agricultural land in the possession of SCs. The government machinery could work on the survey for 15 days. The assigned lands acquired from SCs for projects and other public purposes would be paid equal to patta lands. The government was prepared to mobilise Rs. 35,000 crore to Rs. 40,000 crore for empowerment of SCs. He promised to reconsider the income ceiling on scholarships for overseas education of SC youth. The meeting was boycotted by BJP while the MIM was represented by its MLA Jahmed Pasha Quadri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-10l-each-for-11900-sc-families/article35009779.ece
28 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||My focus is on reunifying people in TS, says Revanth||Newly appointed Telangana Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy has stressed that his efforts would be for reunification of people in Telangana who have been divided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for his political benefit. In an informal chat with reporters here on Sunday, he observed that there was a need for reunification of people in Telangana as the Chief Minister was busy dividing people for his political ends. ‘Ridiculous’ He said criticising late Chief Ministers N.T. Rama Rao and Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy in the present circumstances was ridiculous. Only collective decisions prevailed in Congress and all the party decisions would be taken collectively, he assured and ruled out imposing his personal opinions on the party functioning. “It is a practice in Congress and I will follow it as well,” he said countering the fears among some leaders that he would bulldoze others. Mr. Reddy made light of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s presence in the State and referred to how Congress had won the Lingojiguda division seat in the GHMC despite both BJP and TRS fighting collectively. He said the BJP and TRS were together and asked BJP president Bandi Sanjay on action taken against the BJP leaders who had met IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao in Pragathi Bhavan without informing him. Confident “What happened to the committee constituted on the incident and when will you take action,” he asked Mr. Bandi Sanjay. The Malkajgiri MP was confident of Congress coming back to power in Telangana in the next elections. Congress cadre had been fighting and now their actions had to be dynamic in exposing the government’s failures. His padayatra from Alampur to Adilabad would be on whenever the Congress high command cleared the proposal, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/my-focus-is-on-reunifying-people-in-ts-says-revanth/article35009784.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Important for COVID patients to eat small meals at short intervals’||What are the ideal foods to consume during monsoon, a season which brings many diseases in its wake, especially when we are in the midst of a pandemic? National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) Director R. Hemalatha shares her suggestion to keep the body, mind and soul in the right space in this exclusive interview. Excerpts: What should one’s diet be during monsoon with the COVID-19 pandemic still around? A wise choice from a variety of food groups at all times, irrespective of the season. Foods such as vegetables and fruits, nuts, oilseeds, fish etc., are rich sources of good quality fats, vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, fibre and bioactive substances. Milk/curd provides good quality proteins and calcium should be an essential part of the diet too. Non-vegetarians can opt for moderate quantities of fish, poultry and lean meat. Prefer salads dressed with roasted peanuts/ chickpeas/nuts and oilseeds for snacks instead of fried stuffs or bakery foods. Avoid intake of HFSS — high in fats/oils, salt and sugar foods like chips, cookies, pastries, biscuits, puffs, fried stuffs,breakfast cereals, noodles, pastas, ice-creams ,etc. Prefer naans, buns and rotis made with whole grains instead of refined wheat flour. Avoid commercially available fruit juices, carbonated beverages and extracted soy or almond milk. Prefer consuming whole soy beans or whole almonds because extracted milk is mostly sugar and has very little nutrients of value. Avoid using partially hydrogenated vegetable oils like Vanaspathi. Is there any co-relation with our diet and increasing body immunity to thwart COVID or other common infections? Many nutrients and dietary intervention studies have demonstrated improvement in immune response and reduction in inflammation, which will lower the vulnerability to infection. Appropriate nutrition is required for all cells to function optimally and this includes the cells in the immune system. Of course, during infection, the demand on nutrients increases further due to activated immune response. What should be the ideal diet for a COVID infected person and later, in the recovery stage? It is known COVID patients may experience loss of smell and taste or in a few cases, difficulty in swallowing. It is important to eat small meals in short intervals. The main diet focus should be to consume foods that support immunity, reduce inflammation and regulate blood sugar. They must avoid fried food containing excessive fats/oils, food made with hydrogenated fats and processed food containing high sugar, salt and refined grains. They should also limit red meat intake, which can increase inflammation. COVID patients may have blood glucose disturbances. Consumption of five servings of vegetables and fruits as well as adequate quantities of curd, sea fish along with adequate calories from whole grains, legumes (pulses and beans), nuts and oil seeds can help maintain blood sugar and support immune function. During recovery, healthy diet with adequate calories, quality proteins and Essential Fatty Acids is the key. ‘My Plate for the Day’ developed by ICMR-NIN has been designed on the basis of Recommended Dietary Allowances. Quantity of pulses and milk in the menu provides good quality protein and supply of all essential amino acids. For non-vegetarians, pulses can be substituted with fish or poultry and lean cut red meat in moderation. This, coupled with regular physical activity can improve recovery and reduce the risk of diseases Will this pandemic force us to make any fundamental changes of our diet? Many are already making changes to their diet. Preliminary results of studies have shown there is increase in physical activity, higher adherence to healthy diet and more people are consuming fruits and vegetables. Decrease in consumption of bakery products, alcohol intake and smoking has also been reported. Given that 56.4% of the diseases in India are due to unhealthy dietary habits, it is crucial to make a conscious effort to shift to healthy dietary habits and sustain them even after COVID times. What are the common myths with regard to food habits during this pandemic? Most common myth is that the virus can be transmitted through food. There is no evidence to date to say that coronavirus is transmitted via food or food packaging. Yet another usual apprehension is of meat causing COVID-19. There is no evidence that it spreads through meat. However, meat should be cooked thoroughly and safe handling practices must be followed before its consumption. There is a prevalent notion that adding ginger, garlic or pepper or having green/herbal teas and ‘kadas’ can prevent COVID-19 infections. Truth is there is no evidence to support this. However, all these spices or foods are known to have substances beneficial to health and can even improve immune function. It is good to add them in your routine diet, but to assume that they can prevent COVID infection may be a bit far-fetched. How should we deal with take-away foods? We need not be wary of these as foods cannot be a medium to carry the virus. However, a sick person should not cook, handle or deliver foods. While ordering food, we can opt for contactless delivery option, where food packets are left outside the door and customer is informed on call. Or, make sure there is one-metre distance from the delivery person. Packages should be opened and discarded safely and hands must be washed with soap and water or sanitised with an alcohol-based sanitiser. We should not let food stand at room temperature for long hours as this can jeopardise safety. Is it necessary to take nutritional/vitamin supplements? There is not enough evidence to come up with any guidance on micronutrient supplementation for prevention of COVID-19 in healthy individuals or for treatment. Though micronutrient deficiencies may impair immune function and make one vulnerable to infections, consuming micronutrient supplements when not indicated can cause complications. Micronutrient supplements can be taken when indicated under the physician’s advice. Adequate intake of micronutrients from fruits, vegetables, nuts and whole grains, and fish can play an important role in a well-functioning immune system and play a vital role in promoting health.  (For full interview, visit www.thehindu.com)   There is no evidence to date to say that coronavirus is transmitted via food or food packaging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/important-for-covid-patients-to-eat-small-meals-at-short-intervals/article35009761.ece
28 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police meet Maoist’s kin||Ramagundem police on Sunday went to Babbera Chiluka village in Kothapalli mandal in Mancherial district to meet the family members of outlawed CPI (Maoist) Special Zonal Committee member Mulla Devender Reddy’s family members. Interacting with Devender’s sister Indira, brother-in-law Ravinder Reddy, other family members and villagers, Jaipur ACP Narender told them that several Maoist leaders were infected with Coronavirus and died for want of medicare. He asked them to ask Devender, and another Maoist leader from the village — Atram Lachanna alias Ganganna — to come out of the forest, surrender before the State and get treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-meet-maoists-kin/article35009774.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Prevent encroachment of forests’||Forest department Special Chief Secretary A. Santi Kumari has exhorted officials to take steps to prevent encroachment of forest lands and ensure zero tolerance to smuggling of forest produce. She directed the officials to take up survey and demarcation of forest boundaries in all districts and activities relating to block-wise stabilisation and rejuvenation of forests. She wanted the forest protection committees constituted in all districts to prepare action plan in this direction at the earliest and take up works. Ms. Santi Kumari held a meeting with District Collectors and forest officials on the sidelines of the high-level meeting of the officials convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday. She wanted the officials to focus on multi-level avenue plantations along major roads. More than 50% of works on the 109 urban parks taken up in the State were completed so far and steps should be initiated to complete the rest of the works expeditiously. The Forest department on its part should extend technical assistance to other departments that would take up Harita Haaram programme for making it complete success. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Shoba wanted the officials to further strengthen the forest check posts. Senior officials should undertake field visits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prevent-encroachment-of-forests/article35009775.ece
28 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||First major sign of dissent in TS Congress||The first major sign of dissent after the announcement of new TPCC chief came, and quite too strongly, from Bhongir MP and senior leader Komatireddy Venkata Reddy who announced that, now on, he would not step into the party headquarters Gandhi Bhavan. Coming back from New Delhi after an unsuccessful attempt at the top slot, he described the selection of A. Revanth Reddy as ‘post for cash’ equating with the ‘vote for cash’ scam where Mr. Revanth Reddy is accused of offering money to nominated MLA, Stephenson while seeking his vote for the TDP official MLC nominee Vem Narender Reddy way back in 2015. The Bhongir MP was also sarcastic, saying the new TPCC was TDP PCC, an extension of Telugu Desam Party (TDP). Mr. Revanth Reddy joined the Congress from the TDP in 2017. “I wish the new PCC team best of luck and let them gain at least deposit in the coming Huzurabad Assembly bypoll,” he said in a sarcastic tone. Padayatra Mr. Venkata Reddy, who spoke to the media at the airport on his return from New Delhi, said he would ensure that the Congress won all the seven seats in the combined Nalgonda district in the next elections by encouraging new leaders and sincere Congress workers. “Loyalty and sincerity doesn’t pay much now,” a visibly upset Parliament member said. He also announced padayatra from Ibrahimpatnam to Bhongir. Shashidhar quits Mr. Reddy has been associated with the Congress from his college days, being very active in the National Students Union of India (NSUI). A four-time MLA from Nalgonda constituency, he resigned as a minister in the united Andhra Pradesh in support of a separate Telangana and sat on a hunger strike. He lost in the 2018 Assembly elections but won in the Lok Sabha elections held a few months later. Earlier, former Medchal MLA Kichennagari Lakshma Reddy resigned from the party, apparently peeved at the new PCC chief appointment. Former minister Marri Shashidhar Reddy also resigned as Chairman of the TPCC Election Commission Coordination Committee, saying he wanted to give the new chief the opportunity to appoint a new team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/first-major-sign-of-dissent-in-ts-congress/article35009782.ece
28 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||3 held for selling gutka||Police on Sunday busted a banned tobacco products transport and supply gang and seized contraband worth Rs. 6.13 lakh. A team of Commissioner’s Task Force (north zone) raided Appa Hotel and Tea stall at Bowenpally and apprehended the trio – Katti Mallikarjun (40), hotel owner, and gutka and tobacco products seller, Suresh Ram (36) from Balanagar and Sitharam (22), supplier from Jagadgirgutta. One Dinesh Kumar (33), who is the prime organiser of the gang, was still at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-held-for-selling-gutka/article35009766.ece
28 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic curbs for PV statue unveiling||Traffic police announced diversions in connection with unveiling of the statue of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao at Necklace Rotary and floral tribute at P.V. Gyan Bhoomi, Necklace Road between 8.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. on Monday Traffic coming from Panjagutta and Raj Bhavan Road will not be allowed towards Khairatabad flyover and will be diverted towards Shadan and Nirankari Junction. Similarly, vehicles coming from Minister road towards Sanjeevaiah Park will be diverted towards Budda Bhavan at Nallagutta bridge and traffic coming from Tankbund towards Sanjeevaiah Park will be diverted towards Karbala Maidan. Accordingly, traffic coming from Mint Compound towards Necklace rotary will not be allowed towards Rotary and will be diverted towards Khairatabad at Saifabad traffic PS, while traffic coming from Telugu Talli will not be allowed towards Necklace Rotary and will be diverted towards Iqbal Minar at Telugu Talli.    Parking for invitees Traffic police have advised invitees to come through Khairatabad Junction via Khairatabad Flyover and arrive at the function place at Necklace Rotary. Parking is arranged at Doctor’s Car parking open area adjacent to Prasad I-Max Theatre. Vehicles coming from Secunderabad should come from Rasoolpura Junction via Minister Road and reach the venue, while vehicles coming from Ambedkar statue are requested to come through Upper Tank bund – Sailing Club. Parking is arranged at MMTS parking place at Sanjeevaiah Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-curbs-for-pv-statue-unveiling/article35009765.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Report pitches for pulses in PDS basket||A report on pulses by a leading trade and industry federation has mooted a multi-pronged approach to increase their production, processing and consumption in Telangana, including promoting cultivation on fallow lands, making pulses part of public distribution system and fine tuning support to the farmers. The Telangana government should include pulses in PDS as it would help small farmers gradually diversify from paddy to pulses, the report on ‘Pulses: Opportunities & Way Forward’ of the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry said. The report, which was released recently by Agriculture Minister S.Niranjan Reddy, said the MSP is not effective for pulse crops. Instead, prevailing market prices should be taken into account while fixing MSP to bridge demand-supply gap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/report-pitches-for-pulses-in-pds-basket/article35009753.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Union Ministers visit Bharat Biotech facility||Union Ministers G. Kishan Reddy and Mansukh Mandaviya visited the Bharat Biotech vaccine manufacturing and bio-safety level 3 facility to review the production of vaccines along with Pharamceuticals Secretary S. Aparna here on Sunday. The Ministers discussed the ramping up of production of the vaccines with the manufacturers and also stated that the Centre was committed to supporting the vaccine developers and manufacturers for ensuring vaccine for all, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/union-ministers-visit-bharat-biotech-facility/article35009773.ece
28 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Donation (photo briefly)||Hyderabad-based Vimala Foundation donated furniture, fans, lights, racks, educational and personality development books, top end computers for digital library for e-learning and zoom calls and CCTVs for the all purpose library and reading rooms at Government Zilla Parishad High Schools in Hanumantharaopet and Nizampet mandals of Sangareddy district. The facilities were inaugurated by TRS MLA of Narayankhed M. Bhoopal Reddy on Sunday. The managing trustee of the foundation K. Sreekanth was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/donation-photo-briefly/article35009777.ece
28 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free vaccination drive for teachers||Medicover Hospitals and Society for Cyberabad Security Council in collaboration with Telangana Private Teachers Federation held a free COVID-19 vaccination drive for private teachers in Hitec City and Balanagar on Sunday. Around 2,000 teachers in and around Hyderabad availed the opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-vaccination-drive-for-teachers/article35009755.ece
28 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kathalapur SI, writer in ACB net||A sub-inspector and writer of Kathalapur police station in Jagtial district were arrested by Anti Corruption Bureau sleuths on Sunday for accepting a bribe of Rs. 10,000 from a tractor owner. ACB officials said writer Ramesh accepted the bribe amount from Upparapalli Nagaraju of Nagulapeta village on behalf of SI Prudhvidhar Goud to release his tractor. This is the second ACB trap in the district in the last 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kathalapur-si-writer-in-acb-net/article35009768.ece
28 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Between the devil and deep sea||The oustees of Pallepahad thanda were feeling that that they were taken for granted by the officials who were not responding despite repeated appeals. About two months ago, in the second week of April, the residents of Pallepahad thanda were made a big promise by officials. “Vacate the village and come to our office. All the compensations that were due to you will be paid. The cheques are ready, come and collect. The cheques will be handed over to you only when you vacate the village and shift to Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony at Mutrajpally,” was what the officials promised, claim the oustees of this thanda, one of the habitations to be submerged under Mallannasagar. Trusting the officials, the oustees of the thanda shifted to the new colony. More than 70 days passed and nothing transpired. The officials were not saying the compensation would not be paid. “Instead, they are telling the cheques will be handed over ‘tomorrow.’ Oustees say that ‘tomorrow’ is not coming even after weeks of waiting. In a move to examine the possibility of going to back to the thanda, some oustees, numbering about 10, visited their native place. There is no thanda except some bare walls and pillars staring at them, recalling their past. “Our houses were completely demolished and they were filled with debris and pillars of demolished houses. Government has closed our doors permanently to return to our native village by destroying our village. But it has happened without paying us total compensations due to us. What we have to do and whom to approach for justice?” asked Mothiram, one of the oustees of the thanda. He alleged that his daughter was denied benefits though she was eligible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/between-the-devil-and-deep-sea/article35009786.ece
28 June 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Bank official, mother killed in accident||Two persons, identified as Doddapaneni Shivaram, 40, a bank official at Mylavaram, and his 60-year-old mother Swarajya Lakshmi, were killed when the car they were travelling in lost control near Munagala on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) in the district on Sunday. Two other occupants of the car Shanti and baby Jaswitha were rushed for medical emergency. The accident took place around 4.30 p.m., when the car was approaching Munagala on the highway and lost control after hitting the median strip. Man killed A 37-year-old man Y Umesh Kumar of Patigadda, Begumpet was killed after a speeding Audi car rammed the auto he was travelling in, from behind at Madhapur in the wee hours of Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-official-mother-killed-in-accident/article35009762.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||BJP leader touches off speculation||BJP leader Motkupalli Narasimhulu on Sunday put the party in a quandary by attending a meeting convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to discuss empowerment of SCs. The party decided to boycott the meeting after its leader in the Assembly T. Raja Singh received a phone call and a formal invitation in a cover from the Chief Minister’s Office. When he promptly conveyed the invitation to the leadership, he was asked to ignore the same because it was vote-bank politics. Mr. Narasimhulu, a former Minister, did nothing of the sort after he was also extended the invitation. He not only attended the meeting but praised the Chief Minister for his pro-active role. At the same time, Mr. Narasimhulu did not attend a meeting of Scheduled Caste Morcha of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State unit at the party office on the same day. His action led to speculation in Bharatiya Janata Party office whether he was in the party or quit.     Talk on delimitation of constituencies in J&K reignites hopes in Telangana. The talk of delimitation of Assembly constituencies in Telangana has resurfaced again after lying dormant for some years. The Central government’s decision to opt for delimitation of the constituencies in Jammu & Kashmir has raised the hopes that pressure could be mounted on the Central government to implement the assurances given in the AP Reorganisation Act 2014. The Act promised delimitation of constituencies and creation of 34 new assembly constituencies in Telangana with two new segments each in the 17 Lok Sabha constituencies, taking the total number to 153 from the present 119.   A letter purported to have been written by former minister Eatala Rajender to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has raised political heat on social media. Even before a formal notification for the Huzurabad by-election is issued by the Election Commission, social media is abuzz with claims and counter-claims on the alleged letter. While the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) members assert that the letter is genuine, supporters of Mr. Rajender and the BJP alleged that it was a fake one with morphed letterhead. The former minister was said to have admitted in the letter that he was misguided into holding meetings with Telangana Rashtra Samithi leaders of Peddapalli at Pune and Bengaluru and pleaded with Mr. Rao to spare him. After the letter was posted on social media, Mr. Rajender went ahead to lodge a complaint with the cyber crime police while the BJP charged that the TRS was indulging in such campaign out of fear of biting the dust in the election whenever it is held.  (N. Rahul and M. Rajeev )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leader-touches-off-speculation/article35009780.ece
28 June 2021||New Delhi,||Balancing speed and safety||After a decade, speed limits across the city roads have been revised. For the first time, two-wheelers and local roads will also fall under the purview of these speed guidelines Joint CP (Traffic) Meenu Chaudhary said that the Delhi Traffic Police has notified maximum speed limit for different categories of motor vehicles plying on city roads. The revision has been done keeping in view the traffic scenario, road safety and other key developments in road infrastructure. According to road safety experts, enforcement will be a key component in relation to the revised speed limits along with the utilisation of road safety and engineering techniques, prioritising the lives of all road users. Last revised in 2011 “The last revision of speed limits on majority of roads was undertaken in 2011. Thereafter, in 2017 and 2019, maximum speed limit for a few roads was further revised,” said Ms. Chaudhary. Professor P.K. Sarkar, road safety expert and member of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS-ISO), said empirical studies had shown that an increase of one kilometre in the permitted speed limit was linked to a 2 to 3% increase in risk of accidents. “One hopes that the speed limits have been revised where safety audits of the stretches concerned allow this. In Europe, for instance, speed up to 50 kmph is allowed outside urban areas and are restricted to 30 kmph inside them,” Professor Sarkar said. A traffic policeman said that overspeed violation detector (OSVD) system on high-speed corridors like Ring Road, Delhi-Meerut Expressway and Outer Ring Road has been installed to detect overspeeding violations. More transparency “We are moving towards automated traffic challan generation system to bring more transparency in the system. The revised speed limits have been implemented and new challans have been issued accordingly,” said the policeman. For the first time, speed limit for two-wheelers, which constitute the largest chunk of Delhi’s vehicular population, has also been fixed in the city limits. The Capital’s vehicular population saw an addition of more than 5 lakh vehicles till March 31 last year, registering an increase of over 4% according to the Delhi Economic Survey 2020-21. According to the survey, the total number of vehicles registered in the city went up to 1.18 crore from 1.13 crore in 2019-20 and consists of almost 67% or 79.59 lakh two-wheelers followed by around 28% or 33.11 lakh cars and four-wheelers. There were some variations in the speed limit at some stretches which have been corrected and speed limits have been made uniform, said the traffic police. “There was a need to make speed limit uniform on Delhi roads as far as possible. Therefore, a revision of the existing speed limits was felt necessary,” said Ms. Chaudhary. A police officer said that during the revision of speed limits, there have been no major changes in the speed limit in all categories of vehicles in view of road safety, however, this time the maximum speed limit for the loops of flyovers has been notified as 40 kmph. Road safety expert S.M. Sarin said operating speed was also contingent upon the road environment. “The speed limit cannot practically be uniform across an entire stretch which may see patches of built-up area on some parts and desolation on others,” he said. “For example, on the Outer Ring Road, a maximum speed of 70 kmph seems completely okay. But, it will have to be reduced when one enters a congested part of the city alongside the same stretch. Enforcement and driver education are going to play a major part in relation to the revised limits,” he said. Relief for cab drivers Also, now the maximum speed limit for taxis and cabs is notified at par with private cars on these roads, as per the notification which, according to taxi operators, is a major relief for both drivers as well as the passengers being ferried by them. “We staged several demonstrations and even met Union Ministers as well as senior police officers over the issue of the discrepancy in the speed limits or private vehicles and taxis. Drivers and operators will be saved from the questionable fines they were issued for not adhering to impossible speed limits,” said Sanjay Samrat, president, Delhi Taxi, Tourist Transporters Association. “It will also benefit passengers in a hurry, for instance, on their way to the airport or rushing due to an emergency, in reaching their destination on time. We appeal to the government to cancel all previous fines issued to taxi drivers which were issued for alleged violations in relation to old speed limits,” Mr. Samrat added. This time, the maximum speed limit for residential areas, markets, service lanes and for minor roads inside all residential area, commercial markets and service roads has been notified as 30 kmph, the officer said. Erect signboards The Delhi Traffic Police has requested the civic road maintaining agencies to erect corresponding informatory signboards at all prominent locations on the roads, indicating the notified speed limits for guidance and convenience of all road users and general public. “The need of the hour is to ensure not only technology-based interventions such as Intelligent Transportation System [ITS] but also safety and road engineering solutions such as soft shoulders on highways. Iron wire can be used instead of concrete on the boundaries of highways to ensure the safety of those occupying vehicles that meet with accidents,” Professor Sarkar said. “Another solution to help train drivers to stick to the speed limit and for enforcement officials to enforce it effectively is the utilisation of speed cameras linked with display boards on the road. These can warn errant drivers above the permitted limit at least once so they fall in line, failing which they can be prosecuted,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/balancing-speed-and-safety/article35009725.ece
28 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC grants interim custody of married woman to her father||The Delhi High Court has directed that a married woman, who suffered severe mental trauma, resulting in partial loss of memory and speech, allegedly at the hands of her husband and in-laws, be put under the interim custody of her father. A vacation Bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh gave the direction on a habeas corpus petition by the woman’s father. The father sought production of his married daughter, who also has a three-year-old girl child, before the court alleging that due to certain matrimonial discord, she is being held in illegal detention by her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law. The father stated that due to mental and physical torture unleashed by her husband and in-laws, including actions that are subject matter of FIR, his daughter has suffered severe mental trauma, resulting in partial loss of memory and speech. During the hearing, the daughter was produced by way of video-conferencing, where the court noticed that “she is not able to communicate by speech nor does her behaviour appear to be normal on first blush.” The husband, who also joined the video-conference hearing, submitted that his wife has developed mental problems but not by reason of any fault on his part or on the part of his parents. He also submitted that his wife is being treated by a specialist doctor, who has indicated that her mental illness will take some time to get resolved. “Considering the aforesaid state of affairs, first-and-foremost this court is concerned about the state of mental health and physical wellbeing of the daughter,” the court remarked. It directed that the daughter be examined by a doctor specialising in mental trauma and illnesses at the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) in the presence and under the supervision of her father. Order to police “This court is also of the view that it would be in the fitness of things that, at least for the present and until the next date of hearing, the custody of [the daughter] along with her 3 ½ year old girl child, be given to the petitioner [the father],” the court said, directing the local Station House Officer to ensure the custody of the daughter to the father. The court further directed that the status report detailing the opinion of the doctors and the line of treatment suggested in the case be submitted before the next date of hearing on July 5. The report would not be shared with the husband or her in-laws, the Bench added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-grants-interim-custody-of-married-woman-to-her-father/article35009722.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘I blame myself for vaccinating wife’||Running a high footfall snack shop in east Delhi’s Ganesh Nagar, Ganga Prasad Gupta (48) and his wife Savita (45) were worried about consistent exposure to the virus. When they learned that vaccination is open for those above 45, they rushed and got their first doses on April 14. The couple and their five daughters thought they were utterly safe. However, Savita never recovered from the after-effects of the vaccine and died 10 days later. The family alleges that theirs is a case of adverse events following immunisation. Like every inoculated adult, the couple too had fever and cough after being administered the vaccine. While Mr. Gupta had no post-vaccination problems, the vaccine took a fatal turn on his wife. That happened when the family thought they had survived the pandemic. But everything changed from the day their mother got vaccinated and within a few days they lost her. After getting vaccinated at LBS Hospital in east Delhi, she developed fever and body ache. She took paracetamol as prescribed by the medical staff but barely got any relief. Mr. Gupta said that he took her to a local clinic but the doctor said it was just a post-vaccination effect and she will get relief soon. But on April 25, she developed a breathing problem, he said. “I rushed her to LBS Hospital at 5.30 p.m. as her condition was deteriorating. Initially, we avoided going to the hospital as there was a hue and cry for oxygen and hospital bed but seeing her condition I was left with no other option. I got her admitted but she expired within half an hour of the admission,” said Mr. Gupta. Mr. Gupta said that along with his wife he was managing his shop and family well. His wife used to take care of the shop and he used to supply material to other shops in the area. “I shifted to Delhi from Bareilly in 1985 and got married to Savita in Delhi. We have five daughters and last year in November we got our eldest daughter married. And we were planning the marriage of our second daughter who is 23-years-old,” he said. Their youngest daughter is just 12-years old. “After the death of my wife, no one in my family is willing to take the COVID vaccine. Even my neighbours have refused to take the vaccine. No one from the government has come to visit us or order an inquiry into my wife’s death. I still curse myself for persuading my wife to take the vaccine. I thought it would save us from the virus but it killed her,” said Mr. Gupta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/i-blame-myself-for-vaccinating-wife/article35009711.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Disabled husband, debts and loss of job||With repeated lockdowns being imposed by governments to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, coping with economic distress apart from impending health hazards, has proved to be difficult for many, including Kaushalya Devi, a domestic help.  As the sole breadwinner of the family, losing jobs when the nationwide lockdown was imposed last year, looking out for new work, ensuring the family’s safety and reeling under debt, she had to fend off multiple setbacks simultaneously.  “When the lockdown was announced last year, I lost work in one of the houses where I worked. It was also the place where I earned a chunk of my income. Losing that job meant that I was literally surviving on less than half of what I used to earn earlier. It took me almost six months before I found a replacement,” said Ms. Devi.  Living with her family of four in a 12-yard room in the Madanpur Khadar, Devi said that at the peak of the pandemic, taking precautions while using common utility facilities had also proved particularly difficult.  “There were times when we have visited the common washroom facility in the wee hours of the morning to avoid the crowd. Apart from being worried for my family, I was also keen on taking precautions so as to not lose any further work as I visit multiple houses,” she said.  Ms. Devi, whose husband and older son are differently abled, added that the lockdown imposed this year, had pushed the family under further debt.  “During the lockdown, we were buying essential items on credit from local shops. At times, our relative also helped us. But now I am under a debt of almost Rs. 15,000 which I am trying to repay. Due to my husband’s condition, nobody is willing to give him any kind of job so the entire burden comes down to me,” rued Ms. Devi.  Even though the national capital has begun “unlocking,” for families like Devi’s the road to recovery is still a long way, she added.  “It has been less than a month since I resumed work so I have to wait for salaries of many more months before I can be completely debt-free. This is in addition to the Rs. 3,500 that I pay as rent, apart from other expenses. The restrictions on public transport have also meant that I am forced to take an auto to work every day, which has increased my daily expense manifold,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/disabled-husband-debts-and-loss-of-job/article35009713.ece
28 June 2021||New Delhi,||Husband’s death and daughter’s future||When her husband, who developed breathlessness, died during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, Babli Kumari didn’t know what lay ahead for her. The 33-year-old had to return to stay at her father’s house, she did not have any money and became anxious about her 10-year-old daughter’s future.  On April 26, her husband Ved Prakash, 47, died outside a COVID-19 treatment facility, the fourth they had taken him to. “He was breathless and we took him to three hospitals and he died outside the fourth. We couldn’t even do a COVID test as no hospital admitted him,” said Megh Singh, 60, his father-in-law, who was with him when he died.  Mr. Singh said his daughter is now back at his house. “She was going into depression at her in-law’s house. Last week, my son went and brought her here. I don’t think they will let her live there peacefully. She will have to live here I guess,” he said.  Ms. Kumari, who has studied only till Class 10, said she wants to find a job now. “I don’t have any money with me. I need to find a job so that I can look after my daughter. My father is not working and my brother and his wife also stay here. No one is going to look after my daughter and me forever. I have to secure her future,” she said.  Her daughter, Prachi, has not been going to school for the past year and Ms. Kumari said she wants to make sure that her daughter joins a school soon. “My life is over, but if I can teach my daughter and put her in a good position, then my life would be complete,” she added.  Mr. Singh said that the in-laws were “torturing” her and he was planning to file a complaint with the women’s commission and local police station. “No one talked to me properly there. When relatives came over they told lies about me to them.  My room at my husband’s house had a water cooler, it was not working and they didn’t even repair it. It was really hot during the summer and even when I switched on the ceiling fan, they sometimes said the electricity bill would be high,” she narrated.  “I don't think I can go back to that house. I need to find a small house for rent for my daughter and me,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/husbands-death-and-daughters-future/article35009709.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||From sales executive to vendor||Sitting at her one-bedroom rented house in north-west Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh village, Vidu Gupta (30), who is seven months pregnant, couldn’t help but cry thinking about what life has shown her in the last few months.  Her husband Shiv Pillai (31), who had been working in the automobile industry for eight years, was forced to sell maggi and coconut water to be able to survive the lockdown with Ms. Vidu requiring utmost care during her complicated pregnancy.  “I wanted to eat so many things and buy things for myself and…” she broke down before she could complete her sentence. “I just want to be able to do everything for my child but we can’t manage with what he earns now,” she said.  Shiv and Vidu left their house in Madhya Pradesh four years ago and came to Delhi – a metropolitan as she called it – for better opportunities to earn money and more importantly – because their families were against their decision to get married.  In Delhi, the two started living in Noida, in separate accommodations, as she worked in a call centre and he as a sales executive in an automobile company. The two were managing well, monetarily.  However, a couple of years ago, she had to get her eye operated on because of a weak retina. She had to quit her job at the call centre, which involved long hours in front of the computer and switch to event management. But her relationship with her family got better due to the illness.  But when everything was falling into order, the pandemic hit the country and Delhi was under lockdown in no time. The showroom her husband worked in was shut and he was told to leave. Vidu too lost her job last year, as there was a cap on events.  “My company gave Rs. 5,000 the first month after lockdown and after that, they told us that the salary will depend on the number of cars we’d sell. During the lockdown, who would buy cars? And for every customer, I spend on fuel whether or not that meeting was fruitful,” said Mr. Shiv.  During the first lockdown, Shiv started selling maggi right outside his workplace along with the tea seller. “I had no other option. What could I do to manage my household expenses? Thankfully, at that time Vidu was not in Delhi but at her mother’s house in Madhya Pradesh,” he said.  A year ago when the pandemic situation eased, in June, the two formally tied the knot and started living together in Mahendra Park, paying Rs. 6,500 as rent. In the coming months, Shiv started working again and the couple started managing their expenses.  Then, at the end of last year, she got pregnant. “If we had known that COVID-19 will strike again, we wouldn’t have planned the child,” said Ms. Vidu. To her misfortune, the pregnancy is complicated, she has been told.  Showing MRP on a leaf of tablets she has to consume every day, Vidu said that 10 such tablets cost Rs. 610 and she has to take one every day till the end of her pregnancy. “We couldn’t afford a private gynaecologist and my doctor was in Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital but then it became a COVID facility during this wave and I had to stop going there. Consultation of this doctor is Rs. 700 each time,” Ms. Vidu said.  In April, when the lockdown was announced again, Shiv stopped getting his salary and started selling coconut water. He rented a cart for Rs. 500 a month and sold coconut water for a month and a half till June mid. A few days ago, he rejoined work, but again on a commission basis.  “It was impossible to manage the household with selling coconut water. In February this year, they shifted to another rented accommodation in Shalimar Bagh. Our rent is Rs. 11,000 a month, there’s a credit card instalment of Rs. 3,500, medical expense, grocery, milk and vegetables. I had to ask for help from people I knew and those who were helping the needy online,” said Ms. Vidu.  The couple received monetary help from a few good Samaritans but they continue to struggle to make ends meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/from-sales-executive-to-vendor/article35009717.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Juveniles apprehended for killing man during snatching incident||Three juveniles have been apprehended for allegedly stabbing a 45-year-old man to death during a snatching incident in outer Delhi’s Sultanpuri, the police said on Sunday. The deceased — Ravinder — from Nangloi, worked as a contractor in a shoe manufacturing unit at Mangolpuri Industrial area, they said. The juveniles — all aged 17 years — worked at a wedding horse and carriage shop. They took to snatching to make easy money to buy liquor. The incident took place on Friday when the three juveniles were looking for an easy target at a park near Jalebi Chowk. Around 9.30 p.m., they spotted Ravinderstanding near the park, talking to someone over his mobile phone. During this, one of the juveniles caught Ravinder from his back by interlocking his neck to restrict his movement while another tried to snatch his mobile phone but he resisted. Meanwhile, the third juvenile took out a button-actuated knife and stabbed Ravinder multiple times, said a senior officer. They then took out the victim’s wallet and fled the spot, he said. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh, said: “On Saturday, we received information from Sanjay Gandhi Hospital that one person named Ravinder was admitted in an injured condition from Jalebi Chowk. Later, he died due to treatment. A case of murder under Section 302 of the IPC was registered at Raj Park police station.” During probe, the accused were held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/juveniles-apprehended-for-killing-man-during-snatching-incident/article35009729.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Southwest Monsoon delayed: Met||The arrival of the southwest Monsoon in the Capital has been delayed as it missed its normal arrival date on June 27. The Met department has forecast that it is not to advance over the Capital over the next week and temperatures are likely to be a few notches above normal during the week. “Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and Punjab during next 6-7 days,” the IMD said in its forecast on Sunday. It added that there was going to be a period of subdued rainfall activity over the next five days with regards to the monsoon. On Sunday, the maximum temperature was 38.8 degrees Celsius, which is one degree above normal for this time of the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/southwest-monsoon-delayed-met/article35009727.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held in Chhatrasal Stadium case||A 22-year-old man was arrested in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl in which a wrestler died and his two friends were injured, the police said on Sunday. The accused — Gourav Lora from Haryana — also a wrestler, was arrested on June 26, says DCP (Crime) Monika Bhardwaj. An officer said the accused “had engaged in the fight in the stadium along with others leading to the death of the young wrestler, Sagar Dhankar”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-in-chhatrasal-stadium-case/article35009728.ece
28 June 2021||Noida,||Blessing turns out to be a curse||The last year and a half have been a rollercoaster ride for Manju Kumari, a household help, and her family of five. What initially seemed like opportunities during the first national lockdown turned out to be disappointment.  Efforts her husband, a professional cook, and she took to safeguard their three children’s academic future have, several months of mounting school fee dues later, put their education on hold for the foreseeable future.  “When the lockdown was imposed [in March 2020] we were able to make ends meet. We had options by staying back instead of going home while others like us did so. We made the most of it but it wasn’t meant to last,” she said.  “Though I wasn’t allowed inside other residential societies, I got more work because the other household helps left their jobs to go home. Just when I got more work, my husband lost almost the same amount of work because people had reservations about ‘an outsider’ cooking for them,” she said.  For a few months, the family was able to sustain thanks to the extra work she got. As the unlock process began, the family got an opportunity to provide food to a private office working at half its capacity since those employed to do so had returned to their villages.  As the entire family — including their children enrolled in school — put in most of their waking hours to chip into their new “business”, university students on rent putting up in the area returned and quickly turned into new clients.  “We not only thought the worst was over but even started imagining a better future. However, the unlock [process] brought people back and the private office terminated our service,” she said.  “It was a blow but, thanks to the students who had returned, we were able to keep the service going and turned it into a tiffin service. Soon, however, the second wave came and the students, whose universities and colleges were shut again, chose to leave the city,” she also said.  In the meantime, as the school fee of their three children continued to mount, the family decided to pull their daughter out of Class 9 at a public school. As the profits from their catering business dwindled, so did the number of homes Kumari was servicing as their “original” helps returned to the city.  “Soon, we were paying off dues we had borrowed to ensure that our catering business ran smoothly; we had to pull the other two children — in Class1 and another in Class 2 — out of their schools too,” Ms. Kumari recounted.  “Instead of returning home, we thought we should use the extra opportunities to make a better life. But what we made during the first lockdown was snatched away in less than a year. We couldn’t even sustain what we had before that, especially the education of children,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/blessing-turns-out-to-be-a-curse/article35009715.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Snapshots of a broken city: of loss, survival and heartbreaks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/snapshots-of-a-broken-city-of-loss-survival-and-heartbreaks/article35009719.ece
28 June 2021||BEIRUT,||Riots in Lebanon over economy||Lebanese troops deployed in the northern city of Tripoli early on Sunday taking positions around major state institutions after a night of protests and riots against worsening living conditions left several protesters and 10 soldiers injured. Sporadic protests were reported throughout Lebanon on Saturday as the country’s 20-month economic crisis worsened. The World Bank described the crisis as one of the worst the world has witnessed in 150 years. It is coupled with a political deadlock that has left Lebanon without a government since August. The largest protests were in the southern port city of Sidon and in Tripoli, Lebanon’s second largest city and most impoverished. Protests took place in Beirut. Lebanon has been suffering severe shortages of vital products, including fuel, medicine and medical products, angering the public. Lebanon’s currency hit a record low on Saturday, reaching £18,000 to the U.S. dollar. The pound has lost more than 90% of its value since the crisis began. In October 2019 protesters called for the removal of the political class that has run the country since the end of the 1975-90 civil war and has been blamed for corruption and mismanagement that has ruined the country’s economy. The Army said rioters on motorcycles threw stun grenades at troops in Tripoli injuring nine soldiers, while another was injured when hit by a stone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/riots-in-lebanon-over-economy/article35009328.ece
28 June 2021||Rome,||Blinken, Lapid to meet in Rome to reset U.S.-Israel ties||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid will meet in Rome on Sunday as their new governments look to turn the page on former President Donald Trump and former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, whose close alliance aggravated partisan divisions within both countries. President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Naftali Bennett are focused on pragmatic diplomacy rather than dramatic initiatives that risk fomenting opposition at home or distracting from other priorities. That means aiming for smaller achievements, such as shoring up the informal cease-fire that ended last month’s war with Gaza’s militant Hamas rulers and replenishing Israel’s Iron Dome defence system. A major push to revive the long-dormant peace process between Israel and the Palestinians could unsettle the delicate balance. “Nobody thinks it’s a good idea to start charging through on a major new peace initiative,” said Ilan Goldenberg, a Mideast security expert at the nonprofit Center for a New American Security. “But there are things you can do quietly under the radar, on the ground, to improve the situation.” That approach — of managing the conflict rather than trying to solve it — may succeed in papering over domestic divisions. But it also maintains a status quo that the Palestinians find increasingly oppressive and hopeless, and which has fueled countless cycles of unrest. The Americans and Israelis will try to work out differences away from the public, as in Mr. Biden’s “quiet” diplomacy, when he privately urged Netanyahu to wind down the Israel-Hamas war ahead of a truce that took effect May 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-lapid-to-meet-in-rome-to-reset-us-israel-ties/article35009322.ece
28 June 2021||London,||Classified U.K. defence papers found at bus stop||Britain’s government said on Sunday it was investigating how classified defence documents, outlining the movements of a warship that led to Russia firing warning shots off the Crimean coast, were found at a bus stop in England. The Ministry of Defence said that an employee told it last week that the documents had been lost, and that an investigation had been launched. “It shouldn’t be able to happen,” Brandon Lewis, Minister for Northern Ireland, told Sky News. “It was properly reported at the time... there’s an internal investigation into that situation.” The documents appear to show that the U.K. officials knew the route could lead to a possible reaction from the Russians, but that taking an alternative passage could be considered by Moscow as “the U.K. being scared/running away”. The route it did take would instead “provide an opportunity to engage with the Ukrainian government... in what the U.K. recognises as Ukrainian waters,” said another document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/classified-uk-defence-papers-found-at-bus-stop/article35009329.ece
28 June 2021||London,||U.K.’s Hancock quits over breach of COVID-19 rules||U.K. Health Secretary Matt Hancock resigned on Saturday following revelations he broke government coronavirus restrictions during an affair with a close aide, with former Finance Minister Sajid Javid taking up the role. The frontman for Britain’s response to the pandemic, particularly the nationwide vaccine roll-out, quit in a letter to Prime Minister Boris Johnson. “We owe it to people who have sacrificed so much in this pandemic to be honest when we have let them down as I have done by breaching the guidance,” he wrote. “The last thing I would want is for my private life to distract attention from the single-minded focus that is leading us out of this crisis.” Mr. Johnson had initially stood by his Health Secretary after Mr. Hancock admitted breaking COVID-19 social distancing rules, when at the same time he was urging the public to stick by the measures. Opposition parties have accused the government of hypocrisy over breaches of lockdown rules which have seen many members of the public slapped with fines. Mr. Hancock conceded he had let the public down after The Sun newspaper published a security camera still obtained apparently from a whistleblower showing him kissing the aide. Labour party said the government needed to answer questions about the undisclosed appointment of the aide, former lobbyist Gina Coladangelo, to Hancock’s top advisory team. Both she and Hancock are married, and first met at university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uks-hancock-quits-over-breach-of-covid-19-rules/article35009331.ece
28 June 2021||Dubai,||‘Marib clashes kill 111 govt., rebel fighters’||Clashes between rebels and Yemeni government fighters killed at least 111 in Marib in three days, pro-government sources said, following a renewed offensive by Houthi insurgents. The fighting killed 29 pro-government personnel and at least 82 rebels, the pro-government sources said. “These areas witnessed fierce fighting amid artillery shelling from both sides and intense coalition air raids,” a government military official said. The Iran-allied Houthi insurgents escalated their efforts to seize Marib, the government’s last stronghold in northern Yemen, in February, and the fighting has killed hundreds on both sides. Control of the oil-rich region would strengthen the Houthis’ bargaining position in peace talks, but the battle has also raised fears of a humanitarian catastrophe, as many Yemenis had fled to the area to escape fighting in other parts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/marib-clashes-kill-111-govt-rebel-fighters/article35009326.ece
28 June 2021||Beni,||Church bomb blast wounds two in eastern DR Congo||A makeshift bomb exploded inside a Catholic church in the city of Beni in DR Congo’s conflict-plagued east on Sunday, injuring two women just an hour before a children’s confirmation ceremony was due to be held. The attack marks the first time a Catholic building has been targeted in the region, which has declared a “state of siege” due to rising violence from the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/church-bomb-blast-wounds-two-in-eastern-dr-congo/article35009323.ece
28 June 2021||Surfside,||Death toll in Florida building collapse rises to 9: mayor||The death toll after the collapse of a Florida apartment tower has risen to nine, the Mayor said on Sunday, more than three days after the building pancaked as residents slept. "We were able to recover four additional bodies in the rubble as well as additional human remains," Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava said in Surfside, near Miami Beach.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/death-toll-in-florida-building-collapse-rises-to-9-mayor/article35009325.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||New Delhi’s tactical half-measure on Kashmir||The meeting between the representatives of mainstream political parties in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and the central leadership on June 24 was at best a good beginning, and an indication of the shape of unilateral politics in J&K in the months ahead, at worst. More than a conflict resolution exercise, the agenda-less meeting was more about the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government setting the rules of politics in Kashmir and getting them accepted by the mainstream stakeholders in J&K. To that extent, the all-party meeting, a politically clever and a tactically sound half-measure by the BJP-led central government, was definitely not a climbdown by the BJP. Clever political move Organising the all-party meeting was a clever political move by the BJP government for a variety of reasons. For one, the narrative will now shift to how and when the Centre will (or not) concede to at least some of the demands made by the Kashmiri politicians from the more critical questions of whether the decision of 2019 has delivered on any of its declared objectives. Consider this. The two justifications made by the BJP government for the decisions of 2019 — ushering in a new era of development and prosperity in J&K, and rooting out terrorism from Kashmir — seem to have disappeared from public memory today. There has been little development in the now Union Territory since 2019; if anything, the security lockdown post-2019 and the subsequent COVID-19 lockdown have only worsened economic conditions in the Union Territory. What about terrorism and extremism? Until the India-Pakistan ceasefire of February this year, the security situation in the Kashmir Valley saw no significant improvement despite the double lockdown nor was there a major let-up in infiltration from across the Line of Control (LoC). As for home-grown insurgency, there is no way to measure anti-India sentiments in the Union Territory given the strict security clampdown and the subsequent double lockdown. In any case, brandishing the absence of violent protests during a double lockdown as a measure of success of the 2019 decisions is methodologically erroneous, at the least. In short, neither has the removal of special status improved the economic conditions of the general population nor has it been helpful in rooting out Pakistan-sponsored terrorism in the Valley or reducing anti-India feelings there. BJP’s political gains And yet, the BJP’s Kashmir grand strategy has hardly been a failure especially since the key objectives of its mission Kashmir were different from the stated ones. Look at it this way. By politically reaching out to Kashmir now, New Delhi has lost nothing given that both the Prime Minister and the Home Minister had stated several times in the past that Statehood would be returned to J&K at an ‘appropriate time’. Let me put the ongoing negotiations on the issue of Statehood in perspective: withdrawal of Statehood in 2019 was a clever negotiating ploy to eventually force a trade-off between the return of Statehood and a tacit acceptance of the removal of Article 370. Kashmiri political leaders would have little option but to accept this trade-off eventually even as they wait for the ‘appropriate time’ to arrive. In other words, Statehood versus Article 370 was a carefully thought-out artificial choice made by the BJP government to gain advantage during future negotiations. The meeting on Thursday was the opening shot to judge the mood. More crucially, if New Delhi manages to get the mainstream political parties in J&K to accept, out of sheer necessity, the offer of Statehood without the reunification of the State or return of special status, New Delhi would have laid down the rules of the game in Kashmir. Read this with the fact that the Jammu-based political parties, currently dominated by the BJP, will benefit from the ongoing delimitation of the Assembly seats in the Union Territory. So, the numerical advantage that the Valley had traditionally enjoyed over Jammu in the erstwhile State’s Assembly will diminish, thereby helping the BJP, as also other Jammu-based parties, to strengthen their hold in the politics of the Union Territory/State. Let us view these political realities from the perspective of the political parties in J&K: they have everything to gain by getting J&K’s Statehood back, for politics without Statehood is an unattractive proposition. Politics, the Kashmiri political class knows only too well, is the art of the “possible”. For them, it is a choice between something or nothing, and they do realise that choosing nothing over something (i.e., Statehood) is not a practical solution. In politics, irrelevance comes quickly and sharply and the Kashmiri politicians know that more than anyone. In effect, therefore, the demands for the restoration of Statehood, and the well-timed and purposefully long drawn-out negotiations thereof, will bury the mainstream political demand for Article 370. But, perhaps most importantly, the real gain for the BJP is ideological. The BJP, and the Jan Sangh before it, consistently argued for the removal of Article 370. They achieved that, albeit by questionable means, in 2019. The ongoing talks indicate that the Sangh Parivar’s ideological agenda is all set to triumph in J&K. Bilateral implications As for Pakistan, it had maintained ever since August 2019 that it would not engage in a dialogue process with India until New Delhi retracts the Kashmir decisions of 2019. Pakistan tried to internationalise what it called India’s “annexation” of Kashmir but garnered little support, and increased the heat on the LoC and inside Kashmir, again to no avail. Islamabad’s stated position has evidently changed with the February 2021 ceasefire agreement on the LoC and the backchannel talks preceding it. There is an emergent and strong opinion within Pakistan that if India were to restore Statehood in J&K, it might open doors for a dialogue process. Therefore, if New Delhi offers Statehood to J&K, a process that began on Thursday, Pakistan might be open to talks with India. Put differently, by offering to return Statehood to Kashmir and politically burying the issue of J&K’s special status, New Delhi has won a tactical victory over Pakistan without making any real concessions. On the other hand, Pakistan would have to walk back from its preconditions for talks with India by agreeing to New Delhi’s half-measure on Kashmir. On the brighter side, however, this undoubtedly has the potential to bring the two sides to the negotiating table on various outstanding bilateral issues. New Delhi’s current advantage in Kashmir over Pakistan could also be read with the lessons from the Balakot stand-off in early 2019. By carrying out a strike against Pakistan in its Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, New Delhi created a new military normal between the two sides, i.e., counterterror strikes inside Pakistan could occur in case of a terror attack against India notwithstanding the Pakistani response, which as the ensuing air skirmish showed is likely to remain at the low conventional level. In other words, New Delhi has clearly signalled to Pakistan how far it will go on the Kashmir question and how far it will tolerate the menace of terrorism. The challenges Whether or not the BJP’s political gain vis-à-vis the Kashmiri political parties, and tactical gain over Pakistan will help root out insurgency and terrorism from Kashmir is something we will have to wait and see. That the BJP government has not politically reached out to the Kashmiri dissidents is indicative of the fact that it will want to single-handedly dictate the contours of politics in Jammu and Kashmir — ceding limited space to the mainstream political parties, and little space for either the dissidents or Pakistan. Whether this policy will find success on the ground once Kashmir opens up and normal political activity resumes there is an important question. A cursory glance at Jammu and Kashmir’s history would show that New Delhi’s deals with Kashmir’s mainstream politicians routinely found little favour with either the ordinary Kashmiri or the agitating Kashmiri. In that sense, then, it is too early for New Delhi to claim victory in Kashmir. Happymon Jacob teaches at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi and is the founder of the Council for Strategic and Defense Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/new-delhis-tactical-half-measure-on-kashmir/article35009309.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Countering the next wave of COVID-19||As the focus shifts to a possible third wave, it is important for India to ask how it can marshal its resources better. Can we leverage the advantages of our size and federal character? Delhi’s experience is instructive. As the first wave abated, hospitalisation for COVID-19 patients plummeted. By January 2021, Delhi was using less than 20% of its bed capacity for COVID-19 patients. It then made the fateful decision, at the beginning of February, to reduce bed capacity back to its usual level of just above 5,000. The decision paid off till mid-March and then the system collapsed. As the second wave hit, bed occupancy went from 33% to over 90% in the first three weeks of April. The government responded rapidly, ramping up bed capacity (faster than what was seen in China or New York City) to more than the previous peak, but it could not keep up with the surge. Equally, as the surge subsided over an 18-day period, utilisation of government hospital beds went rapidly back to 30%, even as infections spread to many other areas with a shortage of key infrastructure. The fact is that it is extremely hard to ramp up capacity in response to the kind of surge that we saw in April 2021, and next to impossible to staff the additional capacity adequately. It is also true that all governments are under pressure to scale down capacity, if augmented capacity remains unused for a long period of time. Elastic health infrastructure Delhi’s experience highlights two important issues. First, COVID-19 waves require the health infrastructure to be elastic (i.e. expand and contract based on need) and often over a very short period. Second, demand for COVID-19-specific health infrastructure is spatially varied. If cities, districts and States see in surge in cases at different points in time, does health capacity at a location need to be fixed or can it vary over time and across geography? Preparing for the third wave thus requires us to think differently about health infrastructure, and focus on where we need to build capacity locally and where we can move capacity in response to a surge. The response depends, in part, on the geography of COVID-19. When we look at the data, we uncover one key fact: in the second wave, COVID-19 returned to many of the districts affected in the first wave, a group that we call the ‘permanently at risk’ districts. There were 145 districts that accounted for 75% of the cases during the first wave. Strikingly, the same districts accounted for up to 80% of cases during the second wave. Of these, 45 districts accounted for 50% of the cases during the first surge and even more in the initial days of the second. The characteristics of these districts in terms of population size, density and mobility make them susceptible to rapid spread. An epidemiological question is why this happens if such districts have herd immunity, from prior infection and vaccination. One answer, as shown in models developed by the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (http://bitly.ws/eTR2), is that if vaccination is only partly efficacious, as recent CMC Vellore results indicate, even limited reinfection and a more transmissible variant can lead to a large surge — and a potential third wave in the ‘permanently at risk’ districts. These ‘permanently at risk’ districts thus need reserve capacity and resources to be expanded to track and detect potential surges at an early stage. A mobility framework In addition to building capability, we can also ‘move’ health infrastructure from one location to another. This is what China did in Wuhan when the pandemic first made global headlines. There are two key aspects to ‘moving’ infrastructure. First, it is important to identify what resources can be moved, linked to costs and supply elasticity — beds and concentrators have low mobility costs and high elasticity (some resources can be rapidly imported) while entire ICUs have high mobility costs. Health workers, on the other hand, have limited elasticity in the medium run as they cannot be trained within a month, but they are potentially highly mobile. There are three distinct policy areas that need innovation. First, for healthcare workers, it may be possible (as some States have done) to induct almost trained final year medicine and nursing students and rehire retired medical personnel. Another strategy is to use paramedical workers to monitor patients, provide oxygen and assist in telemedicine. As the Liver Foundation in West Bengal has demonstrated, even informal health providers can be trained to deal with first-line treatments in a rural setting, perform basic administrative tasks, and seek formal medical assistance. Second, resources with high mobility costs need to be more evenly distributed, beyond the spatially concentrated ‘permanently at risk’ districts, to ensure equity in access in poorly served areas. Third, spatial equity also means that if we can’t bring resources to patients, we can bring patients to resources. Within reasonable distances, it may be more effective to increase the capability to transport patients to care they need. An emerging factor is that patients may be unwilling to travel if there are no arrangements for families to stay nearby. But the many patients who cross State boundaries to seek treatment in Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Vellore and many more places are testimony to the fact that with the right support, it is possible. Building on federal institutions It is obvious that the efficiency of resource-sharing increases with the area of coverage, as surge risk is more widely distributed. Therefore, the benefits of resource sharing are higher if it is possible beyond districts, across State boundaries. For inelastic resources, augmentation of capacities needs to be assured and contingent allocation must be arranged well before any eventuality arises. Moving resources requires coordination but even more importantly, trust. After all, no State or district would want to share resources if it doesn’t trust that it will have access to them in its time of need. This is particularly the case if district ‘A’ in State ‘X’ helps district ‘B’ in State ‘Y’ but then requires help from district ‘C’ in State Z. These arrangements are karmic in the long run, but lack immediate reciprocity and thus need greater institutional coordination. Such sharing, though not particularly structured, was visible in the second wave, with Andhra Pradesh providing ventilators to Maharashtra at the request of a Union Minister and the Odisha Chief Minister responding positively to the request of the Maharashtra Chief Minister for oxygen supply. These success stories now need to be institutionalised through an inter-State platform, mediated through bodies such as the National Disaster Management Authority and the NITI Aayog. COVID-19 has presented India with unprecedented challenges to build health capacities. Beating the successive waves requires enabling governance structures that treat COVID-19 as a national calamity, and co-ordination across the States and districts, based on real-time analysis of data and innovative institutional solutions. As our study shows (http://bitly.ws/eTQC), our size can be a disadvantage, for the virus can lurk in many corners, but it is an advantage if we treat this as a shared challenge and build on our federal institutions. Jishnu Das & Partha Mukhopadhyay are with the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New Delhi. Yamini Aiyar & Shamindra Nath Roy, also from CPR, contributed to the piece||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/countering-the-next-wave-of-covid-19/article35009319.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||On the margins with full equality still out of reach||This year, the world woke up to June, pride month, gazing at the Google Doodle of Dr. Frank Kameny (1925-2011), an American astronomer, veteran, and gay rights activist. Kameny, in the early 1970s, ‘successfully challenged the American Psychiatric Association’s classification of homosexuality as a mental disorder’. The global LGBTQ+ community marched ahead after the 1970s. But in India, the queer community is still a stigmatised and invisible minority, a fact that is alarmingly incompatible with the country’s living, liberal and inclusive Constitution. The Constitution was conceived by India’s founding fathers as a beacon of fundamental rights, leading once enslaved Indians to the promised land of life and freedom. Despite such a liberating Constitution, the Indian state and the law have been abusing and given many marginalised segments of the citizenry such as the queer community of India the cold shoulder. Launch pad for jurisprudence The Constitutional courtroom in post-colonial India became a space where the individual and the state could converse with each other. The meagre gains that the queer community won have been granted by the judiciary; not by legislatures. In the book, Sex and the Supreme Court: How the Law is Upholding the Dignity of the Indian Citizen (2020), Saurabh Kripal observes: “In the tug of war between the demands of the traditional conception of society and the rights of individuals to their identity and dignity, the Supreme Court has come down firmly in favour of individual.” The Supreme Court of India’s ruling in Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. vs Union of India (2018), that the application of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to consensual homosexual behaviour between adults was “unconstitutional, irrational, indefensible and manifestly arbitrary”, has been a great victory to the Indian individual in his quest for identity and dignity. This judgment has provided a launch pad for the LGBTQ+ jurisprudence and queer liberation movement in India. The Delhi High Court’s verdict in Naz Foundation vs Government of NCT of Delhi (2009) was a 38th parallel in the law of sexuality and equality jurisprudence in India. The court held that Section 377 offended the guarantee of equality enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution, because it creates an unreasonable classification and targets homosexuals as a class (https://bit.ly/3A1kHBZ). Earlier, in a retrograde step, the Supreme Court, in Suresh Kumar Koushal vs Naz Foundation (2013), reinstated Section 377 to the IPC. But India witnessed the anastasis of Naz Foundation through the top court’s judgment in Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. with an embedded firewall of the doctrine of progressive realisation of rights. Despite the judgments of the Supreme Court, full equality is still a pie in the sky for the queer community in India. In matters of employment, health and personal relationship, there is still a lot of discrimination against sexual minorities. It is only when these problems are adequately addressed that the LGBTQ+ community will be able to enjoy full autonomy and agency. Legal sanction opposed The Union of India has recently opposed any move to accord legal sanction to same-sex marriages in India stating that the decriminalisation of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code does not automatically translate into a fundamental right for same sex couples to marry. This was stated in response to the Delhi High Court notice to a plea by LGBTQ+ activists and couples who sought recognition of same-sex marriages. Justice Anthony Kennedy of the U.S. Supreme Court, in Obergefell vs Hodges (2015) underscored the emotional and social value of the institution of marriage and asserted that the universal human right of marriage should not be denied to a same-sex couple. As of 2021, same-sex marriage is legally performed and recognised in 29 countries. Indian society and the state should synchronise themselves with changing trends. Amend Article 15 Article 15 secures the citizens from every sort of discrimination by the state, on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth or any of them. This Article is the cornerstone of the concept that equality is the antithesis of discrimination. Imbibing the zeitgeist, the grounds of non-discrimination should be expanded by including gender and sexual orientation. In May 1996, South Africa became the first country to constitutionally prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation. Section 9(3) of its Constitution dictates that state may not unfairly discriminate directly or indirectly against anyone on one or more grounds, including race, gender, sex, pregnancy, marital status, ethnic or social origin, colour, sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, conscience, belief, culture, language and birth. Let Gandhiji’s nation learn from Mandela’s nation! The United Kingdom passed the “Alan Turing law” in 2017 which ‘granted amnesty and pardon to the men who were cautioned or convicted under historical legislation that outlawed homosexual acts’. The law, named after Alan Turing, a World War II code-breaker and computing genius, who was convicted of gross indecency in 1952, provided a ‘posthumous pardon, also an automatic formal pardon for living people who had had such offences removed from their record’. To expiate the excesses committed against the LGBTQ+ community in the past and present, the Indian state should also enact a law on these lines to do justice to the ‘prisoners of sexual conscience’. Justice Rohinton F. Nariman had directed in Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. , the Government to sensitise the general public and officials, including police officials, to reduce and finally eliminate the stigma associated with LGBTQ+ community through the mass media and the official channels. But the Government has simply disregarded this obligation. School and university students too should be sensitised about the diversity of sexuality to deconstruct the myth of heteronormativity. Heteronormativity is the root cause of hetero-sexism and homophobia. Rohit De illustrated, in his A People’s Constitution: The Everyday Life of Law in the Indian Republic (2018), how laws and policies were frequently undone or renegotiated from below by the ordinary citizenry using constitutional remedies. He unfolded the stories of individuals from socially and economically marginalised sections such as prostitutes, butchers, refugees, and vegetable vendors who turned to the court for ‘rewriting’ the Constitution. However, for Queeristan, the Constitution has been ‘a beautiful and ineffectual angel’ so far. Hence, it is time for change; but the burden should not be left to the powers that be. The onus remains with the civil society, the citizenry concerned and the LGBTQ+ community itself. Faisal C.K. is Under Secretary (Law) to the Government of Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-the-margins-with-full-equality-still-out-of-reach/article35009311.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Reporting on negatives is a sign of optimism||The most compelling reason for devoting substantial space for media literacy in this column is not to defend journalism but to defend the wellspring of journalism. The atmosphere in which journalists can do their work is getting vitiated by the minute. Governmental decrees, overt and covert gag orders, efforts to undermine sustainable revenue models, rumour mills, and the pitting of social media rants against news are some of the methods that have been unleashed to bring down trust in mainstream media. It would be suicidal if we did not address these issues as many citizens absorb elements of these sly criticisms and internalise them. A vague binary I get at least one letter a week questioning journalistic work ethics. These letters come in different forms. Sometimes readers tend to use an ideological lens. In other instances, they tend to invoke the vaguest binary of optimism and pessimism. This week, Gopal Bipin, a reader who did not mention his place of residence, asked the paper to refrain from carrying excessive negative news on COVID-19, which has been acknowledged as one of the biggest health and economic challenges that humanity is facing in a century. He wrote: “ The Hindu has become intolerably negative in its reporting these days with an overdose of criticism and pessimism at a time when the world needs positivity and hope. Its coverage of COVID-19 simply borders on relentless hype and hyperbole, unwittingly creating panic and fear psychosis in the minds of its readers. Do not think that this kind of fear mongering has no impact, even on patients recovering from COVID-19. Wise counsel needs to prevail among the reporters of The Hindu . I know of so many people who have discontinued subscription of The Hindu purely on this account... Lives have been ruined from job losses, businesses have gone bankrupt... It is time to think beyond COVID-19. The Hindu should stop its intellectual one-upmanship and return to balanced news reporting. It should not forget that it is not a scientific journal...” While one can understand the angst of a citizen living under the shadow of a pandemic that has not just threatened lives but also the livelihood of millions, it is important to remember the fundamental role of a newspaper. It has to constantly fulfil three ‘i’s: inform, interpret and illuminate. One of the tasks that journalists do is to confront the distortions from the top to restore the space for a dispassionate look at events, policies and the people shaping our livelihoods. The need for muckrakers Former U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt, in his speech on April 14, 1906, pejoratively called journalists and critics “muckrakers”. According to historians, this particular reference was taken from John Bunyan’s The Pilgrim’s Progress . Bunyan wrote: “the Man with the Muck Rake... who could look no way but downward.” Journalists were quick to convert the pejorative term to a respectable one that denotes social concern and courageous exposition. Journalists for over a century have known that reporting on negative developments, scrutinising ineffective governmental measures, and holding those in power to account are signs of optimism, not pessimism. John Keane, co-founder of the Sydney Democracy Network and Professor of Politics at the University of Sydney, said that every generation needs its share of muckrakers. His argument is that muckrakers put their finger on a perennial problem for which democracy is a solution: the power of elites always thrives on secrecy, silence and invisibility. He wrote: “Gathering behind closed doors and deciding things in peace and private quiet is their speciality. Little wonder then that in media-saturated societies, to put things paradoxically, muckrakers ensure that unexpected ‘leaks’ and revelations become predictably commonplace.” As a journalist for nearly four decades, I have been witness to countless instances where journalistic exposés have led to timely course corrections. I am convinced that if journalists were pessimists, that would show in their journalism. It is often called ‘fluff’ or ‘public relations journalism’ and tends to become an apology for the ruling elites. On the other hand, if journalists are optimists, they will aggressively point out failures and hope for course corrections. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reporting-on-negatives-is-a-sign-of-optimism/article35009314.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The power of an apology||In May, Germany officially apologised to Namibia for the massacre of the Herero and Nama people in 1904-1908 and called it a genocide for the first time. Around the same time, French President Emmanuel Macron said in Rwanda that he recognised his country’s role in the Rwandan genocide and hoped for forgiveness. Positive effects The importance of these gestures cannot be overestimated. They can generate multiple positive effects. Apart from strengthening the relations between the countries involved, apologies by leaders help people reconcile with the past and countries and communities take lessons from history and avoid similar tragedies. Most importantly, they provide some solace to the victims’ descendants; they give them a sense of justice and rectitude. There were many public debates following the apology from Germany regarding reparations. Herero activists insist that the development aid offered by the German authorities is not enough and is generic in nature. According to them, the descendants of the genocide’s victims should receive a tangible compensation, primarily in the form of land property that had been taken away by the German colonisers. This is a complex issue, whereby it is difficult to find a mutually acceptable compromise. ‘What is the right price to pay for genocide?’ is a rhetorical question. Unlike Germany and France, Turkey has been in constant denial of the Armenian genocide during World War I. In April 2021, the Turkish President went as far as condemning the recognition of the genocide by the newly elected American President, Joe Biden. This strained bilateral relations between Turkey and the U.S. even further. Apparently, the overarching image of Mr. Erdogan as a ‘strongman’ does not go well with any kind of apology on the international stage. There is enough evidence that the killing of 1.5 million Armenians in the Ottoman Empire during World War 1 was indeed genocide. Leaders like Mr. Erdogan seem to believe that asking for forgiveness can be interpreted as a sign of weakness. In fact, it is quite the opposite. The Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, has a propensity for apologies. According to him, “apologies for things in the past are important to make sure that we actually understand and know and share and do not repeat those mistakes”. In 2016, Mr. Trudeau apologised before the descendants of passengers of the Komagata Maru ship. In 1914, the Canadian government of the day had decided to turn away the ship carrying South Asian migrants, mostly Sikhs. The ship was forced to return to India. Back home, the British suspected the passengers to be revolutionaries and an altercation began. Many passengers were shot dead. In 2018, Mr. Trudeau apologised for his country’s role in turning away a ship carrying over 900 Jewish refugees fleeing Nazi persecution. Such apologies require courage, good will, compassion, and humility. It is not an easy task to apologise, given that one has to do so for events that took place decades or even a century ago. In search of a moral compass Arguably, a sense of humility is a rare phenomenon in contemporary geopolitics. We are witnessing a re-emergence of political leaders, from Nicaragua to Myanmar, who are ready to resort to any means in order to remain in power. In this environment, apologetic voices become even more precious as they help us reconcile with tragic events of the past and remove the stains of history. Besides, they add a moral dimension to international relations. In this sense, to be a pillar of the multipolar world is not to be a military power, manufacturing and/or financial hub, and/or a global investor alone. Countries that strive for global leadership should be able to provide moral leadership as well. This includes critical self-reflection, humility, compassion, and care not only towards their own people, but also towards the most vulnerable communities around the world. Tatiana Belousova is Assistant Professor at the Jindal School of International Affairs, O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-power-of-an-apology/article35009315.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Caution and optimism||India, with the second highest number of cases globally and third highest deaths, is seeing about 50,000 cases being added every day. Though on a decline, the second wave is far from over and several States are relaxing lockdown restrictions, which, experts say, may be seeding the ground for a potential third wave. In this context, a mathematical modelling study led by the scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Imperial College London, shows a wary optimism. Will a potential third wave be as devastating as the second, the scientists attempt to find out, and their answer is ‘no’. For that to happen, a trifecta of “extreme scenarios” has to converge. One, over a third of those who have been infected in the past year must entirely lose their immunity. Second, an emerging variant of the virus must have a reproductive rate (R) over 4.5, or every infected person should be passing on the virus to at least four to five others. And finally, both of these must occur almost close to when the second wave has almost extinguished itself. This is beyond the transmissibility seen so far. A third wave could be significantly buffered by expanding vaccination. Were vaccines to be rolled out in a way to cover 40% of the population, with two doses until August, it could reduce symptomatic incidence by around 55%. Less than 20% of Indians have got at least one dose of the vaccine and only 4% fully vaccinated. The Centre proposes to vaccinate all adults — about 94.4 crore — by the year end. India’s States, which have at various times dealt with unprecedented crises during the tragedy, now have an estimate of what is needed to tide out their peak phases. In that light, the ICMR’s projections can help with ensuring the minimum number of supplies and other infrastructure in the event of an uptick. However, it should not be forgotten that this is after all a modelling study. None of India’s eminent institutions, in the early part of the year, forecast the scale and intensity of the second wave. There is also the vexing matter of breakthrough infections, that is those contracting the infection in spite of being vaccinated. Sporadic studies in India suggest that this percentage of infection is small, though there is still no clarity on the real-world effectiveness of vaccines in the light of variants such as Delta and Delta Plus. There is also, so far, no theoretical limit on how infectious the coronavirus can become. The ICMR’s analysis thus should not be taken as a forecast but rather a guidance and a reminder that along with vaccination, masks, avoiding crowds and physical distancing will remain the main defence against the virus for the foreseeable future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/caution-and-optimism/article35009303.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Another shade of grey||Pakistan’s hopes of being let off the Financial Action Task Force’s grey list were dashed once again, as the 39-member grouping decided to keep it on the list, and even add more tasks. Eventually, Pakistan missed the mark by one crucial action point out of 27 — being judged deficient in prosecuting the senior leadership of UN-proscribed terror groups. The FATF works closely with the UN Security Council’s listings of terror groups as it evaluates countries on their efforts in anti-money laundering/countering the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT); Pakistan’s failure to convict JeM chief Masood Azhar and others appeared to tip the balance against it. The Pakistani government publicly protested the decision, pointing out that many countries that had largely completed the action plans handed to them have been delisted in the past. Pakistan, which was on the FATF’s “increased monitoring lists” from 2009-2015, was taken off the grey list in 2015 in a similar manner (before it was relisted in 2018). Pakistani leaders have predictably lashed out at India for “lobbying” for its continued listing, while others have hinted that the decision stems from a refusal to allow the U.S. the use of its bases after America’s pull-out from Afghanistan. At FATF hearings, the Imran Khan government said it had introduced and amended terror financing laws, which have enabled the prosecution of more than 30 UN-proscribed leaders and their associates, for terror financing. While it is unclear how many of those are actually serving jail time, the convictions and prison terms, between 15-30 years are a break from the past, when Pakistani authorities would hold these leaders on charges under international pressure, and subsequently release them. By making this the sticking point, the FATF, which works on the principle of mutual compliance, has made it clear that Pakistan must complete the prosecution of all proscribed leaders of groups including the LeT, JeM, al-Qaeda, and the Taliban. By adding six more items to the list on amending its Money Laundering Act and cracking down on other businesses involved in money laundering and terror financing, the FATF has indicated that Pakistan could remain on the grey list for at least another one to two years. For India, Pakistan’s continuance on the list is some comfort, even as it awaits true justice delivered to leaders of groups such as the LeT and JeM for attacks, including Mumbai 26/11, Parliament (2001) Pathankot and Pulwama, and not just terror financing. However, the processes of FATF, that has taken a justifiably hard line in Pakistan’s case, must be checked for overreach, as India faces its Mutual Evaluation Report, that has been delayed due to the pandemic. New Delhi should expect that Pakistan will push for a critical investigation of India’s AML/CFT regime, and with the FATF announcing a new focus on “extreme right-wing terrorism (ERW)”, it is clear that there will be more political aspects to its technical scrutiny of countries in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/another-shade-of-grey/article35009304.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Pakistan loses financial credibility||Karachi, June 27: The threatened cut-off of Western aid to Pakistan, because of the situation in East Bengal, has caused a loss of Pakistan’s financial credibility among foreign businessmen. They are asking for “super guarantees” on letters of credit which is bringing commercial transactions to a halt. Importers of lorries and automative spare parts, for example, are being forced to look for International Bank guarantees on top of the Pakistan Bank guarantees. An order abroad to build two ships for Pakistan costing $13 millions is not being executed because the ship-builders are asking for special guarantees. Importers from Japan have reduced to a trickle after Japanese credit guarantee institutions refused to back Pakistani orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pakistan-loses-financial-credibility/article35009312.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Watch out for these investment risks||There is lots of literature on risk in investments. Here, we will simplify the concept and enable you to approach your investments with a proper understanding. To start with, let us classify investments broadly into three categories: Market-dependent: Here, your returns depend on the ‘market’, i.e. price levels of the instruments in the secondary market moving up. Equity stocks, equity-oriented mutual fund schemes, and equity-oriented portfolio management services are of this nature. Contractual return: Your returns are fixed or contracted upfront. Some people refer to these as guaranteed, but guarantee is a different concept. Bank deposits, post office schemes, corporate deposits and bonds held till maturity are of this category; Combination of market and fixed returns: To a certain extent, your returns are fixed or known upfront, but depending on the market movement, your final return may be somewhat higher or lower. Open-ended debt mutual funds and insurance policies with guarantee / loyalty additions are of this type. Volatility risk Where returns have to come from the market, it by definition, depends on other market participants being willing to buy it at a higher price/better valuation. This is not in your control. You have to hold on to the investment for the requisite horizon. In the meantime, prices may fluctuate, and obviously when prices drop, you are not going to like it. This volatility or market risk is a part and parcel of market-oriented investments. The concept of mark-to-market is relevant here. In equity mutual funds, the daily net asset value (NAV) is calculated at market-based prices. It is not relevant that the entire portfolio of the fund is not sold off or purchased back every day. It is that every day, the valuation of the portfolio is on market-based prices, so that investors entering or exiting do it at market relevant levels. Hence, the value of your holding, which is the number of units in the fund multiplied by the NAV, will fluctuate accordingly. To give a perspective on the volatility we are talking about, in January to March 2020, the equity market, represented by the indices, fell by 40%. Since then, the loss has been more than made up and indices have touched record highs. How much an investment will fluctuate is anybody’s call; you may look at historical data for a perspective. Credit risk In contractual return investments, market price movement is not relevant. For deposits like bank or corporate deposits, there is no secondary market, hence no question of any market price discovery. The risk here is, if there is a default in the payment obligations, your return calculations, as was known upfront, goes awry. The risk of potential default depends on the entity from which your money is due. If it is from the government (government bonds) or a government-owned organisation (post office deposits/ nationalised bank), your money is safe. Even otherwise, your money would be safe, but you have to take note. If it is a bank, is it a leading private sector bank or an obscure co-operative bank? If it is a corporate deposit, is it rated AAA, placed with a well-known business house? For corporate bonds or bond mutual fund schemes, there are credit ratings, ranging from AAA downwards, which signify the credit risk. Where your investment is a combination of contractual and market-dependent returns, both the risks are relevant. Market or volatility risk is relatively lesser than only market-oriented avenues. The defined or known return makes it less volatile if all the returns were to come from the market movement only. Credit risk would be there, as known payments such as a coupon (interest) on bonds, have to come from the issuer of the bond. Regulation/fraud risk Market risk or credit quality issues are part and parcel of any investment; the risk may be relatively higher or lower. However, there is a completely different type of risk: if the intentions of the executors of the investment vehicle are not honest. In such a case, in spite of the underlying investment giving returns, you may lose even your principal. On one hand we have solid banks regulated by the Reserve Bank of India and well-structured mutual funds regulated by SEBI. On the other hand, there are ponzi schemes that run on the basis of members bringing in new members and fresh money, which gives them handsome returns. Alarmingly, there is no investment as such of the funds. People get lured by the expectation of high returns i.e. greed overtakes investment logic. In the spectrum of regulated (bank, MF) and unregulated (ponzi schemes), somewhere in between, there would be lightly-regulated investment vehicles like chit funds or plantation schemes. It is advisable that before making any investment, check the regulator for that investment vehicle. There are vehicles regulated by SEBI and there are informal structures where some people mobilise money and invest in financial or physical assets, may be through a legal agreement. While courts of law are always there, in unregulated legal agreement based vehicles it is between you and the entity. A regulator like SEBI would not step in. In certain vehicles like peer-to-peer funding, there are RBI guidelines but the default/legal action responsibility is on you. Conclusion Exact measurement of risk is not possible as it is about the future, which we are trying to gauge based on past data or experience. Having said that, it is preferable to invest through regulated vehicles so that one risk is out of your way. On the common risks like market or default, there are mitigants like adequately long investment horizon or superior credit rating. As long as you have a fair understanding of these two risks, you can venture into your investments. However, it is advisable to consult a financial planner for professional guidance.  (The writer is a corporate trainer and author)   Before making any investment, check the regulator for that investment vehicle. There are vehicles regulated by SEBI and there are informal structures||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/watch-out-for-these-investment-risks/article35009301.ece
28 June 2021||PARIS,||Deepika the star in India’s gold rush||Olympic-bound archer Deepika Kumari helped India claim three recurve gold medals in the Archery World Cup Stage-3 here on Sunday. Thanks to Deepika’s consistent efforts, India took the top honour in women’s team, mixed team and women’s individual events. Adding to the kitty With one compound gold, the country gathered four gold medals here. Deepika first joined hands with Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat to beat Mexico’s Alejandra Valencia, Ana Vazquez and Aida Roman 5-1 in the final and take the women's team title. After sharing honours in the first set (57-57), the Indian trio won the next two (55-54, 55-52) to add four more points and seal victory. This was the second gold for the Indian women’s team, which could not get an Olympics quota place, after the Guatemala-leg this year. Perfect couple Deepika then combined with her husband Atanu Das to bag the mixed team crown. The Indian couple fought back to beat the Dutch duo of Gabriela Schloesser and Sjef van der Berg, the winner of the previous World Cup in Laussane, 5-3 in the summit clash. After losing the first set (37-38), Deepika and Atanu took the next two (36-33, 39-37) and shared points in the last (38-38) to emerge victorious and enhance their chances in Tokyo. Deepika saw off Ana Vazquez 6-2 in the women’s individual semifinals before beating Russian Elena Osipova 6-0 in the final. The Indian, the World Cup Stage-1 winner, showed her accuracy to win the first three sets (29-26, 29-28, 28-27) in the title clash and get her second individual gold medal this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepika-the-star-in-indias-gold-rush/article35009566.ece
28 June 2021||BUDAPEST,||Czechs stun the Dutch; Italy holds off Austria||Striker Patrik Schick scored his fourth goal of the tournament as the Czech Republic stunned 10-man Netherlands with a 2-0 victory in their Euro 2020 last-16 clash in front of 56,000 fans at the Puskas Arena on Sunday. The Czechs created the better chances against their more fancied opponents in the frenzied atmosphere and booked a quarterfinal meeting with Denmark in Baku on Saturday when Tomas Holes headed in at the back post in the 68th minute after Tomas Kalas had steered the ball into his path. Holes then turned provider as he set up Schick for a second, the striker slotting the ball coolly past veteran Dutch goalkeeper Maarten Stekelenburg to continue his dream run. The Dutch challenge was dealt a blow in the 55th minute when centre-back Matthijs de Ligt received a red card for a handball just outside his own box. He was initially given a yellow card, but referee Sergei Karasev changed his mind after a VAR check. At Wembley on Saturday, substitutes Federico Chiesa and Matteo Pessina struck in extra-time as Italy beat a battling Austria 2-1 to reach the quarterfinals. Leonardo Spinazzola crossed from the left and Chiesa controlled the ball and rifled home with his left foot five minutes into the extra half-hour. Italy effectively ended the match 10 minutes later when Francesco Acerbi shepherded the ball to Pessina, who finished superbly. But there was still time for late drama when Austria's Sasa Kalajdzic stooped to head the ball in at the near post from a corner with a little over five minutes to go. That was the first goal Italy had conceded since October 2020, ending a run of 1,168 minutes without conceding. But it held on to win with a new national record of 31 games unbeaten.  The results: Sunday: The Netherlands 0 lost to Czech Republic 2 (Holes 68, Schick 80).   Saturday: Italy 2 (Chiesa 95, Pessina 105) bt Austria 1 (Kalajdzic 114).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/czechs-stun-the-dutch-italy-holds-off-austria/article35009527.ece
28 June 2021||PATIALA,||Harmilan and Siddhant reign on a lacklustre day||Harmilan Bains clocked a personal best to win the 800m and Siddhant Thingalaya reaffirmed his dominance in the 110m hurdles, but there was little to cheer about on the third day of the National Inter-State Athletics Championships here on Sunday. Most athletes did not even come close to their own bests. None of the top quartermilers in the country participated in the individual 400m heats in the morning session, presumably to preserve energy for the relay on the final day of the competition. While none of them is in with a chance to make the cut for Tokyo though rankings, it was surprising to see them not even attempt to better their timings. In the women’s 400m, the elusive Anjali Devi skipped the event while V.K. Vismaya, a key member of both the women’s and the mixed relay teams, failed to qualify for the final, finishing the heats with a slow time of 55.33, further adding to selection issues in the absence of Hima Das. In the evening, Thingalaya won the 110m hurdles in 14.11 seconds while Bains took gold clocking two minutes, 2.57 seconds. It was almost four minutes faster than her previous best over the distance as per IAAF records, set in February last.  The results:   Men: 800m: 1. Krishan Kumar (Har, 1:50.15), 2. Anu Kumar (Utk, 1:51.05), 3. Manjit Singh (Har, 1:51.44); 5000m: 1. Kartik Kumar (UP, 14:42.76), 2. Adesh Yadav (Mah, 14:45.75), 3. Arjun Kumar (UP, 15:01.21); 110mH: 1. Siddhant Thingalaya (Mah, 14.11s), 2. Mohd. Fais C (Ker, 14.34), 3. Amrinder Singh Aulakh (Pun, 14.48); Triple Jump: 1. Eldhose Paul (Ker, 16.58m), 2. Karthik U (Ker, 16.54m), 3. Abdulla Aboobacker (Ker, 16.37m); Discus: 1. Kirpal Singh (Pun, 58.90m), 2. Harpreet Singh (Pun, 57.73m), 3. Gagandeep Singh (Pun, 56.33m).   Women: 800m: 1. Harmilan Bains (Pun, 2:02.57), 2. Chanda (Del, 2:03.36), 3. Nimali Liyanaarachchi (SL, 2:05.69); High jump: 1. Angel Devasia (Ker, 1.65m), Giji George Stephen (TN, 1.60m); Pole vault: 1. Baranica Elangovan (TN, 3.90m), 2. Babita Patel (MP, 3.40m), Rosy Paulraj (TN, 3.30m); Heptathlon: 1. Sonu Kumari (Har, 5004 pts), 2. Kajal (Har, 4740), Madhu (Har, 4357) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harmilan-and-siddhant-reign-on-a-lacklustre-day/article35009519.ece
28 June 2021||BRISTOL,||Beaumont and Sciver power England to victory||Skipper Mithali Raj’s fighting half-century went in vain as England rode on Tammy Beaumont and Nat Sciver’s aggressive unbeaten half-centuries to ease past India by eight wickets in the first ODI of the three-match series here on Sunday. Mithali led from the front with a patient 72 (108b, 7x4) to guide India to a modest 201 for eight after being put in to bat. The captain held the innings together after two early dismissals and was involved in two fruitful partnerships — 56 with Punam Raut (32) and 65 with Deepti Sharma (30). In reply, England cantered home with 91 balls to spare, thanks to opener Beaumont (87 n.o., 87b, 12x4, 1x6) and Sciver's (74 n.o., 74b, 10x4, 1x6) unbroken 119-run third-wicket partnership that came off just 19 overs. Batting first, India lost its openers cheaply. Shafali Verma who, at 17 years and 150 days, became the youngest Indian to make her debut across formats, smashed three fours while making 15 off 14 balls. She fell when she miscued a Katherine Brunt (2/35) delivery to Anya Shrubsole at mid-on in the fifth over. Smriti Mandhana (10) followed soon when Shrubsole (2/33) broke through her defence. Punam and Mithali resurrected the innings before the former spooned a catch to Sophie Ecclestone off Kate Cross. Harmanpreet Kaur’s poor form continued as she fell for one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/beaumont-and-sciver-power-england-to-victory/article35009523.ece
28 June 2021||London,||Slam No. 20 in Djokovic’s sights||Novak Djokovic targets a record-equalling 20th Major and sixth Wimbledon title which will take him tantalisingly closer to becoming only the third man in history to complete a calendar Grand Slam. The World No. 1 has already won a ninth Australian Open and a second French Open this season. That has put him halfway to emulating Don Budge (1937) and Rod Laver (1962 and 1969) in sweeping all four Majors in the same year. It is a feat even his closest rivals Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal have never managed. Djokovic memorably captured a fifth Wimbledon in 2019, saving two championship points to defeat Federer in the longest ever final at the All England Club at four hours and 57 minutes. He was deprived of defending his title in 2020 when Wimbledon was cancelled due to the pandemic. The Serb starts his defence on Monday against British World No. 250 Jack Draper, who was born just 9.5km from the All England Club. Nadal, the Wimbledon champion in 2008 and 2010, has already withdrawn from this year's tournament. Eight-time winner Federer will be 40 in August and has won just one match on grass at Halle in the build-up to Wimbledon. Federer, who underwent two knee surgeries in 2020, won the last of his eight Wimbledons in 2017 and the most recent of his 20 majors in Australia in 2018. The Swiss star has lost three finals to Djokovic at the All England Club — 2014, 2015 and the epic 2019 clash. Federer, in the opposite half of the draw to Djokovic, begins his campaign on Tuesday against France's Adrian Mannarino against whom he holds a 6-0 head-to-head advantage. The rest of the current top 10 have endured relatively mediocre Wimbledon records. Serena Williams, meanwhile, 40 on September 26 and the arrival of that landmark birthday will be all the sweeter if she has at last equalled Margaret Court's all-time record of 24 Grand Slam singles titles. The tennis legend could even hold the record outright if she wins both Wimbledon and the US Open but despite holding her own in the top 10, there is a fear that age is impacting her powers. However, her chances of an eighth Wimbledon crown have improved with the withdrawals of World No. 2 Naomi Osaka and Simona Halep, who beat her in the 2019 final. Serena, who has opted out of the Tokyo Olympics, said: “I’m actually not on the Olympic list, so... not that I'm aware of. If so, then I shouldn’t be on it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/slam-no-20-in-djokovics-sights/article35009530.ece
28 June 2021||(St. George's,||Lewis blasts Windies to eight-wicket win||Evin Lewis led a rampaging assault by the West Indies as it made a mockery of a potentially tricky target of 161 in an eight-wicket victory with five overs to spare in the opening fixture of their five-match T20 series against South Africa here on Saturday. Lewis blazed 71 off just 35 deliveries with seven sixes and four fours. He and opening partner Andre Fletcher raced to 85 before the end of the seventh over when Fletcher was run out at the non-striker's end for 30 off 19 balls. Lewis looked on course for a hundred before he miscued another attempted big hit and was caught at long-off by David Miller off wrist-spinner Tabraiz Shamsi. It left two other celebrated power-hitters, Chris Gayle and Andre Russell to finish the job, Russell appropriately finishing the match with a six over midwicket. In all the West Indies tallied 15 sixes and nine fours (126 runs) in its innings. Kagiso Rabada, Lungi Nigidi and Anrich Norje, the three pacers who tormented the West Indies in the Tests, bowled a combined eight wicketless overs in conceding 88 runs. Rassie van der Dussen picked up from where he left off in the Test series, getting to an unbeaten 56 off 38 balls with four fours and two sixes to lift South Africa to what looked to be a competitive total of 160 for six. Quinton de Kock, Man-of-the-Series in the Tests, got his team off to a flying start before falling to Russell for 37.  The scores: South Africa 160/6 in 20 overs (Quinton de Kock 37, Rassie van der Dussen 56 n.o.; Fabian Allen 2/18, Dwayne Bravo 2/30) lost to West Indies 161/2 in 15 overs Andre Fletcher 30, Evin Lewis 71, Chris Gayle 32). Toss: West Indies; MoM: Lewis; West Indies won by eight wkts. with five overs to spare and leads five-match series 1-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lewis-blasts-windies-to-victory/article35009561.ece
28 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Suns take commanding series lead||Devin Booker scored 25 points and Chris Paul made several clutch free-throws in the waning moments as Phoenix Suns held on for an 84-80 win over Los Angeles Clippers in the NBA Western Conference finals. Tough fight The Suns led wire-to-wire but it was far from easy. They led by as many as 16 points in the third quarter, but saw that dwindle to just one in the fourth. Deandre Ayton finished with 19 points and 22 rebounds and Mikal Bridges chipped in with six points and 13 rebounds for the Suns, who are one win away from reaching their first NBA finals since 1993. Paul George led the Clippers with 23 points and 16 rebounds while Reggie Jackson had 20 points and Ivica Zubac finished with 13 points and 14 rebounds.  This was one of the lowest-scoring games of these playoffs thanks to strong defensive play mixed in with some poor shooting by both teams in the fourth quarter. With Booker sitting on the bench because of too many fouls, the game went through a four-minute stretch in the fourth where neither team scored a basket.  The result:   Western Conference finals: Los Angeles Clippers 80 lost to Phoenix Suns 84 (Suns lead series 3-1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suns-take-commanding-series-lead/article35009568.ece
28 June 2021||TOKYO,||More tests likely for Indian athletes||Japan plans to ask Olympic athletes from India and five other countries hit hard by the Delta variant of the Coronavirus to have daily tests for seven days before leaving for the Games, a Japanese newspaper said on Sunday. Currently, all overseas athletes are being asked to have tests twice during the four-day period before their departure for the Tokyo Olympics, which are set to start on July 23. Other countries The Japanese government aims to enforce the new rule, which will be applied to athletes from India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Afghanistan, into effect on July 1, Yomiuri Shimbun reported, without citing sources. Olympics Minister Tamayo Marukawa said on Friday that a member of the Ugandan team who tested COVID-19 positive upon arrival had the Delta variant, adding to concern the Games may trigger a new wave of infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/more-tests-likely-for-indian-athletes/article35009613.ece
28 June 2021||Rome,||Srihari Nataraj makes Olympic ‘A’ cut||India’s Srihari Nataraj went under the A-mark Olympic Qualification Time in the 100m backstroke event (53.85s) with a timing of 53.77s in a requested time trial at the Sette Colli meet here on Sunday. The 20-year-old had missed the A-mark on Friday by five hundredth of a second in what was perceived to be his last chance. The latest result, if ratified, will make him the second Indian after Sajan Prakash to earn a direct berth for Tokyo 2020. “It will be for FINA to accept the result from the time trial at an approved qualification event,” said Monal Chokshi, secretary general SFI, in a statement. “It is done routinely at many accredited meets, as in the recent case of the US Olympics team trials for the 400m freestyle event. We are very excited with the ‘A’ cuts achieved by both our swimmers and hoping this result will be considered by FINA.” Meanwhile, a day after achieving the ‘A’ cut for the Olympics, Sajan continued his purple patch by coming up with a new best Indian performance in 200m freestyle event in the same event on Sunday. Sajan clocked 1:49.73 seconds in the heats at the FINA-accredited Olympic qualifier, bettering the 2010 Asian Games bronze medallist Virdhawal Khade’s previous National mark (1:49.86).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srihari-nataraj-makes-olympic-a-cut/article35009572.ece
28 June 2021||Copenhagen,||Spain takes on Croatia||Spain and Croatia seem to be peaking after slow starts to the tournament, but run into each other in the round of 16 at Euro 2020. Luis Enrique has continued Spain’s traditional possession-based approach but the team’s attacking play looked laboured against Sweden and Poland. Croatia, though, will play a more aggressive style and won’t sit back to let Spain dominate possession. Perisic tests positive However, Croatia will be without one of its best players after forward Ivan Perisic tested positive for COVID-19. Perisic, who scored two goals during the group stage, will have to self-isolate for 10 days. Meanwhile, World champion France topped Group F to set up a match against Switzerland in Bucharest. With Kylian Mbappé, Antoine Griezmann and Karim Benzema, coach Didier Deschamps has enough attacking power to deliver back-to-back major titles. The Swiss, on the other hand, are hoping to end a run of three consecutive exits in the round of 16 at major tournaments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spain-takes-on-croatia/article35009517.ece
28 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Chance to push for the one or two spots: Dravid||Ahead of his maiden assignment with India’s senior team as head coach, Rahul Dravid has said that the forthcoming limited-overs series in Sri Lanka will offer fringe players an opportunity to make one last push for the T20 World Cup. “These are the only games before the T20 World Cup, and am sure the selectors and management have a fair idea by now on the squad they are looking for,” Dravid said on Sunday. “It’s a chance for a few people to push for the one or two spots the management may be looking for, just to give them a few more options over the next few T20s.” Squad to leave today Dravid will be in charge along with captain Shikhar Dhawan for the tour, comprising three ODIs and three T20Is, starting on July 13. The squad will leave for Colombo on Monday. The head coach said he will have a detailed discussion with the leadership group of the Test squad in England before the Sri Lanka series. “I have had a little bit of contact with the team management in England, didn’t want to disturb them during the WTC final but will touch base over the next couple of weeks on what their plans are,” Dravid said. The absence of Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma has meant Dhawan will lead India for a full series for the first time. Stressing that it’s “an honour” to lead India, Dhawan said the squad has the firepower required to succeed in the shorter formats. Lot of excitement “This is a very good team. We are positive and confident that we will do well. There is a lot of excitement. It is a new challenge and a great opportunity for all of us to show our talent,” he said. Dhawan is set to open the innings with Prithvi Shaw, who has earned a recall, with promising openers Dedvutt Padikkal and Ruturaj Gaikwad also in the squad. Coach Dravid, clarifying that everyone in the squad of 20 is unlikely to get a chance, stressed that the youngsters shouldn’t treat the tour as the only opportunity to impress the selectors. “It’s a crucial tour for a lot of members in the team. That doesn’t mean it’s a life-or-death situation, it doesn’t mean if you don’t have a good tour of Sri Lanka, you’ll never make it. Neither does that mean that if you do well against Sri Lanka you automatically make it. There’s a lot that goes into it,” he said.  The itinerary  ODIs: July 13, 16 & 18  T20Is: July 21, 23 & 25 All games in Colombo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chance-to-push-for-the-one-or-two-spots-dravid/article35009525.ece
28 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||HCA league season to start from July 7||The Hyderabad Cricket Association’s (HCA) annual league season will commence on July 7, according to interim president K. John Manoj. Manoj told The Hindu after the Apex Council meeting here on Sunday that the three-day league will start from July 7 featuring 35 teams, and then the two-day league after a week. One-day league The one-day league championship will be held by July-end. The meeting was attended by six members of the Apex Council — John Manoj, secretary R. Vijayanand, joint secretary Naresh Sharma, treasurer Surender Agarwal, the players representative Parth Sathwalekar and councillor P. Anuradha. Manoj also said that only those who take the first jab of vaccination will be eligible to play. “Two-day camps at Wesley College and Uppal Stadium on June 28 and 29 will be formally inaugurated by Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud.” Grading for umpires The official said that for the first time, there will be grading for umpires, apart from a 10% enhancement of payment with the specific objective of improving the standards. Manoj added that a Special AGM will be convened on July 18 to take up the issue of membership to some of the district units. “It is the Special AGM which has the power to take a call in this regard and not any individual.” Among other subjects discussed at Sunday’s meeting included payment of dues to former cricketers and insurance cover to all those in the HCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-league-season-to-start-from-july-7/article35009747.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sindhu needs to work on her strategies: Vimal||The absence of defending champion Carolina Marin will be an advantage but there are at least six more title contenders at the Tokyo Games and P.V. Sindhu must examine their past performances to devise a proper strategy, former India chief badminton coach Vimal Kumar said. “Marin was a strong contender for the gold and her absence will be felt. So many players will have the advantage, not just Sindhu. She is definitely in with a chance for the gold but there are at least six other girls who can win the title,” Vimal said. “Tai Tzu Ying and the two Japanese players Akane Yamaguchi and Nozomi Okuhara are strong contenders. I am not sure about the two Chinese girls, Chen Yufei and He Binjiao. I haven’t seen them play of late, so I don’t know how prepared they are or how they will perform. Ratchanok Inthanon also can be tricky. Very open “It will also boil down to that particular day, who is in the right mental and physical conditions to pull through. So it is still very open.” Vimal added that Sindhu needs to work on her strategies against potential opponents. “They can discuss about her potential rivals, can look and analyse the matches. From what situation they lost a match, the errors they committed. It helps in devising tactics and also gives confidence to the players. They still have time as Olympics is still a month away.” The 58-year-old believes B. Sai Praneeth has a good tactical game and may emerge as a dark horse in men’s singles. World No. 15 Praneeth had claimed the bronze medal at the 2019 world championships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-needs-to-work-on-her-strategies-vimal/article35009607.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Neeraj finishes third in a strong field||Indian javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra produced a much improved show from his previous two outings as he finished third with an effort of 86.79m in Kuortane Games in Finland on Saturday. Neeraj began with 83.21 and then achieved 86.79m off his second attempt. All the remaining four throws were fouls. Season-leader and 2017 World champion Johannes Vetter of Germany won with a best throw of 93.59m. Keshorn Walcott of Trinidad and Tobago, who won gold in 2012 London and bronze in 2016 Rio Games, finished second with a best throw of 89.12m. Reigning World champion Anderson Peters of Grenada was fourth with a best throw of 83.46m. This was Neeraj’s third best performance this season since re-writing his own National record with a throw of 88.07m at the Indian Grand Prix 3 in March at Patiala. A few days later, he reached 87.80m at the FedCup at the same venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-finishes-third-in-a-strong-field/article35009569.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arjun and Gukesh cause a flutter||Youngsters Arjun Erigaisi and D. Gukesh punched above their weight, stunning Vidit Gujrathi and women’s World No. 1 Hou Yifan on the second day of the Goldmoney Asian Rapid online rapid chess tournament on Sunday. Even as Levon Aronian and Ding Liren stayed ahead with seven points from 10 rounds, Arjun (5.5) was seventh. Gukesh, who also held Wesley So, was tied 13th with Vidit at four points.   The results (involving Indians): 10th round: Vidit Gujrathi drew with Alireza Firouzja (FIDE); Arjun Ergiaisi bt Hou Yifan (Chn); B. Adhiban bt Saleh Salem (UAE); D. Gukesh drew with Wesley So (USA).   Ninth: Vidit drew with Levon Aronian (Arm); Firouzja drew with Arjun; Hou Yifan lost to Gukesh; Peter Svidler (Rus) bt Adhiban; Eighth: Arjun bt Vidit; Adhiban lost to So; Gukesh lost to Firouzja.   Seventh: Vidit lost to Gukesh; Hou Yifan bt Adhiban; Arjun lost to Aronian; Sixth: Ding Liren (Chn) drew with Vidit; Adhiban lost to Firouzja; Gukesh drew with Arjun.   Leading standings (including Indians, after 10 rounds): 1-2. Aronian, Liren (7 points each); 3-4. Wesley So, Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) (6.5 each); 5-6. Magnus Carlsen (Nor) and Anish Giri (Ned) (6 each); 7. Arjun Erigaisi (5.5); 13-14. D. Gukesh, Vidit Gujrathi (4 each); 16. B. Adhiban (2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-and-gukesh-cause-a-flutter/article35009521.ece
28 June 2021||CHENNAI:,||Arputha Raj is CDTTA chief||A. Arputha Raj has been elected the president of Chennai District Table Tennis Association (CDTTA) in its annual general body meeting held online on Sunday, according to a release from its secretary J. Selvakumar. Aruputha Raj is the father and coach of A. Amalraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arputha-raj-is-cdtta-chief/article35009610.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arpitha wins title||Telangana’s Arpitha Kothagundla won the National girls’ (under-12) online rapid chess championship by pipping Delhi’s Sachi Jain on superior tie-break score on Sunday. Arpitha and Sachi aggregated 10 points from 11 rounds to take the first two spots. Yashvi Jain, also of Telangana, headed a three-way tie involving Andhra’s Sarvani Cheedella and Karnataka’s Rudra Rajeev at nine points to finish third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arpitha-wins-title/article35009560.ece
28 June 2021||BEROUN (CZECH REPUBLIC),||Diksha sizzles, finishes T-4||Diksha Dagar registered her best result in almost two-and-a-half years with a superb tied fourth-place finish with a flawless final round of 6-under 66 at the Tipsport Czech Ladies Open on Sunday. This is Diksha's second-best result after her lone triumph on the Ladies European Tour in early 2019 when she took the Investec women’s South African Open title. In the final round, Diksha got off to a superb start. After a par-par opening, she had three birdies in a row from third to fifth and added three more from the eighth to 10th to be 6-under through 10 holes. At that stage she was T-2 and just one behind the leader and eventual winner, Atthaya Thitikul, the 18-year-old Thai prodigy. Diksha did not drop a shot in her last eight holes, but she was also unable to find any more birdies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/diksha-sizzles-finishes-t-4/article35009562.ece
28 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Simultaneous tours, a short- term answer’||Rahul Dravid has said that simultaneous fixtures against different opponents in different formats with separate sets of players is a short-term necessity for Indian cricket amidst the pandemic. “India didn’t have an option but to do this. Whether it’s a long-term solution, I’m not sure. There’s a lot that goes into it, stakeholders, the other countries’ boards, sponsors, organisers, media rights… so much that goes into it,” Dravid said. “Short-term, in terms of the situation and quarantine and so on, yes this is the answer. Eases pressure on the team. It’s becoming difficult for players to go through the same kind of restrictions that are in place at this point in time. Long-term, it’ll need a lot more discussion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/simultaneous-tours-a-short-term-answer/article35009520.ece
28 June 2021||Mûr-de-Bretagne (France),||Mathieu Van der Poel takes stage 2 yellow||Mathieu Van der Poel won stage 2 of the Tour de France on Sunday to claim the overall leader's yellow jersey and strike a blow for his famous cycling family. The Dutch 25-year-old is the grandson of French cycling icon, the late Raymond Poulidor who was a regular on the Tour de France podium and beloved of French fans despite never wearing the fabled yellow jersey.  Defending champion Tadej Pogacar was second followed by Primoz Roglic, while Alaphilippe was fifth at eight seconds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mathieu-van-der-poel-takes-stage-2-yellow/article35009529.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 08:06 IST,||Sudoku — June 28, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-28-2021/article35010004.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Cane and able||Runima Biswas is surrounded by raw mangoes, sugarcane, food thermometers, refractometers, and a gamut of contraptions that she has never really seen before. “It is like an episode of Breaking Bad unfolding in my kitchen,” she laughs, holding up the PH meter she is using to find an optimum level of acidity. A former professional from the retail, and food and beverage industry, Runima and her business partner Irfan Husain, a former personnel of the Indian Armed Forces, have just launched Fresh Crush. The brand offers sugarcane juice infused with ingredients such as betel leaves, Mexican mint ( karpuravalli ), nannari (sarsaparilla), ginger and tulsi among others. “We are growing karpuravalli and tulsi in my garden,” she adds. This is such a basic idea and almost everybody loves sugarcane juice, says Runima adding that, however, people have often been concerned about hygiene, the quality and storage of ice, pollution by the roadside... “At Fresh Crush we do not add any artificial additives, sugar, water or ice. The juice is made using a cold-press machine,” she says. Operating out of a 100-square feet space in Palavakkam, Runima and Irfan want it to be a neighbourhood “juice kadai ” where anybody can just walk in, grab a drink and leave. There are passers-by, walkers, cyclists, sometimes cars stop by and grab a few bottles. And then “there is always the Swiggy-Zomato crowd too,” she adds. At any point, the little outlet stores 75 kilograms of sugarcane. Each lot yields a different quantity. On numerous occasions, the duo has had to sprint up to Runima’s house nearby to bring in reinforcements. “There’s always a few extra kilograms of sugarcane in my kitchen,” says Runima, adding that her life has been overrun by sugarcane. “Ever since March, Irfan and I have been drinking different combinations of this juice. Our neighbours aren’t spared either,” she adds. Fresh Crush relies on local vendors for their stock of sugarcane. They are looking to branch out and set up shop in crowded localities such as Purasaiwalkam, Sowcarpet, and Pondy Bazaar. There is more on the anvil. Runima and Irfan are also working on another brand Tareca, that makes packaged sugarcane juice especially for institutions, super markets and other collective units. So far they have six variants including sugarcane with orange, strawberries, and dragon fruit.  Prices start at Rs. 20 and go up to Rs. 60 for 400ml bottles. For details, check out @freshcrushbeverage on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cane-and-able/article35009819.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Conversations on a coffee break, with RJ Balaji||Craving some cheery banter to go along with your morning coffee? Nallanna Murukku - The RJ Balaji Podcast is a recently launched Spotify Original hosted by the well known actor, director, comedian, and commentator, Balaji Patturaj. This Tamil podcast is a balanced, thought-provoking take on contemporary issues, presented in Balaji’s trademark infotainment format. He will also bring guests in, to share their views and experiences. It is the latest in the non-English podcast segment that is seeing a rapid growth under Spotify. “I will focus on conversations that urge listeners to become more aware of the many misguided opinions that have been on the rise on social media. As the digital world gets more cluttered with unfiltered perspectives, I hope to take the listeners on a humorous yet thoughtful audio journey into pressing matters,” says Balaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/conversations-on-a-coffee-break-with-rj-balaji/article35009818.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The face as a mirror to the mind||According to a recent survey of 200,000 professionals in India, about half suffered extreme stress at work. With mental health plunging rapidly among professionals, one of the big challenges is identifying those fighting the battle because of the stigma associated with mental health issues. This led Rahul Choubey, Pratik Salvi, Ankur Pathak, Sajal Suryavanshi and Anwesh Reddy Paduri, from Great Learning’s PG Programme in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, to develop a computer vision system that automatically uses facial motion features to identify such issues. Edited excerpts from an interview with the team about XpressEmoNet, the temporary name for the system: Tell us more about the application. Facial expressions are non-verbal clues to emotions like sadness, anger, fear, joy, disgust and surprise. These external signals express an individual’s internal emotional state. In fact, only 7% of communication relies on verbal interactions; 38% is from tone and sound of voice, and 55% from gestures and facial expressions. Automatic recognition of facial expressions is of interest in several fields such as e-learning and affective computing. When designing an automatic facial expression recognition system, three problems are considered: face detection, facial feature extraction, and classification of expressions. The first is a processing stage to automatically locate the face region in the input images. The next step is to extract and represent facial changes caused by expressions. Finally, the classification task allows to infer the facial expressions. In our approach, we have restricted our solution to facial feature extraction and classification of expressions.   How and why did you come up with this idea? We had to decide on a project last year. With each of us working in the IT sector, we understood the levels of stress most people face and how this could hamper both mental health and work productivity. So, the programme was built to help an employer assess a person’s mental health through the webcam on their laptop. Is this specific to people at work or can it be used elsewhere too? The same system can be implemented in many areas but with some changes. For example, in schools, the reactions could be based on children’s facial expression during a particular subject. Counsellors and teachers can then evaluate their preference for that subject and help identify their interests. How does it collect and collate data? The idea is that XpressEmoNet will be loaded on the workstation and detect an individual’s emotions based on facial expressions. It will use photos to detect these emotions and keep track of an individual’s state of mind on a regular basis. The system will capture images over a predefined period of time and detect the emotion present based on the classifications. We conducted a pilot study in which expressions such has happy, surprise, sad, angry, fear and disgust were captured. We trained the model for non-front images and for video feeds. The team is now busy with the the next step, which is to enhance the model to feed the test video instead of test images and then deploy it on CCTV to capture real-time data and predict accurately. Of course, there is the issue of privacy. The question of consent will come up and anyone who uses this will have to inform those whose images are being captured accordingly.  With each of us working in the IT sector, we understood the levels of stress people face and how this could hamper both mental health and work productivity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/the-face-as-a-mirror-to-the-mind/article35009509.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Keep options open||I am a 24-year-old Zoology graduate (finished in 2018). I have been trying to clear the exams for a government job but am extremely frustrated with the process. I am thinking of doing a digital marketing course to earn some money till I clear them. Is this a good move? — Sneha Ojha  Dear Sneha, I can understand your frustration. What is making this exam so difficult for you? Stay aware that what might look like a good move, might get you completely off-track! The scope of digital marketing is high today. However, you need to train, specialise and equip yourself with the prerequisite course certifications before you can land at a lucrative job. Some of the top digital marketing jobs available today are Virtual Reality Developer, SEO and SEM Specialist, User Experience Designer, Data Analysts, Email Marketing Specialist, Internet Marketing Specialist, Bot Developer, Social Media Marketer. So, evaluate if you are taking a break or contemplating swapping fields and make an informed choice! I am 17 years and got only 62% in the Class 12 Board (PCMB). I want to prepare for the UPSC exams. Is it okay to opt for the BAG programme from IGNOU? Will this be valid for the UPSC? — Shobhit Bansal Dear Shobhit, Yes, of course you can opt for the BAG programme. IGNOU is a central open university, established by an Act of Parliament in 1985, recognised by the government. All the degrees, diplomas from IGNOU are valid for UPSC and other Selection Boards. I am in the second year of a Bachelor’s degree in Siddha medicine and medicinal surgery. The course is for 5.5 years and the syllabus is heavy. I also want a central government job relating to my field. But I do not know whether to do a distance education course now or a postgraduate course later. — G. Avira Dear Avira, I understand that the course is long and vast but do not take on anything else right now. Do justice to this course and complete it well first. You will always have time to do a proper full- time postgraduate course later on. I cleared by B.Tech (ECE) in 2018 and tried to clear the UPSC CSE after that but didn’t do so. I am now working for a relative’s start-up as an unpaid trainee. The work is coding for which I do not have prior experience. I am easily distracted and very confused about whether to do this full-time or look for something else. — Tushar Dear Tushar, Why are you working as an unpaid trainee? Is there anything at the start-up that excites you; that you can focus on and make a career of eventually? Doesn’t sound like that to me? What do you want to do in life? You have a B.Tech in ECE, so focus on getting a job with those credentials. Spend time with a good career counsellor to understand what would you like to do next — both academically and professionally. It will help you find your direction.  Disclaimer: This column provides advice, guidance and suggestions on education and careers. It is a guiding voice from a practising career counsellor.   The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/keep-options-open/article35009507.ece
28 June 2021||Pune,||Fresh cases surpass recoveries; active tally up again to 1.22 lakh||In a worrying trend, Maharashtra’s cases outweighed its recoveries for the second consecutive day, with the State reporting a mere 8,562 recoveries as against a surge of 9,974 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The State’s active case tally has risen again to 1,22,252 with the three districts in the Maharashtra’s ‘sugar heartland’ — Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli — along with rural Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad recording spikes. The fatalities, however, remained comparatively low with 405 deaths being added to the State’s ‘progressive death toll’ of which 262 were part of the Health Department’s ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process. As many as 89 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and a further 54 were from the past week. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,21,286 with the State’s case fatality rate going up to 2%. The State’s total cases have reached 60,36,821 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 57,90,113 with the recovery rate standing at 95.91%. “Of a total 4,10,42,198 laboratory samples tested thus far, 60,36,821 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 14.71%) have returned positive with over 2.11 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported more than 1,300 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,51,931. As per the State Health Department figures, 13 deaths were recorded as the toll went up to 16,495. According to district authorities, the active cases have surpassed 9,500 while the fatality toll touched 17,819. Mumbai recorded 739 new cases to take its total tally to 7,20,349 while the active cases stood at 12,646. Thirteen fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,368. Kolhapur added more than 1,500 new cases taking its total cases to 1,52,027 of whom 11,095 are active. As many as 35 deaths saw the toll rise to 4,611.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fresh-cases-surpass-recoveries-active-tally-up-again-to-122-lakh/article35009822.ece
28 June 2021||new delhi,||HC grants interim custody of married woman to her father||The Delhi High Court has directed that a married woman, who suffered severe mental trauma, resulting in partial loss of memory and speech, allegedly at the hands of her husband and in-laws, be put under the interim custody of her father. A vacation Bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh gave the direction on a habeas corpus petition by the woman’s father. The father sought production of his married daughter, who also has a three-year-old girl child, before the court alleging that due to certain matrimonial discord, she is being held in illegal detention by her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law. The father stated that due to mental and physical torture unleashed by her husband and in-laws, including actions that are subject matter of FIR, his daughter has suffered severe mental trauma, resulting in partial loss of memory and speech. During the hearing, the daughter was produced by way of video-conferencing, where the court noticed that “she is not able to communicate by speech nor does her behaviour appear to be normal on first blush.” The husband, who also joined the video-conference hearing, submitted that his wife has developed mental problems but not by reason of any fault on his part or on the part of his parents. He also submitted that his wife is being treated by a specialist doctor, who has indicated that her mental illness will take some time to get resolved. “Considering the aforesaid state of affairs, first-and-foremost this court is concerned about the state of mental health and physical wellbeing of the daughter,” the court remarked. It directed that the daughter be examined by a doctor specialising in mental trauma and illnesses at the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) in the presence and under the supervision of her father. Order to police “This court is also of the view that it would be in the fitness of things that, at least for the present and until the next date of hearing, the custody of [the daughter] along with her 3 ½ year old girl child, be given to the petitioner [the father],” the court said, directing the local Station House Officer to ensure the custody of the daughter to the father. The court further directed that the status report detailing the opinion of the doctors and the line of treatment suggested in the case be submitted before the next date of hearing on July 5. The report would not be shared with the husband or her in-laws, the Bench added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-grants-interim-custody-of-married-woman-to-her-father/article35009859.ece
28 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana extends lockdown till July 5||The Haryana government on Sunday extended lockdown in the State for another week till July 5, but allowed university campuses to open for research scholars, doubt classes and practical classes in laboratories. Anganwadis closed Though relaxations allowed to shops, shopping malls, restaurants and bars in earlier orders would continue, the anganwadi centres and creches would remain shut till July 31. The Department of Women and Child Welfare has been directed to release methodology for implementation of various women and child welfare programmes in the State. Extending the lockdown, rechristened as “Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana” by the State government, Chief Secretary-cum-Chairperson, Haryana State Executive Committee, Vijai Vardhan, in a two-page order, said the positivity rate and the number of new COVID-19 positive cases had declined, but there was a need to continue the preventive and precautionary measures. As per the earlier orders over the past few weeks, all shops are allowed to open from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. and shopping malls from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. The restaurants and bars, including those in hotels and malls, are allowed to open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. with 50% seating capacity. The gatherings at weddings, funerals/cremations are capped at 50 people. The gyms are also allowed to open from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m, but swimming pools and spas are closed. Factories to open All production units, establishments and industries are permitted to function with strict adherence to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. The sports complexes are also permitted to open for sports activities, but spectators are not allowed. As per the latest health bulletin, only 121 new cases were recorded in the State on June 26 with the positivity rate of 0.41%. The total number of active cases in the State is 1,804 and as many as 9,368 people have died so far. The cumulative positivity rate for COVID-19 is 7.76% and fatality rate is 1.22%. Besides, more than 84 lakh vaccine doses have been administered in the State so far, with the highest 13 lakh in Gurugram. The Haryana government had first imposed a week-end lockdown in nine districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonipat, Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad — from 10 p.m. on April 30 to 5 a.m. on May 3. The entire State was then brought under lockdown for a week on May 3 and the restrictions are being extended on a weekly basis thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-july-5/article35009703.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||How responsible can a burger be?||Is it possible to build a kinder burger? Of course. The real challenge is creating one that is delicious as well, since virtue alone cannot fuel sales. Recently launched Flipside has a secret weapon up its sleeve: the Beyond Meat burger, which is now making its India debut. In the bustling kitchen, chef Deepesh Chandran experiments with the first batch, searing a Beyond Meat patty, then layering it with cheese, lettuce and tomatoes. Placing it on the table with a flourish and French fries, he slices the burger into two to study its pleasing caramelised surface and intricate marbling of fat for optimum juiciness and a springy texture. Then does the same with the brand’s Beyond Sausage. A clever alchemy of plant proteins, cacao butter and beetroot juice all intricately knitted together to provide a tasty alternative to meat, the product has a loyal following among vegetarians and vegans in the United States, where it was launched in 2012. Founded in 2009, in Los Angeles, Beyond Meat attempts to offer consumers plant-based substitutes that have more protein than their animal counterparts, no cholesterol, less saturated fat and no antibiotics or hormones. More sophisticated than the fake meat and soy substitutes of yore, these products are engineered to taste familiar, primarily appealing to a niche but growing group of vegans and vegetarians who have given up eating meat for ethical reasons. For protein, there is pea, mung bean, faba bean and brown rice, with beetroot juice and apple extract for colour, potato starch for texture and so on. The company saw a surge in demand with the pandemic, with more people cooking at home, and also looking for healthier alternatives for themselves as well as the planet. Now, expect to see it roll out in supermarkets and restaurants in India. In Chennai, you can sample it first at Flipside, where Beyond Meat burgers will be added to the menu this weekend. Taruna Hinduja, who runs Flipside, says that they are excited about being able to showcase what she believes could be the “future of protein”. Of course, the cheery restaurant, which as a mid-pandemic launch has been focussed on takeaway, will continue to put together traditional meat burgers as well. The American style “smash burgers” they specialise in, involve pressing down the meat on an iron skillet with a spatula and searing it for crisp edges with steamy interiors. Flipside offers customers the option to tailor burgers with the plant-based alternative, thus gently updating a deliberately old school menu focussed on comfort food and nostalgia. Leaning into a world of bright American sitcoms from the 90s, choose from classic burgers, as well as a “kitchen sink” version, with smoky barbeque sauce, jalapenos and fries. If you are feeling adventurous, try the startling Louisiana Fry Master, where the entire burger is deep fried with cheddar, mozzarella, garlic aioli, pickles and caramelised onion. Will it work with Beyond Meat? Deepesh heads back into the kitchen, wielding his spatula with a sense of purpose. After all, in your quest for a kinder burger, you never made any promises to your weighing scale.  Flipside Burgers is at New No: 50/A, Bava Street, Alwarpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-responsible-can-a-burger-be/article35009826.ece
28 June 2021||Jaipur,||Gehlot seeks PM’s help in vaccine supply to Rajasthan||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal intervention to ensure adequate supply of coronavirus vaccines to the State to prevent a possible third wave. In a letter to the Prime Minister, he said the State has created a capacity to vaccinate over 15 lakh people a day, but the pace of inoculation drive is limited to the extent of supplies received from the Centre. “The daily average of vaccine doses received since the start of vaccination drive for 18 years plus has been 3 to 4 lakh only,” Mr. Gehlot said. He said that following COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and vaccination are the only ways to effectively counter the threat of coronavirus. “For ensuring 100% vaccination to prevent the third wave and to ensure that people are able to resume their livelihood related activities, I urge you to intervene personally and direct the concerned to ensure adequate supply of vaccines for the State,” Mr. Gehlot said in his letter. Situation better He said the current COVID-19 situation in the State is relatively better with cases coming down sharply, but also mentioned the second wave had a far greater impact in Rajasthan. He also said Rajasthan is among the best performer in the vaccination drive. Over 2.36 crore people have already been vaccinated in the State and over 70 lakh people would be due for their second dose by the end of July, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gehlot-seeks-pms-help-in-vaccine-supply-to-rajasthan/article35009705.ece
28 June 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal issues new vaccine SOP after fraud||West Bengal has issued a set of guidelines to be followed by non-government entities carrying out vaccination drives against COVID-19, after the discovery that fake vaccine was administered at a camp in Kolkata. The participants at this camp, held in the neighbourhood of Kasba, included actor and TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty. Prior approval The SOP makes it mandatory for private commercial health facilities and workplace administrations desiring to hold a camp to seek prior approval from the Health Department. “All private CVC [Covid Vaccination Centres] must maintain a dynamic inventory of vaccines disclosing the source of their supplies, cold chain maintenance mechanisms, day-to-day consumption of vaccine doses and inform the Health Department through an end-of-the-day report [through Google spreadsheet],” said the State government order issued late on Saturday evening. The order also requires private CVCs to submit to the Health Department every Sunday the list of people receiving both their doses of a vaccine. All vaccination will have to be done through the CoWIN portal only and CoWIN-authenticated code number must be displayed at the camp. Report to authority At the end of the vaccination session, the private CVC must submit a performance report to the local health authority. Not only that, all recipients would be observed for 30 minutes for Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI). The camp at Kasba took place on June 21, and the fact that those vaccinated were actually injected with an antibiotic was discovered when Ms. Chakraborty became suspicious after she didn’t receive a vaccination certificate or a confirmation message on her phone and lodged a police complaint the following day. Probe set up The State government has already set up a probe into the fraud. “This order is very important. Monitoring for AEFI for 30 minutes, which is a must, was not being followed in many camps, but now it is a must. Maintenance of cold chain is very important to get maximum immunity from vaccine, while Google spreadsheets and weekly submission of data will take care of unauthorised use of vaccine. Basically, every centre will now be accountable, which will strengthen the vaccination drive in our State,” said Dr. Rajiv Pandey of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bengal-issues-new-vaccine-sop-after-fraud/article35009700.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi sees 89 cases with 4 deaths||The Capital recorded 89 fresh COVID-19 cases and four deaths on Sunday, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government a day before a new set of unlock measures are set to kick in. The bulletin showed that 74,198 tests had been conducted in 24 hours that has a positivity rate of 0.12%. There are at present 1,568 active cases in the city. Delhi has recorded 14,33,934 COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began along with 24,965 deaths. From June 28, weddings at banquet halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance will be permitted along with reopening of gyms and Yoga centres at 50% capacity under the phased unlock process, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in an order on Saturday. The relaxations come after the number of new cases and fatalities continued to show a downward trend during the past week. Delhi had reported 89 cases of COVID-19 and 11 deaths on Monday, 134 cases and 8 deaths on Tuesday, 111 cases and seven deaths on Wednesday, 109 COVID-19 cases and eight deaths on Thursday, 115 cases and four deaths on Friday and on Saturday, 85 new cases and nine deaths were recorded. Releasing the vaccination bulletin, AAP leader Atishi said the vaccination drive in the city had picked up speed with a record 2,07,559 doses being administered on Saturday. Out of the total doses administered, more than 1.5 lakh doses were administered to the people in the 18-44 age group, she said. “With the availability of the vaccine stock, we have been able to vaccinate 25% of the youth population in Delhi,” Ms. Atishi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-sees-89-cases-with-4-deaths/article35009726.ece
28 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC moves to take action against five schools||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has written to the Deputy Director of Education, Mumbai Division, with a proposal to cancel the recognition of one State Board school and cancel the no objection certificate (NOC) issued to four CBSE-affiliated schools in the city. The decision was taken following non-compliance with the corporation’s notices sent to the schools over depriving students of education as their school fees were due. While the four CBSE schools are New Horizon Public School, Airoli, Terna Orchid International School, Sector-1, Koparkhairane, Ryan International School, Sanpada, and Amrita Vidyalaya, Nerul, the State Board school is St. Lawrence School, Vashi. NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said they had received complaints from parents that the students who had not paid the fees were denied the results and were not allowed to attend online classes while some of them were denied promotion to upper classes. “All this has caused mental distress to the students and their parents,” he said. Initially, Mr. Bangar said, show cause notices were sent to the schools. “Verbal instructions were also given by officials of the civic body’s education department who visited the schools. The corporation even held online hearings with the school management in this regard. But the schools did not follow the instructions,” he said. He said since the schools were not abiding by the norms of the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, the corporation was taking further action. “According to Section 16 of the Act, no child can be left behind until he or she completes primary education. Similarly, due to non-compliance with the government order, the terms and conditions of the NOC issued to the schools have also been violated,” Mr. Bangar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nmmc-moves-to-take-action-against-five-schools/article35009820.ece
28 June 2021||Guwahati,||Dead fish floating in Guwahati tank raises concern||At least 400 dead fish were on Sunday found floating in a Guwahati tank, said to have a Mahabharata link. Joggers around the city’s iconic Dighalipukhuri, meaning “long pond”, detected the fish floating and brought it to the notice of the local authorities. Minister for Fisheries Parimal Suklabaidya said the Department officials ascertained the cause behind the mass deaths of the fish. The dead fish weighed about 600 kg. “The fish mortality was due to sudden dip in oxygen level and high organic load in the tank. Department officers, after examination, found the death of fish not due to poisoning but environmental degradation,” he said, adding that water was showered over the tank as a short-term measure with pumps to increase the oxygen level. Jayaditya Purkayastha, an aquatic animal specialist, who has been working on turtle conservation across Guwahati’s ponds, said the local authorities should resume paddle boat service as a practice without any passengers and spank the water with bamboo to increase the dissolved oxygen (DO) in the tank. “DO is one of the most important factors for the maintenance of biodiversity in a pond. Our atmosphere has about 20% oxygen or 2,00,000 parts per million (ppm) but only about 1,00,000 ppm gets dissolved in water. DO concentration below 3ppm will kill fish,” he said. Non-penetration of sunlight due to a layer of algae has also been a factor behind the fish death. “Boating and spanking the water prevents surface algae from accumulating,” he said. Dighalipukhuri, about 500 m long, is associated with the legend of local king Bhagadatta, who fought for the Kauravas in the battle of Kurukshetra. One of his elephants was named Ashwatthama. It is said that Bhagadatta had dug the pond during the swayamvar of his daughter Bhanumati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dead-fish-floating-in-guwahati-tank-raises-concern/article35009702.ece
28 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kingpin of inter-State cheating racket held||The Delhi Police’s Crime Branch arrested the kingpin of a Nalanda-based cheating racket from Bihar for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing oxygen cylinders to COVID patients, said officials on Sunday. Accused “Chhotu Choudhary”, who is the leader of the Inter-State gang, was arrested from Nalanda, they said. He was held based on the disclosure made by four members who were arrested in May this year by the Crime Branch, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Monika Bhardwaj said during interrogation, Chaudhary revealed that he along with his partner Manoj Mahto has been operating the gang for two to three years. The accused has engaged 200-300 people in his area for the purpose of cheating on different occasions till now. During pandemic, Chaudhary found an opportunity when there was a rising demand for oxygen cylinders and concentrators. He then started cheating people on the pretext of selling oxygen gas cylinders through his accomplices. Elaborating on the modus operandi, the officer said each person in Chaudhary’s gang had a task. While one of them arranged the bank accounts for receiving cheated money, another got these bank accounts opened on the basis of forged credentials at the rate of Rs. 25,000 each account. The accused used forged pre-activated SIM cards of different areas for cheating, police said, adding further investigation is under way.  Accused used to dupe people on the pretext of providing oxygen cylinders to COVID patients Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kingpin-of-inter-state-cheating-racket-held/article35009730.ece
28 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Lakha Sidhana, farmer leaders booked for rioting||The Chandigarh police has booked alleged gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana and many farmer leaders on several charges, including rioting during a protest march on Saturday, officials said. The police on Sunday said five FIRs have been registered at Sector 3, Sector 17 and Sector 36 police stations here. Mr. Sidhana was granted interim protection from arrest by a Delhi court on Saturday in connection with his alleged involvement in the Red Fort incident on the Republic Day. The police has booked Mr. Sidhana and farmer leaders, including Baldev Singh Sirsa, and their supporters on several charges including rioting, assault on public servants and obstructing them from performing their duties. The protesting farmers on Saturday had broken police barriers at the Chandigarh-Mohali border while trying to head towards the Punjab Governor’s house. Mr. Sidhana was also seen during the protest. The farmers had planned to march towards the Punjab and Haryana Raj Bhavans here, and submit memorandums. Meanwhile, the Shiromani Akali Dal condemned the registration of cases against the farmers. SAD senior leader Daljit Singh Cheema said the lodging of FIRs is ‘unfortunate’ as the farmers had come to submit a memorandum to the Governor. Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu too condemned the police action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lakha-sidhana-farmer-leaders-booked-for-rioting/article35009695.ece
28 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Rape accused held at vaccination centre||A rape accused, who was on the run for the past two years, was arrested from a vaccination centre in Odisha’s Balangir district on Saturday. Moments before the accused, identified as Arun Podha, registered for vaccination at Bhainsar village under the Patnagarh police limit, he was taken into custody. “Soon after a woman in the same village accused Podha of sexually assaulting her in March 2019, he had fled the village. He was arrested while he was standing in a queue for vaccination,” said Jyotirmaya Bhukta, Sub-Divisional Police Officer of Patnagarh. Mr. Podha, 24, had been working in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, to evade arrest. Mr. Bhukta said the accused was confident that “nothing would happen” to him as his family members made attempts to influence the victim. Acting on a tip-off, local police went to the vaccination centre and arrested him. The police produced him to a court after conducting a medical examination. “The decision to vaccinate him would be taken up at a later stage since he failed to get inoculated,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rape-accused-held-at-vaccination-centre/article35009706.ece
28 June 2021||Pune,||Admissions to non-technical courses after Class 12 results||The admission process for non-technical courses in Maharashtra will start once the HSC (Higher Secondary Certificate or Class 12 results) are declared, State Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said. Speaking in Pune, the Minister further said that the administration was considering either conducting the Common Entrance Test (CET) for admissions to non-technical courses or conducting the admission process based on Class 12 marks. “We will decide on whether to hold the CET or not only after the Class 12 results are declared,” he said. Mr. Samant, who interacted with teachers’ organisations that have been protesting to ensure recruitment in universities, reassured them that the State government had decided to fill 4,074 posts, of which the process for 1,600 posts had already been completed. For the remaining posts, the process to fill up more than 700 vacant posts had started, while a survey would be undertaken to identify vacant teaching posts, he said. “The process for [selection to] the remaining posts was on hold owing to the pandemic situation. Now, pending approval by Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar, a government resolution would be issued soon,” Mr. Samant said. The Minister said that hourly remuneration to teachers recruited on a clock hour basis in undergraduate programmes had been increased from Rs. 500 to Rs. 615 for theory classes, and from Rs. 150 to Rs. 250 for practical sessions. “For postgraduate courses, it [hourly remuneration to faculty] has been hiked to Rs. 750 from Rs. 600 for theory sessions, and to Rs. 300 instead of Rs. 250 for those conducting practicals. The government will also fill up 121 vacant librarian posts soon,” Mr. Samant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/admissions-to-non-technical-courses-after-class-12-results/article35009825.ece
28 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||NHRC seeks report on pregnancy among minors||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought an action taken report from the DGP, Odisha, in connection with the allegation of pregnancy among minor students. Radhakanta Tripathy, a human rights lawyer, had moved the human rights body drawing attention to sexual exploitation of minor girls in residential schools. Mr. Tripathy had alleged that negligence and inaction of the State government was responsible for such incidents. He prayed for action against culprits and compensation and rehabilitation for victims. “Through a network of 1,670 residential schools and 6,000 hostels, the government provides free education, food, clothing and accommodation to nearly 6 lakh students between the ages of 5 and 18 years of whom 60% are girls. The Department gives high priority to safety, security and well-being of students in residential schools and several measures have been taken towards this end,” the government submitted to the Commission. The Commission said it had not received the Action Taken Report in cases of Nabarangapur, Malkangiri, Kendrapara, Jajpur and Kalahandi districts mentioned in the complaint. “The DGP Odisha is directed to submit the ATR within four weeks,” it directed. Besides, it ordered the District Magistrate of Dhenkanal to ensure the payment of Rs. 7 lakh to the victim and submit the proof of payment within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nhrc-seeks-report-on-pregnancy-among-minors/article35009698.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||March for quota||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/march-for-quota/article35009824.ece
28 June 2021||June 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Unlocking a city||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/unlocking-a-city/article35009697.ece
28 June 2021||Agartala,||Tripura Cong. suspends woman leader||The Tripura Congress on Sunday suspended a senior woman functionary from the party for six years on charges of ‘unbecoming behaviour and gross discipline’. PCC(I) president Pijush Biswas ordered the action against Minakhi Chakraborty after All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Deb advised her removal from the position of the Secretary in the party’s women cell. Some video clips had become viral in the social media where Ms. Chakraborty was allegedly seen creating chaos under the influence of liquor. Party leader Rahul Saha said Ms. Chakraborty was suspended for her misconduct at a public place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tripura-cong-suspends-woman-leader/article35009707.ece
