30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ensure that no migrant worker goes hungry, SC instructs govt.||A government cannot “abdicate” its duties to feed migrant workers, especially during a pandemic, merely because they did not have ration cards, the Supreme Court said in a judgment on Tuesday. “There is a large number of such migrants who do not possess any card. Their above disability is due to their poverty and lack of education. The State cannot abdicate its duty towards such persons, especially in the wake of the pandemic where large numbers of migrant workers are not able to get jobs which may satisfy their basic needs,” a Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah observed in an 80-page judgment. The court set July 31 as the deadline for the Centre and the States to ensure their “bounden duty” that none among the estimated 38 crore migrant workers, who form one-fourth of the country’s population, goes hungry during the pandemic. These workers too have made “considerable contributions” to the country’s growth and economic development. The court ordered the State governments to frame schemes to distribute dry rations to migrant workers by July 31. “The States/Union Territories have to make extra efforts to reach migrant labourers so that no migrant labourer is denied two meals a day,” Justice Bhushan, who wrote the judgment, said. The Centre has to supply whatever additional quantity of food grains a State demanded. The allocation of additional food grains and running of community kitchens in prominent places to feed workers should continue throughout the pandemic, the court directed. Right to food, one of the “bare necessities of life”, was an intrinsic part of the right to live with dignity, the court told the government. It ordered all the States to fully implement the One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) scheme by July 31. The scheme allows migrant labourers covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) to access food at any fair price shop with his or her ration card in any part of the country. ‘Unpardonable apathy’ The court slammed the Labour Ministry for its “unpardonable apathy” in not completing the work of the Rs. 45.39 crore National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW) portal to register and identify migrant workers and unorganised labourers to ensure their rights, welfare and food security. The court had ordered the Ministry to finalise the NDUW module way back in 2018. The Centre has blamed the delay in implementation on “software” problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-that-no-migrant-worker-goes-hungry-sc-instructs-govt/article35046971.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. gives nod for Cipla to import Moderna’s vaccine||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Tuesday granted permission to Mumbai-based pharma major Cipla to import Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine, making it the fourth vaccine in the country to be given the emergency use authorisation (EUA). Announcing this at the Health Ministry’s press conference, NITI Aayog’s member (Health) V.K. Paul said the modalities were being worked out for the import of the vaccine and added that India is also in talks with Pfizer and JJ to add to the basket of vaccines available in the country. Currently, India has made available three COVID vaccines — Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik. 7-month storage Dr. Paul said the Moderna vaccine would be brought in as a ready-to-use injectable vaccine, which can be stored for seven months at prescribed temperature, and that normal storage after a vial is opened is 30 days. “We are working to ensure that India is able to manufacture this vaccine here. We are also looking at increasing the production of vaccines that are being manufactured in our country to boost availability. The permission for restricted use in emergency situations has been granted for the Moderna vaccine keeping in mind the public interest.” “The firm has to submit a safety assessment of the vaccine in the first 100 beneficiaries before rolling out the vaccine, according to the approval order,” Dr. Paul said. He added that an application was received from Moderna through its Indian partner Cipla, following which the vaccine has been granted restricted emergency use authorisation by the drug regulator. “This new permission for restricted emergency use potentially opens up a clear possibility of this vaccine being imported in the near future,” explained Dr. Paul. Cipla, while applying for the license, referred to DCGI notices dated April 15 and June 1 that if a vaccine is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for EUA, then it may be made available without a post-approval bridging trial and the testing of every batch of the vaccine by the Central Drugs Laboratory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-gives-nod-for-cipla-to-import-modernas-vaccine/article35046969.ece
30 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Some relief for residents of Kundapur||The issue of movement affecting residents of Kundapur town after the construction of two flyovers within a span of two kilometres hampering crossing the National Highway 66 has eased to some extent with the intervention of Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje. After The Hindu reported in these columns on the plight of residents, Ms. Karandlaje instructed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to find out a solution to the problems of the residents of the town. Accordingly, a team comprising officials from NHAI, concessionaire Navayuga Udupi Tollway Pvt. Ltd. and people’s representatives visited the spot on Tuesday. A statement from the MP’s office said that it was decided to provide openings from the down ramps of the flyovers to the service roads near Bobbaryanakatte within a week. Vehicles coming from Udupi could enter the service road after crossing Basrur Moorkai vehicular underpass near the office of the Deputy Superintendent of Police. Vehicles coming from the Bhatkal side could enter the service road after crossing Shastri Circle Flyover opposite the Deputy Superintendent of Police office. The other important decision taken was to open the Moorkai underpass for vehicular traffic after erecting speed breakers at both ends. Though the underpass is ready, it has not been opened for traffic and vehicles from Basrur are taking a detour to reach Kundapur town. The officials also decided to place adequate number of barricades at the openings of the highway to service roads so as to regulate the speed of vehicles on NH 66. At present, vehicles zoom past both the flyovers as the stretch for about 2 km has completely been barricaded. With the openings for vehicular traffic, pedestrians too will benefit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/some-relief-for-residents-of-kundapur/article35047193.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Body of COVID victim can be taken home||The State government has revised the existing protocol for handling the bodies of those who die of COVID-19 by allowing families to take the mortal remains of their dear ones home for paying their last respects. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told media persons here on Tuesday that the government had decided to bring in a change in the funeral protocol as the distress and mental strain that the families underwent was considerable. Religious rites Henceforth, families would be allowed to take the body home for less than an hour and to conduct religious rites too in a limited manner. Mr. Vijayan said that while disease transmission had reduced and the test positivity rate brought down to 10%, further reduction in TPR had not been possible. Hence, the State was in no position to allow any further relaxations in the lockdown. The fact that the State still had a huge population susceptible to COVID and that the delta virus currently in circulation was highly transmissible and capable of creating huge surge in cases if the vigil was lowered were also to be reckoned. Following a review meeting on Tuesday, a few changes were being brought in the TPR-based classification of geographic areas and the relaxations allowed therein. Accordingly, there are 165 local bodies in the A category (TPR less than 6%), 473 in the B category (6-12% TPR), 316 in the C category (12-18% TPR) and 80 in the D category (TPR more than 18%). Restrictions will continue on the basis of this categorisation for the next one week from Thursday. In category B local bodies, autorickshaws will be allowed to ply. While buses will have to maintain limits in allowing passengers, the District Collectors have been asked to make arrangements to ply more buses in routes as per the requirement. Checking will be intensified in railway stations and border checkposts to ensure that only those with COVID negative certificates can make inter-State travel. Mr. Vijayan said that while people were maintaining COVID protocols in public places, disease transmission seemed to be going up within families and in closed spaces such as workplaces, where people were relaxing on safety precautions. Masking regulations would have to be strictly maintained in all offices. Violation of norms He said that violation of quarantine norms that necessarily need to be followed by a family when one person in the family gets infected seemed to be rampant now. If the infected person was being maintained in home care, the entire family would have to be on quarantine. He asked local bodies to tighten up on ward-level containment and surveillance measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/body-of-covid-victim-can-be-taken-home/article35047261.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Sylendra Babu picked to head the Tamil Nadu police force||The State government on Tuesday appointed C. Sylendra Babu as the Director-General of Police/Head of the Police Force, Tamil Nadu. He replaces J.K. Tripathy, who is retiring on June 30. A 1987-batch IPS officer, Dr. Babu will hold the post for two years, irrespective of his date of superannuation as per the Supreme Court’s guidelines in the Prakash Singh case. After the Union Public Service Commission approved a panel comprising three names, including Sylendra Babu, Karan Singha and Sanjay Arora, the government chose Dr. Babu to head the force. Popular among youth A native of Kuzhithurai in Kanniyakumari district, he is a postgraduate in agriculture and was awarded a Ph.D by the University of Madras for his thesis on “Missing Children”. He is popular among sections of the youth aspiring for a career in the civil services as he visits educational institutions and coaching academies to deliver “motivational speeches”. Dr. Babu has authored about a dozen books in English and Tamil, mostly on motivating the youth to achieve their goals. He follows a strict training regimen and posts videos on social media, where he has a huge following, on fitness, healthy eating habits, marathons and cycling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sylendra-babu-picked-to-head-the-tamil-nadu-police-force/article35047050.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Monsoon session likely from July 19 to August 13||The monsoon session of Parliament is likely to begin on July 19 and go on till August 13. There is no clarity as of now whether the existing COVID-19 protocols will continue to be followed. So far, 403 members, out of the 540 in the Lok Sabha, and 179 members, of the 232 in the Rajya Sabha, have got both doses of vaccines. This session will have 20 sittings. Ever since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, all the three sessions of Parliament had to be truncated due to the rising number of COVID-19 positive cases. First session after polls This will be the first session since the May 2 results of the Assembly elections in four States and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Following the victory of the TMC in West Bengal, the DMK in Tamil Nadu and the CPI (M)-led Left Front in Kerala, the Opposition will be in a stronger position. The Opposition parties are likely to take up the management of the pandemic, especially the second wave and the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-session-likely-from-july-19-to-august-13/article35046967.ece
30 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Metro services likely during non-peak hours too||Amidst the unlocking measures, the ridership for major mass transport systems — Namma Metro, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses — has seen a considerable increase since the resumption of services. Encouraged by the increasing numbers, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) is now contemplating running Namma Metro services even during non-peak hours. On Monday, over 59,000 people took the metro, helping the BMRCL earn Rs. 16.20 lakh revenue. Compared to last week, the ridership has increased by 17,000. Namma Metro resumed services on June 21, and on the first day, 42,000 people had travelled by the train. A senior BMRCL official said, “Compared to last week, the number of people travelling has increased. There is a proposal to run the train even during non-peak hours from July 1. We are following protocols to contain the spread of the pandemic. Social distancing norms are also being followed. ” After resuming services, the BMRCL is running trains from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. In two shifts, a total of 155 trips are operated with a frequency of five minutes on both the lines. No trains are operated during weekends. BMTC sees considerable increase Ridership in BMTC buses too has increased considerably, with close to 10 lakh people travelling on Monday. However, as the number of commuters increases, it is becoming difficult to follow social distancing norms, especially in the peak hours. As per the government guidelines, only 50% seats are allowed to be filled. But considering the increase in the number of passengers, bus crews have been told to fill all the seats during peak hours but not allow standing. The BMTC is operating around 4,200 buses per day. No decision has been taken to run AC buses in city limits. KSRTC ridership touches 5 lakh Meanwhile, the number of people travelling in KSRTC buses has also increased compared to last week. On the first day of resuming services, 1.2 lakh ridership was recorded, which has touched 5 lakh now. An official of the KSRTC said around 3,000 buses are being operated. The KSRTC generated around Rs. 2.7 crore revenue on Monday. “The number of people travelling is increasing gradually. We are also operating inter-State services to Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. We are running buses as per demand,” said the official.  Metro ridership  June 21 – 41,986 June 22 – 45,560 June 23 – 48,914 June 24 – 50,333 June 25 – 51,244 June 26 – No service||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-services-likely-during-non-peak-hours-too/article35047007.ece
30 June 2021||LUCKNOW/Bhopal,||FIR in U.P., M.P. against Twitter officials over ‘distorted’ map||An FIR has been lodged against the managing director of Twitter India, Manish Maheshwari, and his colleague, Amrita Tripathi, in Bulandshahr for allegedly showing a distorted map of India on their website. The Cyber Crime Cell of Madhya Pradesh Police has also registered a case against Mr. Maheshwari over the distorted map, following a directive by the State Home Minister, Narottam Mishra. In Uttar Pradesh, the complaint was filed by a Bajrang Dal leader who alleged that in a world map on Twitter, J&K and Ladakh were shown as entities separate from India. “This is not merely a coincidence. It has hurt my feelings as well as that of the people of Bharat,” said Pravin Bhati, co-convener, Bajrang Dal. The FIR was lodged under Section 505 (2) of the IPC and Section 74 of the IT Act. Ms. Tripathi, who is mentioned as India head of Twitter, posted on Tuesday: “So is this a good time to clarify my role at my day job? As good a time as any? Presently on the content partnerships team at Twitter (in India). No spl powers/authority and definitely not at the level some of you think...”  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fir-in-up-mp-against-twitter-officials-over-distorted-map/article35047169.ece
30 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||Falling coconut kills baby||In a tragic incident, a falling coconut caused the death of an 11-month-old baby boy in Haveri district. The incident was reported from Haunsbhavi in Hirekerur taluk of Haveri district on Monday. Tanwit Mallikarjun Walmiki was playing outside his home, when a coconut fell off from a tree causing him a severe head injury. Although he was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital and, then, to a hospital in Davangere, the boy did not survive, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/falling-coconut-kills-baby/article35047191.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Offer opt-out option to all students, SC tells ICAI||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to continue with preparations to hold the Chartered Accountants (CA) exam in July for 3.74 lakh candidates. A Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, said it will pass orders on Wednesday and asked the ICAI to place on record a note incorporating its suggestions on the opt-out option, logistical arrangements, changing of exam centres in case of COVID containment zones, etc. ‘Objective standards’ The court said the ICAI, represented by senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, should have a “competent authority” with medical experience to chalk out the objective standards by which candidates could opt out of the July exams and try again in the November 2021 examination cycle. In fact, the court said the opt-out option should be available not only for candidates who are COVID-19 positive at the time of exam but also for students who could not prepare for their exams due to extended post-COVID complications certified by an expert. “Have you taken into consideration the post-COVID effects?” Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, on the Bench, asked Mr. Srinivasan The court said the ICAI note should provide detailed plans on how it intends to secure the exam halls from infection. They should not be some converted wedding halls. They should be exclusively used for the exams. The court said the examiners/invigilators etc should be inoculated. In case of any sudden change in the exam centres, the candidate should either be able to opt out or given a slot at the nearest centre. In case the candidate contracts the infection in the middle of the exams, he or she should be given a chance to appear in the next examination cycle in November. The Bench was hearing pleas to postpone the CA exam due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/offer-opt-out-option-to-all-students-sc-tells-icai/article35046965.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Schools will remain shut for now, says Minister||Schools in the State will not reopen on July 1 (Thursday) as planned earlier, in view of the prevailing pandemic. “Children will not be able to attend school as the conditions are still not conducive. But teachers will attend in staggered shifts to be part of the training sessions in capacity-building and to coordinate programmes like Mana-Badi Nadu-Nedu and other new initiatives proposed to be launched soon,” said Education Minister A. Suresh. The government had declared summer vacations till June 30, intending to reopen schools from July 1. But with the State still witnessing COVID-19 cases, the plan has been dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-will-remain-shut-for-now-says-minister/article35046945.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds T.N. Land Act||The Supreme Court has upheld the Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition Laws (Revival of Operation, Amendment and Validation) Act of 2019 as a “legitimate legislative exercise” that won Presidential assent. A Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, rejected the pleas made by G. Mohan Rao and others, who contended that the 2019 law, with retrospective effect, should be struck down as “unconstitutional, illegal and void”. They said the Act was violative of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-upholds-tn-land-act/article35047047.ece
30 June 2021||Kolkata,||NHRC team member alleges attack in Kolkata||A member of the committee of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) set up to probe allegations of post-poll violence in the State on Tuesday alleged that he was attacked in Kolkata’s Jadavpur area. Atif Rasheed, vice-chairman of the National Commission for Minorities and member of the committee set up as per the instructions of the Calcutta High Court, said some people chased and attacked him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nhrc-team-member-alleges-attack-in-kolkata/article35047308.ece
30 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra proposes home vaccination||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court that it proposes to start vaccination at home on an experimental basis for the bed-ridden. Dr. Dilip Patil, Deputy Director, State Family Welfare Bureau, filed an affidavit before a Division Bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-proposes-home-vaccination/article35047358.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Woman who converted to Islam moves HC||A woman who converted to Islam has approached the Delhi High Court seeking protection for herself and her family claiming that they are being witch-hunted by the U.P. police and media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-who-converted-to-islam-moves-hc/article35047170.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: SC rejects plea against HC ruling||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal filed against the Delhi High Court judgment refusing to halt the Central Vista project work amid the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-vista-sc-rejects-plea-against-hc-ruling/article35047171.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Balaji Srivastav given addl. charge of Delhi CP||Senior IPS officer Balaji Srivastav will hold the additional charge of Delhi Police Commissioner when incumbent S.N. Shrivastava retires on Wednesday, the Home Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/balaji-srivastav-given-addl-charge-of-delhi-cp/article35047172.ece
30 June 2021||Kolkata,||Tracking the digital divide in Kolkata||About 40% primary school students could not attend online classes during the COVID-19 pandemic owing to the digital divide, a report published by Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen’s Pratichi (India) Trust found. The study was compiled on the basis of experiences shared by hundreds of teachers across 21 State-run primary schools in Kolkata. The 72-page report highlights the issues faced by students in accessing digital teaching learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tracking-the-digital-divide-in-kolkata/article35047309.ece
30 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s recovery rate rises to 96%||Maharashtra reported 8.623 recoveries against a surge of 8,085 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday as the active case tally dipped to 1,17,098. A total of 231 deaths were reported, with 156 deaths occurring in the last 48 hours and a further 75 being from the past week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtras-recovery-rate-rises-to-96/article35047359.ece
30 June 2021||Mumbai,||Notification on height of idols irks Ganesh mandals||The Home Department’s notification restricting the height of Ganesh idols inside public mandals to four feet for this year’s festival has irked the umbrella organisation of public mandals in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/notification-on-height-of-idols-irks-ganesh-mandals/article35047360.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Activists welcome top court’s ruling||The Supreme Court’s ruling on Tuesday should result in the universalisation of rations to all migrant workers across India as long as the pandemic continues, as opposed to the government’s one-time relief measures, said intervenors in the petition. Social activists Harsh Mander, Anjali Bhardwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar also welcomed the court’s direction to the government to re-determine the number of people covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), given that the population has grown since the law was enacted. “It is significant that the SC has recognised that economic distress does not go away merely with the lifting of lockdowns...,” said the intervenors in a statement. “We welcome this important judgment and are happy to note that the plea to universalise rations to all migrant workers across India till the pandemic continues has been accepted.” In its ruling, the SC had directed States to distribute dry rations and run community kitchens for migrant workers, and directed the Centre to provide the needed grains to implement this. The Food Ministry has so far argued that there is no need to revive the Atma Nirbhar scheme under which it had provided such dry rations for 2.8 crore migrants and others without ration cards last year. In their written submission to the court on June 15, the intervenors had highlighted that the benefits of the NFSA as well as the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme were restricted to those with ration cards. They pointed out that several States had already exhausted their ration card quota under the NFSA, and 22 out of 29 States had less than 5% quota remaining. “These State-wise quotas under the Act are severely underestimated on account of being calculated as per the figures of the 2011 census and never having been updated since,” said the intervenors. They argued for a revision of the quotas using the current population projection of 139 crore, which would increase NFSA coverage to 93 crore people, as against the current figure of 80 crore. In its ruling, the SC has now directed the Centre “to undertake exercise under Section 9 of the National Food Security Act, 2013 to re-determine the total number of persons to be covered under Rural and Urban areas of the State, which shall be beneficial to a large number of persons.” The intervenors had also argued for emergency cash transfers to be given to migrant workers to pay for cooking oil, milk and vegetables, as well as non-food expenses such as medical and rent needs. However, the court said it could not issue any direction on cash transfers as they were a matter of policy and in the domain of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activists-welcome-top-courts-ruling/article35046889.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||House panel questions Twitter||The Standing Committee on Information and Technology has sought an explanation from social media giant Twitter on why accounts of IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and committee Chairperson Shashi Tharoor were locked. In a meeting held on Tuesday, representatives from Google and Facebook appeared before the committee on the subject of ‘Safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms, including special emphasis on women’s security in the digital space’. Sources said the committee members discussed the new IT rules with the representatives of both platforms. Both Facebook and Google have said that they will comply with the new IT rules. “They said that they will comply with the new IT rules, as much as they can,” one of the members said. Facebook pointed out that it was technically impossible to intercept messages in WhatsApp. The new rules mandate tracing the origin of a particular message if required by the law enforcement agencies. Facebook explained that WhatsApp works on end-to-end encryption. It only sweeps metadata and no messages are intercepted or read. Earlier in the day, Facebook announced that complying with the IT rules, it would publish an interim report on the content it had removed proactively between May 15 and June 15. The new rules, which came into force on May 26, mandate large social media companies to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken. Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them and gives them immunity from criminal culpability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-panel-questions-twitter/article35046902.ece
30 June 2021||Chennai,||35.6 lakh vaccine shots given||India administered 35.6 lakh (3.56 million) doses of COVID-19 vaccines until 9 p.m. on Tuesday. Maharashtra recorded the highest number of vaccinations (3.8 lakh) followed by Andhra Pradesh (2.8 lakh) and West Bengal (2.7 lakh). Between June 1 and 28, 40.3 lakh doses were administered daily in India on average. At the current rate, a total of 108.2 crore doses can be administered by December 31, 2021, which is around 79.8 crore doses fewer than those required to fully vaccinate all adults (188 crore doses). To fully inoculate all adults by the end of this year, 83 lakh doses need to be given daily on average in the country. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country dropped to 57.5 lakh on June 28 from 64.3 lakh recorded on June 26. However, it is more than the 46.6 lakh recorded a week before (June 22). It was also significantly higher than the average daily doses recorded a month before (May 28), which was 22.1 lakh. About 28.9% of adults in India, 60.3% of those aged above 45 years, and 67.4% of people aged above 60 years, were administered at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 9 p.m. on Tuesday. Only 4.2% of the country’s population is fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. India recorded 44,778 new COVID-19 cases until 9 p.m. on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,03,60,836. As many as 812 new deaths were also registered, taking the tally to 3,98,480. Kerala reported 13,550 new infections, followed by Maharashtra (8,085) and Tamil Nadu (4,512). Maharashtra recorded 231 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (118) and Kerala (104). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Ladakh. The numbers are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. India records the second-highest number of seven-day average daily deaths in the world, next to Brazil (1,644). About 1,191 daily deaths were recorded on June 28. The two other countries with the highest fatality count after India were Colombia (678) and Russia (576).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/356-lakh-vaccine-shots-given/article35046923.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajasthan BJP caught in turbulence||The Rajasthan BJP is facing turmoil, with former Minister Rohitash Sharma accusing the State leadership of “running the party from within office rooms” during the COVID-19 pandemic. The party served a show-cause notice on him for indiscipline, but the incident has drawn attention to the fact that the cleavage in the party between the factions that owe loyalty to and those who oppose former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje continues to exist and flare up. Ms. Raje, a leader who headed two governments, continues to remain strong within the party with much support while the national leadership has remained wary of her power. Attempts to place Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat as the State president came a cropper a couple of years ago when she stood her ground. ‘Inner-party democracy’ During the pandemic, too, her team ran relief operations via the “Vasundhara Jan Rasoi”, which was separate from the BJP-led “Sewa Hi Sanghthan” programmes. Ms. Raje’s photographs were said to have been removed from party posters, annoying her supporters and providing some of the background for Mr. Sharma’s comments. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sharma said, “Rajasthan is represented by several leaders at the Centre but in my district alone, I found it difficult to coordinate relief. I spoke about that, and rather than acknowledging that there is something called inner-party democracy, I was slapped with a show-cause notice for ‘indiscipline’.” When asked about him speaking on behalf of a particular faction, he said, “Not everyone in a leadership position can become a leader. Vasundhara ji is a leader who brought the BJP to power first with 120 seats and the second time with 163 seats, surpassing the record of Shekhawat ji [former Vice-President Bhairon Singh Shekhawat]. When we already have a powerful leader, we should put her forward,” he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is our face at the Centre, but in States, people want to see good local leadership and faces. The BJP’s situation in West Bengal was because of this lack of a local face, and the same is in Haryana,” he noted. Mr. Sharma has been given 15 days from June 25 (when the notice was first sent) to reply. However, BJP State chief Satish Poonia said, “His remarks on relief work are not true. More than 600 of our ‘karyakartas’ have lost their lives to COVID-19 in the course of serving the public. There are inner-party forums for his complaints, and his citing internal democracy for giving media interviews on party affairs is him being disingenuous.” National general secretary of the BJP and in-charge of Rajasthan, Arun Singh, said out-of-turn statements would not be tolerated. As factionalism brews, the Congress and the BJP in the State can only take solace that both suffer from a similar malaise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-bjp-caught-in-turbulence/article35046897.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||New economic package is a hoax, says Rahul Gandhi||A day after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced new sops to give a boost to the COVID-19-hit economy, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi called the package a hoax. “No family can spend the Finance Minister’s ‘economic package’ for their living, food, medicine or their children school fees. Not a package, another hoax!” he said on Twitter. On Monday, the Finance Minister announced Rs. 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, funds for the healthcare sector, additional loans to tourism agencies, visa fee waiver for foreign tourists and extra funds for the healthcare sector. “Some elementary truths: Credit guarantee is not credit. Credit is more debt. No banker will lend to a debt-ridden business,” former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. “Debt-burdened or cash-starved businesses do not want more credit, they need non-credit capital. More supply does not mean more demand (consumption). On the contrary, more demand (consumption) will trigger more supply.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-economic-package-is-a-hoax-says-rahul-gandhi/article35046906.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Chamoli disaster due to avalanche’||The flash flood on February 7 in Chamoli district, Uttarakhand, that claimed at least 72 lives with at least 200 missing was due to a large mass of snow, ice and rock avalanche along with a hanging mass of rock crashing into the Raunthi Garh valley floor. This impact pulverised the combination of rock, snow and ice causing a rapid flow downstream of Raunthi Garh and into the Rishiganga valley leading to the deluge, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) said in a report on Tuesday. The deluge had destroyed the 13.2 MW Rishiganga power plant and damaged the 520 MW Tapovan-Vishnugadh hydel power project, in whose tunnels several workers had been fatally trapped. The event had sparked global scientific interest with several groups of scientists, both in India and abroad, perusing satellite imagery as well as some teams making field visits to the site to determine the cause of the disaster. A report in the journal Science earlier this month too came to a similar conclusion, reporting that nearly 27 million cubic metres of rock and ice had crashed into the valley floor. Warm weather A contributory factor, according to Saibal Ghosh, senior scientist at the GSI, was unusually warm weather in the region. “Observed change in the hydro-meteorological conditions between 4th and 6th February, 2021 (heavy snowfall followed by sudden warmer climate) possibly triggered this huge snow and rock avalanche/landslide causing sudden domino effect of flash flood in the downstream.” Satya Prakash Shukla, Deputy Director General, International Affairs Division, GSI Central Headquarters, who led the team of geologists investigating the disaster site, said, “Lessons have also been learnt from this event of 7th February 2021 which is an excellent example of multi-hazard phenomena that occurred during the winter time, when this type of phenomenon leading to such disastrous deluge is least expected in the Himalayas.” There was no evidence of a Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF) having caused the event, he noted. Due to the large volume of debris and the deluge, an artificial dam had formed near the confluence of Raunthi Garh and Rishiganga river, by the flowing debris which blocked the flow of the Rishiganga river and formed a small lake temporarily. A study by the National Remote Sensing Centre indicated that the time taken from the initiation of the avalanche and its disastrous impact up to Tapovan barrage site near Joshimath was “barely 50 minutes”, which indicates availability of a “very low lead time for raising any warning for the downstream areas.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chamoli-disaster-due-to-avalanche/article35046885.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Follow Health Ministry advisory till July 31: Centre||The Union Home Ministry on Tuesday asked the States and the Union Territories to consider implementation of targeted and prompt actions for COVID-19 management in accordance with the latest Health Ministry advisory, till July 31. According to the order, issued under the Disaster Management Act, the national directives for COVID-19 management, as specified in the Health Ministry advisory dated June 28, will continue to be strictly followed throughout the country. “All the District Magistrates shall strictly enforce the above measures. For the enforcement of social distancing, State/UT governments may, as far as possible, use the provisions of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code,” the directive said. Any person violating the measures will be liable to be proceeded against under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, and other legal provisions as applicable. Close monitoring In another letter, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said that with a decline in the number of active cases, many States and Union Territories had started relaxing restrictions. However, the process should be carefully calibrated, he wrote. They should closely monitor case positivity and bed occupancy, taking district as an administrative unit. On witnessing any early signs of increase in case positivity and higher bed occupancy, necessary action should be taken for containment and upgrade of health infrastructure. For the districts with high positivity and higher bed occupancy, imposing restrictions may be considered. The States and the Union Territories have been asked to monitor the districts with higher numbers of active cases per million population, as it is an important indicator to predict the need for upgrading health infrastructure and logistics. There should be a continuous focus on the five-fold strategy — test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, said the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/follow-health-ministry-advisory-till-july-31-centre/article35046921.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Indians value religious freedom, not integration’||Most Indians, cutting across religions, feel they enjoy religious freedom, value religious tolerance, and regard respect for all religions as central to what India is as a nation. At the same time the majority in each of the major religious groups show a marked preference for religious segregation and “want to live separately”, according to a nation-wide survey on religious attitudes, behaviours and beliefs conducted by Pew Research Center, a non-profit based in Washington DC. For instance, the report found that 91% of Hindus felt they have religious freedom, while 85% of them believed that respecting all religions was very important ‘to being truly Indian’. Also, for most Hindus, religious tolerance was not just a civic virtue but also a religious value, with 80% of them stating that respecting other religions was an integral aspect of ‘being Hindu’. Other religions showed similar numbers for freedom of religion and religious tolerance. While 89% of Muslims and Christians said they felt free to practice their religion, the comparative figures for Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains were 82%, 93%, and 85% respectively. And yet, paradoxically the majority in all the faiths scored poorly on the metrics for religious segregation: composition of friends circle, views on stopping inter-religious marriage, and willingness to accept people of other religions as neighbours. The survey found that nationally, three-in-ten Hindus took both these positions: linking being Hindu and speaking Hindi to being Indian, and voting for BJP. But there was a clear geographical skew in their distribution: while roughly half of the Hindu voters in northern and central India fell into this category, only 5% of Hindu voters in the South did so. Also, Hindu nationalist sentiments were less prevalent in the South.  Among Hindus, those in the South (42%) were far less likely to say that being Hindu was very important to being truly Indian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indians-value-religious-freedom-not-integration/article35046881.ece
30 June 2021||Kolkata,||Tracking the digital divide in Kolkata||About 40% primary school students could not attend online classes during the COVID-19 pandemic owing to the digital divide, a report published by Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen’s Pratichi (India) Trust found. The study was compiled on the basis of experiences shared by hundreds of teachers across 21 State-run primary schools in Kolkata. The 72-page report highlights the issues faced by students in accessing digital teaching learning. Devices and data “There are two components to the digital divide — one is affordability, and whether the families of students can afford devices that are required for digital learning. The second issue is regular accessibility of uninterrupted data, which again has an element of expenditure,” Sabir Ahamed, national research coordinator, Pratichi (India) Trust, and one of the authors of the report said. The findings are based on experiences over six months during the first wave of the pandemic (April to November 2020) shared by primary school teachers. “So long, the focus was on enrolling as many students as possible and reducing the number of missing children, but the pandemic has brought a situation where the school has gone missing,” the report. The other contributors to the report include Manabi Majumdar, Urba Chaudhuri, Kakali Das De and Sutapa Ghosh. The report focused on children enrolled in Classes 1 to 5. While schools continued to provide dry rations regularly as a supplement to cooked mid-day meals, teachers have reported nutritional deficiency. Though more families of school students sought dry rations, the researchers feel that the rations were distributed among family members, and in some cases, the child’s nutritional needs were not met. Also, during the period surveyed, Kolkata witnessed one of the worst cyclones of the past few decades when Amphan battered south Bengal on May 20, 2020. For more than a couple of weeks, the entire teaching-learning process came to a complete halt due to the lack of digital connectivity. “The report provides us with an understanding of how students are left in the digital teaching learning process. If 40% could not access digital classes in Kolkata, one can imagine the situation in remote areas of the State,” Mr. Ahamed said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tracking-the-digital-divide-in-kolkata/article35046927.ece
30 June 2021||Kolkata,||NHRC team member alleges attack in Kolkata||A member of the committee of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) set up to probe allegations of post-poll violence in the State on Tuesday alleged that he was attacked in Kolkata’s Jadavpur area. Atif Rasheed, Vice-Chairman of the National Commission for Minorities and member of the Committee set up as per the instructions of the Calcutta High Court, said some people chased and attacked him when he visited Jadavpur area to inquire into the allegations. Videos viral “On the basis of the complaints received, we came here and found 40 houses have been destroyed and the families have left. Some of the goons also attacked us in the presence of the police. If this happens to us, what about common people,” Mr. Rasheed said. Videos of the locals surrounding the NHRC committee member and arguing with him have gone viral on social media. The High Court had on June 18 directed the NHRC to set up the panel to probe the allegations. The court refused to stay the order on June 21 after an appeal by the State. Over the past few days, the NHRC has asked for complaints and grievances on violence to be sent to the committee members either in person, via mail, or telephonically. The State BJP leadership raised the issue of the alleged attack. “A court-directed investigation being conducted by the National Human Rights Commission team was attacked at Jadavpur. Democracy is going to the ruins in Bengal,” Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said on social media. The Trinamool Congress leadership said the matter will be investigated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-team-member-alleges-attack-in-kolkata/article35046899.ece
30 June 2021||Washington/New Delhi,||Atul Keshap is interim U.S. Chargé D’affaires||The U.S. State Department announced the appointment of Atul Keshap, a senior foreign service officer with years of experience in South Asia, as Chargé d’affaires (CDA) ad interim, in New Delhi, to replace Daniel Smith, who is retiring. Mr. Keshap’s appointment highlights the fact that the White House is yet to send to the U.S. Senate the nomination of Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, whose name has been doing the rounds for the Ambassador role in New Delhi since the end of May. Mr. Keshap was formerly the U.S. Ambassador to Sri Lanka and the Maldives and played a key role in developing the U.S.-Maldives defence relationship. The two countries signed on to a framework for their security relationship last September. He also served as Deputy Assistance Secretary for South Asia and was posted previously to the American Embassy in New Delhi. “Ambassador Keshap’s appointment will reinforce the close U.S. partnership with the Government and people of India, demonstrated by our collaboration to overcome global challenges like the COVID-19 pandemic,” a statement from the State Department said. Short- and medium- term vaccine access for India, U.S. assistance to India as it fought a second COVID-19 wave in recent months, and India’s manufacturing role in a Quad (India, the U.S., Australia and Japan) plan to supply at least 1 billion vaccines for Asia by the end of 2022 top the agenda of the relationship. While the Biden administration has sent several ambassadorial nominations to the Senate, its silence on the nomination of an ambassador to New Delhi has been conspicuous. “Keshap eminently qualified but what is the deal with the Garcetti ambassadorial appointment to India?” Paul Staniland, a University of Chicago political scientist specialising in South Asia, said on Twitter. A U.S. Embassy spokesperson said Mr. Smith’s appointment was temporary as per the practice, but it still leaves the Garcetti question unanswered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/atul-keshap-is-interim-us-charg-daffaires/article35046912.ece
30 June 2021||Mumbai,||Give me copy of ECIR, says Anil Deshmukh||Skipping the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for the second time, Maharashtra’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh asked the probe agency to supply him the copy of Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) filed against him or the list of documents needed to be furnished and also to record his statement on audio-visual mode. “Please note that your summons do not clarify the particular purpose of my personal appearance. I have learnt from media reports that you arrested two persons who were associated with me. Therefore, insistence of personal appearance without even supplying me a copy of ECIR or documents may strengthen my assertion that there is some kind of malice being nursed against me,” said his letter sent to the ED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-me-copy-of-ecir-says-anil-deshmukh/article35047310.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Offer opt-out option to all students, SC tells ICAI||“Have you taken into consideration the post-COVID effects?” Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, on the Bench, asked Mr. Srinivasan The court said the ICAI note should provide detailed plans on how it intends to secure the exam halls from infection. They should not be some converted wedding halls. They should be exclusively used for the exams. The court said the examiners/invigilators etc should be inoculated. In case of any sudden change in the exam centres, the candidate should either be able to opt out or given a slot at the nearest centre. In case the candidate contracts the infection in the middle of the exams, he or she should be given a chance to appear in the next examination cycle in November. The Bench was hearing pleas to postpone the CA exam due to the pandemic. “The Chartered Accountants exams are professional examinations and ought not to be equated with CBSE or other State Board examinations for Classes 10 or 12. It is in the interest of the candidates aspiring to become Chartered Accountants that the examinations be held,” the ICAI had objected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/offer-opt-out-option-to-all-students-sc-tells-icai/article35046876.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Ensure that no migrant worker goes hungry: SC||It ordered all the States to fully implement the One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) scheme by July 31. The scheme allows migrant labourers covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) to access food at any fair price shop with his or her ration card in any part of the country. The court slammed the Labour Ministry for its “unpardonable apathy” in not completing the work of the Rs. 45.39 crore National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW) portal to register and identify migrant workers and unorganised labourers to ensure their rights, welfare and food security. The court had ordered the Ministry to finalise the NDUW module way back in 2018. The Centre has blamed the delay in implementation on “software” problems. The court ordered the Centre to get its act together and complete the work on the portal by July 31. The Labour Secretary has to file a report in a month thereafter. The Centre should complete the registration of workers by December 31 this year or all their “welfare schemes” would be considered “tall claims on paper”. The Bench directed the States/Union Territories to register establishments and license contractors under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 and ensure that they provided the authorities complete details of the workers employed with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-that-no-migrant-worker-goes-hungry-sc/article35046887.ece
30 June 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Kant’s tenure extended||The Centre has extended the tenure of NITI Aayog Chief Executive Officer Amitabh Kant by one year till June 2022. He is a 1980 batch retired IAS officer of the Kerala cadre, who has been at the helm of the policy think tank since 2016. Before moving to the NITI Aayog, he was Secretary in the Government of India, handling industrial policy and promotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kants-tenure-extended/article35046895.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||J&J says no trial needed in India for Janssen jab||U.S.-based pharmaceutical company Johnson & Johnson has said the requirement to conduct a bridging clinical study of its single-dose Janssen COVID-19 vaccine no longer exists in India. The company is in discussion with the Centre on vaccine supply. The company said it was following Drug Controller General of India’s recent announcement that there was no longer any requirement for conducting post-approval bridging clinical trials for COVID-19 vaccines in India for restricted use in emergency situation in case of those already approved for restricted use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, European Medicines Agency, U.K. Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency of Japan and those listed in the World Health Organization’s Emergency Use Listing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jj-says-no-trial-needed-in-india-for-janssen-jab/article35046919.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Five firms come together for COVID-19 drug trial||Five pharma majors — Cipla, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Emcure, Sun Pharma and Torrent — will collaborate for the clinical trials in India of investigational, oral, anti-viral drug Molnupiravir for the treatment of mild COVID-19. Describing their collaboration as a first of its kind in the Indian pharma industry, a release on Tuesday said the companies will jointly sponsor, supervise and monitor the clinical trial that is expected to take place between June and September this year. The trial, for which 1,200 patients are to be recruited, will be conducted across the country. Dr. Reddy’s will conduct the clinical trial and the others will be required to demonstrate equivalence of their products to the product used by Dr. Reddy’s. Molnupiravir is said to inhibit the replication of multiple RNA viruses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-firms-come-together-for-covid-19-drug-trial/article35046925.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. gives nod for Cipla to import Moderna’s vaccine||“This new permission for restricted emergency use potentially opens up a clear possibility of this vaccine being imported to India in the near future,” explained Dr. Paul. Cipla, while applying for the license, referred to DCGI notices dated April 15 and June 1 that if a vaccine is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for EUA, then it may be made available without a post-approval bridging trial and the testing of every batch of the vaccine by the Central Drugs Laboratory. In a statement, Cipla said it is “supporting Moderna, Inc. with the regulatory approval and importation of vaccines to be donated to India. At this stage, there is no definitive agreement on commercial supplies.” According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Moderna vaccine has shown to have an efficacy of approximately 94.1%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-gives-nod-for-cipla-to-import-modernas-vaccine/article35046878.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: SC dismisses plea against HC ruling||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal filed against the Delhi High Court judgment refusing to halt the Central Vista redevelopment project work amid the COVID-19 pandemic and imposing Rs. 1 lakh fine on the petitioners. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar asked petitioners Anya Malhotra and Sohail Hashmi why they were “selective”. The court asked senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, for the petitioners, repeatedly why his clients chose to focus entirely on the Central Vista project and not other public projects in the Capital. “You have been selective about one project. We do not find in your writ petition anything about any other project.... You have been selective about one project only,” Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, on the Bench, addressed Mr. Luthra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-vista-sc-dismisses-plea-against-hc-ruling/article35046886.ece
30 June 2021||Srinagar,||Lashkar-e-Taiba ‘commander’ among two militants gunned down in Srinagar||Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) ‘commander’ Abrar, who was arrested on Monday, was killed along with another militant and three CRPF jawans were injured in an overnight encounter at Maloora here on Tuesday. “Both the terrorists were killed in the encounter. In the initial firefight, three CRPF personnel got injured and Abrar, who was with the search party, also got hit,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. The condition of the injured personnel was stable, officials said. “A foreign terrorist, who fired from inside the house, got neutralised, and Abrar also got killed,” Mr. Kumar said. “On Monday, at the Parimpora naka [checkpoint], a vehicle was stopped and their identity was asked. Abrar, sitting at the back seat, tried to open his bag and take out a grenade. The naka party swiftly swung into action and grabbed him,” the police said. On sustained interrogation, Abrar disclosed that he had kept his AK-47 rifle in a house located at Maloora. “When he was taken to that house, the police party was fired upon by one of his associates, a foreign terrorist, about whom Abrar didn’t disclose anything. This triggered an encounter,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lashkar-e-taiba-commander-among-two-militants-gunned-down-in-srinagar/article35046890.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cyber skills being used for terror, says Shringla||India on Tuesday accused certain countries of using cyberspace expertise to conduct cross-border terrorism. At the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on Tuesday, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said there were widespread concerns that both State and non-state actors were now manipulating ICT (Information and Communications Technology) products. The comments follow an international report that claimed India’s cybersecurity capabilities were weak, and in a year, the government had said, there had been a 300% increase in cyberattacks, including on several power grids, and more recently on Air India’s databases. “Some States are leveraging their expertise in cyberspace to achieve their political and security-related objectives and indulge in contemporary forms of cross-border terrorism,” said Mr. Shringla, addressing the UNSC debate on “Maintenance of International Peace and Security: Cyber Security”. The use of cyberspace by terrorists to “spread virulent propaganda, incite hatred and violence, recruit youth and raise funds”, as well as the ability of states and terrorists to infiltrate networks were other challenges, he said, without naming any countries. “Such nefarious acts undermine the trust and confidence in the global ICT supply chain, compromise security and could become a flashpoint between States. It is in the interest of the international community to ensure that all actors abide by their international obligations and commitments and not indulge in practices that could have potentially disruptive effects on global supply chains and trade in ICT products,” Mr. Shringla said. On Monday, the report released by the International Institute of Strategic Studies (IISS) assessed the cyber-power of 15 countries. It graded India as a “third-tier” cyber-power that had focussed its cyber intelligence and offensive capabilities too narrowly on Pakistan, and not other global threats further afield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyber-skills-being-used-for-terror-says-shringla/article35046893.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Lustrous Vamana||The descendants of sage Bhrigu perform asvamedha yaga for Mahabali. Lord Mahavishnu, who has taken the Vamana avatara, knowing this, goes to Mahabali, with a plan to recover the kingdom of the devas, which Mahabali has usurped. Vamana plans to ask Bali for a daana, and to thereby get the kingdom back, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. But as the Lord of everything, He has never asked for anything. He needs nothing and there is nothing that anyone can give Him that He does not already possess. So, when He goes to ask Bali for daana, He is at a loss about how to go about it. So, He shakes with worry! This is brought out by Andal, in Her Nachiar Thirumozhi, where She says “adira pugutha”. Adira, meaning shaking. After all, since the Earth itself is His property, it is like asking for His own property! Who, but the Lord, would so humble Himself, in answer to the prayers of those who worship Him? When Vamana arrives at the place of the yaga, even the lustre of the sages seems to pale. So lustrous is He. When a big lamp is lit, does not the flame of a smaller one seem insignificant? So does the Lord’s effulgence dim the brightness of the tapasvis. The sages wonder if the Sun, or Agni has come to witness the yaga, or if the Sanatkumaras have come. The sages welcome Vamana with agni. Vamana is handsome, with his kamandala, umbrella, danda and the maunji (girdle made of munja grass). Mahabali washes Vamana’s feet, and says that this water will confer auspiciousness on people, and will cleanse them of their sins. Usually, we bathe in sacred rivers to wash away our sins. But the Lord comes to Bali, and gives Him the opportunity of washing His feet, thereby getting rid of Bali’s sins. Mahabali was fortunate indeed, to be so blessed by the Lord.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lustrous-vamana/article35046913.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aadhaar can be ID proof for GRE, TOEFL||Indian students writing the GRE or TOEFL examinations will be allowed to use their Aadhaar cards as identification proof from July 1. Making the announcement, the Educational Testing Service (ETS) said on Tuesday that many students have faced difficulties in getting passports due to the COVID-19 lockdowns. The ETS conducts both the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) and the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), standardised tests which are an admission requirement for many universities in the United States and elsewhere. According to the ETS website, a passport is the only accepted identification proof so far for those taking the tests in India. This temporary measure will apply until further notice, according to an ETS statement. It will also apply to the new TOEFL Essentials Test, which the ETS will start offering from August 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aadhaar-can-be-id-proof-for-gre-toefl/article35046877.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA takes over Jammu drone attack case||The National Investigation Agency on Tuesday took over the probe into the drone attack inside the IAF station in Jammu early on Sunday. Following a directive from the Ministry of Home Affairs, the NIA has re-registered the case that was earlier lodged at the Satwari police station in Jammu under Sections 3 and 4 of the Explosive Substances Act, Sections 13, 16, 18 and 23 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and Sections 307 and 120B of the IPC. “The case relates to an explosion that occurred in the premises of the Air Force Station, Satwari campus, Jammu, on June 27 and a subsequent blast, after about six minutes carried out by drones in a well-planned conspiracy...,” said the agency, adding that two IAF personnel were injured in the explosion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-takes-over-jammu-drone-attack-case/article35046879.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Atlas of glacial lakes in Ganga basin released||With concerns mounting over the impact of climate change on Himalayan glaciers, the Ministry of Jal Shakti has released an updated atlas of glacial lakes that are part of the Ganga river basin. About 4,707 glacial lakes have been mapped in the Ganga basin. Last December, a similar inventory of glacial lakes was prepared for the Indus river basin. For the present study, glacial lakes with water spread area greater than 0.25 ha were mapped using Resourcesat-2 (RS-2) Linear Imaging Self Scanning Sensor-IV (LISS-IV) satellite data. Based on its process of lake formation, location, and type of damming material, glacial lakes are identified in nine different types, majorly grouped into four categories. The area mapped spans from the origin of the river to foothills of Himalayas covering a catchment area of 2,47,109 sq km. The study portion of Ganga River basin covers part of India and transboundary region. The Atlas is available on Bhuvan portal of NRSC, ISRO(https://bhuvan.nrsc.gov.in/nhp/) The expected “utility” of the atlas was to create a “comprehensive and systematic” glacial lake database for Ganga River basin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/atlas-of-glacial-lakes-in-ganga-basin-released/article35046883.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||No meeting planned with Sidhu: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday denied that he was scheduled to meet former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu. “I don't know what fuss you all are making,” Mr. Gandhi told presspersons outside 10 Janpath, the residence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Though he avoided a direct answer on the meeting taking place on Wednesday, a source told The Hindu that it will take place. On Monday, Mr. Sidhu’s team had claimed that the cricketer-turned-politician would be meeting Mr. Gandhi and his sister and party general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi. During Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s Delhi visit last week, he met only a three-member panel of the All India Congress Committee and not the Gandhis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-meeting-planned-with-sidhu-rahul/article35046891.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Congress asks govt. to frame drone policy||The Congress on Tuesday urged the Centre to prepare a comprehensive policy to deal with armed drone attacks. Party general secretary Randeep Surjewala said the government should act on the advice of defence experts on modern warfare instead of “headline management”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-asks-govt-to-frame-drone-policy/article35046898.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||FB to publish interim report on compliance||Facebook on Tuesday said it will publish an interim report this week with details of content removed from its platforms proactively, as required under the new IT rules. The U.S.-headquartered social media giant will publish a final report on July 15, which will contain details of user complaints received and the action taken, along with data related to WhatsApp. “In accordance with the IT rules, we’ll publish an interim report for the period May 15-June 15 on July 2. This report will contain details of the content that we have removed proactively using our automated tools,” a spokesperson said in an emailed statement. The spokesperson added that the final report would be published on July 15 with details of user complaints received and action taken. The report on July 15 will also contain data related to WhatsApp, which is currently being validated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fb-to-publish-interim-report-on-compliance/article35046909.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar presses for vaccine equity||International cooperation is the way forward to deal with vaccine requirements to counter the threat of COVID-19 pandemic, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday during the G20 Foreign Ministers meeting at Matera in Italy. The comment came on a day when the African Union said Covishield of Serum Institute of India has been the “backbone” of the vaccination programme in the continent supported by EU under the COVAX programme. “Institutional multilateralism has been found wanting. Reforms have many forms but vaccine equity will be the immediate test,” said Mr. Jaishankar, urging international cooperation to ensure supply of vaccines, medicines, oxygen and protective gear to counter the COVID-19 pandemic. The Minister's reference to “vaccine equity” echoed closely the statement from the African Union and the Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) which “noted with concern” reports that Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine has not received clearance from the European Medicines Authority (EMA). The AU noted that EU has authorised the European version of AstraZeneca vaccine named Vaxzevria but the same was not extended to Covishield which is meant for India and lower income countries of Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-presses-for-vaccine-equity/article35046924.ece
30 June 2021||Lucknow,||Kovind lays foundation of Ambedkar memorial||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of a memorial and cultural centre dedicated to B.R. Ambedkar in Lucknow. However, BSP chief Mayawati questioned the timing of the launch, which is a few months before the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kovind-lays-foundation-of-ambedkar-memorial/article35047173.ece
30 June 2021||Guwahati,||Assault on Assam doctor: 36 chargesheeted||The Assam police have submitted a chargesheet naming 36 persons, including three children, for assaulting a doctor on June 1. A mob had assaulted Seuj Kumar Senapati, a doctor at the Udali Covid Care Centre in central Assam’s Hojai district, after a patient died of COVID-19. The doctor had to undergo surgery. The incident had come to light after a video released on social media showed several people hitting the doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assault-on-assam-doctor-36-chargesheeted/article35047174.ece
30 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers’ movement played key role in Bengal polls results: Sinha||Trinamool Congress leader Yashwant Sinha met BKU’s Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh and protesting farmers at the Ghazipur border. He said the party was in support of the farmers and the movement played a key role in the West Bengal election. “In the future meetings of the National Front, it would be discussed how to hit the road in support of farmers’ demands,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-movement-played-key-role-in-bengal-polls-results-sinha/article35046894.ece
30 June 2021||Pune,||Time to stop talk of rift within MVA: Raut||Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said while leaders may have different views, the tripartite MVA government in Maharashtra was functioning smoothly. He quashed reports of NCP chief Sharad Pawar being “upset” with the Sena, adding that it was time to put a stop to talk of any ‘unease’ in the coalition. “Where does the question of dissatisfaction arise? The MVA has been doing good work consistently and there is proper coordination between the three parties. Whether the government is of one party, three parties or 32 parties, there could be different views among its constituent partners… But this does not indicate any serious rift,” insisted Mr. Raut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/time-to-stop-talk-of-rift-within-mva-raut/article35046900.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Jairam Ramesh moves privilege motion against Times Now||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, who chairs the Parliamentary Standing Committee on science and technology, moved a privilege motion against Times Now for “falsified and mischievous” reporting of the proceedings of the panel’s meeting. Mr. Ramesh wrote to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu that the channel falsely reported on a discussion on the ‘PM CARES fund’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jairam-ramesh-moves-privilege-motion-against-times-now/article35046903.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||CPI sees nothing in stimulus package to boost demand||The CPI said the stimulus package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman offered no incentives to boost demand. The CPI said while announcing the Rs. 6.28 lakh crore plan, the Minister didn’t mention where the funds would be mobilised from. “Is this a part of current budget expenditure?” it asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpi-sees-nothing-in-stimulus-package-to-boost-demand/article35046908.ece
30 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||FIR filed in U.P. against Twitter officials over ‘distorted’ India map||An FIR has been lodged against the managing director of Twitter India, Manish Maheshwari, and his colleague, in Bulandshahr for allegedly showing a distorted map of India on their website. The complaint was from a Bajrang Dal leader, who alleged that in a world map on Twitter, J&K and Ladakh were shown as entities separate from India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fir-filed-in-up-against-twitter-officials-over-distorted-india-map/article35046910.ece
30 June 2021||Mumbai,||Actor Sonu Sood files plea, denies hoarding COVID-19 medicines||Actor Sonu Sood on Tuesday filed a plea before the Bombay High Court and denied all allegations of stocking, hoarding or distributing COVID-19 medicines. The application was filed seeking permission to intervene in a public interest litigation filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi and activist Nilesh Navlakha concerning COVID-19 management by the State and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Previously, the court had asked how actors and MLAs had access to medicines that seemed to be in short supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actor-sonu-sood-files-plea-denies-hoarding-covid-19-medicines/article35046915.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||PMs’ museum still under construction||The proposed Prime Ministers’ museum is still under construction, having missed its October 2020 deadline due to the COVID-19 pandemic, officials of the Culture Ministry and Central Public Works Department (CPWD) said on Tuesday. Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel visited the site, which is a part of the Teen Murti Estate, where the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML) is located, and held a review meeting with Ministry and CPWD officials. Tagbin, the company that will design the museum, made a presentation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pms-museum-still-under-construction/article35046920.ece
30 June 2021||Mumbai,||Fake vaccination cases: HC asks Mumbai police identify big fish||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday told the Mumbai police to identify the ‘big fish’ in cases where over 2,000 people were administered “saline water” in fake COVID-19 vaccination camps allegedly orchestrated by a doctor couple of Shivam Hospital. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a bunch of public interest litigation (PIL) petitions concerning the supply and demand of vaccinations in the city. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare told the court that seven FIRs had been registered and 11 arrested in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fake-vaccination-cases-hc-asks-mumbai-police-identify-big-fish/article35046928.ece
30 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra proposes home vaccination for the bed-ridden on experimental basis||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court that it proposes to start vaccination at home on an experimental basis for the bed-ridden. Dr. Dilip Patil, Deputy Director, State Family Welfare Bureau, filed an affidavit before a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and G.S. Kulkarni. The affidavit was filed in a public interest litigation by two city-based advocates — Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari — seeking door-to-door vaccination for those above 75 years of age and wheelchair-bound. The court told the government counsel that, “Health is a State subject”, and asked if the government’s advisory mentioned an approval was needed from the Centre to begin door-to-door vaccination. The State proposed mobile vaccination clinics to visit localitiesfor those on wheelchairs or bedridden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-proposes-home-vaccination-for-the-bed-ridden-on-experimental-basis/article35046929.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25 districts log less than 100 cases each||On a day when Tamil Nadu reported 4,512 new COVID-19 cases, 25 of its 37 districts logged fewer than 100 infections each. Ramanathapuram recorded the least number of cases at 15. The fresh infections took the State’s tally to 24,75,190. The State saw over 100 fatalities. A total of 118 people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 32,506. Active cases dropped below 40,000 — as many as 39,355 people are under treatment for COVID-19. The total number of people discharged so far crossed 24 lakh. As many as 6,013 people were discharged after treatment on Tuesday, taking the total figure to 24,03,349. Coimbatore recorded 563 cases, followed by Erode with 493. There were 302 cases in Salem and 281 in Tiruppur. Chennai recorded 275 cases, while Chengalpattu and Thanjavur saw 229 and 215 respectively. Districts with fewer than 100 cases included Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Theni, Thoothukudi, Vellore and Virudhunagar. Chennai continued to record fewer than 10 deaths due to COVID-19. Seven people succumbed to the infection in the city. There were 12 deaths each in Coimbatore and Madurai, nine in Salem and seven each in Ranipet and Vellore. Among the deceased were two people in their 20s. A 25-year-old woman from Vellore, who had Takayasu’s Arteritis, was admitted to the Vellore Medical College Hospital on June 26. She died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 28-year-old man from Chengalpattu was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on June 10 with complaints of fever and cough for two days. He died on June 28 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. In the last 24 hours, 1,60,423 samples were tested in the State. Over 2 lakh get jabs Over two lakh people received COVID-19 vaccines on Tuesday. As many as 2,48,294 people, including 1,51,054 in the 18-44 age group were inoculated. This took the overall coverage to 1,45,50,494.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-districts-log-less-than-100-cases-each/article35047087.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Electricity Minister reviews maintenance work done in city||Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji held a review meeting with officials of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) on Tuesday to take stock of the maintenance work completed within 10 days to prevent sudden power failures. Residents have been complaining of recurring power cuts in various places. In a press release, the Electricity Minister said the residents were found to be facing power cuts because of the failure of the previous regime to carry out regular maintenance work for more than nine months. Based on the advice of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Tangedco took up a massive maintenance operation all over the city between June 19 and 28 to rectify the problems. Equipment replaced During the 10-day period, a total of 4,162 switches were replaced, 1,327 damaged pillar boxes were removed and new ones installed, 1,223 new insulators were placed and 20,767 tree branches, affecting overhead electricity cable and distribution transformers, were cleared. Thanking senior officials and workers for executing the task, he said several developments needed to be initiated in the future. The Minister also said the ‘Minnagam’ service call centre, inaugurated by Mr. Stalin, had received a total of 40,500 complaints, of which 31,000 had been rectified. The remaining complaints would be addressed within two days, he added. Citing the huge loss of Rs. 1.5 lakh crore sustained by Tangedco due to administrative reasons during the past 10 years, Mr. Balaji said Rs. 15,000 crore was being spent for interest alone every year. He said steps were being taken to reduce the interest amount to Rs. 13,000 crore. He alleged that the AIADMK-led government had failed to commission any power project in the past 10 years and this had resulted in the State’s electricity generation reducing drastically, compared to the Central generating capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electricity-minister-reviews-maintenance-work-done-in-city/article35047062.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. urges Centre to consider plea of salt manufacturers||With the State slipping into the third place in salt production in the country, the Tamil Nadu government has written to the Centre asking it to consider the pleas of the salt manufacturers to renew their leases for a period of 20 years. A senior official said that in a letter sent to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the State said the issue of lease renewal was affecting production badly on lands owned by the Central government and this was, in turn, affecting employment of salt workers engaged on those lands. “The letter was sent based on the requests of the salt manufacturers in the State. We have asked them to charge base rates charged by the State government. Salt is not a highly profit making venture and is very labour intensive. It was around 2013 that the Government of India took a decision to auction the lands, and they also increased the base rates. Across the country, manufacturers have taken stay,” the official said. Salt is produced on 48,406 acres in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-urges-centre-to-consider-plea-of-salt-manufacturers/article35047079.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs Centre, State to respond to case against NEET committee||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notices returnable by July 5 to the Centre and the State government on a writ petition challenging the constitution of the Justice A.K. Rajan committee to study the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical admissions in the State. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy accepted a request made by Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram to grant him time to file a counter affidavit. The judges ordered that the papers should also be served on Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan to ascertain the Centre’s stand. K. Nagarajan, State general secretary of the BJP, had filed the writ petition. His counsel V. Raghavachari said NEET was introduced from the academic year 2017-18 to ensure merit-based admissions to medical colleges in the country. Nevertheless, the State government had been attempting to seek exemption from it through every possible means. On June 22, 2017, a government order was issued, stating that medical admissions in the State would be conducted based on Plus Two marks for the academic year 2017-18 if the President grants assent before the release of the rank list to a Bill passed in the Assembly on February 1, 2017. Otherwise, it was decided to follow NEET marks for admissions during the year. When this issue was taken to the Supreme Court, the Bench ordered that the “State of Tamil Nadu shall not make any kind of distinction or discrimination between the examinations conducted by various Boards; and admissions shall be effected as per the result of the NEET examination.” After reading out the Supreme Court’s order, Mr. Raghavachari said the State government had now embarked on a wasteful expenditure of public money by constituting a committee to study the impact of NEET, when the Supreme Court had categorically held that Tamil Nadu should fall in line with other States. The Chief Justice said the constitution of the committee might end up to be an exercise in futility. He also said the State government should have obtained the leave of the Supreme Court before constituting the panel. In reply, the Advocate General told the court that the committee had been constituted following a policy decision taken by the court and to fulfil an electoral promise made by the ruling party. The A-G added that he would answer all those questions by way of a counter affidavit next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-centre-state-to-respond-to-case-against-neet-committee/article35047093.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman undergoes two procedures in single surgery||A 54-year-old woman from Assam recently underwent a single-stage surgery for renal cancer and femur replacement in a city hospital. The woman, who required prosthesis for the broken thigh bone, also underwent laparoscopic radical nephrectomy, and is ready to go home. In the first week of March, the woman broke her thigh bone in a fall. Doctors said she needed surgery but the tumour in her left kidney made them wary. She was advised to seek treatment at Apollo Proton Cancer Care Centre here. Her treatment began on June 13. Senior consultant orthopaedic surgeon Vijay Kishore Reddy said patients came late for treatment due to travel restrictions and fear of COVID-19. By the time the woman could travel, the tumour in her kidney had reached the final stage. Her renal cell carcinoma had metastasised, forming several smaller tumours and reaching her femur. Doctors found that the tumour had completely destroyed her femur and had spread to the soft tissues. A team of doctors planned the surgeries to replace the damaged femur and knee joint with prosthesis and to remove the cancerous kidney. The use of the laparoscopic method to remove the cancerous kidney reduced blood loss to just 500 ml, doctors said. The patient was mobilised the next day and made to walk. She had a good chance of five-year survival rate, the doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-undergoes-two-procedures-in-single-surgery/article35047067.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID interrogates Siva Shankar Baba||The Crime Branch-CID (CB-CID) on Tuesday conducted custodial interrogation of Siva Shankar Baba, who was arrested on charges of sexually harassing minor girls. Based on the complaint of victims, three cases were registered under the POCSO Act and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act by the All-Women police, Mamallapuram, against him. He was arrested by the CB-CID a fortnight ago in New Delhi and brought to Chennai, and was remanded in judicial custody. Subsequently, another person, Sushmitha, a teacher who allegedly aided him, was also arrested. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital after he complained of ill-health while at the Chengalpattu sub-jail. In the meantime, the CB-CID filed a petition, seeking a special court in Chengalpattu to order custodial interrogation for eight days. On being discharged from the hospital, he was produced before the court on Monday, and it granted permission for three-day custodial interrogation. On Tuesday, the CB-CID team took him to the school in Kelambakkam and the premises of his ashram. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-interrogates-siva-shankar-baba/article35047074.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lab to be upgraded for genomic analysis of SARS-CoV-2 variants||An existing laboratory at the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University will be upgraded to take up genomic analysis of samples to identify newer variants of SARS-CoV-2. On Tuesday, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, along with Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Vice-Chancellor of the university Sudha Seshayyan, held a meeting to explore the possibility of starting a laboratory for SARS-CoV-2 variants. The Minister also inspected a laboratory at the university. “The university already has a nationally accredited laboratory for zika, chikungunya, leptospirosis, HIV/AIDS and dengue viruses. It has been decided to take up analysis of the Delta Plus variant. The laboratory will be upgraded soon as it is already nationally recognised and will be brought to use,” he told reporters. Now, samples are sent to InStem in Bengaluru for whole genome sequencing, he said, adding: “Samples lifted from COVID-19 positive patients were analysed for newer variants. The government wanted to set up such a laboratory in Chennai, and we have looked at the possibilities of utilising an existing facility at the university.” University authorities said the existing lab was approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research and was nationally accredited. The laboratory had adequate infrastructure and would be upgraded to take up genomic analysis of SARS-CoV-2 variants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lab-to-be-upgraded-for-genomic-analysis-of-sars-cov-2-variants/article35047091.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK seeks more time for organisational polls||The AIADMK has sought extension of time for six more months from the Election Commission to conduct organisational elections. The communication was sent to the panel about 10 days ago, say sources in the party, citing the prevalence of the pandemic as the primary reason. Besides, the party requires some more time to organise itself, in the light of its defeat in the Assembly election. In fact, even in April, the party had made a similar request but the panel, a few weeks ago, asked it to complete the process by mid-July. “Apparently, our earlier communication for extension did not reach the officials concerned in the Commission. This time, we have sent another request, enclosing a copy of the earlier one, both by conventional post and e-mail,” explained a source who represents the party before the Commission on such matters. The last time the party held organisational polls was during August 2014-April 2015. On August 29, 2014, the then Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa, was elected general secretary of the party for the seventh time. The organisational polls should be held once in five years, according to rule 30 (ii) of the party constitution. As the party, through a series of amendments in September 2017, created the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator in the place of general secretary and authorised the general council to elect occupants for the two posts instead of the earlier arrangement of all primary members electing the general secretary, a party veteran explained that the poll process would begin at the lowest rung of the organisation — branch. Subsequently, the process will cover the levels of panchayat union and district. Even if the Commission accepts the party’s request for one more round of extension, the coming months are likely to be eventful for the organisation, according to many long-standing members of the party. Already, former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala is making efforts to return to active politics. On a daily basis, her office is releasing audio clips of her conversations with a number of her supporters. Resolutions have been adopted by a number of district units of the party, accusing her of “seeking to capture” the party. As local body polls may be held later this year not only for village panchayats, panchayat unions and district panchayats in nine districts, but also for town panchayats, municipalities and municipal corporations all over the State, the party has to keep its machinery ready for another round of intense electoral battle. Besides, the party leadership has to ensure cohesion within the ranks of the organisation and demonstrate that it can put behind it the events leading to the elections of the legislature party leader in May and other office-bearers this month, the veterans pointed out. As regards convening the general council, there is a possibility of it soon, once the normality returns, the members added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-seeks-more-time-for-organisational-polls/article35047094.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3rd phase of serosurvey begins in Tamil Nadu||The third phase of serosurveillance, which began on Monday, will cover 888 clusters in the State. Around 25,000 samples will be lifted for detection of SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies. The first serosurvey, conducted by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine in October-November 2020, found an overall seropositivity of 31%. This was followed by a second one this April (except in Chennai) which recorded an overall seroprevalence of 23%. During the second survey, the highest seropositivity was reported in Tiruvallur (49%) and lowest in Nagapattinam (9%). In serosurveys, a combination of factors are at play, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said. “This includes the level of infection, vaccination and the individual’s immunity. At that point of time, it can indicate the level of susceptibility to infection in the community. It can increase or decrease,” he said. When seroprevalence crosses 70% — through infection and vaccination — it is established that there will be protection, he said, adding: “The challenge of newer variants remains. So serosurveys can only tell you what level of immunity there is within a population, through a combination of infection and vaccination.” The third phase will cover 888 clusters, spread across 46 health-unit districts.  The first serosurvey, conducted in October-November 2020, found an overall seropositivity of 31%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3rd-phase-of-serosurvey-begins-in-tamil-nadu/article35047088.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP, AIADMK must make stand on NEET clear’||The BJP and its ally, the AIADMK, should make their stand on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) clear, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday. The Minister said that while the BJP’s general secretary, Karu. Nagarajan, had filed a petition against the constitution of a committee, headed by Justice A.K. Rajan, to study the impact of NEET on medical admissions in the State, former Chief Minister and Opposition Leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was issuing statements twice every week, seeking clarity on whether the exam would be conducted. Mr. Subramanian said during the recent Assembly session, BJP floor leader Nainar Nagendran had said the party would support the government if it sought exemption from NEET within the legal framework. “In contradiction, the BJP’s general secretary has moved the court against the Justice A.K. Rajan committee. This shows the double standards of the party,” the Minister said, adding that this showed how much the BJP cared for the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu. The AIADMK, the Minister said, should take a clear stand, as its ally BJP had gone to court against the committee. Noting that NEET continued to impact rural and poor students, he said coaching classes were out of reach for many. He said the State government would file an affidavit in response to the petition on the specified date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-aiadmk-must-make-stand-on-neet-clear/article35047089.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||App launched for medical consultations||The Kauvery Group of Hospitals has launched a mobile application for online consultations with doctors. According to a press release, patients can download the application ‘KauveryKare’, book an appointment with an expert and consult online for themselves as well as their family members. Faster healthcare Manivannan Selvaraj, founder and managing director, Kauvery Group of Hospitals, said through the application, they hoped to provide people with faster access to healthcare from anywhere without needing to take a break from work and visit the hospital. The app was designed to enable patients to book their appointments and complete the process for in-person visits once normalcy returns. It is presently available in the Tiruchi, Chennai and Salem branches of the hospital. The application is available for download in both Android and iOS versions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/app-launched-for-medical-consultations/article35047065.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Application seeking GI tag for Negamam cotton sari filed||An application seeking geographical indication (GI) tag for the Negamam cotton sari, which is woven by the master weavers of Negamam, a village in Coimbatore, has been submitted by various co-operatives in this zone. Unique feature P. Sanjai Gandhi, IPR attorney and nodal officer for Geographical Indication Registration of products, Government of Tamil Nadu, who prepared and filed the application on behalf of the 15 different co-operatives said, “The unique feature of this sari is its thickness, which is on an average 86 to 90 picks per inch (PPI), plain coloured body with contrast border and pallu. The border is woven with a rich thread work design, as an extra weft,” he said. Those who have been in the business of making this particular sari pointed out that the length of the traditional Negamam cotton is 7.3 meters to 8.2 meters with a running blouse attached to it, whereas the standard size of any other sari is 5.5 meters. The sari has intricate pallus adorned with traditional motifs (peacocks, parrots, elephants and swans). During earlier days, the Negamam cotton saris were manufactured in Negamam and it slowly spread to various villages in the areas of Udumalpet, Pollachi and Palladam. Currently, this sari is being manufactured by 15 weavers’ society across villages of Pollachi, Sulur, Kinathukadavu, Anamalai and Udumalpet Taluks in Coimbatore with the help of over 4,500 looms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/application-seeking-gi-tag-for-negamam-cotton-sari-filed/article35047152.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industrialists call on CM||Samsung Southwest Asia president & CEO Ken Kang, with his team of officials of the Sriperumbudur unit, called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Tuesday. Separately, chairman of Trent and Tata Investment Corporation Noel Tata, Voltas Limited managing director and CEO Pradeep Bakshi, Trent Limited’s executive director (Finance) P. Venkatesalu and Tata International executive director and chief operating officer Anand Sen called on the CM. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam and senior officials were present during both meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrialists-call-on-cm/article35047075.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Peter Alphonse is State minorities panel chief||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has reconstituted the State Minorities Commission and named former Congress legislator S. Peter Alphonse as its Chairperson. Mr. Alphonse was elected to the Assembly from Tenkasi constituency in 1989 and 1991 and from the Kadayanallur segment in 2006, an official release stated. The commission was constituted to safeguard the rights and interests of both religious and linguistic minorities. It visits various parts of the State to study the problems of minorities and recommends suitable remedial measures to the departments concerned. The constitution of the State Minorities Commission was ordered through a G.O. in 1989 under the then DMK government headed by the then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. An Act was passed to make it a statutory body in 2010. Construction workers Mr. Stalin has also reconstituted the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers’ Welfare Board and named Pon. Kumar as its Chairperson. Secretaries of the Municipal Administration and Water Supply, Finance, Public Works, Housing and Urban Development, Highways and Minor Ports Departments, the Labour Commissioner, the Director of Industrial Safety and Health, the Director of Public Health and the Regional Labour Commissioner of the Union government would also be part of the board. Representatives of employers, the Tamil Nadu Housing Board, the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, representatives from CREDAI and manual workers are also among the members of the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/peter-alphonse-is-state-minorities-panel-chief/article35047069.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM sanctions Rs. 100 cr. for COVID fight||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday sanctioned Rs. 100 crore from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) towards procuring liquid oxygen for treating COVID-19 patients in State-run hospitals and taking precautionary steps against a possible third wave. The CMPRF had received a total of Rs. 353 crore till Tuesday, following an appeal issued by the Chief Minister. Earlier, the Chief Minister sanctioned Rs. 50 crore towards procuring medicines and another Rs. 50 crore for procuring RT-PCR test kits. He also sanctioned Rs. 41.4 crore for importing oxygen concentrators and other equipment, and Rs. 25 crore for procuring medicines to treat patients with mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-sanctions-rs-100-cr-for-covid-fight/article35047081.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NCSC notice to IIT-M over hiring issue||The National Commission for the Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has sent a notice to IIT-Madras based on a complaint by an activist that reservation policies were not followed during faculty recruitment conducted last year. In the petition submitted to the NCSC’s office in Chennai, S. Karuppaiah, State general secretary, Dalit Liberation Movement - Tamil Nadu, alleged that the posts reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs) and Other Backward Classes (OBCs) were not filled. Based on his complaint, the Chennai office of the NCSC asked IIT-Madras to furnish all related information for investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncsc-notice-to-iit-m-over-hiring-issue/article35047082.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin hands over orders to beneficiaries||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday handed over orders of welfare schemes under the “Chief Minister in your constituency” programme to beneficiaries. Action had been taken on 1,21,720 petitions, and 50,643 had already been resolved. “Since 36,072 petitions did not have a postal address or contact number, action could not be taken on them. However, steps will be taken to trace them and address their concerns,” a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-hands-over-orders-to-beneficiaries/article35047083.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Give aid to kin of deceased advocates’||Leader of the Opposition and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday demanded that assistance of Rs. 50 lakh be paid to the kin of advocates who died of COVID-19. Expressing “sadness and disappointment” over the DMK regime not providing any relief to young advocates affected by COVID-19, he said the government had not come out with any welfare scheme for advocates, as recommended by the Bar Council, and advocates’ clerks, besides teachers of private schools, drivers of private buses and autorickshaw and taxi drivers, from whom he received representations while in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-aid-to-kin-of-deceased-advocates/article35047090.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dialysis centre opened at Tiruvottiyur||A dialysis unit was inaugurated at the Urban Community Centre, Tiruvottiyur, by the Rotary Club of Madras Central Aadithya, Rotary Club of Madras West and Tanker Foundation. Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian launched the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dialysis-centre-opened-at-tiruvottiyur/article35047063.ece
30 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Opinion divided over radio-collaring of crop raider elephant||The Forest Department’s move to radio collar a crop raider tusker at the foothills of the Nilgiris near Mettupalayam town has created divided opinion among its staff, animal lovers and the public. As in the case of Vinayagan and Chinnathambi, both crop raider elephants which were captured and translocated from Thadagam area near Coimbatore in 2018-19, Baahubali too is getting a fan base. Social media posts have started doing rounds against the radio-collaring of the elephant aged 35-40 years, naming it as a ‘harmless elephant’. A senior official from the Department, who has been part of the efforts to tranquillise the elephant, shared a post in social media on Tuesday that heaped praises on Baahubali as an ‘elephant with various qualities’. The post said the elephant was harmless and it waited for vehicles to pass while crossing roads. Some of the field staff of the Department, who have been monitoring the elephant, codenamed by the Department as ‘MP20T1, said they were not really convinced about the need to radio-collar the animal. “His routine has been the same for years. It raids crops at night and returns to the forest very early in the morning. We have not heard of the elephant having attacked people or damaged properties like houses,” said a senior frontline worker who did not want to be named. Another frontline worker told The Hindu the elephant was restless following continuous monitoring by the Department for several days and close monitoring on Sunday and Monday. At the end of the second day of the operation on Monday, District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said the Department halted the efforts for 10 days so that the elephant could return to its normal routine. Prior to starting the operation, the Department had said in a statement that the radio-collaring was for study purposes and to understand the migration pattern of elephants. However, Baahubali has been remaining largely in Mettupalayam and Sirumugai forest ranges for several years unlike other solitary tuskers that migrate long distances. A veterinarian involved in the operation said the radio-collaring was mainly to track the elephant and do negative conditioning by chasing it back to forest continuously. K. Kalidasan of environmental organisation ‘Osai’ said radio-collaring was a scientific method to monitor the elephant. “However, tranquillising the elephant for radio-collaring must be done with at most care on a plane landscape,” he said, recalling an incident wherein a 20-year-old elephant that was shot with a tranquilliser dart for radio-collaring was later found dead near Thadagam in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opinion-divided-over-radio-collaring-of-crop-raider-elephant/article35047145.ece
30 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. helps A.P. youth reunite with family||Coimbatore Corporation has helped a youth from Andhra Pradesh return home. Sources said V. Rajesh, who had left home at Tadepalle in Guntur district, landed at the Podanur Railway Junction a few days ago. The Railway Police personnel who found him loitering around the Junction, questioned him and later took him to the Coimbatore Corporation’s night shelter in R.S. Puram. The caretaker at the shelter, K. Gangadharan, interacted with Mr. Rajesh to find out that he was an engineering graduate and had left home following differences with the family. Mr. Gangadharan with the help of team counselled Mr. Rajesh to return home. After he gave the nod,Mr. Gangadharan reached out to Mr. Rajesh’s father Venkaiah, who with his father drove down to the city to take back his son, sources said. Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara played a supportive role, Mr. Gangadharan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-helps-ap-youth-reunite-with-family/article35047151.ece
30 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Steps taken to operate KSRTC buses from Kerala to Coimbatore: MP||P.R. Natarajan, MP, has taken steps for KSRTC to operate buses from Kerala to Coimbatore for government and bank employees. According to a press release from the Coimbatore MP, the employees residing in Kerala were travelling to Coimbatore by bus operated by KSRTC since last year’s lockdown. However, the contract for operating these buses to Coimbatore expired in April this year and it was not renewed because of the lockdown in Tamil Nadu. CITU’s national president K.K. Diwakaran spoke to Mr. Natarajan on this issue and the MP and KSRTC officials met Coimbatore District Collector G.S. Sameeran. As instructed by the Collector, the contract was renewed and the buses will be operated again from Wednesday, the press release claimed. Coimbatore Consumer Cause secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said several employees and staff of government departments and banks residing in Coimbatore district are unable to commute to their workplace because of lack of public transport service. If buses are permitted for those travelling from the neighbouring State, the same should be available for those residing within Coimbatore district (Mettupalayam, Pollachi, etc) to travel to their workplaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-taken-to-operate-ksrtc-buses-from-kerala-to-coimbatore-mp/article35047130.ece
30 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. taking efforts to improve marketing opportunities for weavers’||Handlooms and Textiles Minister R. Gandhi said the State government is taking efforts to improve marketing opportunities for handloom and powerloom weavers. Speaking at a review meeting here on Tuesday, he pointed out that Coimbatore has presence of different segments of the textile industry. At a review meeting held in Tiruppur, the Minister said the demands and grievances presented by the weavers and textile industry in Tiruppur will be discussed by the State government at a meeting to be held next month. The Minister visited some of the textile manufacturing facilities. He said the DMK government had always focused on weavers. The textile sector in the State is important because it provides employment to many. The Chief Minister will chair a review meeting of the textile and handloom department next month. The issues faced by the sector will be discussed at the meeting and the sector will see a major development in another six months, the Minister said. The Minister also said the garment export units were operating with 100 % workforce and the domestic units were functioning with 33 % workforce. The spread of the pandemic had hit the garment sector in Tiruppur and the industry had submitted its demands. These will be studied, he said. He visited a Common Effluent Treatment Plant and the Palladam Hi-Tech Weaving Park.  Coimbatore has presence of different segments of the textile industry R. Gandhi Handlooms and Textiles Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-taking-efforts-to-improve-marketing-opportunities-for-weavers/article35047153.ece
30 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||KGISL to increase employee strength||KG Information Systems Private Limited (KGISL) plans to increase its employee strength anywhere between 8,000 and 10,000 in the next three years.  Ashok Bakthavathsalam, Managing Director of KGISL, told The Hindu on Tuesday that the company is looking at Rs. 1,000 crore turnover in the next three years. “Our target has to be supported by employee growth,” he said. KGISL currently has subsidiaries in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, and Australia and operates through a partner in the Philippines, apart from offices in India. The current employee strength of the company is about 2,000. Almost 40 % of KGISL’s revenue comes from the insurance space and it has products for point of sale and claim settlement. With the acquisition of Malaysian company AETINS, KGISL now has core product for the insurance sector. The IT services and solution provider is also looking at going public when it reaches Rs. 1000 crore turnover. Prassadh Shanmugam, Director and Chief Executive Officer of KGISL, added that KGISL currently has about 260 customers, including 40 in the insurance vertical. AETINS has over 30 customers and with the acquisition, KGISL gets access to the customers and markets of AETINS. “For further growth, we will look at the western markets too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kgisl-to-increase-employee-strength/article35047154.ece
30 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||One killed in accident||One person was killed and two others were injured after the car they travelled veered off a flyover and fell on the premises of a house at Vadakkipalayam near Pollachi on Tuesday. R. Srikanth (34), who ran a digital advertising company in Coimbatore, died on the spot, said the police. His friends R. Karthik Kannan (27) from Coimbatore and S. Gopinath (27) from Achipatti near Pollachi were injured. Koushik (26) who travelled with them escaped unhurt. The four men stayed in a hotel at Pollachi on Monday night and they went for a drive to R Ponnapuram early on Tuesday. While returning around 2.30 a.m., Srikanth, who was at the wheel, lost control of the car which veered off a flyover at Vadakkipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-in-accident/article35047146.ece
30 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Traders at Gani Market expect to resume business after July 5||With shops at the E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market remaining closed for two months, the traders have made representations to the government to relax the restrictions so that they could resume business after July 5. About 370 daily shops and 730 weekly shops function on the market premises at the Panneerselvam Park in the city that is visited by merchants from across the State and from other States. Following the COVID-19 second wave, all the shops were closed from May 6 and are yet to be reopened. Due to lockdown in Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal and a few other north Indian States, wholesale business was also affected leading to stocks piling up. Since positive cases are dropping and the State government allowing power looms to function from Monday, traders at the market expect the government to relax the restrictions and allowing retail sales. K. Selvaraj, president, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Trader’s Association told The Hindu that the association had made representations to the Minister and government officials to reopen shops. “Since cases are decreasing day by day, we expect the government to announce relaxations so that we open our shops after July 5,” he added. Mr. Selvaraj said that 50% of their wholesale business dealing with cotton and rayon materials to Mumbai, Ahmedabad and few other places had resumed in the last one month. “We are hopeful of resuming our retail business very soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-at-gani-market-expect-to-resume-business-after-july-5/article35047141.ece
30 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 10,000 persons vaccinated in Erode||Over 10,000 persons were vaccinated at 105 locations in the district here on Tuesday. However, vaccination camps will not be held on Wednesday as vaccine stock exhausted at the end of the day. Each centre was allotted 100 doses of Covishield vaccine and tokens were issued from 7 a.m. and vaccination was completed by noon. In most of the centres, people waited from 2 a.m. to receive the tokens. The district administration had conducted special camps from June 24 to 26 during which vaccines were administered to over 40,000 persons. However, with vaccine stock exhausted, camps were not held on June 27 and 28. Officials said that only after the arrival of vaccines, camps would be conducted in the coming days in the district. Collector H. Krishnanunni said that information and updates on COVID-19 vaccination centres and other details can be known from the portal https://erode.nic.in/covid-care/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-10000-persons-vaccinated-in-erode/article35047143.ece
30 June 2021||KOODANKULAM,TAMIL NADU||Construction of Kudankulam nuclear reactors 5 and 6 begins||The Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project started the construction of the fifth and sixth reactors on its sprawling premises on Tuesday. It is already operating 2 x 1,000 MWe VVER nuclear reactors and constructing two similar reactors with Russian technical assistance. With Kamlesh Nilkanth Vyas, Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission and Secretary, Department of Atomic Energy; Alexey Likhachev, Director General of Rosatom; and Satish Kumar Sharma, Chairman and Managing Director of the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL), the project proponent, pressing the button through video conferencing from various destinations, 6,200 cubic metres of concrete was poured during the ‘first pour of concrete’ in the reactor raft at 11.32 a.m. on Tuesday, to mark the commencement of construction of the nuclear reactors. The light water reactors (VVER) will be built on an outlay of Rs. 49,621 crore. While the fifth reactor will be commissioned in December 2026 after 66 months of construction, the sixth reactor will be ready for operations in September 2027. “We, despite the pandemic situation, are determined to complete the construction of the reactor, which is the stellar example for Indo – Russian strategic cooperation to make KKNPP the largest power producing complex of the country, within this schedule,” said Mr. Vyas. He added that the first two nuclear reactors of the KKNPP had so far generated 57 billion units of power ever since the units were commissioned. The commencement of work on reactors 5 and 6 was another significant effort to realise the dreams of the visionary leaders of the Indian nuclear energy programme Homi Baba and Vikram Sarabai. “These reactors will place India among the frontrunners of nuclear energy producing countries of the world and hence it is a proud moment,” he said. He added that he believed the KKNPP reactors would contribute significantly to the growth of Tamil Nadu by providing clean and stable energy. Director General of Rosatom (Russian State Nuclear Energy Corporation) Dr. Alexey Likhachev, speaking from Moscow, said the third generation plus VVER reactors being built in Kudankulam would have cutting-edge technologies to make the reactors the safest. Site Director, KKNPP, Rajiv Manohar Godbole; Project Director of Reactors 5 and 6 of KKNPP M.S. Suresh; Project Director of Reactors 3 and 4 Chinna Veeran; Station Director of Reactors 1 and 2 Suresh Babu, and senior officials of KKNPP participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-kudankulam-nuclear-reactors-5-and-6-begins/article35047077.ece
30 June 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Over 6,000 migrant workers in Krishnagiri to get dry ration||A total of 6,149 migrant workers will be given dry ration as part of the State government announced COVID-19 relief for migrant work force here in the district. The distribution of dry ration for migrant workerscommenced here in the district. Earlier, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy distributed dry ration to 10 migrant workers here at the Collectorate. According to the administration, as part of COVID-19 relief for migrant workers left jobless during the lockdown, the State government announced a relief of dry ration comprising of 15 kg rice, 1 kg pulses and 1 kg cooking oil. According to the Collector, in view of the extraordinary circumstances caused by the pandemic, migrant workers need State support and the dry ration would help them wade through the temporary loss of livelihoods. Migrant workers employed in micro, small and medium scale enterprises, granite and stone quarries, daily wage labourers were rendered without work and source of income. In its wake, the dry ration were meant to help the workers at a time of crisis, according to the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-6000-migrant-workers-in-krishnagiri-to-get-dry-ration/article35047129.ece
30 June 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||67 black fungus cases reported in Krishnagiri dt.||The district has so far reported 67 cases of black fungus and three fatalities of black fungus, according to the district administration. Of those under treatment, 14 persons are under hospital admission. Speaking to reporters on the preparedness of the administration to meet a third wave of infections, Collector V.Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy said there was no audit yet of those infected to study the cause of black fungus cases. Of the cases, 25 persons were non-COVID-19 black fungus cases and 42 were post-COVID-19 infections, the Collector said. The Collector also assured that there was stock of Amphotericin B for the treatment. Amid complaints that private hospitals were overcharging for treatment, and in some cases refusing treatment under health insurance, Dr. Bhanu Reddy said the administration had not received any specific complaint so far. He urged the media to highlight that the public can contact the district control room to flag such specific cases of hospitals refusing treatment or overcharging patients. “A special committee headed by the Joint Director, health, is inspecting hospitals on a random basis to verify violations. Any hospital refusing treatment or denying insurance coverage shall be liable. If any affected person contacts the control room, action will be taken which include cancellation of licence of the hospitals. If there is a specific case, action will be taken within three days,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/67-black-fungus-cases-reported-in-krishnagiri-dt/article35047127.ece
30 June 2021||KUDANKULAM,TAMIL NADU||Nuclear power project starts construction of reactors 5 and 6||Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project started work on the fifth and the sixth reactors on its premises on Tuesday. It is already operating 2x1,000 MWe VVER nuclear reactors and constructing two reactors with similar capacity with Russian technical assistance. With Kamlesh Nilkanth Vyas, Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission and Secretary, Department of Atomic Energy, Alexey Likhachev, Director General of Rosatom and Satish Kumar Sharma, Chairman and Managing Director, Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL), the project proponent, pressing the button through videoconferencing from different destinations, 6,200 cubic metres of concrete was poured in the reactor raft at 11.32 a.m. to mark the commencement of construction of the reactors. The light water reactors (VVER) will be built on an outlay of Rs. 49,621 crore. While the fifth reactor will be commissioned in December 2026, the sixth reactor will be ready for operation in September 2027. “We are determined to complete the construction of the reactor, which is an example for Indo–Russian strategic cooperation to make the KKNPP the largest power producing facility in the country, within this schedule,” said Mr. Vyas. The first two nuclear reactors had so far generated 57 billion units of power. More than 50% of construction of reactors 3 and 4 had been completed. “These reactors will place India among the frontrunners of nuclear energy producing countries,” he said. Mr. Alexey Likhachev, while addressing from Moscow, said the third generation plus VVER reactors being built in the KKNPP would have cutting-edge technologies to make the reactors the safest. Mr. Satish Kumar Sharma assured that the project would be completed within the time and budget. President of Atomystroyexports, Russian Federation’s nuclear power equipment and service exporter owned by Rosatom, Alexander Lokshin and Larsen and Toubro Limited Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, S.N. Subrahmaniyan addressed through videoconferencing. Larsen and Toubro, which is constructing reactors 3 and 4, has been awarded this Rs. 2,304.89-crore project. While the KKNPP had to rely on the Russians for every component used in the first two reactors, around 36% of the components to be used in the fifth and the sixth reactors and its allied units will be domestically fabricated. KKNPP Site Director Rajiv Manohar Godbole, Project Director for Reactors 5 and 6 M.S. Suresh, Project Director for Reactors 3 and 4 Chinna Veeran and Station Director for Reactors 1 and 2 Suresh Babu participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nuclear-power-project-starts-construction-of-reactors-5-and-6/article35047328.ece
30 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MLA complains of rude behaviour at toll plaza||Sattur MLA A. R. R. Raghuraman has complained that an employee of Chittampatti toll plaza on Madurai-Tiruchi highway near Melur misbehaved with him by not honouring the MLA identity card on Monday night. Besides, the legislator alleged the employee was rude with him, when he questioned him for not wearing face mask and gloves while at work in a public place. Dr. Raghuraman said that newly-elected MLAs had been asked to flash their MLA ID cards at the toll plazas till they were given FasTag stickers to facilitate free passage across the State. “We were told that this arrangement had been intimated to all the Project Managers of National Highways Authority of India,” the MDMK MLA said. He said he had not faced much difficulty at any toll plaza all these days. When he was returning home from Tiruchi, the employee at the toll gate refused to allow his vehicle even after showing the MLA ID card. “When I asked him to take the ID card from me to have a closer look, he refused, claiming that under the pandemic situation, he was not allowed to touch it. It was then that I asked him why he was not wearing a face mask and gloves as per the government guidelines,” Dr. Raghuraman said. No contact numbers Refusing to give the contact number of manager of the toll plaza to the MLA, who wanted to resolve the issue, the employee had reportedly challenged the MLA to find for himself the manager’s number. “Usually, road users, whenever they face such situations, do not make a fuss and leave the toll plazas without complaining as they would want to continue their journey or since they belong to some other place. This kind of workers take this to their advantage and misbehave with road users,” the MLA complained. The MLA, who drove back to Melur immediately, lodged a police complaint against the worker for not wearing face mask and gloves during duty hours. He said every toll plaza should display the phone numbers of the toll plaza manager and Project Director to help the road users. Besides, complaint book should be made available to them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-complains-of-rude-behaviour-at-toll-plaza/article35047337.ece
30 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pilot project planned in Madurai to identify high-risk areas||A pilot project would be conducted in Madurai district to identify high-risk areas where people vulnerable to contract COVID-19 is expected to be higher in the event of a third wave of the pandemic, said Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan here on Tuesday. He was addressing mediapersons, along with Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P Moorthy, after attending a review meeting with Collector S. Aneesh Sekar and Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan. Mr. Thiagarajan said that once it was completed, merits and demerits of the pilot project would be explained to the Chief Minister who will decide whether it could be implemented across the State. In many countries, the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic had been reported. So, as a precautionary measure, the problem areas during the second wave should be identified and eliminated. The government had already made efforts to increase the number of oxygen beds, ICU beds, oxygen concentrators and oxygen generation plants in government hospitals. In areas with higher population of people with antibodies, the chances of COVID-19 spread, if there was a third wave, would be lower. Similarly, areas with higher COVID-19 vaccination coverage, and lower proportion of elderly people or vulnerable population, would also have lower risk. So, the pilot project would aim to pinpoint areas that had high risks. The experts of the Economic Advisory Council had studied similar exercises conducted in many countries and had given suggestions to the Chief Minister. Door-to-door screening in rural areas helped in finding out the population of elderly people and vulnerable population. Nearly, five lakh people had been inoculated in the district. Since they registered their names through CoWIN portal, their address and other details were available only with the Union government. “Hence, to have a local database, we are going to collect details from the vaccination centres in the district from Wednesday,” Mr. Thiagarajan added. Earlier on Monday, he inaugurated vaccination camps at East Vaidhyanathapuram, Subramaniapuram and North Masi Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pilot-project-planned-in-madurai-to-identify-high-risk-areas/article35047340.ece
30 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MP demands exam centre in T.N.||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has complained that the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) has neglected Tamil Nadu by not allocating an examination centre for its preliminary (screening) test for the post of stipendiary trainee category-I. In a letter written to DAE Chairman and Chief Executive Dinesh Srivastava, Mr. Venkatesan said examination centres were set up in Delhi, Jaipur, Lucknow, Ranchi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. The candidates from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry had been asked to appear for the examination in Bengaluru on July 8. Pointing out that Karnataka, which had been recording high numbers of fresh COVID-19 cases and deaths, had not returned to normality, he said even Bengaluru had reported 20 deaths as on June 28. The CPI (M) MP said it was not prudent to force the candidates from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to go to Bengaluru in the given situation. He said that though he had in the past drawn the attention of the DAE to the demand for an exam centre in Tamil Nadu, the officials concerned had not taken any initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-demands-exam-centre-in-tn/article35047338.ece
30 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Submit report on law and order situation: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Tirunelveli Police Commissioner and Superintendent of Police to submit a report on the law and order situation in two places in the district. The court was informed of protests being held demanding justice for the murder of remand prisoner P. Muthu Mano by a few inmates in Palayamkottai Central Prison. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the officers to submit on Wednesday the report on the situation in Tirunelveli city and Vagaikulam, from where Muthu Mano hailed. It was said that his supporters were protesting in both the places. The case was adjourned till Wednesday. The court also took note of the fact that an affidavit was filed casting aspersions on judges. It was also said that the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital Dean had requested the police to remove the body of the remand prisoner in the wake of law and order situation. The court was hearing the petition filed by Pavanasam, the father of Muthu Mano, seeking a judicial inquiry into his son’s murder. Even two months after the conduct of post-mortem, the family members of Muthu Mano refused to accept the body. Earlier, the court directed the family members to receive the body and perform the last rites. However, they did not comply with the order and instead sought a judicial inquiry into the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/submit-report-on-law-and-order-situation-hc/article35047326.ece
30 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Court takes umbrage at the nature of petition||Sparing a petitioner of costs, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed his petition seeking a direction to the State to take immediate steps to bring the Super Speciality wing of the Government Rajaji Hospital to its original purpose without affecting the treatment being carried out at the COVID-19 ward for affected people. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam observed, “The repeated interference either by citizens without any knowledge or understanding of the matters or even by the court in dealing with the matters of emergency is totally uncalled for.” Dismissing the petition, the judges said, “The petitioner can only be regarded as a busybody trying to interfere with the State dealing with the medical emergency.” The court dismissed the petition filed by N. Abdul Rahman Jalal of Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-takes-umbrage-at-the-nature-of-petition/article35047335.ece
30 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||We cannot fix prices of items: HC||Disposing of a petition that sought a direction to the State government to issue an order to fix prices of essential commodities, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that it was a policy matter that had to be decided by an appropriate authority. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi said the State had ensured supply of all essential commodities through public distribution system, and other special packages had been given to the public to ensure that they were not affected. The court was hearing the petition filed by V.R. Shiva of Tiruchi who also sought a direction to the State to establish price monitoring cells in all districts for effective implementation of the price control order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-cannot-fix-prices-of-items-hc/article35047387.ece
30 June 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 130.80 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 370 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 64.11 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,347 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,287 mcft. Thekkadi recorded a rainfall of 5.4 mm and Kodaikanal 1.4 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 129.80 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 599.08 cusecs and a discharge of 1,449.20 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 79.90 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 161 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35047342.ece
30 June 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||12 deaths reported||Madurai on Tuesday recorded 70 new COVID-19 cases, which increased the total number of positive cases in the district to 72,211. A total of 58 persons were discharged and the district registered 12 fatalities, raising the death toll to 1,105. Virudhunagar reported four deaths, raising the toll to 527. The daily case tally fell below 50-mark for the first time after April 14 to stand at 48. The district also marked 121 discharges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-deaths-reported/article35047334.ece
30 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Jamabandi held in Namakkal||Jamabandi was held in taluks in Namakkal district on Tuesday and Collector Shreya P. Singh reviewed the Jamabandi at Tiruchengode. Jamabandi was being held at eight taluks in Namakkal district on June 29 and 30. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, applications for Jamabandi this year were received through online portal and e-seva centres. The applications could be uploaded on to the portal till July 31 and action taken on applications would be informed to applicants, officials said. Applications received regarding patta transfers, old age pensions, free house pattas and digital ration cards were reviewed by revenue officials. Ms. Singh reviewed maintenance of registers and advised officials from horticulture, agriculture and statistics departments to hold discussions with Village Administrative Officers periodically and include details on crops cultivated in the region in the registers. On Monday, she reviewed the combined water supply scheme providing water to two town panchayats here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jamabandi-held-in-namakkal/article35047150.ece
30 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘LG used Union to denote Puducherry’||The Raj Nivas on Tuesday clarified that Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan had upheld a decades-old tradition while administering the oath of office in Tamil and decried attempts to stir up a controversy by misrepresenting the denotation of the term ‘Union’, which applied to the Union Territory and not the Indian Union. The clarification comes after the use of the term Ondriya (Union), in the pledge administered by the Lt. Governor while swearing in the Council of Ministers in the first NDA government in Puducherry on June 27, generated buzz on social media. This was especially so after the sparring over semantics in the wake of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s insistent reference to the Centre as Ondriya Arasu . In a statement, the Raj Nivas denied using the term Ondirya Arasu (Union Government).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lg-used-union-to-denote-puducherry/article35047071.ece
30 June 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Regulate fishing activity’||Fishermen association affiliated to the CITU in Rameswaram has urged Collector to regulate fishing activity. Its district president Justin and secretary Karunamoorthy told reporters here on Tuesday that mechanised boat owners used to get tokens in the morning and return to shore the following day with the catch. Over a period of time, some fishermen venture into the sea the previous night itself without obtaining tokens. Such indiscipline spoil the livelihood of a majority of fishermen. The Fisheries Department should pull up such errant fishermen who do not follow the rules. In fact, fishermen from five districts including Nagapattinam should venture into the sea on June 30. But many fishermen ventured into the sea on June 29 itself. The officials were informed on such occasions but no action was taken. Export firms exploit the situation, they said. For instance, when the fishermen ventured into sea for fishing after the annual ban period, the catch was so huge that many export varieties were caught. But poor fishermen have neither facility to store their catch nor capacity to buy ice for preserving the catch. Export firms buy the catch for paltry sum and thus get benefited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regulate-fishing-activity/article35047330.ece
30 June 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Sea cucumber seized||The Marine Police, Devipattinam, seized sea cucumbers, cardamom and other banned items, all worth about Rs. 17 lakh, and detained six persons on Tuesday. Inquiries revealed that the gang had brought them from Kayalpattinam in Thoothukudi district. Saddam Hussain (28) of Kayalpattinam confessed that they had planned to transport the contraband to Sri Lanka. Their plan was to store them at Devipattinam and shift them later at midnight. Officials formed teams to go to Kayalpattinam to search the godown there as some more goods were supposed to be brought here later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sea-cucumber-seized/article35047329.ece
30 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Supermarkets seek nod to reopen||Supermarkets in the district on Tuesday appealed to the district administration to permit them to resume operations. In a petition to the Collector, members of Salem District Supermarket Association and representatives of various supermarket chains said the supermarkets had remained closed for over 60 days and about 25% of stocked goods had expired. The petitioners said the livelihood of thousands of workers was related to supermarkets had been affected due to the closure. Customers were also losing out on opportunities to get goods at cheaper price. Hence, they requested the administration to permit operation of outlets .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supermarkets-seek-nod-to-reopen/article35047133.ece
30 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) stages protest||Members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and other political parties staged a protest on Meyannur Road here on Tuesday condemning the hike in fuel prices. The protesters, to highlight the plight of the public, garlanded a two-wheeler and carried it on a stretcher. They demanded that the Union government must take measures to reduce fuel prices as it is severely affecting the livelihood of the public. They also demanded that the Union government allocate sufficient vaccines for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-stages-protest/article35047147.ece
30 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Star tortoise rescued in Salem||A star tortoise was rescued by District Forest Department here on Tuesday. According to Forest Department officials, Hari Ram, a resident of Jagir Ammapalayam, noticed a star tortoise during the late hours of Monday in a drain near his house and alerted Forest officials. The tortoise was rescued and shifted to Kurumbapatti Zoological Park. The rescued female tortoise weighed about 500 grams and it has been placed under quarantine at the park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/star-tortoise-rescued-in-salem/article35047148.ece
30 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||TEPL, SASTRA to offer M.Tech in VLSI along with Taiwan varsities||Tata Electronics Private Limited, SASTRA, Asia University and Yuan Ze University in Taiwan have come together to offer deep domain expertise for M. Tech aspirants in electronics design and manufacturing. Students admitted to the two-year M.Tech degree in very-large-scale integration (VLSI) design will complete the first year at SASTRA in Thanjavur and the second year either in Asia University or in Yuan Ze University. Practical experience in major lab facilities and industry internship in Taiwan’s advanced semiconductor manufacturing units will form part of the second-year course with exposure to basic Chinese language skills, SASTRA Vice-Chancellor S. Vaidhyasubramaniam has said. TEPL will work closely with SASTRA to coordinate the curriculum and provide financial support for overseas education and training of the students. A memorandum of understanding has been signed between TEPL and SASTRA, Mr. Vaidhyasubramaniam added. Applications will be available online at www.sastra.edu from June 30 and admissions will be based on UG performance and interview. Distinguished Professor and Chairman, Computer Science and Information Engineering Department, Asia University, Wen-Thong Scott Chang, and Chief of Global Affairs, Yuang Ze University, Ching Pu Chen, have expressed confidence that the collaboration will strengthen bilateral relationship between the two countries. National Security Advisory Board member and Advisor to SASTRA for Indo-Taiwan collaboration, V. Kamakoti of IIT-Madras has expressed hope that the collaboration will result in tremendous growth in the Indian electronic design and manufacturing industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tepl-sastra-to-offer-mtech-in-vlsi-along-with-taiwan-varsities/article35047386.ece
30 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||TEPL, SASTRA to offer M.Tech||Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL), SASTRA, the Asia University and the Yuan Ze University in Taiwan have come together to offer deep domain expertise for M. Tech aspirants in the field of electronics design and manufacturing. Students admitted to the two-year M. Tech degree in very-largescale integration (VLSI) design will complete the first year of the course at SASTRA in Thanjavur and the second year either at Asia University or at Yuan Ze University, Taiwan. The TEPL will work closely with SASTRA, Vice-Chancellor Vaidhyasubramaniam said. Applications will be available on www.sastra.edu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tepl-sastra-to-offer-mtech/article35047080.ece
30 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||No fish retailing at Keezhavasal||Thanjavur Corporation has barred retailing of fish at Keezhavasal area as a precautionary measure to prevent spread of novel coronavirus infection. Sources say though the wholesale fish market has been temporarily shifted to Old Bus Stand from Keezhavasal area, retailers continue to carry on with their business there during weekends. Hence, the civic body has directed fish retailers to conduct business at open places from near Thilagar Thidal to Kodimarathu Moolai through Old Bus Stand and Vellapillaiyar Kovil round about.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-fish-retailing-at-keezhavasal/article35047391.ece
30 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not to allow new reactors’||Even as the first pour of concrete for the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project’s reactors 5 and 6 was conducted on Tuesday, the People’s Movement Against Nuclear Energy (PMANE) has appealed to the State Government to stop the expansion of the KKNPP by constructing new reactors. In a petition submitted to Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Anita R. Radhakrishnan on Tuesday, its coordinator S.P. Udhayakumar said the KKNPP had “all of a sudden” conducted the first pour of concrete even as technical glitch hit the second reactor on multiple occasions in last May. Moreover, the first reactor had been stopped for “annual maintenance and fuel loading.” While the reactors under operation were not performing well, there was no need for expansion by constructing more nuclear reactors in Koodankulam. The Union Government had planned to construct ‘Away From Reactor’ facility on KKNPP premises itself for storing the radioactive spent fuel. “We protested against the KKNPP and the then AIADMK regime and the Union Government showed scant respect for our demands of permanent closure of nuclear reactors. People objected to the Chennai – Salem highway and hydrocarbon projects. But the people’s protests were crushed with force. The people are gradually losing their faith in democracy, which is not good for any democratically elected government. We’ll continue to resist these projects and continue our protest for our livelihood,” he said. He clarified that their agitation was not against development but the implementation of new projects after wiping out the livelihood and peaceful life of common man. “The power to be generated by the KKNPP reactors may last for next 40 years but the radiation from the reactors will never allow 400 generations to live in peace,” he said. He thanked the minister for withdrawing the cases filed against the anti-nuclear protestors when the Idinthakarai-based anti-KKNPP protests were at the height in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-to-allow-new-reactors/article35047332.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||One-side parking system put in place on Madurai Road||The City Traffic Police have put in place a one-side parking system along Madurai Road from Ramakrishna Theatre to Natharsha Pallivasal in an effort to ensure free flow of vehicles and ease congestion on the busy thoroughfare. Vehicles would have to be parked on the western side of the road on the first 15 days of every month and on the eastern side for the remaining period, said a senior traffic police official. Madurai Road, especially the stretch from Ramakrishnan Theatre to Sophy's Corner, has always witnessed frequent traffic hold-ups due to indiscriminate parking of vehicles in front of shops along the stretch that is dotted with business and commercial establishments. Hence, the city traffic police have introduced the new system from Tuesday. The trading community has promised its cooperation to the new initiative, said the officer. Indiscriminate parking of two-wheelers besides loading and unloading of consignments from mini freight carriers and trucks cause huge inconvenience to buses which frequently pass through this stretch. Keeping one side parking-free would considerably ease congestion and allow free movement of vehicles. Traffic police will create awareness for a week among vehicle users about the system before initiating action against violators. Boards containing information will be placed along the stretch to warn motorists. Similarly, boards cautioning motorists not to park vehicles at bus stops along the stretch would also be installed. Owners of vehicles found parked in bus stops would be penalised, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-side-parking-system-put-in-place-on-madurai-road/article35047385.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Road relaying without milling process?||With Tiruchi Corporation taking up works to relay some of the arterial roads in the city over the past few days, civic activists have expressed dismay over the civic body’s failure to adhere to the Chief Secretary’s recent communication on following a milling process prior to relaying the roads. Citing a recent communication of Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu instructing the Highways Department to adopt the milling process before relaying roads, especially in urban local bodies, the activists contend that the Corporation too should adhere to the directive while relaying roads. “The road level goes up every time the road in residential areas such as our locality posing problems for us. Now they are doing the same thing. Already we are faced with flooding during the monsoon period and this only aggravates the situation. With the road on a higher plane, it also becomes very difficult for motorists to get back on to the road after getting down to the roadsides,” observed C. Balasubramanian, Advisor, District Exnora. Expressing concern over such practice happening right under the nose of Minister for Municipal Administration, K.N. Nehru, who represents the Tiruchi West constituency, Mr. Balasubramanian wondered: “Is it not obligatory for the Corporation to comply with a directive of the Chief Secretary.” P. Ayyarappan of the Salai Payaneetalar Nala Amaippu feels that the authorities owe an explanation. In a recent petition to the government, the organisation has sought an inspection by the Collector to check whether there has been any violation of government rule in executing the works. Maintenance works have been taken up from Tiruchi Corporation’s general funds in places such as Thillai Nagar, Anna Nagar and Shastri Road. However, roads have been relaid without following the milling process, the organisation said and sought an inspection by the Collector to find out whether the Chief Secretary’s directive has been violated. If so, appropriate action should be taken against the officials concerned, it demanded. Both Mr. Ayyarappan and Mr. Balasubramanian reject the claim of some officials that only repairs/patch works are being carried and point out that the roads have been completely relaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-relaying-without-milling-process/article35047390.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Scrutiny of bids for revamp of water supply network begins||Tiruchi Corporation has begun the process of verification of bids received for revamping of water supply network in Rockfort area and replacing pumping mains in Area Based Development (ABD) locations in the city. A sum of Rs. 21.80 crore has been earmarked for revamping pumping mains, while renovation of water supply network in Rockfort area will cost another Rs. 9.80 crore. According to sources, the Corporation supplies 125 million litres of water a day (MLD) from sources in the Cauvery and Kollidam. Of this, 55 MLD is drawn from sources at Kambarasampettai, which is mainly supplied to areas of erstwhile Tiruchi municipality such as Andal Street, Nandhi Koil Street, East Boulevard Road, West Boulevard Road, Chinthamani, Varaganeri, Palakkarai and Woraiyur. The drinking water mains in these parts were laid several decades ago. Aged and outdated, it is said they have been under severe strain. A number of leakages and bursts have been reported in the recent past. The civic body would disconnectse water supply for at least two or three days to detect the leaking points and replace the worn out pipes. Heeding to the long-pending demand of residents, the civic body carried out a comprehensive study to locate the vulnerable points and their impact. Based on a finding, it floated tenders twice to replace the worn-out pumping mains. Since it received no bidders on both occasions, the Corporation floated a tender again. S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, told The Hindu that the tenders had been opened to study the bids. The process of verifying the documents and their quotations was on and it would be completed within two weeks. The projects would be implemented utilising financial resources under the Smart City initiative. They would enable the Corporation to maintain uninterrupted and clean water supply to residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scrutiny-of-bids-for-revamp-of-water-supply-network-begins/article35047393.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Defence civilian staff announce indefinite strike from July 26||Defence civilian employees of two ordnance factories in Tiruchi affiliated to five national-level federations of trade unions will join their counterparts across the country in indefinite strike from July 26 to protest against the Centre’s decision to “splinter the 41 ordnance factories into seven corporations.” The strike will affect the functioning of the factories as employees belonging to All India Defence Employees' Federation, Indian Natinoal Defence Workers’ Federation, Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, National Progressive Defence Employees’ Federation and All India Bahujan Defence Employees Federation are to take part in the “fight to the last” to save the ordnance factories with a 76,000-strong workforce. The federations fear that splitting of the Ordnance Factory Board into seven corporations is against the national interest, defence preparedness and security of the country. The decision to go on indefinite strike was taken at a joint meeting of the federations held on Sunday. The strike that was originally planned from October 9 last was deferred based on a conciliation settlement. The conciliation proceedings were abruptly closed by the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) earlier this month. The federations and unions will serve notice for the strike on July 8, both independently and jointly, AIDEF general secretary C. Srikumar said. The joint decision was conveyed on Tuesday to the Defence Minister, Secretary of Defence Production and Defence Secretary. In the meantime, the federations have planned to mobilise support of Chief Ministers of all States and leaders of political parties and the Parliamentary Defence Standing Committee for the cause, Mr. Srikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defence-civilian-staff-announce-indefinite-strike-from-july-26/article35047388.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||688 fresh cases, 14 deaths in central region||Central districts on Tuesday registered 688 fresh cases of COVID-19. Barring Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts, the remaining seven districts recorded fresh cases in double digit only, according to a medical bulletin issued by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare. Thanjavur continued to report the maximum number of new cases (215) followed by Tiruchi (170). The day’s count in Pudukottai was 71. While 69 tested positive for the virus in Ariyalur, 35 new cases were registered in Karur. The tally was 37 in Mayiladuthurai, 32 in Nagapattinam, 20 in Perambalur. A total of 49 persons tested positive for the virus in Tiruvaur. The virus claimed 14 lives in nine central districts. Pudukottai topped the list with the death of four patients followed by three fatalities in Nagapattinam district. Tiruchi, Perambalur and Tiruvarur districts recorded two deaths. Ariyalur accounted for one death due to COVID-19 complications. Karur, Mayiladuthurai and Thanjavur recorded no deaths on Tuesday. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/688-fresh-cases-14-deaths-in-central-region/article35047395.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors directed to submit report on Sri Lankan Tamils in special camps||Minister for Minorities Welfare and Non-Resident Tamils Welfare, Gingee K.S. Masthan on Tuesday said the State had sought reports from Collectors about demand for release by Sri Lankan Tamils in special camps. Speaking to reporters here after inspecting refugee camps at Kottapattu and Vazhavanthankottai near here, Mr. Masthan said there were instances of Sri Lankan Tamils staging protests demanding their release from the special camps. Several of them had been lodged in the camps for many years under the Foreigners Act. Hence, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had asked Collectors to study the cases individually. All details, including nature of offences committed by them and period of detention, would be collected and based on the reports, the State government would take suitable steps. As per the instruction of the Chief Minister, Mr. Masthan said he was visiting the refugee camps across the State to study their living conditions. Several of them had aired their grievances. The State government was committed to improving their standard of living. It was with the aim of supporting the Sri Lankan Tamils that the State government distributed special cash assistance of Rs. 4,000 each to about 13,000 families, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-directed-to-submit-report-on-sri-lankan-tamils-in-special-camps/article35047400.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Platform ticket gets costlier in Kumbakonam, Vriddhachalam||The Tiruchi Railway Division has announced an increase in the rate of platform ticket at Kumbakonam and Vriddhachalam stations falling under its jurisdiction. The move is intended to regulate the rush on the station premises during the COVID-19 pandemic and curb the spread of the viral infection. The rate has been increased from Rs. 10 to Rs. 50 per person with effect from June 28. The measure has been taken as a deterrent to prevent gathering of a large number of people on the platform. It was earlier hiked in Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Mayiladuthurai, Villupuram and Puducherry stations, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/platform-ticket-gets-costlier-in-kumbakonam-vriddhachalam/article35047396.ece
30 June 2021||TIrunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Grievance cell set up||Collector V. Vishnu here on Tuesday launched the ‘Vanakkam Nellai’ WhatsApp number 97865 66111 for registering complaints or grievances round the clock, which would be attended within the short duration and redressed. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grievance-cell-set-up/article35047331.ece
30 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Resident of tribal settlement tests positive||A resident of one of the 17 tribal settlements in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in Udumalpet, Tiruppur, has tested positive for COVID-19, officials from the Forest and Health Departments confirmed on Tuesday. According to Forest officials, the patient is a 31-year-old woman and a resident of the Kulipatti tribal settlement, who recently gave birth to a baby girl. She was admitted for delivery at the Udumalpet Government Hospital, and tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. For nearly two weeks before her delivery, she was staying in a farmhouse outside the ATR limits in Chinnabomman Salai village, where her husband is employed as a labourer. The arrangement was made since reaching the hospital from the remote tribal settlement is difficult. With no other confirmed COVID-19 cases in the 17 settlements so far, and with outsiders not being permitted to enter them amid the lockdown, it is likely that the woman contracted the infection after she left the settlement, officials said. Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR and in-charge of the Tiruppur Forest Division, said a special camp for lifting swabs from Kulipatti residents for COVID-19 testing was held on Wednesday. He said arrangements would soon be made to lift samples of residents of all settlements. An official said both the woman and the infant were stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resident-of-tribal-settlement-tests-positive/article35047096.ece
30 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Avinashi tahsildar transferred in reshuffle||Following the controversy over Avinashi tahsildar M. Tamilselvanallegedly directing a meat stall owner to not sell beef, the Tiruppur district administration has transferred him as part of a reshuffle of tahsildar-level officials. As per the order issued by District Collector S. Vineeth late on Monday, a copy of which was available with The Hindu , Mr. Tamilselvan was posted as the special tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) at Uthukuli taluk office in the existing vacancy. K.P. Raghavi, who was formerly the special tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) at Tiruppur South taluk, was posted as the new tahsildar of Avinashi taluk. New tahsildars were also appointed for Dharapuram, Uthukuli, Madathukulam and Tiruppur South taluks as part of the reshuffle. Revenue Department sources on Tuesday claimed that this was only a routine reshuffle of officials carried out by the district administration. The controversy began on Sunday, when a video of Mr. Tamilselvan inspecting a meat stall at Kanankulam in Ayyampalayam village panchayat the previous night, where he was seen asking the stall’s owner to not sell beef, went viral on social media platforms. Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran said on Twitter that the District Collector has been directed to conduct an inquiry into this incident and that further action will be initiated soon. On Monday, various organisations led by Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Frontstaged a demonstrationoutside the Avinashi taluk office demanding action against the tahsildar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avinashi-tahsildar-shifted/article35047070.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Night watchmen appointed in 8 temples||Night watchmen have been appointed for eight temples in Tiruvarur district. According to police, a selection team headed by Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan interviewed ex-service men and retired police personnel who applied for the post. Eight applicants, who appeared for the interview, were selected and given appointment order on Monday. They will be posted at Jayankondanathar temple, Mannargudi; Kailasanathar temple, Valangaiman; Mahamariamman temple, Valangaiman; Sundareswarar temple, Aanaikuppam; Saraswathi temple, Koothanur; Kalasanathar temple, Mannargudi; and Vandurainathar temple, Thiruvanduthurai. Sources say that of the 130 posts sanctioned for appointment of ex-service and retired police personnel as night watchmen in 127 temples in Tiruvarur district, 75 remained vacant till June 28. Tamizhnadu Archagarkal Samooga Nala Sangam has thanked Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu for announcing that the services of 1,210 temporary staff, who have served in various temples for more than five years, will be regularised. All other temporary staff must be regularised too, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/night-watchmen-appointed-in-8-temples/article35047392.ece
30 June 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Ooty Municipal Market reopens following relaxations in lockdown restrictions||More than a month after the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market was closed to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the Nilgiris, the it reopened on Tuesday. According to officials, the shops in the market have been split into three groups and each assigned a letter (A,B and C), and each shop will be allowed to function on different days of the week to minimise the chance of the infection spreading among shopkeepers. On Tuesday, only a few shops were opened as merchants had to procure goods to stock their shelves. One vegetable seller said that the system which has been implemented is a step in the right direction, but said that he was looking forward to keeping his shop open throughout the week. “As vegetables are perishable, and there is a gap of three days when I have to close, I will have to either store the vegetables in cold storage facilities or buy considerably lesser quantities of vegetables. Otherwise, they will go to waste and I will make huge losses,” he said. A few meat stalls also started functioning at the market. Officials from the municipality said that the guidelines issued include shopkeepers and merchants working in the market to be mandatorily vaccinated against COVID-19. “Most shopkeepers are already vaccinated, but we are insisting that the few who haven’t been vaccinated only open their shops once they do,” said an official from the municipality. Measures have been implemented to ensure physical distancing, and mask wearing among both shopkeepers and the public entering the market, with fines set to be imposed on violators. Officials said that the Coonoor Market would also be opened partially in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ooty-municipal-market-reopens-following-relaxations-in-lockdown-restrictions/article35047126.ece
30 June 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Case against Sasikala||The Roshanai police have booked a case against former AIADMK interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala and 500 others in connection with the alleged death threats and abusive calls received by former Minister and secretary of AIADMK north district C.Ve. Shanmugam, earlier this month. Mr. Shanmugam had filed a complaint with the police on June 9 alleging that the frequency of abusive calls and death threats had increased manifold after he had made a statement against Ms. Sasikala to the media on June 7. In his complaint, the former Minister said that he had received over 500 calls on his mobile phone and through social media platforms. Based on the complaint, the Roshanai police have registered an FIR against Sasikala and 500 other unidentified persons under various Sections 506 (1) (criminal intimidation), 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication), 109 (punishment for abetment) and section 67 of the IT Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-sasikala-over-death-threat-to-ex-minister/article35047072.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Curbs on inter-State vehicle movement continue||In spite of heightened vigil, the movement of vehicles across the inter-State borders continues to cause concern amid the efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. Western Tamil Nadu shares borders with Kerala in Coimbatore and Tiruppur, with Karnataka in Erode and Krishnagiri and Krishnagiri also shares borders with Andhra Pradesh. For the industries and trade in Coimbatore, a large number of business transactions are with the neighbouring districts and Kerala. Several MSMEs get job orders from Kerala and people from the State travel to Coimbatore to buy spares and components. With the reopening of industries and trade here, a large number of people are expected to travel to Coimbatore regularly for business, said an MSME unit owner. Apart from this, a number of employees and officials in banks and government organisations here commute every day to work from the neighbouring districts and Kerala. There are many who travel to Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts every day from Palakkad. They have taken permission from the district administration and mostly use their personal vehicles, said a bank employee here. A bank official added that though banks are permitted to function with 50 % strength, there are branches that have just the manager and a staff.Several of these officials or employees are commuting to work every day from Kerala or the neighbouring districts in Tamil Nadu. Coimbatore Rural Police said they were allowing vehicles from Kerala to enter Coimbatore through the 13 major and minor check posts in the Coimbatore Rural Police limits only after checking for e-registration. However, people travelling in car, two-wheeler and goods carriers were largely exempted from checking. M.S. Muthusamy, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Coimbatore range, said the police were following the instructions of the State government on permitting vehicles from Kerala. He added that seizure of Indian Made Foreign Liquor from those entering Coimbatore from Kerala was a result of continuous vehicle checking.  On Monday, the Transport Department detected three Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses entering Coimbatore via the K.G. Chavadi check-post. The buses were ferrying people from Palakkad who are working in government offices here. As inter-State public transport has not been allowed for the government employees yet, the buses were sent back. Joint Transport Commissioner of Coimbatore Zone K. Umasakthi said no buses from Kerala entered Coimbatore district via K.G. Chavadi on Tuesday. However, entry of vehicles through escape routes to evade check-posts poses a challenge. Mr. Umasakthi said the Pollachi RTO recently seized five trucks that entered Pollachi from Kerala, which were found transporting excess gravel than the permitted weight. The e-pass system that regulates entry of people into the Nilgiris is still in force, despite easing of restrictions. Officials said many people who had residences in the Nilgiris were arriving at some of the important 17 border checkposts separating the Nilgiris from Kerala, Karnataka and Coimbatore and trying to enter the district. However, people were only being allowed if their e-passes are approved. Strict vigil is maintained to prevent illegal smuggling of liquor into the district.In Erode, hundreds of vehicles that enter the district every day from Karnataka through Talavadi, Germalam and Bargur are checked for e-registration. In Salem, traffic through the check-post at Kolathur has been minimal even during pre-COVID-19 period as the stretch was primarily used by buses and goods vehicles. In Krishnagiri, at the Zuzuvadi check post, vehicle movement stands monitored with the personnel scrutinising the e-passes besides preventing smuggling of liquor from Karnataka into Tamil Nadu. ( Reporting by M. Soundariya Preetha, R. Akileish and Wilson Thomas in Coimbatore, Rohan Premkumar in the Nilgiris, S.P. Saravanan in Erode, Vignesh Vijayakumar in Salem and P.V. Srividya in Krishnagiri )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-on-inter-state-vehicle-movement-continue/article35047137.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||563 new cases, 12 deaths in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 563 new COVID-19 cases. The Health Department said that 986 persons from the district recovered from the disease on the day. The district had 4,676 active cases and the toll increased to 2,029 after 12 more persons died of COVID-19 in the last few days. No vaccination today Coimbatore Corporation has said that there will no vaccination on June 30 (Wednesday). Tiruppur district reported 281 new cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 82,103. The Health Department reported three new deaths, taking the overall toll to 750. The active cases in the district were 1,722 and a total of 396 persons have recovered on Tuesday. Vaccination camps in Tiruppur District administration and Tiruppur Corporation announced that vaccination camps would be held only for differently abled, post-natal mothers and government employees across Tiruppur district on Wednesday. The camps will be held at Zonal Office in Velampalayam for Zones I and II and at Corporation headquarters for Zones III and IV. Outside the Corporation limits, the camps will be held at 25 schools, officials said. Erode district reported 493 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 89,212. While 546 persons were discharged, 4,163 persons continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, raising the toll to 588. Salem district reported 302 new cases and nine deaths on Tuesday. Namakkal reported 173 cases and four deaths. In the Nilgiris, 75 persons tested positive for the disease on Tuesday. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 28,266. Krishnagiri recorded 98 fresh cases and two deaths and Dharmapuri recorded 105 fresh cases and one death on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/563-new-cases-12-deaths-in-coimbatore/article35047139.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sylendra Babu to head Tamil Nadu police force||He served the State police in various capacities, including as Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore, and Additional Director-General of Police, Coastal Security Group. At present, he is DGP, Railways. It was during his tenure as Joint Commissioner of Police (North), Chennai, that extensive raids were conducted, resulting in a huge seizure of pirated CDs, which ultimately led to the illegal business shifting base from Burma Bazaar. Dr. Babu has received many awards, including the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Service (2005), the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (2013) and the Chief Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Public Service (2019). Other strong contenders in the race to the top post were Mr. Singha, DGP, Tamil Nadu Fire & Rescue Services, and Sanjay Arora, Special DGP, Central Reserve Police Force. Though the Tamil Nadu government initially sent seven names to the UPSC for empanelment, a revised list was sought to accommodate other ADGP-rank officers who had completed 30 years of service.  Dr. Babu has received many awards, including the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Service||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sylendra-babu-to-head-tamil-nadu-police-force/article35047084.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SC upholds T.N. Land Act||Senior advocate P. Wilson, appearing for the petitioners, with advocate Suhrith Parthasarathy, had argued that the 2019 Act was a means to revive three laws — the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Harijan Welfare Schemes Act, 1978; the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997; and the Tamil Nadu Highways Act, 2001, National Highways Act, 1956 — that had been struck down. The 2019 State law was applied retrospectively from September 2013 to validate pending acquisitions under the three State enactments. Justice Khanwilkar said legislature had the power to make laws with retrospective effect. This power, he observed, emanated from the “basic principle that a legislature is deemed to be the main protagonist of public interest at large”. “The legislature is the bulwark of a democratic polity. It is also beyond debate that a legislature can validate an invalidated law by removing the cause for such invalidity through a legislative exercise,” he said, upholding the intent of the 2019 law to revive the three State enactments. The court noted that the 2019 Act was a conscious attempt by the State legislature to bring four material aspects of land acquisition under the three State enactments at par with the 2013 Act, i.e., compensation, rehabilitation, resettlement and infrastructure facilities. The petitioners had argued that agricultural land owned by them were acquired in “bits and pieces” for connectivity from Ennore Port to Mamallapuram, under the Chennai Peripheral Ring Road Project. “Lands that are to be acquired under the Tamil Nadu Highways Act of 2001 are highly irrigated and multi-crops are cultivated on them,” the petition said. They said the purpose of the 2013 Act to protect agriculturists and landowners from losing their lands, without reasonable compensation, was defeated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-upholds-tn-land-act/article35047085.ece
30 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vaccination numbers fluctuate||Administration of COVID-19 vaccine doses has been fluctuating in North Karnataka districts. Officials say that the differences are due to unstable supply from the central dispatch centre in Bengaluru. The average doses administered over a period of 10 days has been around 20,000 in Belagavi, 11,000 in Vijayapura and 7,500 in Bagalkot. But the numbers have varied from as low as 100 in Belagavi on Sunday to 61,415 on Monday. The highest number in Vijayapura was 24,816 on June 22 and the lowest was 687 on June 26. In Bagalkot, the highest was 25,903 on June 21 and the lowest was 1,933 on June 26. Belagavi district suffered from a severe scarcity of vaccines on Sunday, with just 98 first doses and two second doses given to those aged over 45. “We had to close down 150 of the 499 vaccination centres opened in the district on Sunday,” said a Revenue Department officer in-charge of coordinating vaccination efforts. Meanwhile, complaints about vaccination shortage continue. Rajendra Lakkundimath, who was waiting for vaccination at the BIMS Hospital, said that he was fed up of being sent back time and again. “I have come here for four days, only to go back as the vaccines are out of stock,” he said. Rajendra Dharani, who said that he was not given the vaccine despite registering on the Co-WIN website, suspected that MLAs were diverting vaccines to colleges, from vaccination centres in hospitals. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath denied allegations of diversion of vaccines but said that efforts will be made to ensure enough supplies at all centres from this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-numbers-fluctuate/article35047198.ece
30 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Yogeshwar meets Yatnal||C.P. Yogeshwar, Tourism Minister, and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, BJP MLA, who have openly criticised Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, met in Vijayapura on Tuesday. It was widely speculated that the two dissident leaders discussed various issues including their demand for change of leadership in the State and the reactions of BJP high command following the visit of Arun Singh, BJP general secretary. However, both the leaders said their meeting was non-political. They met on two occasions – at the launch of development projects by the Department of Tourism and at a private hotel for lunch. Mr. Yogeshwar, who later spoke to journalists, said his visit was not political and that he had come to lay the foundation stone of a three-star hotel and the restoration of Anand Mahal, a heritage building. He said Mr. Yatnal was his friend and that he would support him. “I will stand by him all the time. I will support him. I will strengthen his voice,” he said. I wish that he gets an opportunity to better serve this region. I am hopeful that the party gives him greater opportunities for public service, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yogeshwar-meets-yatnal/article35047210.ece
30 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. schools oppose govt. plea to form a panel on school fee||The State government on Tuesday faced stiff opposition from private unaided schoolsbefore the High Court of Karnataka over its plea seeking permission to set up a panel headed by a retired judge to look into the issue of fixation of fee for all categories of unaidedprivate schools in the State for 2021-22. Sticking to their firm contention that the State lacked authority in law to regulate fees at unaided private schools, associations of various schools pointed out that on the one hand the government wanted the schools to collect lower fee, while on the other it had issued a circular asking schools to pay minimum salary to teaching and non-teaching staff. These arguments were made before a Bench of Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum during a hearing on petitions filed by various associations of private unaided schools. The petitioners had questioned the legality of the January 29 Government Order asking private unaided schools, including those affiliated to the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education and the Central Board of Secondary Education, to collect only 70% of the tuition fee collected in 2019-20 for the academic year 2020-21, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi pointed out that a large number of private unaided schools did not abide by the order and hence the government was now proposing to set up a panel for fixation of fee. There are nearly 21,000 private unaided schools in the State, among the total of around 76,800 schools, and it is these schools that are demanding the full fee. The government intervened after taking note of the plight of parents whose economic condition was hit by the pandemic, he pointed out. When the court orally indicated that it may not accept the government’s plea seeking permission to set up a committee, the Advocate-General said that at least the court could grant liberty to the government to initiate action against schools for not following the fee restrictions issued on January 29. However, senior advocates representing the petitioners pointed out that the High Courts of Delhi and Bombay had already rejected the respective State governments’ similar decision on fee reduction in view of the pandemic. They said even the apex court had done so, in a Rajasthan case. School managements are offering fee reduction on a case-to-case basis depending on the economic condition of the parents, it was pointed out to the court. Further hearing on the matter has been adjourned until July 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-schools-oppose-govt-plea-to-form-a-panel-on-school-fee/article35047031.ece
30 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Negative RT-PCR or vaccination proof must for entry from Maharashtra||It is now mandatory for those coming into Karnataka from Maharashtra to produce either an RT-PCR negative report or a COVID-19 vaccination certificate as Karnataka has taken up special surveillance measures in the wake of Delta Plus variant of COVID-19 being reported from several districts in Maharashtra. A notification in this regard was issued by the Karnataka government on Tuesday. The RT-PCR negative report should not be older than 72 hours and the vaccine certificate should indicate at least one dose. The norm applies to all travellers coming by road, air and train. The Deputy Commissioners of Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Vijayapura and Bidar distrists, that share borders with Maharashtra, have been instructed to deploy adequate staff at check posts. Exemption has been provided to constitutional functionaries, health workers and children below the age of two. In case of dire emergency situations, like death in the family and medical requirements, passengers shall be allowed to enter even without these requirements after collecting their swab sample for a test along with details of identity and address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revised-rules-for-entry-to-state-from-maharashtra/article35047020.ece
30 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSLSA officers in disguise unearth ‘commission’ racket||Discreet enquiries by the officers of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) in disguise has disclosed that “commission” of Rs. 100-Rs. 250 was being demanded by BangaloreOne and Seva Sindhu Kendras to upload application of workers from unorganised sectors for availing Rs. 2,000 financial package announced by the government in view of the COVID-19 second wave lockdown. Officers of KSLSA and the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) conducted enquiries in Bengaluru and seven other districts acting on the complaints on “commission” being collected. The report was submitted before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj on Tuesday during the hearing of PIL petition filed by Domestic Workers Rights Union. The Bench directed the Secretary, Labour Department, to be present before the court on July 1 through videoconference with solution to address the issues pointed out in the report. Collection of “commission” was contrary to the claim made on behalf of the State government before the court that service of uploading applications in these centres is free of cost. Interestingly, at one centre in Koramangala in the city, officers were told that they would collect Rs. 100-Rs. 150 for uploading application and a gazetted government officer, whose signature is required for submission of application, would charge Rs. 100 for signature per application. At a Bangalore One centre in BTM Layout, the report disclosed that though the centre’s personnel initially expressed ignorance of facility to receive application, on persistence by KSLSA officers in disguise, they revealed that “the application would be uploaded in that centre only if the application is filed through the local [then] councillor.” While in Bengaluru city none other than KSLSA’s member-secretary H. Shashidhara Shetty, a judicial officer, visited some of these centres, other judicial officers attached to DLSAs made discreet enquiries in Mysuru, Belagavi, Mangaluru, Hassan, Ramanagaram, Bidar, and Shivamogga districts to ascertain the truth. In certain instances, “commission” up to Rs. 1,000 was demanded. It was in Belagavi that the process of receiving applications was comparatively better compared to remaining seven districts. Even a telephone call made to the helpline – 155214 - to seek information on submitting applications, disclosed that the Seva Sindhu centres might charge “commission” up to Rs. 200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kslsa-officers-in-disguise-unearth-commission-racket/article35047016.ece
30 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3,222 new cases, 93 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 3,222 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number to 28,40,428. Of these, 753 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 93 deaths, the toll rose to 34,929. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 14,724 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 27,19,479. The State now has 85,997 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 2.54%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.88%. For transgenders Commemorating Pride Month, Manipal Hospitals conducted a vaccination drive for the transgender community and expanded its vaccine portfolio with Sputnik V on Tuesday. The hospital organised exclusive vaccination slots for members of the community and inoculated 155 of them on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3222-new-cases-93-deaths/article35047021.ece
30 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ramesh Jarkiholi in Delhi again||Former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has again surprised everyone by dashing off to New Delhi. He is learnt to have met former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and is also expected to meet a few BJP leaders. This comes in the backdrop of the leader making efforts to rejoin the State Cabinet, from which he had to step down following a CD scandal in which he was accused of sexually exploiting a woman after promising her a government job. However, the probe against him is yet to be completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramesh-jarkiholi-in-delhi-again/article35047033.ece
30 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents continue to object||Reacting to the development, K.S. Sangunni from the Yelahanka Puttenahalli Lake and Bird Conservation Trust that has been vociferously objecting the gas-based plant, said the petition against the plant was first rejected by the Karnataka High Court on grounds of time delay. Another petition was filed in the Supreme Court, which directed the petitioners to approach the National Green Tribunal. Simmi Kumar, resident of Heritage apartment that is just across the power plant, and a member of the trust, alleged that KPCL had failed to get environmental clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. “Since the plant is coming up in between two lakes, one of which is a bird conservation reserve, clearance from MoEF is essential. Instead, KPCL claims to have got the clearance from the State,” she said. She said the plant is coming up near the Yelahanka Air Force Station and the KPCL had failed to get permission from the Air Force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-continue-to-object/article35047013.ece
30 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Family beats up patrolling team||A 38-year-old head constable and a Home Guard were allegedly beaten up by a group of six people, including two women, for questioning them about not wearing masks and gathering outside their houses in the middle of the night at Dayanand Nagar slum in Jayanagar 1st block on Monday night. Gurupada K., along with Home Guard Ravish, was on enforcement duty and returning to the station on his bike when he noticed a group of men chatting at around 12 a.m. In his complaint, Mr. Gurupada said he stopped to inquire. Sensing trouble, a few persons ran away while the accused Mohammed, an autorickshaw driver, confronted them. The verbal duel turned ugly when his family assaulted Gurupada and Ravish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-beats-up-patrolling-team/article35047014.ece
30 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Finish phase I of Yettinahole project by July-end: BSY||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday instructed officials to ensure that the first phase of the Yettinahole project is completed by releasing water into Vedavathi valley of Chikkamagaluru district by the end of July. He also directed officials to expedite the ongoing works of the Upper Bhadra project. The Chief Minister, who holds the Water Resources portfolio, reviewed the progress of works and said that so far Rs. 9,003.86 crore has been spent under the Yettinahole project, which will provide drinking water to more than 68 lakh people of 6,557 villages. Regarding the Upper Bhadra project, he said its declaration as a national project was in the final stage and approval from the Union Cabinet was pending. He added that he has discussed the issue with the Union Minister concerned over telephone and requested him to grant approval at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/finish-phase-i-of-yettinahole-project-by-july-end-bsy/article35047032.ece
30 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kisan Rail trains transport mangoes||Kisan Rail, operated by the South Western Railway (SWR), has helped the farmers of Kolar and Chickballapur transport 1,250 tonnes of mangoes to New Delhi. The first train was run on June 19, and since then the SWR has operated five trains. On Tuesday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa flagged off a Kisan train carrying 250 tonnes of mangoes from Yelahanka station. He said the Kisan Rail services help farmers get distant markets for their produce. In a press release issued here, the SWR said that Kisan Rail services are run as per the timetable. The train covers a distance of 2,300 km from Kolar to Delhi in 38 to 40 hours. The services were introduced in August 2020. The Railways is providing a 50% subsidy in freight rates for the transportation of agricultural products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kisan-rail-trains-transport-mangoes/article35047034.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,KARNATAKA||NGT: No need to impose environmental compensation on Yelahanka power plant||No violations have been committed by the Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. (KPCL) at the gas-based power plant at Yelahanka and there was no need to impose environmental compensation or remedial measures, the southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has said. The Bench said the grievance of the applicant, Heritage Estate Apartment Owners’ Association, seeking a number of reliefs against the plant, was turned down. But the Bench issued directions to KPCL to follow the suggestions made by a joint committee that was appointed by the tribunal. The applicant had moved the tribunal against the environment clearance issued to the plant while also pointing out that the plant was close to the Puttenahalli Lake Birds Conservation Reserve and that it would affect the biodiversity of the Puttenahalli and Yelahanka lakes. They had also moved the tribunal on issues such as air and noise pollution, water pollution, thermal pollution, and discharge of solid waste. The joint committee appointed by the NGT visited the site and submitted its report to the tribunal. The committee found that as per the documents and monitoring reports on air, water and noise submitted by the KPCL, the construction phase has not caused any environmental degradation. The committee suggested that KPCL needs to finalise noise monitoring location in consultation with the pollution control board, especially to monitor noise levels. “The loud whistle noise often generated from the turbine house and the noise generated from cooling towers need to be examined and appropriate control measures shall be provided in consultation with KSPCB, if warranted, prior to the commencement of commercial operation of the plant,” the committee said. The committee also said KPCL should carry out a minimum 50 metres width of green belt, undertake a study on restoration of the wetland and implement restoration measures in consultation with the Karnataka Department of Forest, Ecology and Environment. The tribunal said an officer, not below the rank of Chief Conservator of Forests, a scientist from the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, can be included to ensure the recommendations are carried out properly. A Zero Liquid Discharge plant proposed for effluent shall be installed and commissioned prior to the commencement of commercial operation of the plant, the committee had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ngt-no-need-to-impose-environmental-compensation-on-yelahanka-power-plant/article35047012.ece
30 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Horatti to ask govt. to address grievances of workers||Considering the plight of workers during the pandemic, Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti has said that he will issue directions to the State government to collect information regarding the problems of workers and take steps to address their grievances. He was speaking after distributing food and safety gear kits to workers of construction and other industries in a programme jointly organised by the district administration, Labour Department and Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board at Lamington School in Hubballi on Tuesday. Mr. Horatti said that he had asked the reason for food kits not being distributed to construction workers in Hubballi, while construction workers were being extended help in other parts of the State. “Consequently, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar had promised to send more food kits to Hubballi. Accordingly, he has taken steps and directed officials to take up immediate distribution of food kits to workers,” he said. Mr. Horatti said that each food kit comprised 12 kg of various foodgrains and he would thank the government for coming to the help of the workers, whose lives had become miserable due to the pandemic. In-charge Assistant Commissioner of Labour Mallikarjun Jagur briefed about the activities of the department and said that the district had 84,000 registered construction workers. The district had received 60,000 kits. Accordingly, the food kits were being distributed among the workers. Following a direction from the Supreme Court, food kit distribution is being taken up in all the districts of the State, he said. Labour Officer Marikamba Hulakoti, various officials of the department and trade union leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horatti-to-ask-govt-to-address-grievances-of-workers/article35047203.ece
30 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||66 new vehicles for garbage collection in Kalaburagi||In an effort to improve efficiency of solid waste management and door-to-door garbage collection system, the Kalaburagi City Corporation has acquired 66 new vehicles. “At present, 80 tipper vans are pressed into service for garbage collection. Due to the shortage of vehicles, it is not possible to collect garbage regularly in all localities. In some areas, garbage is collected only twice in a week and we required at least 137 vehicles for collecting wastage across the city,” Corporation Commissioner Snehal Lokhande has said. Besides the new tippers, the corporation has acquired two earthmovers and another machine at the dumping yard at Udnoor village. Three more earthmovers and another machine are yet to be acquired, he added. A sum of Rs. 5.5 crore has been spent for acquiring these vehicles. Mr. Lokhande said that the vehicles would bring positive results in solid waste management in the city. The residents have a great role in improving the efficiency of solid waste management. The official said that of the 66 new vehicles, 40 vehicles have arrived and they will be allotted to different areas to enable the collection of garbage. It is estimated that each vehicle will collect garbage from 700-900 households. The total garbage collection is expected to be 200 tonnes per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/66-new-vehicles-for-garbage-collection-in-kalaburagi/article35047200.ece
30 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Waiting for results’||Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar, one of the BJP leaders demanding the replacement of CM B.S. Yediyurappa, said that all the arguments and the counter-arguments over the change of leadership were over and he was waiting for the results to be announced by his party’s national leaders. “All the arguments and counter-arguments [over the replacement of B.S. Yediyurappa in the Chief Minister post] are over and we are waiting for the results... Let us see what guidelines our leaders will come up with. Just as they had issued many guidelines to handle COVID-19, they would, I am hopeful, also give guidelines on this issue. As an honest party worker, I have shared my feelings with the party leaders. Let me wait for the judgment,” Mr. Yogeshwar told mediapersons at Kalaburagi airport here on Tuesday. The Minister landed here before leaving for Vijayapura for official programmes. On rumours over former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s resignation from his Assembly membership, Mr. Yogeshwar said that there were no major issues in the party and, if any, the party would resolve them to move ahead. “There has been a demand in Congress for a Dalit CM. When Siddaramaiah became CM, the voice for a Dalit CM was louder. The Dalit community, which had been with Congress for the last 70 years, feels betrayed [as Congress did not choose a Dalit for CM post]. Now, the same demand has again come to the fore and may grow stronger. As long as Siddaramaiah is there, D.K. Shivakumar will not get to be CM,” Mr. Yogeshwar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waiting-for-results/article35047211.ece
30 June 2021||Kasaragod,KARNATAKA||No decision on change of names: Kerala||Kerala government and the administration of Kasaragod have said that no decision on changing the names was taken in the border district abutting Karnataka. Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had appealed to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to retain the original names of villages in the border district, apparently changed by local authorities. This issue was raised by C. Somasekhara, chairman of the Karnataka Border Development Authority. In 2013 The issue had earlier received attention in 2013 when the Kannada Samavaya Samiti Kasaragod strongly opposed to changing of place names in signboards, government records, ration cards, and other documents. Based on their petition, the government in 2016 passed an order asking to use the original names of places in all the records. A similar order was issued by District Collector D. Sajith Babu as late as January 2021. Linguistic Minority committee member Umesh M. Shaliyan said no order from the government to change the names of the places had come to their attention. However, such mistakes were repeated by government officials. The names of many places were misspelt owing to Malayalam pronunciation. He said officials from the southern parts of the State who were not connected to the place were responsible for bringing such changes, who were unable to understand the local culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-decision-on-change-of-names-kerala/article35047022.ece
30 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Baidebettu to get Wi-Fi connectivity under PM-WANI||Baidebettu village in Brahmavar taluk of Udupi district will soon get high-speed Wi-Fi Internet services under the Prime Minister Wi-Fi Access Network Interface (PM-WANI) scheme to be executed by HFCL (formerly Himachal Futuristic Communications Ltd.). A leading domestic Wi-Fi brand and one of the first Telecom Infra Project (TIP) OpenWiFi compliant solutions provider, HFCL will set up the project in collaboration with TIP to cater to the needs of about 9,000 residents of Baidebettu and surrounding places up to a radius of 6 km, said a release from HFCL. The outdoor network will use TIP OpenWi-Fi-based access points, point-to-point radios, solar power over Ethernet devices, and other network equipment. i2e1 (PM-WANI compliant WiFi company) will provide network authentication and regulatory monitoring besides acting as the Public Data Office Aggregator (PDOA) under the PM-WANI model. The network is likely to go live by July-end. HFCL has already deployed its first PM-WANI model at Baslambi village in Haryana. The integrated package being deployed is indigenously developed and built for high performance. It is fully secure and performs under harsh weather conditions that Baidebettu witnesses throughout the year. The network offers Wi-Fi Internet with bandwidth up to 500 Mbps in all common areas of the village and its surroundings. Baidebettu does not have any reliable connectivity as of now, the release said. WiFi deployment is expected to significantly improve the quality of life of residents by providing them access to digital services, including healthcare, education, banking, retail, entertainment and government digital services. HFCL’s promoter and Managing Director Mahendra Nahata said that the company is committed to transforming #InternetForAll into a ubiquitous reality and has successfully collaborated with leading core solution providers to strengthen the connectivity ecosystem. TIP’s Chief Engineer David Hutton said that the venture is glad to have HFCL as an active participant of the TIP OpenWiFi community. He said that HFCL’s “Built in India’ disaggregated OpenWifi solutions in conjunction with PM-WANI demonstrates early success in employing TIP OpenWifi to address the digital divide. i2e1 Founder and CEO Satyam Darmora said that the company is proud to be part of another HFCL’s “Connect to the Unconnected” initiative.  WiFi deployment is expected to significantly improve the quality of life of residents by providing them access to digital services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/baidebettu-to-get-wi-fi-connectivity-under-pm-wani/article35047197.ece
30 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nine arrested in two CCB raids, cannabis seized||Central Crime Branch sleuths arrested nine persons, including a final year MBBS student, in two raids on places where cannabis and other narcotic drugs were stocked in the city on Tuesday. In the first raid at Marnamikatte, CCB sleuths arrested Mohammed Ameen Rafih (19), Mohammed Afham (19), Roshan Yousouf (18), Mohammed Thameem (20), Mohammed Rayees (20), Abdul Arman (20) and Prajwal Phinehas (24). In the second raid at a place on Mission Street in Bunder, CCB sleuths arrested Abdul Rahiman (32) and Mohammed Sadiq (33). The police recovered a total of nine MDMA pills weighing four grams, 5.235 kg of cannabis, 1.86 grams of MDMA powder, five mobile phones, a car and a scooter. The police said that Ameen Rafih was sourcing cannabis from Bengaluru and supplying it to Phinehas and other accused persons, who, in turn, distributed it to people, which included several medical students. A search is on to find those who supplied drugs to Ameen Rafih. The police said that Rahiman had procured cannabis in Bengaluru from a man hailing from Odisha. An effort is on to trace the seller, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-arrested-in-two-ccb-raids-cannabis-seized/article35047206.ece
30 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two more Nigerian nationals arrested in drug case||The police have arrested two more Nigerians in connection with two cases registered in the city against drug trafficking in Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod district of Kerala. The police gave the names of the accused as Ohamobi Paul Ifechukwu (34) and Uchechukwu Elekwachi (34), both hailing from of Anambra State of Nigeria. They were arrested from a rented premises they were staying in Bidarahalli in Bengaluru on Monday. Early in June, the Konaje Police arrested four persons and recovered 235 grams of MDMA from them. Further, they arrested two persons, including Stany Chima, a Nigerian national, for illegal transportation of MDMA and other drugs. During questioning, Chima revealed to the police that he was getting MDMA from Ifechukwu and Elekwachi. A team of Konaje Police went to Bengaluru and arrested Ifechukwu and Elekwachi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-nigerian-nationals-arrested-in-drug-case/article35047205.ece
30 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Prime Minister Wi-Fi Access Network Interface in Kamila||Kamila, a remote village in Sullia taluk of Dakshina Kannada district that did not have adequate telecommunication and internet connectivity, recently came to have OpenWifi connectivity under the PM-WANI through a public-private initiative. Two enthusiasts, Sairanjan Kalchar and Sadashiva Kodappala from the village, partnered with Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. to set up the facility for a limited pubic space in the village. About 2,000 sq ft space around Kamila bus stand was covered under the Wi-Fi connectivity through Ekanet, the name given by the entrepreneurs to the system. Students and the public in need of Internet connectivity make use of the facility by visiting the bus stand and logging into their systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prime-minister-wi-fi-access-network-interface-in-kamila/article35047196.ece
30 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Decision on re-opening temples by July 5||Minister for Muzrai and Welfare of Backward Classes Kota Srinivasa Poojary said on Tuesday that the government will take a decision on re-opening temples in the State by July 5. Speaking to reporters at Kundapur in Udupi district, the Minister said that if B and C category temples are re-opened, there will not be heavy rush of devotees. But, if A category temples are re-opened, there is every chance of devotees thronging in huge numbers resulting in overcrowding. Then, it will be difficult to follow social distancing. The State government will discuss the matter and take a call by Monday next. The matters relating to resuming mass feeding and all categories of sevas should also be discussed. “I will meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa either on Thursday or Friday to discuss the matter,” Mr. Poojary said. Earlier, the Minister visited Gopady Gram Panchayat to take stock of COVID-19 situation in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-re-opening-temples-by-july-5/article35047204.ece
30 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Medical college booked||The Mulki Police have filed a case against Kanachur Institute of Medical Sciences, Deralakatte, on the charge of violating lockdown norms by taking a group of women from a locality in Mulki on the college bus to the institute on Sunday night. The case was registered following a complaint by a resident of K.S. Rao Nagar in Lingappayya Kadu of Mulki. According to the complaint, a good number of women of the locality were found sitting on the bus that belonged to the institute at 8 p.m. on Sunday. When the complainant enquired with the bus driver and a few nurses on the bus, they told him that they had come there on the instruction of Nawaz, a manager of the institute, and were taking women for vaccination at the institute on Monday. The hospital personnel did not produce any document related to vaccination of the women, the complainant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-college-booked/article35047207.ece
30 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bandipur safari to resume from today||After a gap of nearly two months, the safari at Bandipur Tiger Reserve is being reopened from Wednesday. Visitors can buy tickets at the counter for the safari, which was suspended owing to the lockdown. Currently, tickets are not available online. With the pandemic situation coming under control and Chamarajanagar now being included under the list of Category 1 districts, lifting certain curbs, tourism-related activities at Bandipur coming under the district are being resumed and accordingly the safari is being restarted for wildlife enthusiasts. Tickets will be available online from July 5, according to Bandipur Tiger Reserve director S.R. Natesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bandipur-safari-to-resume-from-today/article35047029.ece
30 June 2021||Mysuru/Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Amid shortage, Sudhakar seeks more vaccines from Centre||Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Tuesday contacted Health Ministry officials in New Delhi seeking supply of COVID-19 vaccines amid suspension of the vaccination programme at government hospitals and primary health centres of Mysuru district for the third straight day. There has been a shortage of vaccines in several districts for the general public as the focus has shifted to vaccinating students and school and college staff. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Dr. Sudhakar said he had spoken to Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, who promised to despatch supplies from the fresh allotment to the State on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, Dr. Sudhakar had told reporters in Bengaluru that he would make a trip to the national capital and meet the Union Health Minister on the issue. However, in Mysuru, the Health Minister played down the shortage and said the State has been administering three lakh to five lakh doses of vaccine every day. “We have never run dry of vaccine stocks,” he claimed. Mysuru District Health Officer K.H. Prasad had, on Monday, admitted that the vaccine stock in the district was exhausted. Officials had appealed to the public to cooperate with the district administration and visit the vaccination centres only after fresh supplies arrived. Referring to the non-availability of vaccines in Mysuru, Dr. Sudhakar said that the matter had been brought to his notice and that he would take the necessary steps. Dr. Sudhakar cautioned Dr. Prasad against providing information pertaining to vaccines to the media. Soon after officials of the Health and Family Welfare Department in Mysuru gathered for a review meeting onthe Mysuru Zilla Panchayat premises, Dr. Sudhakar told Dr. Prasad that henceforth the Deputy Commissioner would provide information on vaccines and that he should refrain from speaking to the media about it. At Dharwad, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Yashwanth Madinkar said there was no shortage of vaccine doses but they were being used to vaccinate students and teachers. “As the focus is now on inoculating students, not many doses are available for the general public,” he said. In Mysuru too, inoculation at colleges is continuing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amid-shortage-sudhakar-seeks-more-vaccines-from-centre/article35047028.ece
30 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure vaccination of all college students, staff’||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has asked officials to ensure vaccination of all students and teaching and non-teaching staff of government and private colleges in Yadgir district. She was holding a video conference in Yadgir on Tuesday. Dr. Ragapriya said that colleges should call each student over phone to make enquiries and also send messages asking them to get vaccinated. She also said that officials should strictly tell students that they will not get admission for the next year if they do not get vaccinated. Officials informed the Deputy Commissioner that a total of 21,342 students are studying in degree colleges in the government and private sector. And, there are 1,153 teaching and 505 non-teaching staff working in these institutions. The Deputy Commissioner said that everybody, including the teaching and non-teaching staff and other employees of high and primary schools, should get vaccinated. CMC officials should launch vaccination drive for eligible citizens in each ward under the CMC limits, she added. Chief Executive Officer Shilpa Sharma, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankaragowda Somanal, District Health Officer Indhumathi Kamashetty and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-vaccination-of-all-college-students-staff/article35047201.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||More Namma Metro services likely||After resuming services, the BMRCL is running trains from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. In two shifts, a total of 155 trips are operated with a frequency of five minutes on both the lines. No trains are operated during weekends. Ridership in BMTC buses too has increased considerably, with close to 10 lakh people travelling on Monday. However, as the number of commuters increases, it is becoming difficult to follow social distancing norms, especially in the peak hours. As per the government guidelines, only 50% seats are allowed to be filled. But considering the increase in the number of passengers, bus crews have been told to fill all the seats during peak hours but not allow standing. The BMTC is operating around 4,200 buses per day. Meanwhile, the number of people travelling in KSRTC buses has also increased compared to last week. On the first day of resuming services, 1.2 lakh ridership was recorded, which touched 5 lakh now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-namma-metro-services-likely/article35047018.ece
30 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tribespeople getting Onam vegetables ready||The settlements of Scheduled Tribe communities in Idukki and Wayanad districts are preparing to produce vegetables for the Onam season. The work is part of a scheme under the Harita Rashmi project. Under the auspices of the Integrated Tribal Development Programme (ITDP) offices, the scheme is aimed at bringing the tribespeople to vegetable farming. The new scheme is named Niravallom and is one among the 100-days programme of the State government. The Harita Reshmi farm groups will take the responsibility of farming to marketing of the vegetables. The farmers who were earlier part of the Harita Reshmi scheme will be in the new initiative. In Idukki alone, 31 farming groups in tribal settlements were already formed, said an official of the ITDP. Vegetables Vegetables like beans, green chilly, tomato, ladies’ finger, red spinach, and pumpkin will be cultivated and the excess produce will be marketed outside the settlements. The official said that the Harita Reshmi scheme was launched to promote farming among the tribespeople and the Centre for Management Development would monitor its implementation. Nearly a 1,000 tribal families in both the districts will be part of the farming scheme. The farmers will also be distributed with saplings of fruit trees, and vegetable plants like lemon and tamarind trees. The district-level inauguration of the scheme will be done by district panchayat president Jiji K. Philip at Kattappana on Wednesday. ITDP project officer Sreereka K.S. will participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribespeople-getting-onam-vegetables-ready/article35047366.ece
30 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Four arrested for ivory trade||The Forest Department officials have seized ivory and arrested four persons in connection with it. The arrested were Sabu Samuel, P.S. Prasanth, Scaria Joseph, and Saji Gopinathan. The arrest was made after a tip-off received by the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR) deputy director. According to an official of the PTR, they were probing in to how the ivory got into the hands of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-arrested-for-ivory-trade/article35047370.ece
30 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Suicide of a 14-year-old: three cops suspended||Three police officials were suspended in connection with the suicide of a 14-year-old girl from Rajasthan under the Kumily police station limit on Tuesday. The incident occurred on November 7 when her father went to Rajasthan after the shop that they were running in Kumily remained closed. The suspension was after the special branch of police gave a report in this regard. The suspended officials are former Kumily sub inspector and present Kaladi sub inspector Prasanth P. Nair, and grade sub inspectors Bertin Jose and Akbar Sadath of Kumily police station. The girl was found hanging inside her home and the post-mortem report revealed that she was sexually abused. The police booked a POCSO case but did not mention about the mobile phone of the girl that was recovered from the room. The special branch conducted a probe and submitted a report pointing out the lapses from the part of the police..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suicide-of-a-14-year-old-three-cops-suspended/article35047369.ece
30 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Tourism to strengthen Wayanad economy’||Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said that the rural economy of Wayanad district would be strengthened by promoting tourism projects in rural areas. Addressing local body chiefs in the district through videoconferencing, Mr. Riyas said the government was planning to promote tourism based on the historical, heritage and cultural significance of the district. The meeting was convened to discuss the tourism potential of rural areas in the hill district. Sustainable tourism based on the overall development of all sections of people, including the tribal and backward sections, would be more suitable for the district, Mr. Riyas said. “As Wayanad has a vast untapped tourism potential in rural areas, prominence should be given to develop rural destinations,” he said. Blueprint Mr. Riyas directed District Collector Adeela Abdulla to submit a blueprint of the new tourism destinations to be developed in the district after compiling the presentations of the civic body chiefs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-to-strengthen-wayanad-economy/article35047274.ece
30 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||2 suspended||D.K. Vinod Kumar, Chief Conservator of forest, Northern circle, Kannur, suspended two forest officials in connection with felling of endangered rosewood trees in Muttil South Village under the South Wayanad forest division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-suspended/article35047299.ece
30 June 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Elephant calf found dead in Wayanad forest||A male elephant calf was found dead in Kollikurukku forest in the Kuruchayd forest range under the Wayanad Wildlife sanctuary on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-calf-found-dead-in-wayanad-forest/article35047298.ece
30 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Controversy over ‘move’ to change place names||A reported move by the Kerala government to change the name of some villages in the border district of Kasaragod has stirred up a controversy, with linguistic minority groups on both sides of the border with Karnataka putting up stiff resistance. The issue became a topic of discussion following reports that Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and former Chief Minister Kumaraswamy had appealed to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to retain the original name of the villages. On Tuesday evening, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan clarified that the Kerala government had not changed any place name in localities bordering Karnataka. “It is concocted news. Some conspiracy is afoot to sow division in the minds of people. The Kerala government has received no letter from the Karnataka administration on the subject,” Mr. Vijayan said. The Kannada Samavaya Samiti in Kasaragod maintains that about 20 place names had been changed by officials. C. Somasekhara, chairman of the Karnataka Border Development Authority, said he had written to Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohammed Riyaz and also taken up the issue with Mr. Yediyurappa. ‘Fake narrative’ Mr. Riyas, however, told reporters on Tuesday that the move to rename villages was a fake narrative with the aim of creating communal polarisation in the border areas. Mr. Somasekhara told The Hindu that the local bodies had changed the names of places on signboards, documents and other records for their convenience. Prominently existing names were in Kannada and Tulu languages, while in some places it was a mixture of both, Mr. Somasekhara said. “The names of places like Madhuru have been changed to Madhuram and Malla to Mallam. Similarly names like Karadka, Bedadka, Pilikunje, Anebagilu, Manjeshwara, Hosadurga and Kumble are now Kadagam, Bedagam, Pulikkunnu, Anevagil, Manjeswaram, Paudiyakota and Kumbla respectively,” he said Apparently, the issue had received much attention back in 2013 when the Kannada Samavaya Samiti strongly objected to changing of place names. In 2016, the government passed an order to use the original name of places in all the records and orders by the local bodies and government offices. Historical importance “A place name indicates a unique culture and historical importance. Several names are either related to tribal lords, relevant events, people, animals or even birds and so on. With changes, the uniqueness of the area too will be lost.,” observes Rathanakar Mallamoole, professor in Kannada, Kasaragod Government College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-denies-bid-to-change-names-of-places-in-kasaragod/article35046933.ece
30 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Special paid vaccination drive for people above 18 years today||A special paid vaccination drive will be held at private hospitals in the district on Wednesday. Around 30 private hospitals are participating in the drive and on-the-spot registration will be permitted for everybody over 18 years of age, according to Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination. Private hospitals have been administering an average of around 10,000 doses daily, and the drive hopes to push the figure up to 30,000 on a single day, Dr. Sivadas said. From Thursday onwards, online slot booking is likely to be available to everybody over the age of 18, he said. The district is in a comfortable position with regard to vaccine availability, and additional stock is expected soon, he added. Nearly 17 lakh doses of the two vaccines have been administered in Ernakulam so far, and about 77% of the population over 45 years has taken the first dose. Of the targeted 11,76,315 people over the age of 45 in the district, 9,00,670 have taken the first shot. However, only 2,09,120 people have taken the second dose, going by the State Health Department vaccination bulletin. People who have completed 100 days after taking the first dose of Covishield can walk into their nearest vaccination centre directly to take the second shot, he said. In the 18 to 44 years category, 3,24,140 people have taken the first dose. This is around 22% of the total population of over 14 lakh people in that age category. According to the CoWIN dashboard, there are 185 government vaccination sites and 55 private ones in the district. According to figures, 16,78,622 doses of the vaccination had been administered till Tuesday morning. On an average, around 30,000 doses are being administered daily. On Tuesday, over 32,000 doses were administered. The figure hit a high of 38,389 doses on June 25. Over the past four days, a total of 3,500 migrant workers have taken the first dose of the vaccine at special vaccination camps organised in Kalamassery, Aluva, and Perumbavoor. Another such camp was held for workers in the Edayar area on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-paid-vaccination-drive-for-people-above-18-years-today/article35047279.ece
30 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kitex Group backs out of Rs. 3,500-crore project||The Kitex group of companies has said that it was withdrawing from making fresh investments to the tune of Rs. 3,500 crore in the State following what the group chairman Sabu Jacob described as “the humiliating experience” of being subjected to repeated and frequent checks on the firm’s compliance with the laws and regulations. Mr. Jacob said on Tuesday that the 11th "inspection" in a month was conducted on the day. The group had been operating in the State for over several decades, employing around 10,000 people. It had been bound by the regulations and had been issued licences to operate. But there is a sense of being "hounded" by the authorities, he said, adding that things had gotten out of hand. There had already been 10 inspections at the factory site during the triple lockdown, during which 40 to 50 officials entered the premises. They did not convey what they were looking for or if any violations were detected, said Mr. Jacob. He said he was not against any inspection by the authorities but called for the same norms for all. The Kitex Group, with annual exports worth Rs. 1,000 crore, said it would withdraw from investments in an apparel park as well as private industrial parks in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Palakkad. The investments were agreed upon during the global investment meet in 2020, said a communication from the company. Employment generation These investments would have generated employment for around 35,000 people, including around 20,000 in the apparel park. The investments were planned to be completed by 2025, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kitex-group-backs-out-of-rs-3500-crore-project/article35047300.ece
30 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,372 more test positive||Thrikkakara recorded the highest number of new cases in Ernakulam on Tuesday with 69 people testing positive from the area. This was out of a total of 1,372 new COVID cases recorded in the district on the day. The test positivity rate stood at 10.31% when 13,302 samples were collected for testing. As many as 12,475 people are recovering from the infection in Ernakulam. Malayattoor-Neeleswaram saw 55 new cases, Thripunithura 48, Choornikkara 39, Kalamassery 34, Keezhmad, Kumbalangi and Pallipuram 33 each, and Edathala 31. Njarakkal and Payipra recorded 29 new cases, Palluruthy 27, and Alangad 26. A total of 1,062 recoveries were recorded, while 37,370 people remain in quarantine. Three health workers were among those who tested positive on Tuesday. While 1,370 people are hospitalised at government and private facilities, 8,212 people are recovering from the infection at home. At FLTCs, SLTCs and domiciliary care centres, 1,521 people are recuperating. As many as 1,258 people have succumbed to the infection so far in the district, going by data on the State COVID dashboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1372-more-test-positive/article35047278.ece
30 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rape accused arrested on charge of assaulting woman||Thrissur native Martin Joseph, who was arrested earlier this month on the charge of confining a costume-designer from Kannur at an apartment at Marine Drive and brutally assaulting her, was arrested yet again on Tuesday on the charge of intruding into the apartment of a woman at Kakkanad on May 31 and assaulting her. He was serving a remand term in connection with the first assault case. Held with ganja Akhil Krishna of Vaikom and Sourav of Ernakulam were arrested from Panampilly Nagar by the Ernakulam South Police on Tuesday on the charge of possessing 2 kg of ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rape-accused-arrested-on-charge-of-assaulting-woman/article35047277.ece
30 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Custodial quizzing must’||Opposing the bail petition filed by the accused in the case relating to cutting and removal of rosewood trees in Wayanad, the government on Tuesday informed the High Court that the custodial interrogation of the accused was necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/custodial-quizzing-must/article35047286.ece
30 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Filipino crew member found dead||A 43-year-old Filipino crew member of the bulk carrierHoney Badgerwas found dead in his cabin on Tuesday. The vessel had set sail from the Mangaluru port at 2 a.m. “We had received reports that the crew member Jan Ryan Sevilla had collapsed in the vessel early this morning. The bulk carrier has now berthed at the Cochin Port and the body will be taken out for follow-up action,” according to the Coastal Police in Fort Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/filipino-crew-member-found-dead/article35047280.ece
30 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Loading operation inaugurated||Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurated the loading operation for the maiden voyage of coastal shipping service Green Freight Corridor-2 from Kochi to Beypore and Azhikkal ports on Tuesday. The vessel will call at Kochi port twice a week and send containers to Beypore and Azhikkal by feeder service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/loading-operation-inaugurated/article35047281.ece
30 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A call centre to spread laughter||The police have begun a Chiri Call Centre to help children who have been forced to confine to their houses following the pandemic situation, to overcome stress and spread cheer. Children can call 9497900200 and share their concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-call-centre-to-spread-laughter/article35047282.ece
30 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Online classes: HC seeks Centre, State response||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and State governments to respond to a plea for a directive to provide sufficient infrastructure to enable marginalised and poor school students to attend online classes. A PIL petitionsaid the government had not taken any steps to provide facilities to the students to attend online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-hc-seeks-centre-state-response/article35047284.ece
30 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Party name will be changed soon: Kappan||Mani C. Kappan, MLA, has said that his party name Nationalist Congress Kerala (NCK) will be changed on a direction from the ECI. He told a press conference here on Tuesday that the names that had been suggested included Democratic Congress Kerala and Democratic Congress Party. The ECI would take a final decision on the name, Mr. Kappan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/party-name-will-be-changed-soon-kappan/article35047287.ece
30 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam port to have more facilities||Kollam port development will be expedited and more facilities will be added to ensure smooth cargo movement, Minister for Ports and Museums Ahammad Devarkovil has said. After visiting the port here on Tuesday, the Minister met department officials, shipping agents, cargo owners, and representatives from cashew sector, seeking their suggestions. Mr. Devarkovil also examined the possibilities to restart construction works at Kerala Maritime Institute, Neendakara, during his visit. He was accompanied by MLAs M. Mukesh, Sujith Vijayan Pillai, and District Collector B. Abdul Nasrar. He interacted with the officials and trade union representatives on the proposal to start a cement terminal at Pallithottam, a project earlier abandoned by the government. As part of upgrading the facilities, government had commissioned the passenger-cum-cargo terminal and Dhwani tugboat at the port in October 2020. Apart from the 178-meter wharf, a new 100-meter wharf was built at a cost of Rs. 20 crore to facilitate the crew change provision. While the port has huge possibilities when it comes to cashew industry and Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML), the delay in emigration clearance had turned out to be a major glitch. To Minicoy Island Kollam Port also has immense tourism potential due to its proximity to Minicoy Island. With the introduction of passenger services, Kollam is expected to become a preferred destination for education and health tourism.  Minister for Ports reviews development plans at Kollam Port||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-port-to-have-more-facilities/article35047372.ece
30 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,513 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 1,513 new cases of COVID-19 and 732 recoveries on Tuesday. While 1,505 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include one person from another State and seven health workers. Kollam at present has 31,474 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 16,28,357. While 2,974 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 2,77,960 primary and 17,673 secondary contacts of the cases. 772 in Alappuzha The district logged 772 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The test positivity rate for the day was 8.81%. Of the fresh cases, 742 contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 29 others remains unidentified. One health staff also tested positive. The 772 cases include 93 reported from Alappuzha, 32 from Mararikulam South, 31 from Thrikunnapuzha, 29 from Cherthala, 25 from Cherthala South, 22 each from Aroor and Vallikunnam, and 20 from Karthikappally. Meanwhile, 705 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 8,020. 579 in Kottayam As many as 579 people, including two health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 575 contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) of the district was 8.33%. Kottayam reported the highest number of 58 cases, followed by Aymanam with 22 cases. As many as 447 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the active cases to 3,505. Meanwhile, 24,216 remain in quarantine in the district. 473 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 473 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 468 contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR for the day was 9.4%. Pathanamthitta municipality reported the highest number of 30 cases, followed by Chenneerkkara with 26 cases. The disease, meanwhile, claimed four more lives in the district. With 437 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta has 4,274 active cases now.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1513-new-cases-in-kollam/article35047373.ece
30 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pala General Hospital gets oxygen plant||The preparations of the health authorities to counter a possible third wave of the pandemic have received a boost with the opening of an oxygen generation plant at the General Hospital in Pala. M.Anjana, District Collector, Kottayam, said the plant with a capacity to generate 1,000 litre of oxygen per minute would be enough to support 150 patients at a given point of time. As the hospital already had a centralised oxygen supply system, the oxygen generated at the unit could be distributed at the bedside through pipes. The hospital committee has employed four persons to ensure smooth operation of the unit and a generator has been installed for uninterrupted power. To begin with, oxygen to be generated at the plant will be used only for the treatment of COVID-19 patients and it will be diverted to patients in ICU, cancer ward, and the post-operative care unit in the later stages. The unit’s operation has come as a major relief to the hospital. The Centre approved a proposal to establish the plant at the hospital after Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, sent a letter to the Principal Secretary of the Union Health Ministry in April. The authorities have already established an oxygen plant with a capacity of 2,000 litre of oxygen per minute. Another unit with a capacity to generate 1,000 litre per minute is slated to be functional at the GH in Changanassery next month. Further, plans are also afoot to set up an oxygen generation and filling plant at Kanjirappally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pala-general-hospital-gets-oxygen-plant/article35047374.ece
30 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fresh COVID cases, TPR see surge in Kozhikode||Fresh COVID-19 cases as well as daily test positivity rate (TPR) surged in Kozhikode district on Tuesday when 1,197 people tested positive for the virus and a TPR of 12.94% was recorded. The District Medical Officer said in a release that 1,183 people were infected through local transmission and the source of 13 others was not known. 913 recoveries As many as 9,507 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 329 locally acquired infections and Peruvayal 40. A total of 913 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload stands at 10,989. Meanwhile, containment measures have been intensified in Mukkom municipality in view of the high number of cases being reported from there. A meeting of the core committee of the civic body on Tuesday decided to make antigen tests mandatory for employees in hotels and other business establishments. Their test certificates should be displayed. Rapid response team members will be trained to counter a possible third wave of the infection. More vaccination centres will be opened within the municipality limits. Primary contacts Those who are in the primary contact list of infected persons should compulsorily undergo test and special facility will be provided for this. Sectoral magistrates and police personnel will take steps to reduce the rush at supermarkets and shops. Only limited number of people will be allowed at weddings, funerals, and other gatherings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-covid-cases-tpr-see-surge-in-kozhikode/article35047265.ece
30 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tree-felling: action planned against erring forest officials||The Department of Forest and Wildlife is contemplating punitive action against officials involved in illegal tree felling in the State. “Some of these officials have been identified and action will be initiated against them. Besides the allegation of allotting more passes than the stipulated number for tree felling, related irregularities will also have to be examined,” Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran told The Hindu on Tuesday. After a three-week probe, the Department of Forest and Wildlife Principal Secretary Rajesh Kumar Sinha submitted a report to the Minister. “Already the Vigilance wing and the special investigation team of the Crime Branch are probing the case. Any action will be thought of after their probe,” Mr. Saseendran said. To a question, the Minister said that there was no need of tabling the report before the Cabinet or discussing it with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “Now the Revenue Department is collecting information on tree felling and it is also carrying out a separate probe. We will have to examine this in detail,” he said. The case pertained to conspiracy behind the Revenue order on October 24, 2020 which was a continuation of a previous order on March 11, 2020. The Revenue orders permitted the cutting of all trees, except sandalwood, when several laws stated the full right of scheduled trees (teak, rosewood, ebony and sandalwood) was vested with the government. Meanwhile, the report of the Forest Department, it is learnt, will be assessed by Additional Director General of Police S. Sreejith, who is heading the special investigation team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tree-felling-action-planned-against-erring-forest-officials/article35047285.ece
30 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Milma to aid treatment of diabetic children of farmers||The Malabar Regional Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union (MRCMPU) under Milma is launching a scheme to provide financial assistance for the treatment of children of dairy farmers diagnosed with type-1 diabetes. Veena George, Minister for Health and Family Welfare, will virtually launch the scheme ‘Ksheera Karunya Hastham’ at 2 p.m. on July 1. The project is expected to benefit the families of all dairy farmers, who supply milk to the co-operative societies affiliated to MRCMPU. It will help them meet the expenses for the insulin and doctor’s fees to treat type-1 diabetic children below 18 years. A first of its kind endeavour in the country, the project comes amid increasing instances of type-1 diabetes among teenagers, mostly girls and a general unwillingness to disclose the matter due to social stigma. The scheme envisages a major relief to dairy farmers forced to channel their income towards treatment of their children for diabetes, Milma noted. Already, the MRCMPU runs a scheme that provides monetary aid to the daughters of its affiliated co-operatives’ members. It facilitates a stipulated amount deposited in their names and the bank releasing the amount once the beneficiary comes of age, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-to-aid-treatment-of-diabetic-children-of-farmers/article35047271.ece
30 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIM-K, Coursera tie up to launch online courses||The Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K), in collaboration with Coursera, one of the largest online learning platforms in the world, has announced the launch of four certificate programmes in the fields of business, strategy, marketing, and product management. Each programme was designed as a six-to-eight-month-long graduate-level offering,a statement said here on Tuesday. Announcing the tie-up, IIM-K Director Debashis Chatterjee said, “Coursera, with its robust platform, AI-driven tools, and global reach, will be a great foil to IIM-K’s commitment to the 3D’s — digitisation, diversification, and disruption.” Betty Vandenbosch, Chief Content Officer at Coursera, said the platform was proud to partner with IIM-K. The inaugural offering includes four courses in business management, strategic management, marketing strategy and product management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iim-k-coursera-tie-up-to-launch-online-courses/article35047264.ece
30 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||UDF alleges graft in regulator construction||The United Democratic Front (UDF) has demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the allegations of corruption in the construction of the Moolathara regulator. The UDF’s Chittur Parliament Committee said that corruption in the regulator’s construction had become clear and evident. Tender rate UDF leaders said that the tender fixed for Rs. 44.67 crore was increased to Rs. 57.58 crore without any revised estimate. “Additional bills for Rs. 13 crore were cleared without even a revised estimate,” they said. The UDF alleged that the government was trying to conduct a Vigilance inquiry to escape from the tangle of corruption. “The truth will come out only through a CBI investigation or through a judicial inquiry,” said District Congress Committee vice president Sumesh Achuthan, alleging that the corruption had taken place at ministerial level. UDF chairman K. Gopalaswamy presided over a meeting held at Chittur on Tuesday. Mr. Achuthan, P. Ratheesh, R. Sathanandan, Abdulla Nallepilly, Sachithananda Gopalakrishnan, A. Sreenivasan, Suresh Kumar, R. Babu, Ubaid, Murali Tharakkulam, and R. Krishnadas spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-alleges-graft-in-regulator-construction/article35047273.ece
30 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man held on charge of abetting wife’s suicide||The police arrested a man in connection with the death of his wife at Kizhakkanchery near here on Tuesday. Sreejit, 33, was arrested on the charge of abetting his wife Sruthi’s suicide. Sruthi had suffered massive burns at her house on June 18 and was admitted to the Government Medical College, Thrissur, where she died on June 21. Remanded Her parents had accused Sreejit of setting her on fire. The police investigations found that Sreejit and Sruthi had quarrelled several times before. A court at Alathur remanded Sreejit in judicial custody. The police said they would conduct a detailed investigation. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495-2760000 and Direction Interventions System for Health Awareness (DISHA) - 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-abetting-wifes-suicide/article35047272.ece
30 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Spirit seizure: three officials transferred||The Excise Department transferred three officers out of Palakkad following the seizure of a large quantity of spirit and fake toddy from Anakkappara near Vadakkanchery on Sunday. The seizure of 1,435 litres of spirit, 2,000 litres of fake toddy, and Rs. 11.56 lakh by the State Excise Enforcement Squad from a godown run by toddy shop licensee Soman Nair at Anakkappara had raised questions of negligence against Excise officers. The State Excise Commissioner on Tuesday transferred Alathur Circle Inspector P.M. Mohammed Riyas, Range Inspector K.S. Prasobh, Palakkad Excise Intelligence and Investigation Bureau Inspector V. Anoop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spirit-seizure-three-officials-transferred/article35047268.ece
30 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Tribespeople get vaccinated in Pathanamthitta||Notwithstanding the challenges involved in terms of logistics and vaccine hesitancy, COVID-19 vaccination drive across the tribal belts of Pathanamathitta appears to have made a huge progress with a sizable part of their population being covered with the first dose. According to officials, 2,600 out of the total 4,426 eligible members across the various tribal communities in the district have received their first dose of the vaccine. The administration of vaccines is being carried out through a series of special camps, organised by the Health Department in association with the Tribal Development Office, Pathanamathitta. These camps, officials said, were being organised by taking the medical teams into the forest settlements with the help of the forest Department while the tribal promoters had been entrusted with the task of spreading the message. Second wave The second wave of the pandemic had a drastic impact among these communities with 460 people testing positive for the virus during the period. “Barring the nomadic group of Malampandarams in the Sabarimala forests, vaccine coverage has been satisfactory elsewhere including Kurumbanmozhi, a forest-fringe settlement that was earlier declared as a containment zone. Reaching out to the community, who remain deep inside the forests and change their place of stay on a regular basis, however, has been a tough task,” said S.S.Sudheer, Tribal development Officer, Pathanamathitta. As per estimates, about 395 people in 95 families that belong to the Malampandaram tribe are living in the forests of Pathanamathitta. Resistance Health Department sources said the resistance caused by misconceptions had made things difficult for them to penetrate into the tribal settlements in the initial stages. “Most of them have shed their hesitancy through sustained campaigning but it still persists among a section, especially those aged above 60,” observed an official. Meanwhile, about 1.88 lakh people aged above 18 in Pathanamathitta have completed their vaccination with two doses while 54% have received the first vaccine. For people aged above 45, only 26% have received two doses while about 77% have received their first dose.  The administration of vaccines is being carried out through a series of special camps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribespeople-get-vaccinated-in-pathanamthitta/article35047368.ece
30 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PWD app receives 6,072 complaints||As many as 6,072 complaints have been received from the public in the PWD 4U mobile application, since its launch earlier this month, with 492 of them already being addressed and action being taken on the rest, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. Speaking at a meet-the-press event organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists and the Kesari Memorial Journalists’ Trust, he said only 4,054 of the complaints received were related to PWD, while the rest were regarding roads maintained by local bodies. “Our interventions have been with an aim to bring the people closer to the department. The response to all these initiatives has been positive. The existing control room has been expanded with a constant connect to the Minister’s office for real-time reporting of issues and follow-up. The control room will also look at complaints through social media ,” said Mr. Riyas. PWD officials had also been asked to carry out a survey of the land at its disposal to identify encroachments. Regarding the road connectivity from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod, he said that the previous LDF government had solved the bottlenecks in Alappuzha and Kollam. A few were remaining in the route from Thrissur to Kasaragod. A section of the Kuthiran Tunnel Road was expected to be opened on August 1. Facelift for rest houses The department had also decided to give a facelift to the 154 PWD rest houses in the State, he said. These would be made more accessible to the public, with easier online booking facilities, better restaurants, and construction of comfort stations attached to them. The internal vigilance mechanism in the PWD would be strengthened to crackdown on corrupt practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-app-receives-6072-complaints/article35047317.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM distances party, govt. from gold case||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday attempted to distance the government and CPI(M) from the arrest of DYFI workers in Kannur on the charge of smuggling gold. When pressed that the accused were social media champions of the CPI(M), Mr. Vijayan countered that individuals were entitled to their political opinion. However, the colour of their party flag would not save them from prosecution if they slide into crime. The State government had its limitations in cracking down on international crime, such as gold smuggling. Such offences were more in the realm of the Central government. However, the government might consider a law to curb organised crimes. The government would make no political distinction in the case of criminals. Neither would the CPI(M). The party was aware that easy money and a misplaced sense of machoism often caused impressionable youth to romanticise criminals. Persons who pursued such a path had no place in the CPI(M). The CPI(M) reined in party workers, fellow travellers, members of mass and service organisations from following or liking unofficial pages. Their social behaviour conduct should be congruent with the political programme and outlook of the CPI(M). Mr. Vijayan dismissed the allegation that the relative of an individual on his staff had criminal links. He said people had rejected worse allegations and recriminatory campaigns against his office and staff. The baseless accusations raised by the then Leader of the Opposition in tandem with other forces had fallen by the wayside. Mr. Vijayan said the current set of allegations against his office were political hyperbole that had no basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-distances-party-govt-from-gold-case/article35047294.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SPC Loknath Behera retires today||State Police Chief (SPC) Loknath Behera will retire from service on Wednesday. He completes five years as SPC, making him one of the longest-serving police chiefs in the State. Mr. Behera had the unique opportunity of heading the law and order and the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) simultaneously. In addition, he served as Director-General, Prisons and Correctional Administration, and head of the Fire and Rescue Services. Mr. Behera headed the force during its most trying times. First, the catastrophic floods in 2018 and 2019 and later the COVID-19 pandemic impelled lockdown had tested Mr. Behera's leadership mettle. The SPC had also taken a proactive role in ridding Kerala's forests and tribal areas of armed Maoist influence. However, the area domination operations launched in forests contiguous to Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka resulted in gun battles, resulting in suspected Maoists' deaths. The incidents earned Mr. Behera criticism from the Congress, the Communist Party of India and various human rights organisations. Mr. Behera brought immense investigation experience to his office. He had investigated Purulia arms drop case, IC-814 hijacking case, Mumbai serial blast case, Madhumita Shukla murder case, Satyendra Dubey murder case, Sanjay Ghosh abduction case, Ujjain serial murder case and Haren Pandya murder case. Mr. Behera was one of the founding members of the National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-loknath-behera-retires-today/article35047296.ece
30 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||City police to intensify patrolling||The City police have intensified patrolling during late hours in the wake of a molestation bid on two women at Pettah on Sunday night while they had gone for a walk with their families and friends. The police will boost surveillance across the city by ensuring greater police presence at night. The patrol teams will also comprise women police officers. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Vaibhav Saxena said each police units would also keep tabs on habitual offender, especially those with similar criminal antecedents. The incident has shaken the families of the two women, whose husbands work at the office of the Accountant General in the city. The motorcycle-borne suspects, identified as Rajesh, a habitual offender, and an accomplice, allegedly attempted to harass their wives while they were walking at Ambalathumukku around 8.30 p.m. on Sunday. The complainants came under attack by the knife-wielding perpetrators, leaving them to seek medical attention. The police were yet to nab the accused duo in the case. However, they claimed to have zeroed in on their whereabouts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-police-to-intensify-patrolling/article35047314.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP moots political plan to move forward||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday attempted to put forward a transformative plan to help the party relegate its recent electoral and organisational reversals to the past and chart a buoyant course for the future. The party's State committee that met online reportedly struggled to balance tensions between factional leaders over the controversies that had plagued the organisation. Some leaders demanded that the committee convene physically. A party insider claimed the meeting was rancour-free. However, different leaders had suggested entirely different courses of action. But, their political aim remained the same. He denied that there was any "loud demand" for a leadership change. Erosion of support The party reportedly debated the erosion of support for the party in the 2021 Assembly elections. It had sensed a shift in upper caste votes in favour of the Congress. Simultaneously, backward class votes, including those aligned to the BDJS, had gravitated towards the left. An insider said the party debated the route back to political relevance in Kerala. The setbacks had not weakened the party's street clout. Its cadre strength remained undiluted. The BJP dispelled the allegation that it had used black money to influence the election. Kodakara heist case The party discussed the fallout of the Kodakara black money heist case. It concluded that CPI(M) had plotted to discredit BJP leaders and trap them in criminal cases. The BJP would highlight the alleged criminality in the CPI(M). Its hit teams doubled as hired muscle for gold smugglers and hawala racketeers. The BJP also latched on to the State Police Chief's alleged claim that the ISIS had gained a toehold in Kerala. The party would continue its outreach to the Christian community. The BJP shared their purported concern about ‘love jihad.’ However, the CPI(M) had brushed the issue under the carpet and portrayed the matter as a chimaera conjured up by the BJP to demonise interfaith marriage. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, State prabhari C.P. Radhakrishnan, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, MP; and BJP State president K. Surendran chaired the meeting of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-moots-political-plan-to-move-forward/article35047292.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Farmers’ protest to turn into national movement: trade unions||The farmers’ protest in Delhi, which completed seven months recently, will transform into a nationwide protest soon, Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) all-India secretary K.P. Thampi Kannadan has said. Labourers and the common man would join the farmers in this national protest, he said. Mr. Kannadan was speaking after inaugurating a joint trade union protest in front of the AG’s Office here on Tuesday. The protest was intended as a warning to the Union government of a strong agitation against its alleged failure to deal with the farmers’ protests in a democratic manner. The protest raised 10 demands, including withdrawal of the Electrivity (Amendment) Bill and withdrawal of the four labour codes. Representatives of various trade unions spoke at the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-protest-to-turn-into-national-movement-trade-unions/article35047375.ece
30 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to boost domestic tourism, says Minister||In an effort to provide succour to the tourism sector battered by the pandemic, the Tourism Department is planning to boost domestic tourism with a focus on increasing the number of local destinations. At least one tourism destination will be identified in every panchayat for this purpose, Minister for Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He said meetings were being held with the secretaries of the District Tourism Promotion Council and panchayat presidents. “The idea of a tourist place is not limited to just beautiful locations. It can be places of historic importance or those showcasing some local culture. Such tourism with a local focus can also help the rural economy in these times. We have completed meetings with the panchayat presidents in Wayanad district. All of them have submitted a list of possible locations in their regions,” said Mr. Riyas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-boost-domestic-tourism-says-minister/article35047318.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Post lockdown, rise in cases in many districts||Kerala reported 13,550 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,23,225 samples were tested in 24 hours. Post lockdown, cases are climbing in many districts, indicating that disease transmission continues to be active in many pockets in the community. The epidemic curve, which had shown an initial dip, is thus on a long, protracted plateauing phase, with the State reporting between 10,000-12,000 new cases daily. The test positivity rate (TPR) that had remained steady around 10% for the past few days also registered an increase and touched 11% on the day. Caseload steady The State’s active case pool is remaining more or less steady for the past two weeks or more as the new cases being reported and recoveries are almost even. On Tuesday, the active case pool had 99,174 patients, with 10,283 recoveries. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 13,093 with the State adding 104 recent deaths to the official list on Tuesday The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 1,979 on Tuesday, which took the total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals to 25,181. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients was 2,213 on the day. While the numbers are declining, it seems to be a slow process as new patients continue to get admitted to ICUs. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 869. The cumulative case burden of the State stands at 29,10,507.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-lockdown-rise-in-cases-in-many-districts/article35047291.ece
30 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Master plans of seven PSUs presented||The managements of the various public sector units in the State have begun preparing master plans as part of plans to revive and make profitable the State PSUs. Managing directors of seven PSUs on Tuesday presented their master plans in front of a panel consisting of Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, Industries Department Principal Secretary K. Elangovan, A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish, and experts from the sector. The presentations were made by the MDs of Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited, Malabar Cements, Travancore Titanium, Travancore Cochin Chemicals, Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals, Kerala State Mineral Development Corporation, and Travancore Cements. The master plans are being prepared with a focus on modernisation and diversification, laying out a plan of action for the next 10 years. The presentation of master plans of all PSUs will be completed before July 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/master-plans-of-seven-psus-presented/article35047376.ece
30 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital logs 1,255 cases||The capital district recorded 1,255 fresh COVID-19 cases and 1,341 recoveries in the past 24 hours as the number of active cases came down to 10,121 on Tuesday. The source of infection was unknown in 119 cases. Seven health workers were among those who tested positive. The test positivity rate was 10.57%. The death toll increased to 2,763 as 21 more deaths, recorded between June 15 and 29, were attributed to the disease. There are 38,932 people in quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-1255-cases/article35047316.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSEB reduces power tariff||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has reduced power tariffs for domestic consumers. The Chief Minister said the measure was a leg-up for households battling the loss of income in the wake of the global COVID-19 pandemic. Since 1997, the government had given free power to domestic consumers whose monthly connected load remained within 500 watts, and the use of power did not exceed 20 units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-reduces-power-tariff/article35047297.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Economist Mohanan Pillai passes away||Economist P. Mohanan Pillai passed away in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. He was the member of the ninth pay revision commission of the Kerala government. He has served as a faculty at the Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram. He is known for his contribution to the understanding of issues related to technology transfer in industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/economist-mohanan-pillai-passes-away/article35047378.ece
30 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Sex abuse charge raised by Olympian fake: group||A group of people who left the Emperor Emmanuel Church based at Muryad in the district have alleged that the sexual harassment allegation raised by Olympian Mayookha Johny against a resident of Muringoor is fake. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, the group, including the former chairman and trustees of the church, alleged that the complaint was part of a fake campaign done by the current leadership of the Emperor Emmanuel Church against those who had left it. The church leadership was using the Olympian as a tool against us, they alleged. Olympian Mayookha Johny on Monday told media persons that one of her friends was raped by a resident of Muringoor. She also alleged that the police and the women’s commission were trying to protect the rapist. Ms. Johny and family have been active members of the Emperor Emmanuel Church since 2010. The founder of the church Joseph Ponnara died in 2017. Later, a woman took charge of the Church. Crime Branch probe The Crime Branch will investigate the allegations of the Olympian about sexual harassment of the woman in Muringoor. The Crime Branch Dy.SP. will investigate the case. A seven-member team has been formed for the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sex-abuse-charge-raised-by-olympian-fake-group/article35047289.ece
30 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Govt. protecting criminals: Satheesan||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has accused the CPI(M) and the BJP of engaging in ‘political match-fixing’ to protect each other. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, he alleged that the LDF government was deliberately going slow in the Kodakara black money robbery case, in which BJP leaders were involved, to hush up the gold smuggling case, which put the CPI(M) in the dock. “The investigation into the Kodakara case, which occurred on April 3, has not reached anywhere. The Central agencies have stopped investigation into the gold smuggling case. It is a bargaining game between the BJP at the Centre and the LDF in the State,” Mr. Satheesan said. The CPI(M)-BJP fight was like a circus gimmick. There would be sound but no action. Mafia gangs, whether it is gold, timber or hawala, are flourishing in the State, alleged Mr. Satheesan alleged. “The CPI(M) is protecting all kinds of criminals, involved in smuggling, hawala deals, political murders and harassment against women. The criminals in Kannur have declared a holiday for political crimes and turned into mafia activities now. They operate even from jail,” he said. “The appointment for wives of Periya murder case accused gives clear message that the CPI(M) will protect the families of political criminals. The State is witnessing increased crimes due to this policy. There was an attack against two officials of AG’s office, close to Chief Minister’s office. The government should correct its policy of protecting criminals,” he said. Mr. Satheesan said that by making farmers and Adivasis scapegoats, the government was protecting the real culprits in the illegal tree-felling case. It was one of the biggest loot of the forests with politician-official connivance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-protecting-criminals-satheesan/article35047269.ece
30 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Two held in quarry blast case||The Crime Branch on Tuesday arrested two persons in connection with a blast at an abandoned quarry at Vazhakkode at Mullurkkara panchayat, near Wadakkanchery.  The team led by Crime Branch Assistant Commissioner P. Sasikumar arrested Ummer, 43, and Abhoobacker, 43, of Vazhakode on the direction of District Police Chief (City), R. Aditya. Both were injured in the blast and were under treatment. They were arrested on Tuesday when they were discharged from the hospital.  One person was killed and six others were injured when the blast occurred at an abandoned quarry at Vazhakode on June 21. It is alleged that the blast occurred when they were trying to destroy the explosives illegally stored in the quarry for breaking granite, fearing a police raid.  Investigating agencies were inquiring how explosives with high capacity reached an abandoned quarry. There were even allegations of terrorist activities at the site.  Abdul Noushad, one of the owners of the quarry and the first accused in the blast, was killed in the explosion. Six others, including a migrant worker, were injured in the blast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-in-quarry-blast-case/article35047270.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Focus on their rough ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-their-rough-ride/article35047267.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lurking danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lurking-danger/article35047276.ece
30 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala man gets 2nd dose of jab ‘twice’||A 63-year-old man from Karuvatta in Alappuzha, Kerala, was hospitalised after he “accidentally” received two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine within minutes on Monday. The man, along with his wife, reached the Primary Health Centre, Karuvatta, to receive their second dose of the Covishield vaccine, officials said. After getting the second dose from counter one, he went to counter two where he was inoculated again. The incident came to light when he was talking to his wife during the 30 minutes of mandatory rest. He has been admitted to the Government Taluk Hospital, Haripad. “His condition is stable,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-man-gets-2nd-dose-of-jab-twice/article35046935.ece
30 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||UPSC aspirant from Anantapur gets Diana Award||Bisathi Bharath, a 25-year-old Post Graduate in Political Science and Economics hailing from the district, has been presented the prestigious Diana Award 2021, given to young people for their humanitarian work. While the award is given in person in London, the COVID situation has forced the organisers to present it virtually on Monday night (Indian Standard Time). His work in organising free career guidance sessions, soft skills development training, digital education, personality development sessions for nearly 25,000 adolescents in the last 7 years won him the award. Mr. Bharath, who is now preparing for the UPSC examinations, formed the Pragathi Padham Youth Association, which now has 150 young leaders guiding the less advantaged students. Mr. Bharath told The Hindu that with an aim that no rural student should be left behind unaware of the opportunities, the association adopted three villages- Yerraguntlapalli, Ammaladinne and Putlur for holding career guidance sessions. He said that he had drawn inspiration from the National Service Scheme (NSS) in Government Arts College, and had taken an active role as an NSS team leader and organised four special camps in villages for the development of Swachh Bharat, sanitation, environment conservation and women empowerment. He also took part is organising health camps, rural sports meets, yoga sessions, drug abuse prevention activities and free food distribution to the roadside poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/upsc-aspirant-from-anantapur-gets-diana-award/article35047404.ece
30 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four minors held for burglaries||The Rapthadu and Itukalapalli police arrested an inter-district gang of suspected thieves comprising four minors for burglaries committed in Anantapur and recovered 21 tolas of gold valued at Rs. 10 lakh from them. Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraraghava Reddy told a press conference on Tuesday that the accused allegedly got addicted to vices and reportedly began committing thefts at a young age. The accused being minors, they would be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board, the DSP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-minors-held-for-burglaries/article35047406.ece
30 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teen sells flowers while preparing for SSLC exam||Twice a week, 15-year-old Banashankari sits at the entrance of the temple inside the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) head office at N.R. Square and sells flowers. Even as her nimble fingers move swiftly making flower garlands, her eyes are on the phone by her side, on which she attends her online classes. The Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) student from Mitralaya School was, however, in for a surprise on Tuesday morning when civic chief Gaurav Gupta spotted her at the temple and spoke to her, enquiring about her studies. “I never imagined that such a ‘big officer’ will speak to me. I come to the temple only on Tuesdays and Fridays. Business is poor. Our family struggled during the lockdown. I try and help my parents in whatever way I can,” Ms. Banashankari told The Hindu.  She is usually at the temple from 8 a.m. to around 1 p.m. and is back again post 4 p.m. “I get very tired sometimes. But, my teachers have been very helpful. They send YouTube links of lessons and notes to me on WhatsApp,” she said. Her parents Anitha S. and Hemaraju want her to pursue her education. “I am well-prepared for the SSLC examination. I am hoping to score above 95%,” she said. Impressed with her, Mr. Gupta promised to help her in his personal capacity. He said he would buy her a laptop with which she could attend online classes. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar appreciated this gesture and wrote about it on his social media account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teen-sells-flowers-while-preparing-for-sslc-exam/article35046937.ece
30 June 2021||DEVIPATNAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||ITDA urges tribals to vacate Polavaram project area||Rampachodavaram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya on Tuesday appealed to the tribal peoples of Devipatnam Mandal to vacate the project area and shift to the rehabilitation colonies. Accompanied by officials, Mr. Praveen Adithya reached some tribal habitations on boat and tried to convince the people there to vacate the villages in the wake inflows of backwater of the Godavari from the Cofferdam site of Polavaram project. The Project Officer appealed to the tribal people living in A. Veeravaram and Pochammagandi temple area to prepare for shifting to the rehabilitation colonies assigned to them before the Godavari floods. However, tribal families in Devipatnam mandal have decided not to vacate their villages until the State government settles the R&R package completely. In response, Mr. Praveen Adithya said that an eligibility survey would be carried out for the grant of the R&R package. “In the case of non-tribal families, a rehabilitation colony has been built in Gokavaram mandal. The R&R package has been settled for a majority of the evacuees in Devipatnam mandal,” said Mr. Praveen Adithya. Rescue operations He asked the revenue officials to arrange for boats for the rescue and evacuation operations in the coming days. A control room has been set up for the rescue and evacuation operations at Ramanayyapeta village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/itda-urges-tribals-to-vacate-polavaram-project-area/article35047420.ece
30 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIPB gives its nod for allotment of 860 acres to Jindal Steel unit in Nellore||Several key proposals were approved in the State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB) meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy here on Tuesday. During the meeting, the Chief Minister directed the authorities to ensure that 75% employment to the local candidates was provided by the companies and also emphasised on environment protection by taking precautions for lowering the impact and moving forward in industrial progress. The SIPB approved allotment of 860 acres to Jindal Steel Andhra Limited at Thamminapatnam in Nellore district to set up an integrated steel plant with an annual production capacity of 2.25 million metric tonnes at a total investment of Rs. 7,500 crore. The organisation would provide employment for 2,500 people in four years. Also, the board approved extension of the deadline to June 2022 for setting up of St. Gobain industry in Visakhapatnam district. The company had requested for an extension due to COVID-19 conditions and came forward to invest Rs. 2,001 crore in three phases. Investment in Kadapa dt. The board also gave approval to Pitti Rail Engineering Components Ltd. at Kopparthi near Kadapa for manufacturing of electrical, locomotive, and industrial infrastructure at an investment of Rs. 401 crore by creating direct employment to 2,000 people. Similarly, the board gave its nod for Neelkamal Limited at Kopparthi, which was planning to invest Rs. 486 crore in the manufacture of furniture and other household items by employing around 2,000 people. Also, the board approved expansion of GreenTech Industries in the Naidupet area of Nellore district, which supplies steel and iron products to companies such as Ford, Hyundai, Volkswagen and others. GreenTech, which had already invested Rs. 750 crore, will invest another Rs. 627 crore for the expansion and provide an additional 2,200 direct jobs. SIPB also gave its approval for Ammayapper Textiles Pvt. Ltd. in Chittoor district , which had come forward to invest Rs. 30 crore, and provide 90% jobs to women. Besides these, the SIPB approved construction of a mega retail park for Textiles and Garments in five acres at Tadepalli, Guntur district, by investing Rs. 194.16 crore. The retail parks will house 900 retail units by creating direct jobs to nearly 5,000 people, which is indeed a hub for national and international business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sipb-gives-its-nod-for-allotment-of-860-acres-to-jindal-steel-unit-in-nellore/article35047418.ece
30 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPCB, firms donate Rs. 1 cr. to CMRF||Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) and industries in the limits of Vishakapatnam Regional office donated Rs. 1.05 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund towards COVID containment. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, and PCB member secretary Vijaya Kumar handed over the cheque to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appcb-firms-donate-rs-1-cr-to-cmrf/article35046977.ece
30 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Darbhanga blast suspect went to Pak. thrice to meet handler||The mastermind behind the parcel bomb explosion at the Darbhanga railway station in Bihar appears to have established a credible line of contact with the operatives of Pakistan’s intelligence agency, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Nasir Malik, one of the two brothers detained by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Hyderabad recently, is said to have made the chemical explosive by taking online bomb-making instructions from his ISI handler, Iqbal Khana alias Asif Khana of Pakistan. The suspect, who is in his forties, migrated to Hyderabad nearly two decades ago from Kairana in Shamli, Uttar Pradesh, and was part of the ready-made clothes business at Habeeb Nagar. His brother Imran Malik, 35, came to the city last year. Their handler, Khana, also a native of Kairana and a wanted terrorist in the country, was taking shelter in Pakistan. He was in touch with the Malik brothers, Haji Saleem and Khafeel, and other ISI sympathisers from his place, and was also involved in counterfeit currency cases in India. A senior official at the NIA, New Delhi, told The Hindu that during the interrogation, they learnt that Nasir went to Pakistan thrice in the guise of meeting his blood relatives and had several in-person interactions with Khana and others, who motivated and radicalised him. The Malik brothers, along with Haji Saleem and Khafeel, have also visited Saudi Arabia to meet others who share their ideology. The official said the chemical bomb was originally intended to explode within a few hours of dispatch from the Secunderabad railway station. “They had plans to set fire to the train. Luckily, the plan failed. Had it exploded in the train, there could have been a loss of human lives and property,” the official added. The parcel exploded with low intensity at the Darbhanga junction on June 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/darbhanga-blast-suspect-went-to-pak-thrice-to-meet-handler/article35046938.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel for revision of land prices, registration fee||The Cabinet sub-committee on resource mobilization has favoured revision of land prices and charges on registration of land and properties across the State. The committee headed by Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao felt that series of developmental programmes launched by the government had resulted in significant appreciation of land values. Works launched on major irrigation projects resulted in steep hike in values of agricultural lands in the rural areas and infrastructure development resulted in significant appreciation of land values in urban areas. But there was no change in land values since the formation of the State in 2014 and levy of charges for registration were not commensurate with the increased land values. The committee comprising ministers K.T. Rama Rao and Vemula Prashanth Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Inspector-General Registration and Stamps Seshadri and other senior officials as members held discussions with the departments concerned over the scope for increasing registration values as part of efforts to mobilise resources. Officials explained the committee members that there was huge variation in the land prices fixed by the government and the actual market value. As a result, registration of the properties was being recorded as per the government value, but the actual value of the registered land was much higher thereby impacting the government’s revenue. Though the land prices and rates of registration should be revised periodically in line with the existing Acts, no such steps were initiated in the State so far. Officials cited the example of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh in this context where registration values had been revised seven times in the past eight years taking the fee to 7.5 %. Registration fee in Tamil Nadu too was 7.5 % and it was 7 % in Maharashtra. The sub-committee held elaborate discussions in respect of appreciation of land prices in Hyderabad and HMDA limits. The developmental programmes coupled with the investments made in HMDA limits and expansion of industry led to a boom in real estate activities in the HMDA jurisdiction. Officials explained to the ministers that over 50 % of the transactions witnessed in the HMDA jurisdiction during 2019-20 were made at prices over and above those fixed by the government. On the other hand, prospective buyers were finding it difficult to secure bank loans because of the variation in the government prices and actual market values. This would necessitate revision of the land values as well as registration fee to ensure that buyers did not encounter such problems. Taking into account different factors involved in the process, the government had decided to prepare a report on the long-pending revision of land values as well as registration fees soon and submit it to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for his approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-for-revision-of-land-prices-registration-fee/article35046940.ece
30 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||UoH project on bilingual training||The Institute of Eminence (IoE) project of the University of Hyderabad on ‘Long-term literacy training and its impact on cognitive functioning’ was inaugurated at the Government Primary School, Serilingampally. The project sanctioned to Ramesh Kumar Mishra, Center for Neural and Cognitive Sciences (CNCS), School of Medical Sciences, through the IoE scheme aims to administer long-term literacy training in Kannada and Telugu to illiterate participants and investigate its impact on cognitive functioning. This ambitious and challenging project involves an intensive training programme on a large number of participants and a wide array of tasks for measuring cognitive functioning. Prof. Mishra said the current project extends experimental approaches to bilingual illiterates from low socio-economic strata in India for the first time. A key novelty of the project is to examine if literacy training in two languages is more beneficial than training in one language. He acknowledged efforts of school headmaster Narasimhan in recruiting participants for the study. The research team, which will carry out the testing and training for over eight months, will be headed by Vaishnavi Mohite, a 3rd year PhD student at CNCS. Prof Mishra with his collaborator Falk Huettig from Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, Netherlands, has already published a significant body of work in high impact journals such as Science Advances on the role of literacy on cognition.  Research team, which will carry out the testing and training over eight months, will be headed by PhD scholar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uoh-project-on-bilingual-training-and-impact-on-cognitive-functioning/article35047230.ece
30 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties to meet oustees of Polavaram project||The Left parties, led by CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna and CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, have announced a field study in the merged mandals of Chintoor Agency in East Godavari district on July 2 and 3. The two-day field inspection is aimed at documenting the present state of rehabilitation of Polavaram project oustees and their problems as scores of families are still waiting for the Resettlement and Rehabilitation package in the three merged mandals — Chintoor, V.R. Puram, and Kunavaram — in Chintoor Agency. The Left party leaders are also expected to be accompanied by the local workers of Congress and Jana Sena Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-to-meet-oustees-of-polavaram-project/article35046978.ece
30 June 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly couple assaulted on suspicion of sorcery||In a horrific incident laying bare the prevalence of superstitious beliefs, some elders of SC Colony in Madhira town enforced their bizarre diktat by forcing an old man to pull out the teeth of his wife on Monday, suspecting the duo of practising sorcery. The gruesome incident came to light on Tuesday after the video of the incident went viral on social media, sending shockwaves across the border town and elsewhere in the district. It was a fallout of superstitious beliefs among a section of the local residents, who suspected the old couple of performing “black magic” causing the recent death of a nine-year-old boy of the locality. Sources said that G. Bujji’s nine-year-old son suddenly died of some “undiagnosed illness” recently. Bujji and his family members grew suspicious of their neighbours Gaddhala Mohan Rao and Sugunamma, after reportedly finding vermillion and lemon at a tree in front of their house on Monday. They approached some local elders of the colony, who in turn allegedly raided the house of the couple on Monday and “thrashed” the latter. The elders who raided the house claimed to have found the clothes of the deceased boy packed in a bag and some strange materials used in “witchcraft” at the house of the couple. The self-proclaimed elders issued a diktat forcing Mohan Rao to pull out the teeth of his wife Sugunamma by branding her as a “sorcerer.” With blood oozing out of her mouth, Sugunamma along with her husband approached the local police seeking action against the attackers. Madhira police registered a case and are investigating. Police officials concerned were not available for their comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elderly-couple-assaulted-on-suspicion-of-sorcery/article35047260.ece
30 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC bar on demolition of two houses in Kavaratti||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday restrained the Lakshadweep Administration from demolishing the houses of two residents in Kavaratti island for allegedly constructing them on a no-development zone. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan passed the order on a writ petition filed by Ubaidulla Kunhiyammakkada and another person from the Kavaratti island, challenging the notices directing them to vacate their homesteads and demolish them. The High Court also restrained the administration from interfering with the possession of their properties. The court said they could very well appear before the authorities and raise all their legitimate legal contentions, including the lack of authority of the Block Development Officer in issuing such notices. According to the petitioners, the Block Development Officer had issued them notices asking them to remove their houses on the ground that the structures were within 20 metres from the high tide line, which had been declared a no-development zone. The petitioners contended that as per the Integrated Island Management Plan notified by the Lakshadweep Science and Technology department in 2015, no development was permitted in a radius of 20 metres from high tide line. However, the plan did not empower any authority to demolish the tribal people’s houses, which were constructed decades ago. Besides, the Block Development Officers had no authority to issue such a notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-bar-on-demolition-of-two-houses-in-kavaratti/article35046944.ece
30 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Customs given custody of Arjun till July 6||The Customs has been given custody of Arjun Ayanki, an accused in the smuggling of 2.33 kg gold worth Rs. 1.11 crore through the Karipur airport in Kerala, till July 6. He was arrested on Monday. More investigation is needed into his complicity in smuggling activities, from the dispersing end and the receiving end. His joint interrogation along with Mohammed Shafeeq, the suspected carrier who was arrested earlier, is essential to unearth the truth. It is the burden of the investigation officer to collect corroborative evidence after interrogating the accused. The custody of seven days is sufficient to meet the ends of justice, the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) said in his order on a custody application filed by the Superintendent of Customs, Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi. In court Ayanki was produced in the court on Tuesday. Meanwhile, a former activist of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) C. Sajesh has been issued notice to present himself before the Customs team on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/customs-given-custody-of-arjun-till-july-6/article35046941.ece
30 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||ISRO spy case: Kerala HC adjourns bail pleas||The Kerala High Court adjourned to June 30 the hearing on an anticipatory bail petition filed by S. Vijayan and Thampi S. Durga Dutt, former police officers and accused in a case registered by the CBI for torturing and hatching a conspiracy to frame ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan in the ISRO espionage case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isro-spy-case-kerala-hc-adjourns-bail-pleas/article35046943.ece
30 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare surgery performed in Kurnool||Cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon at the GGK Heart and Lung Institute of Gowrigopal Hospital P.N.N. Laxmana Swamy successfully conducted a ‘beating heart coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG)’ and the patient in his late ‘50s has recovered well and is ready for discharge in Kurnool. The patient, an auto-rickshaw driver, Gouse Mohiddien from Kadapa, was a tobacco chewer and suffering from severe breathlessness. He came to the hospital for bypass surgery, but after an evaluation, doctors found the patient to be having mesocardia - a rare, congenital non-syndromic heart malformation characterised by an atypical location of the heart in a central position in the thorax. Dr. Laxmana Swamy said at a press conference here on Tuesday that in such a condition conducting a CABG surgery on the heart was difficult as his aorta and right atrium is rotated posteriorly, it is technically difficult to do a CABG surgery. The patient had left superior vena cava (LSVC) also, which is the commonest congenital anomaly of the thoracic venous system. Such an occurrence was only one in one lakh cases, the doctor said. This first such case of successful operation in India was reported in 2016 in Hyderabad, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rare-surgery-performed-in-kurnool/article35047407.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||2015 Assembly ruckus: leaders move SC||Political leaders accused of creating a ruckus in the Kerala Legislative Assembly joined the State government in the Supreme Court on Tuesday to challenge a High Court dismissal of a prosecutor’s request to withdraw a case of criminal trespass, mischief and destruction of public property against them. The accused persons include Education Minister V. Sivankutty and other prominent leaders of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the State. They were accused of vandalism on the Legislative Assembly floor during a Budget presentation in 2015. The televised images showed MLAs coming to blows on the House floor and hurling chairs, computers and other public property soon after the then Finance Minister K.M. Mani began his Budget speech during the United Democratic Front (UDF) government’s tenure. As soon as the hearing began, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud started saying “this is a case...” only to stop mid-sentence when senior advocate Jaideep Gupta submitted that he represented the accused persons and had filed a separate appeal in the case, which was numbered by the Supreme Court Registry in the course of the morning. Mr. Gupta urged the Bench to tag his appeal with the main one filed by the Kerala government and adjourn the case for a later date. This would give the court the time to read his appeal too. In its appeal, the State government has argued that the legislators’ actions in 2015 were protected from legal action by parliamentary privilege. It said the Assembly Secretary ought not to have complained against the MLAs to the police without taking the prior sanction of the Speaker. Besides offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the legislators were booked under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The public prosecutor’s application to withdraw the cases was dismissed by the Thiruvananthapuram Chief Judicial Magistrate on September 22, last year. The Magistrate had concluded that the request was made “without good faith and under external influence”. The High Court confirmed the Magistrate’s decision in March. In its appeal, the State government, represented by advocate G. Prakash, said a Magistrate’s role was limited when the prosecutor sought withdrawal of the case under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. All the Magistrate needed to examine was whether the prosecutor had applied his mind “independently and properly”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2015-assembly-ruckus-leaders-move-sc/article35046949.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC notice to Karnataka in Gauri Lankesh case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Karnataka government to a plea made by the sister of murdered activist Gauri Lankesh challenging the dropping of organised crime charges against an accused in the case. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar issued notice to the State on the petition filed by Kavitha Lankesh. Ms. Lankesh, a film-maker, has appealed to the apex court against the Karnataka High Court’s decision in April to quash charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA) against the accused, Mohan Nayak. The top court said the accused should not be granted bail until Ms. Lankesh’s plea was decided on. The Bench then stood the case over to July 15. Ms. Lankesh, represented by advocate Aparna Bhat, said a Special Investigation Team probe had revealed that the accused was part of a syndicate that was behind several instances of organised crime. The petition refers to a spate of murders, including that of activists Narendra Dabolkar and Govind Pansare. Gauri Lankesh was shot dead outside her home in Bengaluru in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-notice-to-karnataka-in-gauri-lankesh-case/article35046947.ece
30 June 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work towards bringing positivity rate below 1%, Collector tells officials||Compared to yesterday, fresh infections went up by 323 to 596 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh while five more patients succumbed to coronavirus. The toll in the region rose to 1,818 with four deaths in Prakasam and one death in SPSR Nellore district in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday. The cumulative tally crossed the 2.48 lakh-mark in the region as 210 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 386 persons in Prakasam district tested positive for the disease. The number of active cases stood at 8,005 in the region. So far, more than 2.38 lakh patients have won the battle against the disease. Concerned over the positivity rate remaining above 5%, Prakasam District Collector Pravin Kumar on Tuesday decided to take up a vigorous campaign to promote COVID-appropriate behaviour among public. Efforts should be taken to bring the positivity rate below 1%, he told the officials concerned. No mask, no entry ‘No mask no entry’ would be strictly followed both in government and private offices. Shopkeepers should deny goods to people violating COVID appropriate behaviour, he said. ‘No mask no ride’ should be strictly followed not only in State-owned buses but also in private vehicles, including autorickshaws, he said. Rigorous testing As many as 9,000 persons were being subjected to testing for the viral disease every day, including 10 primary contacts and 15 secondary contacts of the infected persons, health officials said. Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said as many as 2,603 cases were booked and a fine of Rs. 28,205 collected from violators. As many as 17,500 vehicles were seized while enforcing the partial curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-towards-bringing-positivity-rate-below-1-collector-tells-officials/article35047408.ece
30 June 2021||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister to inspect works today||Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar, along with Government Advisor (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Chief Whip Gandikota Srikanth Reddy, will visit the Polavaram project on Wednesday. The Minister will inspect the project works and visit the Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) Colony at Neladonulapadu village. He will also visit the R&R Colonies at Musallakunta and Indukuru villages during his two-day tour. Mr. Anil Kumar will participate in the review meeting at the ITDA office, Rampachodavaram on Thursday. Government Whips D. Raja, Budi Mutyala Naidu, S. Udayabhanu, P. Ramakrishna Reddy, Ch. Bhaskar Reddy, G. Prabhakar Reddy, K. Ramachandra Reddy, K. Srinivasulu and a few MLAs will visit the project on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-to-inspect-works-today/article35047413.ece
30 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three bodies fished out of well in East Godavari||The bodies of three persons, including that of a girl, who died after their motorcycle plunged into an open well, were retrieved by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF-Kakinada) personnel on Tuesday. The bodies were fished out from the open well at Dosakayalapalli village under Rajamahendravaram city police limits in East Godavari district. “An SDRF team was deployed to retrieve the dead bodies of the three persons identified as Chinnam Veerraju (17), Gummadi Sunny (17) and his sister Chinnam Sireesha (13),” Rajamahendravaram North Zone DSP P. Satyanarayana Rao told The Hindu . The trio was returning on a motorcycle from Gummuluru village to Dosakayapalli when the accident occurred. Another person who was also on the motorcycle escaped with injuries. The deceased persons hail from Dosakayalapalli village of Korukonda mandal in East Godavari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-bodies-retrieved-from-well/article35046934.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases in Kerala rise again, cross 13,500||On a day when Tamil Nadu reported 4,512 new COVID-19 cases, 25 of its 37 districts logged fewer than 100 infections each. Ramanathapuram recorded the least number of cases at 15. The fresh infections took the State’s tally to 24,75,190. The State saw over 100 fatalities. A total of 118 people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 32,506. Active cases dropped below 40,000 — as many as 39,355 people are under treatment for COVID-19. The total number of people discharged so far crossed 24 lakh. As many as 6,013 people were discharged after treatment on Tuesday, taking the total figure to 24,03,349. Coimbatore recorded 563 cases, followed by Erode with 493. There were 302 cases in Salem and 281 in Tiruppur. Chennai recorded 275 cases, while Chengalpattu and Thanjavur saw 229 and 215 respectively. Districts with fewer than 100 cases included Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Theni, Thoothukudi, Vellore and Virudhunagar. Chennai continued to record fewer than 10 deaths due to COVID-19. Seven people succumbed to the infection in the city. There were 12 deaths each in Coimbatore and Madurai, nine in Salem and seven each in Ranipet and Vellore. Over two lakh people received COVID-19 vaccines on Tuesday. As many as 2,48,294 people, including 1,51,054 in the 18-44 age group and 74,527 in the 45-59 age group, were inoculated. Kerala reported 13,550 new cases on Tuesday. Andhra Pradesh reported 41 deaths and 3,620 new infections on Tuesday morning. Active cases dropped to 40,074. At 3.97%, the daily TPR was less than 4% for the second day from 91,231 samples. Chittoor reported seven new deaths, Krishna six, East Godavari and Prakasam five each, Guntur and West Godavari four each, Srikakulam three, Anantapur, Visakhapatnam two each Kurnool, Nellore and Vizianagaram one each. In Telangana, for the third consecutive day, the number of infections remained under 1,000 with 987 persons testing positive on Tuesday, as 1,21,236 samples were tested. Seven more patients died. The maximum new cases, 130, were from Greater Hyderabad, followed by 102 in Khammam, 69 in Nalgonda, 64 in Suryapet and 60 in Bhadradri Kothagudem.  Over 3,200 cases Karnataka on Tuesday reported 3,222 new cases, taking the total to 28,40,428 and 753 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. With 93 deaths, the toll rose to 34,929. The State had 85,997 active patients. The TPR for the day was 2.54%.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-cases-in-kerala-rise-again-cross-13500/article35046932.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Techie murder case solved, husband emerges suspect||The mystery behind the death of the Hyderabad-based software professional took an unexpected turn when the Tirupati Urban police zeroed in on the suspect, who reportedly turned out to be the victim’s husband. Bhuvaneswari (27), hailing from Ramasamudram mandal in Chittoor district, got married to Srikanth Reddy of Badvel in Kadapa district. The duo was living in Tirupati as she had opted for the ‘Work from Home’ mode. The Alipiri police were clueless on finding a body charred beyond recognition, on Ruia hospital premises on June 23. Forensic tests established it to be a female in the age group of 25-30 years. As the police also fished out the ‘missing’ complaints, the buck finally stopped at Bhuvaneswari’s house. Srikanth, who was initially ‘unavailable’, had allegedly told his in-laws that his wife had died after contracting the Delta Plus variant of COVID-19 and hence her body had been burnt by the hospital authorities. When the checked the CCTV footage of the apartment, Srikanth, on the fateful day, was reportedly found carrying his infant daughter in one hand and pulling a huge suitcase with the other. He was also seen returning home the same day sometime later, with the same suitcase. Coming to the conclusion that the body could have been shifted in the suitcase, the cops interrogated a taxi driver, who reportedly spilled the beans of having aided Srikanth in disposing of the body. The special team formed for the purpose nabbed Srikanth and brought him to Tirupati on Tuesday, when he reportedly confessed to have committed the crime in a fit of rage and disposed of the body to hush up the crime. He reportedly said the duo used to have frequent altercations whenever his wife questioned him about his wayward nature and tendency to cheat people with fake assurances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/techie-murder-case-solved-husband-emerges-suspect/article35047409.ece
30 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC stays use of ‘Endowments funds’ for Vahana Mitra||The High Court has stayed the process initiated by the government to spend funds of Rs. 49 lakh from the Endowments Department for buying vehicles under ‘YSR Vahana Mitra’ scheme. The Division Bench headed by Justice N. Jayasurya heard a PIL filed by BJP spokesperson G. Bhanuprakash Reddy on Tuesday, whose counsel maintained that the act of using the funds for a “politically motivated scheme” was against Sections 65, 69 and 72 of the A.P. Hindu Religious Charitable and Endowment Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-stays-use-of-endowments-funds-for-vahana-mitra/article35047421.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy sheeters’ help sought to nab accused||West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police K. Hanumantha Rao has offered to recommend removal of the rowdy, KD and suspect sheets against those who help the police in arresting the accused in the Seetanagaram sexual assault case. Mr. Hanumantha Rao, while advising the rowdy and suspect sheeters during a counselling session not to resort to crimes and, instead, lead a respectful life, promised to remove the sheets against those who help the police in tracing Krishna and Venkat Reddy, the accused in the sexual assault of a woman at Pushkar Ghat on June 19. The police have also shared the photographs of the two accused with the rowdy and suspect sheeters, and sought their help. Photographs shared “We have forwarded the photographs of the accused to the mobile phones of the rowdy and suspect sheeters, and asked them to trace the accused. The police will lift the sheets against those who help us crack the case after verifying their track record,” Mr. Hanumantha Rao said. “There are about 600 persons against whom the police opened rowdy, suspect, law and order and KD sheets in the West zone. Instructions have been given to the police officers to keep a vigil on their movements to curb the crime rate,” the ACP said. The accused had sexually assaulted the 20-year-old woman on the sand dunes of the Krishna riverbank under the Tadepalli police station limits in Guntur district, where she had gone for an outing with her boyfriend. Many suspects questioned The Guntur Urban police, who are probing the incident, have questioned many suspects of Krishna and Guntur districts. Investigation officers have also gathered some information from the locals on the incident. Based on evidence gathered from the scene of offence and the the victim’s statement, police suspect that Krishna and Venkat Reddy, who have been absconding since then, might have assaulted the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeters-help-sought-to-nab-accused/article35046972.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disha app will accompany women like a brother, says CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has appealed to all women and girls in the State to download the Disha app on their smart phones and alert the police in emergency. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, along with a battery of Ministers and officers, participated in an awareness drive on the Disha app at Gollapudi Panchayat Office in Vijayawada on Tuesday. He interacted with the village secretariat staff, Women Police and volunteers and enquired about the status of downloading the app in their clusters and the response from the women and girls. “Disha app will accompany women and girls like a brother. As many as 17.65 lakh persons have downloaded the app in State till date. Woman in distress can press the SOS button in the app or just shake the smart phone and it will sent an alert to the police which will respond within no time,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Home Minister M. Sucharitha, Disha Special Officers Kritika Shukla and Deepika Patil were making efforts to educate women on the use of the Disha app, which has got four national awards, the Chief Minister said and asked the police, Sachivalayam staff and volunteers to join the drive. Referring to the alleged sexual assault on a girl at the Pushkar Ghat on the Krishna riverbank, he said the government was taking all measures to prevent such incidents. “In all, 18 Disha Mahila Police Stations have been established across the State. Special Public Prosecutors have been appointed and separate courts will be set up soon for the cases pertaining to sexual assault and harassment,” said the Chief Minister. The government will provide more vehicles and the necessary equipment to the police and intensify patrolling in vulnerable areas, he said and asked the women police and volunteers to make door-to-door visits and explain the use of the app to women . The Chief Minister said ‘Track my Travel’ is another app that tracks women through a journey and helps them reach their destinations safely. The grama volunteers explained how they were visiting houses and helping women downloading the app. Ms. Deepika Patil gave a demonstration on how to download the Disha app . Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy released a poster on the app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disha-app-will-accompany-women-like-a-brother-says-cm/article35047412.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Garbage stations to streamline solid waste management||As part of its plan to make Vijayawada, a “garbage-free” city, the civic body is going to establish garbage transfer stations at five locations to streamline solid waste management. The garbage transfer stations will minimise the garbage collection and transportation efforts. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said the five stations would come up at HB Colony, STP premises in Jakkampudi for West Constituency, Autonagar and Ramalingeswara Nagar for East and Singh Nagar or Vambey Colony for Central constituency. Explaining the concept, Mr. Venkatesh said that garbage collection and transportation to dumping yards and recycling plants had been a complex process currently and with the introduction of 220 more garbage collection vehicles under the Clean Andhra Pradesh initiative and establishment of garbage transfer stations with 15th Finance Commission fund will improve solid wase management. Time to be saved Mr. Venkatesh said the garbage collected from households would be dumped in the compact collection vehicles which would transport the garbage to the stations. “At the stations, compact vehicles will dump the waste into 20 cubic metre capacity capsules from elevated platforms. In the capsules, the garbage will be compressed and stored. Later the capsules will be mounted on the trailers which will head to dumping yards or waste to energy plants. In the entire process, there will be no overspilling of garbage or involvement of men,” Mr. Venkatesh said. There would be multiple capsules and a lot of time would be saved, the Commissioner added. Once the stations were in operation we could get rid of the dumper bins and make the city garbage-free, he said. The project cost was estimated at Rs. 15.4 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/garbage-stations-to-streamline-solid-waste-management/article35046976.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu seeks financial package for COVID-hit families||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has vowed to continue the struggle till the State government announces a special package for the COVID-affected families on the lines of the assistance offered in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and other States. Mr. Naidu was addressing the participants at the ‘Sadhana Deeksha’ organised at the TDP central office in Amaravati on Tuesday. The party staged similar protests across the State. Mr. Naidu urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to set aside “his narrow political agenda” and start purchasing vaccines in order to inoculate all people of all age groups. The percentage of people being vaccinated should be increased from the present 23.2 to at least 70 in the State. People would be safe only if they were vaccinated completely, he added. Seeking to know why Andhra Pradesh alone was not offering any special package, Mr. Naidu said Maharashtra gave a financial package of Rs. 5,476 crore, Tamil Nadu Rs. 4,155 crore, Karnataka Rs. 1,250 crore and Kerala Rs. 20,000 crore. Maharashtra had given Rs. 2,500 to small traders and Rs. 2,000 to tribal people. Tamil Nadu had given Rs. 4,000 to all ration card holders, besides Rs. 2,000 worth essential commodities. Kerala, Odisha, Punjab, Bhiar, Madhya Pradesh and other States too had provided support to their people during the pandemic times, he pointed out, and demanded that the government immediately announce Rs. 10,000 financial assistance each for all the white ration card holders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-seeks-financial-package-for-covid-hit-families/article35047423.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor records 7 COVID-19 deaths, highest in State in a day||The State reported 41 deaths due to COVID-19 and 3,620 new infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The number of active cases came down to  40,074 and the total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 18,32,971 and 97.20% respectively. In the past day, 5,757 patients have recovered. The toll reached 12,671 and the total number of infections reported so far increased to 18,85,716 .  At 3.97%, the daily positivity rate was less than 4% for the second day as 91,231 samples were tested. The overall positivity rate of 2.18 crore samples test so far remained at 8.61%.  No death in Kadapa  Chittoor reported seven deaths and Krishna six in the past day. East Godavari and Prakasam reported five deaths each, Guntur and West Godavari four each, Srikakulam three, Anantapur and Visakhapatnam two, and Kurnool, Nellore and Vizianagaram one each. Kadapa reported no death during the period. East Godavari reported 617 new infections. It was followed by West Godavari (565), Chittoor (451), Prakasam (386), Krishna (332), Guntur (299), Nellore (210), Anantapur (190), Visakhapatnam (176), Kadapa (137), Srikakulam (118), Vizianagaram (95) and Kurnool (44). The total number of cases district-wise were as follows: East Godavari (2,62,096), Chittoor (2,19,348), Guntur (1,62,008), West Godavari (1,61,202), Anantapur (1,53,792), Visakhapatnam (1,48,466),Nellore (1,27,098), Kurnool (1,21,804), Prakasam (1,20,918), Srikakulam (1,18,384),Kadapa (1,06,223), Krishna (1,01,386) and Vizianagaram (80,096).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-records-7-covid-19-deaths-highest-in-state-in-a-day/article35047416.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. forms panel to calculate compensation enhanced by courts||The government has constituted a high-level committee to recommend the method of calculation to pay interest, solatium and Additional Market Value (AMV) on the compensation enhanced by the courts at various levels to people who lost their lands to the Telugu Ganga project. A G.O. released on Tuesday said the committee represented by senior officers of the stakeholder departments includes the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration and Special Chief Secretary to the government, the Principal Finance Secretary from the Finance Department and Principal Secretary of Revenue Department as members and the Secretary, Water Resources Department as the Member Convenor. Land acquisition While taking up the construction of the Somasila project across the Penna river and also the Kandaleru reservoir in Nellore district, certain lands were acquired in Kadapa and Nellore districts and compensation was paid to the people who had lost their lands, under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act in force. Compensation was also paid for the trees and structures that were lost. Not satisfied with the compensation awarded, the beneficiaries took a legal course and the courts, at various levels, enhanced the compensation value for the lands, including the trees and structures.  Additional Market Value In order to pay the interest, solatium and Additional Market Value (AMV) on the compensation enhanced by the courts, the government has constituted the committee to evolve a scientific methodology which may stand legal scrutiny. The committee would submit its recommendations at the earliest, stated the government order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-forms-panel-to-calculate-compensation-enhanced-by-courts/article35047424.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway hospital gets an oxygen generation plant||South Central Railway (SCR) General Manager (GM) Gajanan Mallya virtually inaugurated an oxygen generation plant with a capacity of 250 Litres per Minute (LPM) at the Vijayawada Railway Hospital on Tuesday. “This is the first oxygen plant set up in a railway hospital in SCR Zone,” Mr. Mallya said. The oxygen generation units have been procured at a cost of Rs. 80 lakh, said the GM, and complimented Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas, and other officers, who set up two units of the plant in ten days. Later, the GM reviewed safety, freight loading, infrastructure developmental works, and medical facilities offered during the pandemic. Mr. Mallya enquired with the DRMs on parcel traffic and discussed about the possibility of improving freight loading at various locations. He instructed DRMs to draw up action plans for growth in freight loading, especially in materials such as coal, cement, granite, gypsum and fly ash. The General Manager also reviewed the performance of Business Development Units (BDUs) and strategies being implemented to improve loading and new traffic avenues. Divisional Railway Managers of Guntakal, Guntur, Secunderabad, Hyderabad and Nanded Divisions participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railway-hospital-gets-an-oxygen-generation-plant/article35046974.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to lay stone for flood bund work today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will lay the foundation stone for the widening and strengthening of the Krishna River Flood Bank (Bund) road at Kondaveeti Vagu lift irrigation scheme site, near Prakasam Barrage in Seetanagaram on Wednesday. The widening works will be taken up in a stretch of 15.525 km from Kondaveti Vagu lift irrigation scheme to Rayapudi, at a cost of Rs. 150 crore. The Water Resource Department will implement the works with the funds allocated by Amaravati Smart and Sustainable City Corporation Limited. As part of the project, a 10-metre two-way road would be constructed along with two lanes for walking besides renovation of Kondaveti Vagu bridge, construction of Venkatayapalem Rayapudi outfall sluice and flood monitoring centres. The N 1 and N 3 roads of Amaravati would be linked with Undavalli-Rayapudi-Amaravati Seed access road and Gollapudi- Chinnakakani-Vijayawada bypass road so that transportation to Amravati, Secretariat, and High Court would be improved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-lay-stone-for-flood-bund-work-today/article35046981.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christian JAC condemns ‘campaign’ against CM||A.P. Christian Joint Action Committee chairman Yalamanchili Praveen raised suspicions that Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu was behind a ‘conspiracy’ being carried out against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He condemned an alleged targeted campaign against Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Members staged a protest at the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on Tuesday. Mr. Praveen alleged that a newspaper had reported that Mr. Jagan would talk to his late father Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy every night, and added that such rumours were being circulated as part of a conspiracy by Mr. Naidu and his followers to defame the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christian-jac-condemns-campaign-against-cm/article35046975.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APUCF plans protests over tax hike||The Andhra Pradesh Urban Citizens’ Federation (APUCF) will stage protests against the hike in property taxes in front of all municipal offices across the State on June 30 and July 1. APUCF convener Ch Babu Rao on Tuesday said that the Central government is compelling the States to initiate such reforms, he said. “The State government gave in before the Centre and is poised to implement the conditions laid down by the latter,” said Mr. Babu Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apucf-plans-protests-over-tax-hike/article35046980.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB sleuths grill CMRF wing officials||The ACB officials on Tuesday reportedly grilled the officers and staff working in the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) wing in the Secretariat, on the fake cheques issued for Rs. 117 crore in 2020. Officials of the State Bank of India (SBI) and another bank in Kolkata, Mangalore and New Delhi branches busted the racket, when the accused presented fake cheques for Rs. 117 crore, and made a vain bid to draw the amount from the A.P. CMRF. When the bank authorities alerted their counterparts in Velagapudi in Guntur district for verification, the fraud came out and the Thullur police registered a case . Later, the case was transferred to the CID and the ACB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-sleuths-grill-cmrf-wing-officials/article35047414.ece
30 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI wants revision of property rates postponed||The Vijayawada Chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) has urged the government to consider postponement of the annual revision (increase) in property rates in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In a release, CREDAI, Vijayawada vice-president K. Tejeswara Rao said that the construction and real estate sectors had been affected severely by the pandemic and the lockdowns during the past 16 months. “Builders are unable to take up projects as per the schedule and the onset of monsoon has added to the existing problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/credai-wants-revision-of-property-rates-postponed/article35047405.ece
30 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two-member committee formed to probe Simhachalam land issue||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that action will be taken against those involved in irregularities relating to Simhachalam temple lands. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, he alleged that several leaders and workers of the Telugu Desam Party(TDP) were involved in a number of land irregularities in the Visakhapatnam district during their tenure. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that during a recent review meeting the officials had brought to the government’s notice that about 740 acres of Simhachalam temple lands were removed from the registers without the consent of higher officials. He said that the Endowments Minister has constituted a two-member committee, comprising Joint Collectors of Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts Kishore Babu and M. Venugopal Reddy respectively, to probe the issue. The committee would submit a report within 10 days to the Endowments Minister. “Once the report is submitted, we would take action against the persons involved,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. Action will be taken against those involved in land irregularities despite their social status, he added. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the government would conduct another meet in 15 days on the issue. Road works He said that works related to six-lane road from Visakhapatnam to Bhogapuram via Bheemili would be speeded up. He said that large-scale sapling plantation programmes would be taken up by the State government in Visakhapatnam to check pollution. In July, a programme would be organised to plant one lakh saplings in a day, he said. The Minister said that there were about 790 slums in Visakhapatnam and the government would prepare an action plan to provide basic amenities to the residents. MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the State government is making all efforts to solve the ‘pancha grama’ lands issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-member-committee-formed-to-probe-simhachalam-land-issue/article35047431.ece
30 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protests staged against property tax hike||Members of Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Association (VARWA) and Visakha Residential Colony Associations Federation (NIVAS) staged protests at the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) main office and several zonal offices against the proposed property tax hike here on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, member of Forum for Development of North Andhra(FDNA) A. Aja Sarma said that the State government made a drastic change by levying the property tax based on the capital value, which earlier used to be levied as per rental basis. Any property tax hike proposal should be placed before the elected council before it is notified for public opinion. But it was not done in this case, he said. The notification issued ignored the council and it is against the law, Mr. Aja Sarma said. VARWA General Secretary B.B. Ganesh said that the change in the methodology of property tax is opposed by all colony residents, apartment residents, employees and workers of every department, including those in IT sector, pensioners, entrepreneurs and intellectuals. General Secretary of NIVAS, P. Narayana Murthy, said that due to the pandemic citizens are in a distress since the last one year. Some State governments like Telangana have given concessions on property tax. But it is inhuman on the part of Andhra Pradesh government to propose increase in property tax, he said. The members said that the protests would continue until the government withdraw the decision. Such protests were also organised at the GVMC zonal offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protests-staged-against-property-tax-hike/article35047430.ece
30 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP employees want wage agreement implemented||The one-day strike observed by the employees and workers of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) following the call given by the Central Trade Unions, demanding implementation of wage agreement, apart from withdrawing the decision to privatise the plant, was peaceful on Tuesday. Though the workers have been observing relay fast at the Steel Plant arch at Kurmannapalem for over 135 days against the decision to privatise the VSP, it has not affected production as they are participating in relay fasts by turns, after attending to their duties. The employees and workers, owing allegiance to various trade unions, as part of the day-long strike, boycotted duties and squatted on the road outside the main gate of RINL-VSP. The security personnel closed the gates as a precautionary measure. The union leaders threatened to go on indefinite strike if the Centre did not change its decision on privatisation. Gate meeting Later, at a gate meeting held in the evening, the union leaders alleged that the VSP management had been prolonging the discussions on wage agreement on the directions of the government. They attributed the delay in the finalisation of the wage agreement to the Labour Codes, proposed to be implemented by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-employees-want-wage-agreement-implemented/article35047425.ece
30 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks aid to kin of COVID-19 victims||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders alleged that the YSR Congress Party government failed to take measures to check the spread of COVID-19 in the State. A protest was staged by the party workers and leaders at the TDP office here on Tuesday to express solidarity with the party’s national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who launched a ‘Sadhana Deeksha’ demanding financial support to the dependents of COVID-19 victims. Party Parliamentary district president Palla Srinivasa Rao demanded that the government extend financial support to the families, which were financially crippled due to the pandemic. MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu, MLC Duvvarapu Rama Rao, Telugu Desam Party general secretary Md. Nazeer were among those who participated in the protest. Former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu participated in the protest at Narsipatnam in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-seeks-aid-to-kin-of-covid-19-victims/article35047427.ece
30 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ABVP activists stage protest at Minister’s house||Tension prevailed at Seethammadhara area as members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and several students tried to enter the house of Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao reportedly upset over the job calendar released by the State government recently, here on Tuesday. They raised slogans against the State government and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. They alleged that the State government was not taking steps to create jobs. The police detained the protesters and shifted them to the MVP police station. Meanwhile, members of the Telugu Nadu Students Federation (TNSF) and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) alleged that the members who were shifted to the police station were beaten up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abvp-activists-stage-protest-at-ministers-house/article35047428.ece
30 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 2 deaths, 176 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 176 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,48,978. A total of 214 persons undergoing treatment for the coronavirus recovered in the same time period. The death toll increased to 1,023 after two more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-2-deaths-176-new-covid-cases/article35047432.ece
30 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nadu -Nedu works reviewed||Adviser (Infra) to the Nadu-Nedu programme Akunuri Murali inspected the heritage buildings and the works taken up under the programme at the Government Queen Mary’s High School in old Town area here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nadu-nedu-works-reviewed/article35047426.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools will remain shut for now: Minister||The Minister said an action plan was being chalked out to hold “preparatory” programmes for opening of schools from July 15 to August 15. Committees on exams The government, meanwhile, has constituted two committees to work out modalities and deliver a fair and unbiased results of the cancelled SSC and Intermediate Board exams. Both the panels are headed by former civil servant M. Chaya Ratan at the helm. “We have constituted high-power Result Committees that would evolve a policy for declaration of the Intermediate and SSC examination results as per the directions given by the Supreme Court,” the Minister told The Hindu . Besides Ms. Chaya Ratan as its chairperson, the Intermediate result committee comprises V.Ramesh from the State Board of Intermediate Education as member-convener, former Assistant Director of the SSC Board Anand Kishore as special invitee, Srinivas from Andhra Pradesh Centre for Financial Systems & Services (APCFSS) for IT support, Regional Inspection Officer, West Godavari Prabhakar (Examination), Principal of Government Junior College, Tudimella Simon Victor (Academician) and junior lecturers Rupa Kumari, M. Srinivasa Rao and P. Mohan Rao as ita members. For SSC Public Examinations-2021, the panel put in place has Ms. Chaya Ratan as the chairperson and Director, Government Examinations A. Subba Reddy as member-convener, besides eight other members including the Director, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) B. Pratap Reddy, DEO of Prakasam V.S. Subba Rao, Headmaster of ZP High School, Bondapally in Vizianagaram district T. Sanyasi Raju, HM of ZP High School, Penamaluru Y. Durga Bhavani, HM of SCME Municipal School, Guntur M. Srinivasa Rao, Principal of AP Tribal Welfare Residential Society school at Chittedu in Nellore district Koundinya Sai, HM of Kumar English Medium High School in Nuzvid T. Venkata Kumar and HM of Sri Vidyalaya English Medium High School, Gosala Y. Vijay Kumar. Members of the two committees would hold discussions in online mode and arrive at a common understanding. If required, they would obtain opinions of other subject teachers also. Report in five days “The Intermediate panel would submit its report in five days, while the SSC committee had been given 10 days for the job,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-will-remain-shut-for-now-minister/article35047410.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back in the saddle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-in-the-saddle/article35047434.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily grind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-grind/article35046983.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD releases online quota of arjitha sevas||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Tuesday released the online (virtual) quota of various Arjitha seva tickets like Kalyanotsavam, Unjal seva, Dolotsavam and Sahasra deepalankara seva for the month of July. Those availing the tickets can take part in the live telecast of the sevas on TTD SV Bhakti Channel (SVBC) from their homes. Couples taking part in the virtual Kalyanotsavam will be allowed darshan at the Tirumala temple free of cost. For this, they should reserve their Rs. 300 online darshan slots on the date of their convenience wherein, no fee will be levied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-releases-online-quota-of-arjitha-sevas/article35046979.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gradual spike in non-COVID treatment, outpatient visits||With the COVID-19 cases in Telangana on a steady decline, people seem to be stepping out of their homes to get a personal check-up for non-COVID health issues. Since a majority of the government and private hospitals were flooded with COVID-19 patients, people had, until now, put off hospital visits for other ailments and opted for virtual consultations with doctors. Though the non-COVID out-patient (OP) and in-patient (IP) numbers are nowhere close to the usual figures recorded in pre-pandemic times, there is a noted increase since the peak infection period. And the rush is being seen at both both government and private hospitals. In the government sector, Gandhi Hospital and Osmania General Hospital (OGH) are tertiary-care facilities where specialist and super specialist doctors offer consultations. During the first and second wave, Gandhi Hospital was turned into an exclusive COVID treatment facility and continues to be so even now. OGH took the maximum load of non-COVID patients among government hospitals. Usually, in the pre-COVID era, around 2,500 to 3,000 patients used to register for OP consultations in a day at the hospital. This number dropped to around 800 during the peak of second wave. “Now, 1,600 to 1,800 patients are opting for OP services on a daily average,” said OGH Superintendent B. Nagender. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said when cases decline further, non-COVID services will resume at Gandhi Hospital too.  Only COVID patients However, the District Hospital in King Koti and Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences will continue to attend only COVID cases. Government General and Chest Hospital in Erragadda was another health facility where only coronavirus patients were admitted. Now, non-COVID patients too are offered medical services. Superintendent of the hospital, Mahaboob Khan said they are now attending 150 to 200 non-COVID patients with pulmonary issues such as tuberculosis, lung fibrosis, lung abscess etc. Chief medical officer at Medicover Group of Hospitals, Rakesh Prabhu said COVID and non-COVID patients visiting their hospitals are in the ratio of 1:3. Dental clinics Secretary of Indian Dental Association-Deccan Chapter, A. Srikanth said that some dental clinics are ensuring safety of patients by taking most precautions such as maintaining ventilation despite switching on air conditioners and usage of UV-C light for disinfection. “Our specialists wear PPE kits, masks, face shield, double gloves, googles and shoes covers, while performing procedures which involves release of aerosols or blood. The precautions are scaled down in case of procedures where aerosols or blood is not released such as taking imprints of teeth. All these precautionary measures cost a lot of money,” said Dr Srikanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gradual-spike-in-non-covid-treatment-outpatient-visits/article35047222.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC council approves budget in virtual meeting||GHMC Council has, during its virtual meeting on Tuesday, accorded the stamp of approval to the corporation’s annual budget proposals for the year 2021-22, for Rs. 6,842 crore. Apart from the GHMC’s own budget of Rs. 5,600 crore, the proposals include funding of Rs. 1,242 crore for the double bedroom housing project which has been taken up by the civic body on behalf of the Telangana State Housing Corporation. Revenue income for the year is pegged at Rs. 3,571 crore, while revenue expenditure is estimated to be Rs. 2,414 crore, leaving a surplus of Rs. 1,157 crore. Of the revenue income, a total of Rs. 1,850 crore is shown as accruing through property tax. A total of Rs. 355 crore is shown as grants from the 15th Finance Commission. Capital receipts of Rs. 3,186 crore, when coupled with the funding expected from the Housing Corporation, amounted to Rs. 4,428 crore. Rs. 1,242 crore has been shown under the head of construction and improvements of the housing units for the poor. Presenting the annual budget, Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi said ‘Pattana Pragathi’ programme will be conducted in GHMC for 10 days starting from July 1, including review of developmental works and sanitation. She administered oath of office to the newly elected corporator from Lingojiguda ward D. Rajashekhar Reddy who arrived at the chamber from where she addressed the virtual meeting, along with the TPCC chief and MP A.Revanth Reddy. During the general body meeting that followed budget presentation, newly elected corporators raised questions about issues plaguing the city. MIM members Mohammed Majid Hussain and S.Raj Mohan posed questions about the city’s sanitation, and questioned why the dumper bins have been removed. MLC Syed Aminul Hasan Jafri and Mr. Majid Hussain pointed out that the huge amounts shown in budget allocations are not reflected in the expenditure at ground level. Uppal Corporator M.Rajitha Parameshwar Reddy expressed displeasure that the Congress party had not been given an opportunity to speak of the budget.  THE WHEREWITHAL Revenue income for the year pegged at Rs. 3,571 crore Amount accruing through property tax: Rs. 1,850 crore Grants from the 15th Finance Commission: Rs. 355 crore Funding for double bedroom housing project : Rs. 1,242 crore Pattana Pragathi’ programme to be held for 10 days starting from July 1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-council-approves-budget-in-virtual-meeting/article35047240.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Overseas job seekers start getting jabs||People set to go abroad for employment have started being vaccinated against COVID-19 at government COVID vaccination centres from Tuesday. The State Health department has identified designated centres in 10 districts of the State, including two in the capital city. As phone numbers of deputy District Medical and Health Officers and supervisors of the centres were mentioned in a circular being passed on across social media, the officials were flooded with calls from interested beneficiaries. For visually-impaired Meanwhile, SLG Hospitals in association with Rohini Foundation conducted vaccination for 100 persons with visual impairment on Monday. The beneficiaries were inmates of government-run homes in Hyderabad. Executive director of the hospitals D.V.S. Soma Raju said they are proud to have played a role in inoculating the visually-impaired. “The beneficiaries were administered the first dose of Covishield. Whenever they are eligible, the second dose will be given to them by our staff,” he said.  Designated vaccination centres PP Unit RIMS in Adilabad UPHC Vinayak Nagar in Nizamabad UPHC Buttarajaram Colony in Karimnagar UPHC Laskar Singaram in Warangal UPHC Venkateshwara Nagar in Khammam UPHC Medak in Medak UPHC Ramaiahbowly in Mahbubnagar UPHC Panagal in Nalgonda UPHC Saroornagar in Rangareddy UPHC RFTC-Koti, Hyderabad UPHC Taramaidan in Old City of Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/overseas-job-seekers-start-getting-jabs/article35047219.ece
30 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Motorbike ambulances for tribal areas rolled out||To help the rural medical establishment, Rotary Club of Hyderabad, along with Rotary Club of Secunderabad Icons, Rotary Club of Warangal, Rotary Club of Guntur Vikas and Apnao Foundation, has initiated a unique concept where motorbikes will be transformed into bike ambulances. The bike ambulances were launched by actor Suman Talwar here on Tuesday. Two bikes built at a cost of around Rs. 4.5 lakh will be in use in the tribal areas of Warangal and Mulugu districts apart from Bapatla in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh. The bike ambulance is fitted with emergency oxygen, spine board for immobilisation, suction, sphygmomanometer, pulse oximeter, glucometer, thermometer, splints, fire extinguisher, emergency medicines, injection bag and bag-mask resuscitator among others. Past District Governor 3150, Sam Patibandla said people can avail this free of cost. Thansen, president of Rotary Club of Hyderabad, said that Roy Joseph of Merquri Medica helped with the design, fabrication, medical equipment, and supervision of the bike ambulance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/motorbike-ambulances-for-tribal-areas-rolled-out/article35047227.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State posts 987 cases, 7 deaths||For the third consecutive day, the number of new coronavirus infections in the State remained under 1,000 with 987 persons testing COVID-positive on Tuesday. While 1,21,236 samples were examined, results of 1,327 were awaited. Seven COVID patients died on the day, taking the death toll to 3,651. Except Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, maximum cases continue to be recorded in rural districts. The highest of 130 were from GHMC, followed by 102 in Khammam, 69 in Nalgonda, 64 in Suryapet and 60 in Bhadradri Kothagudem. There has been a small spike in cases in Khammam. The number was in double digits since June 20 except on Tuesday when 102 people tested positive. The lowest of one case was from Adilabad, two each from Jogulamba Gadwal and Narayanpet, and three from Nirmal. So far, over 1.85 crore samples have been tested and the total infection tally stands at 6,22,593. Of those, 13,487 cases are active. Daily ICU admissions, which had crossed 4,100 in government and private hospitals during the peak of the second wave, has been on the decline. On Tuesday, only 1,863 ICU beds were occupied by COVID patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-posts-987-cases-7-deaths/article35047221.ece
30 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Degree admission notification released||Notification for admissions into first year degree courses has been issued by the Telangana State Council for Higher Education (TSCHE) and admissions will will be done online through the Degree Online Services, Telangana (DOST) mode. Admissions will be done for all the undergraduate courses offered by Osmania, Kakatiya, Telangana, Palamuru, Mahatma Gandhi and Sathavahana universities through DOST. Candidates who passed intermediate exams or equivalent recognised examination can apply. The first phase of registrations can be done on the website https://dost.cgg.gov.in from July 1 to 15 by paying a fee of Rs. 200. Students can log in by entering the Intermediate hall-ticket number. The web options can be exercised from July 3 to 16 and seats will be allotted on July 22. Self report online Students who receive seat allotment should self-report online between July 23 and 27. However, students need to link their mobile numbers with the Aadhaar card. Those students who have already linked Aadhaar number with the mobile number can directly register in DOST Website with mobile OTP authentication. Or else students can link their parents mobile number to their Aadhaar at Aadhaar Update Centres. Students can also visit MeeSeva Centre for biometric authentication and registration in DOST. Students can also download ‘T App Folio’ App and register by entering all their details. Vice Chairman of the TSCHE and Convener of DOST R. Limbadri said that a YouTube channel has also been started with videos to guide students and clear their doubts — ‘https://www.youtube.com/c/dost_telangana.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/degree-admission-notification-released/article35047253.ece
30 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Entire system corrupted under TRS rule: Revanth||Newly appointed Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy has claimed that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has opened Pragathi Bhavan gates for members of the Opposition after learning about his appointment. He claimed that KCR has started respecting the Opposition parties now and this was only the beginning of the fear that will be instilled in the ruling party through party programmes. He was addressing the party workers who had come to meet him along with Mulugu MLA Seethakka. Seethakka led a huge rally in vehicles from Samakka Sarakka temple at Medaram in Mulugu district to Hyderabad after offering prayers at the temple. She had apparently taken a vow to offer special pooja if Mr. Revanth Reddy was made the PCC presdient. The new PCC president said no people’s representative was happy in KCR’s rule. Neither did they get the respect nor funds for development, he said reminding how the elected representatives right from sarpanch level were respected by the officials during the earlier governments. He alleged that entire system has been corrupted with money collected for all the postings. Mr. Revanth Reddy said AICC president Sonia Gandhi had appointed him after taking views of all the seniors with the hope that Congress would be brought back to power, and he would work to free Telangana from the ‘cultches’ of KCR. He ridiculed the claims of ‘welfare programmes under TRS’ stating that even during N.T. Rama Rao and Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy’s tenures welfare was the top priority. Indiramma houses were given to lakhs of people during the Congress rule, he said. Cadre’s wish Seethakka objected to the criticism on the appointment of Mr. Revanth Reddy and said it was done as per the cadres’ wishes. It was unfair to criticise the appointment made by Sonia Gandhi as ‘sealed cover appointment.’ she said the enthusiastic response from the cadre itself was an indication of the positivity in the party. The Mulugu MLA said the new president has a plan to reinvigorate the party cadre from village level and revive the confidence among the party activists that Congress would come back to power. Realising that Congress was getting ready for the fight building people’s movement Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao has started the drama of Dalit Empowerment scheme now, she alleged. All these days KCR was busy snatching the assignment lands given by the previous governments and ignoring the SC/ST sub-plan introduced by the Congress government, she said adding he had now realised that the fight would be tough. Former Union minister Balaram Naik and senior leaders Ramachandra Naik, Vijaya Ramana Rao were among those who accompanied her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entire-system-corrupted-under-trs-rule-revanth/article35047255.ece
30 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Water purifier turned into O2 concentrator||In what could be a handy device for COVID-19 patients, the students of city-based Lords Institute of Engineering & Technology (Autonomous) have developed a dual-use oxygen concentrator from water purifier. The final product will cost Rs. 20,000 with the purifier converted into a full time oxygen concentrator, said Shaik Mohd Rayyan, Md. Adil and Mohd. Misbah Uddin, final year students of mechanical engineering department, showcasing the product. Mechanism Explaining the process, they said air is taken from atmosphere, compressed and allowed to pass through silica gel that reduces unwanted rise in temperature apart from removing moisture content. This low temperature and moisture-free air is passed through Zeolite (13X) pellets where nitrogen is blocked and oxygen is allowed. By blocking nitrogen through these pellets, 85-92% of pure oxygen can be obtained. “We have a reservoir where the oxygen is allowed to stay for a calculated moment of time for better flow and then allowed to pass through water by using a humidifier as dry oxygen causes throat issues. The flow of oxygen is regulated through a regulator installed at the exit point of concentrator. Two exit nozzle points are created so that two patients can use it at a time,” the students said. Touseef Ahmed, vice-chairman of the college, said developing an oxygen concentrator worth just Rs. 20,000 is an important innovation when the country is likely to need more oxygen supplies for COVID patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-purifier-turned-into-o2-concentrator/article35047229.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police personnel caught in bribery cases dent ‘friendly policing’ image||The arrest of State government employees on corruption charges is not unusual. But employees, all being police officials, getting caught red-handed in three glaring instances of bribery in less than 10 days is surely rare. Five persons were arrested in these three cases reported from June 17 to 25. One of them was a ‘private driver’ Ravi engaged by town police station of Jagtial (carved out as a separate district from Karimnagar) SI Shiva Krishna. The SI, at whose instance the driver collected the bribe, was held along with the latter in the first case reported on June 17. Exactly a week later, Patel Chandra Reddy, Assistant Sub-Inspector of Gangadhara PS of adjacent Karimnagar district, was caught accepting bribe sitting in the police station. Two days later, SI Pruthidhar Goud and constable Ramesh, both of Kathalapur police station in Jagityal landed in ACB net accepting illegal gratification of Rs. 10,000. Interestingly, both the SIs accused of accepting ill, belong to 2012 batch. Demanding bribe in First Information Reports (FIRs) issued against complainants is the common thread in the three cases. After assuming charge, Mr. Shiva Krishna started digging old cases. He stumbled upon a case of dowry harassment which was registered by his predecessor Shankar Naik. The SI summoned the persons against whom FIR was issued and allegedly demanded Rs. 50,000 to ensure ‘they are not arrested’. After negotiations, he agreed to ‘do the favour’ by receiving Rs. 30,000. After the deal was stuck, he asked the complainant to hand over ‘the amount’ to his private driver. “How can a SI afford to have a private driver?”, asks a retired police officer, noting that it was surprising that the matter was not in the knowledge of the superior officers. How the SI’s activity missed the attention of the Inspector who is Station House Officer of Jagtial town police station is another question no police officer wants to answer. While the police top brass are often tom tomming about the ‘transparency’ in their ‘functioning style’ and ‘being friendly with people’, the instance of Gangadhar ASI ‘collecting bribe’ shows how police in the field have scope to harass people. In this case, the ASI summoned a person against whom a case under bailable sections of 290 and 323 of Indian Penal Code was booked. He altered the section of law to 326 (non-bailable) of IPC and allegedly demanded bribe from the accused only to be eventually caught. In the third instance, the SI and the constable ‘demanded bribe’ from a person whose tractor transporting sand was seized for violation of rules. While ACB authorities are getting a pat on their shoulders for the ‘good work’, police top brass is embarrassed with their ‘friendly policing’ image frequently getting dented.  Info-graphics *Four police personnel, including two SIIs, land behind bars in bribery cases in 10 days. *All cases reported in undivided Karimnagar district. *Bribery demanded, accepted in FIRs issued in different matters. (eom)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-personnel-caught-in-bribery-cases-dent-friendly-policing-image/article35047234.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS procures 92 lakh tonnes paddy in recent Rabi season||Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSC) has purchased about 92 lakh tonnes of paddy worth Rs. 17,300 crore at minimum support price from about 15 lakh farmers during the recent Rabi (Yasangi) procurement season. Chairman of the Corporation M. Srinivas Reddy stated here on Tuesday that the increase in paddy procurement in the recent Rabi season was 594% compared to the quantity purchased by the Corporation during the 2014-15 Rabi season. Since formation of the State in 2014, the State government had procured 4.84 crore tonnes of paddy worth Rs. 84,000 crore from farmers, he explained. Commission paid Since 2014-15 to 2019-20, Rs. 1,029 crore commission was paid to Indira Kranthi Patham (IKP), primary agriculture credit cooperative societies (PACS), district cooperative marketing societies (DCMS), Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC), Hyderabad Agricultural Cooperative Association (HACA) and other agencies for procurement of paddy from farmers on behalf of the Civil Supplies Corporation. “Earlier, the production of food crops used to be higher in the Kharif season compared to the Rabi season but the situation has changed now. Rabi season is yielding more production and the paddy and other crops production during the recent season is an indication,” Mr Srinivas Reddy explained. “In 2014-15, the paddy procurement during the Rabi seasdon was only 13.24 lakh tonnes and in 2020-21 Rabi season it is 92 lakh tonnes,” he added. The Rabi procurement commenced during the first week of April and the exercise continued for about two-and-a-half months by opening 6,968 purchase centres. Procurement completed All the purchase centre were closed since the procurement was completed, the TSCSC Chairman said. Procurement of paddy during the recent Rabi seaons was higher by 28 lakh tonnes compared to the previous Rabi season in the State. The procurement target during the recent season was 80 lakh tonnes but the paddy purchases were 13% higher (12 lakh tonnes) by spending about Rs. 2,000 crore for gunny sacks, transportation and commission in addition to Rs. 17,300 crore for purchase of paddy. Crossed targets Mr. Srinivas Reddy explained that procurement during the recent season was higher by 100% to 225% compared to the targets in 23 districts in the State. The procurement was 58.5% of the from 10 districts which contributed the most of the paddy crop in this Yasangi. The procurement by the Civil Supplies Corporation at MSP was higher by 125% in Jogulamba-Gadwal district followed by Narayanpet (95%), Rangareddy (83%), Nirmal (44%), Warangal Rural (64%), Sangareddy (32%), Jayashankar-Bhupalapally (33%) and Vikarabad (44%) districts, Mr. Reddy explained. PDS rice During the combined Andhra Pradesh dispensation, the rice for State’s needs such as public distribution system and government hostels and others used to come from States like Punjab in North India and others. Worse on many occasions the rice imported from these States was not consumable. However, now the rice produced in the State was not only meeting the demands within but also supplying to other States too and 55% of the total procurement of rice by the Food Corporation of India last year was an ample indication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-procures-92-lakh-tonnes-paddy-in-recent-rabi-season/article35047247.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ambulance donated to Cantonment Hospital||A modern ambulance for the Cantonment Hospital was handed over to the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) by representatives of the Megha Engineering & Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) here on Monday. The ambulance costing Rs. 36 lakh was donated to the hospital, which was recently refurbished to treat COVID patients with help of funds from MP A. Revanth Reddy and Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy, by the firm following a request by former vice-president J. Pratap. SCB CEO Ajit Reddy, Sanitation superintendent Devender, Inspector Mahender and MEIL’s Pratap Reddy were present, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ambulance-donated-to-cantonment-hospital/article35047216.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Apollo’s 12-hour mega vaccination drive today||Apollo Hospitals has announced a mega nationwide COVID vaccination drive to be conducted at over 300 Apollo vaccination centres spread across cities, towns, semi-rural areas on Wednesday. Slots can be booked on Apollo 24/7 app and one can select a centre closest to them. Walk-ins too are allowed at all the centres. The drive will be conducted from 7 am to 7 pm, making it convenient for people to get vaccinated before and after office hours, as per their convenience. One can also choose a preferable time slot to get the jab. President-Hospitals Division, Apollo Hospitals Enterprises, K. Hari Prasad said that Covaxin, Covishield, and Sputnik vaccines will be administered during the drive. Executive vice-chairperson of Apollo Hospitals Group, Shobana Kamineni said that vaccination is the best defence against the impending third wave and “get back to life as we know it”. Based on the response to this mega camp, Apollo centres will continue such drives. Dr Hari Prasad said they are ready to vaccinate any number of people, be it 50,000 or a lakh. The beneficiary load will be spread actoss centres, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apollos-12-hour-mega-vaccination-drive-today/article35047220.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR supplied 7,347 MT of medical oxygen to TS, AP||South Central Railway (SCR) has delivered 7,347.37 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) through Oxygen Express trains to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh till date. Telangana received the first consignment of 63.06 MT of the resource on May 1 and since then, 3719.05 MT through 40 trains. Andhra, on the other hand, received the first consignment on May 15 with delivery of 40 MT of LMO and 3628.32 MT thereafter through 56 trains. About 80 MT was transported from West Bengal, 5 MT from Chhattisgarh,1,288 MT from Jharkhand, 1,793.10 MT from Gujarat and 3,501.77 MT from Odisha. Indian Railways have been operating these trains along the green corridors to ensure minimum transport time. Multi-disciplinary teams have also been formed to ensure that these trains reach the destination in the least possible time, averaging at 60 kmph speeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-supplied-7347-mt-of-medical-oxygen-to-ts-ap/article35047225.ece
30 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR responsible for city’s problems: Revanth||Stating that Hyderabad no more gets the clean and green city awards it used to get earlier, the new TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy blamed the Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao for the city becoming ‘unlivable.’ Speaking to reporters after attending the swearing-in-ceremony of Lingojiguda Corporator Rajashekhar Reddy at the GHMC office, he said people in high offices were encouraging encroachment of lands and lake beds, and a new real estate mafia has emerged in Hyderabad. He asked why weren’t CCTV cameras being installed at lake beds and government lands to monitor the encroachments when the government claims that police is monitoring every space in Hyderabad through CCTV cameras. Obviously, installing cameras at these places are discouraged by people who matter in the government, he argued. Mr. Reddy said the government has failed to clean the Musi and stop encroachments of the riverbed and he would soon take a tour of the river. He also alleged that the GHMC council meeting is being held virtually to escape questioning from the opposition on the TRS government’s failed promises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-responsible-for-citys-problems-revanth/article35047238.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM urged to adopt R&R colonies||TS Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao adopt the colonies where rehabilitation is provided to the farmers and residents of villages slated to be submerged in irrigation reservoirs. “There are several villages and tribal hamlets getting submerged. Such villages should be developed as model villages,” said senior leader G. Narayan Reddy. He suggested that the Chief Minister adopt Labbanaik Tanda, Choklanaik Tanda and BN Timmapur village, which would get submerged in the Baswapur Reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-urged-to-adopt-rr-colonies/article35047248.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wet weather to continue across State||Thundershowers to moderate rain have been forecast throughout Telangana for the next two days with a cyclonic circulation developing even though the southwest monsoon has been weak. Yellareddy in Kamareddy recorded 4 cm rain, Thollada ( Khammam) 3 cm, Adilabad 3 cm, Bhiknur (Kamareddy) 3 cm, Nizam Sagar (dist Kamareddy) 2 cm, etc., said a India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin on Tuesday. Cloudy sky with thundershowers or rain likely in the twin cities with temperatures likely continue to be in the range of 34 degree C during the day and 24 degree C in the night. TS Development Planning Society has informed in the bulletin that during the last 24 hours, highest rainfall of 40.6 mm was recorded at Yellareddy (Kamareddy), highest maximum temperature of 37.1 degree C was recorded at Penuballi (Khammam) and lowest minimum temperature of 20.8 degree C was recorded at Bandamadharam (Medchal Malkajgiri). Light to moderate rain/thundershowers are expected at isolated places in the next two dayss. Maximum temperatures are expected to be in the range of 35-38 degree C, while the minimum temperatures 24-26 degree C. Within GHMC, 8 mm rain was recorded at Patancheruvu and highest maximum temperature of 33.6 degree C recorded at Narayanaguda and lowest minimum temperature of 22.9 degree C recorded at Rajendranagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wet-weather-to-continue-across-state/article35047249.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ACB conducts searches at Jagtial municipal office||ACB officials on Tuesday registered a case against two employees of Jagtial municipal office, after conducting searches in its mutation section following allegations of fraud. Names of Municipal Revenue Inspector Anoop Kumar and Bill Collector Anil figured in the case. Karimnagar ACB DSP K. Bhadraiah said already a preliminary inquiry was conducted into an allegation that municipal employees collected Rs. 19,950 for mutating a house but gave receipt for Rs. 1,330. The two employees were already reportedly suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acb-conducts-searches-at-jagtial-municipal-office/article35047235.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Firm’s EV pact with cycle manufacturer||City-based DAO EV Tech, a ‘Make in India’ dedicated smart electric mobility manufacturing firm, entered into a strategic agreement with Avon, a leading bicycles manufacturer, on Tuesday. Founded by the Pahwa Brothers in 1952, Avon has large production facilities and a growing portfolio of products with over 200 models and over 360 different components for each model. As a pioneer in the electric scooter industry, Avon started manufacturing in 2007. The strategic agreement between DAO EV Tech and Avon will complement each other’s strengths and leverage their network in the areas of sourcing and manufacturing excellence. Avon’s will help DAO access top-notch Indian suppliers in the two wheelers industry especially for mechanical components. It will further speed up DAO’s homologation and localisation for its high-speed model 703.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/firms-ev-pact-with-cycle-manufacturer/article35047223.ece
30 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held in ‘hit and run’ case||Three persons were arrested in connection with a road accident in Madhapur police station Limits. The accident, which occurred on June 27, had led to the death of a pub employee who was returning home from work. The arrested persons have been identified as Raghunandan Reddy, owner of a school in Uppal, Sujit Reddy, and Ashish, a techie. The accused were driving in an Audi when they allegedly crashed into an auto in which the victim was travelling. Earlier, the accused produced his driver who claimed that he was driving the car. Police found inconsistencies in the statement. In due course of questioning, it came to light that he was not behind the steering wheel, and was allegedly influenced to make a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-held-in-hit-and-run-case/article35047244.ece
30 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EFLU cautions students about fake circular||The English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU)-Hyderabad has cautioned students against a fake circular doing the rounds of social media regarding reopening of classes and hostels from July 4. In a statement here, EFLU authorities said some mischief-mongers were circulating a fake note using the varsity’s letterhead and clarified that the classes and research guidance will be provided through online mode only. The authorities have urged students and faculty members to check only the official website for information. They also reiterated that the university is committed to follow COVID-19 guidelines being issued from time to time by the Central and state governments for the safety of its fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eflu-cautions-students-about-fake-circular/article35047232.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Apply as postal insurance agents||Department of India Posts is inviting applications for engaging postal agents purely on commission basis for acquiring postal life insurance policies. Unemployed youth from twin cities, between the ages of 18-50, who have passed 10th class, should submit their completed applications to office of SSPOs Hyderabad South East Division, Dewan Dewdi, Hyderabad-500 002 by July 30. Selected candidates should appear for an interview on August 12/13. Details on phone: 040-23463800/802/807.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apply-as-postal-insurance-agents/article35047236.ece
30 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Lactation kiosk opened at Khammam Railway Station||In a women-friendly initiative, the South Central Railway (SCR) has set up a baby feeding (lactation) kiosk for the benefit of nursing mothers at the railway station in the town. Christened as “Ammaku Gauravam”, the round-the-clock facility, was inaugurated at the general waiting hall of the railway station recently. The facility, set up with the support of Vasavi Clubs International (Sri Sri Sthambadri), Khammam, was thrown open for nursing mothers undertaking rail journey at a simple ceremony attended by Inspector, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Khammam, K Madhusudhan, sub-inspectors M. Venkat Reddy and V. Triveni, among others. A child help desk was set up at the railway station in 2019 to extend help to children in distress and rescue runaway and abandoned children. Earlier this year, the RPF personnel helped a pregnant Nepali woman passenger, who developed labour pains while travelling by a train, reach the district headquarters hospital swiftly and deliver her baby under the supervision of the hospital staff. In a joint operation, the RPF and the Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel with the help of the volunteers of Childline rescued around 29 children while being allegedly trafficked for labour in July 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lactation-kiosk-opened-at-khammam-railway-station/article35047258.ece
30 June 2021||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||Assistance extended to Navaneetha||Responding to a report published in these columns, officials of Women and Child Welfare led by District Child Protection Officer R. Ratnam have reached out to Meettu Navaneetha and extended two months of ration. Further, they also promised to support her education as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/assistance-extended-to-navaneetha/article35047256.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Woman who converted to Islam moves HC seeking protection||A woman, who had wilfully converted her religion from Hinduism to Islam, has approached the Delhi High Court seeking protection for herself and her family claiming that they are facing life threats and being witch-hunted by the Uttar Pradesh police, media and vigilante groups. Renu Gangwar, in her petition, said on May 27, she converted to Islam with her “own free will and without any threat or coercion from anyone”. Following this, she changed her name to Ayesha Alvi, which was published in a few newspapers. Threat by media person Ms. Alvi, who is a resident of Tilhar, Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh and working in Delhi, subsequently started getting calls from different media persons requesting for a meeting. However, even after her refusal, the media person came to her place in Tilhar, and against her wishes took photographs and videos without her permission. One particular media person demanded money while threatening to publish the news about her conversion. “When she denied, he threatened again. Thereafter, he forcefully took Rs. 20,000 from her,” the petition, filed through advocate Kamlesh Kumar Mishra and Nitin Kumar Nayak, said. Following the incident, Ms. Alvi made a complaint to the Delhi police chief on June 24, seeking immediate intervention for her protection. Police complaint “Thereafter, certain other media persons also came and they started making similar demands. Some other people and organisations also started threatening me and my family to force me to reconvert to Hinduism. Feeling threatened, I came back to Delhi today [June 24],” she said in her police complaint. “On June 26, the petitioner [Ms Alvi] has been informed that her father has been taken away by the Uttar Pradesh police and they are coming to Delhi and would take her back to Uttar Pradesh where she would be forced to file a false complaint/FIR,” the petition stated. It stated that Ms. Alvi is “under immediate threat of being taken away by force or coercion to Uttar Pradesh by the agencies of the State or any other person”. Ms. Alvi said she is “an adult and she is protected by the Constitution to choose her own faith and she cannot be targeted and harassed for the choice she makes with regard to the religion she follows”. She has urged the court to protect her from being taken away from its jurisdiction “by force or coercion and or by way of any other illegal means by the agencies of the State or any other person”. The petition which is listed for hearing on Wednesday also urged the court “to ensure protection of life, liberty, safety and security of the petitioner, her family member and friends and they be not harassed and interrogated with regard to the conversion of the petitioner”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-who-converted-to-islam-moves-hc-seeking-protection/article35047181.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||OBE attendance 5% higher this time compared to 2020||Amid altered modes of teaching, learning and conducting open book examinations, Delhi University has said that attendance of students in the OBE held this year was 5% higher than that of last year. The OBE which was introduced last year, due to the ongoing pandemic had initially received complaints from students regarding glitches in the process. The university, however, said that over time, it had developed methods to improve the system. “The new examination system threw challenges now and then during its implementation, but the university learnt on the way to tackle each of them and improve the system in the process. Students were able to write their examinations within the comforts of their home or space and teachers were able to evaluate through electronic means,” read a varsity statement. According to data provided by DU, 2.9 lakh students appeared for the first OBE held in August last year and 1.7 lakh students took the OBE in December 2020. Digital certificates The varsity added that over 21,000 digital certificates and 3,900 digital provisional certificates were issued in the past year. Apart from online transcripts, migration certificates and provisional mark sheets, the university will also provide confidential results to students who require the results before they are officially announced. Second semester examinations for the current batch of first-year students is expected to be held between August 12 and August 24, according to officials while the new semester is likely to begin from August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/obe-attendance-5-higher-this-time-compared-to-2020/article35047183.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Case against Twitter for ‘giving access to child porn’||Delhi Police has registered an FIR against Twitter for allegedly allowing access to child pornography on the microblogging platform following a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), officials said on Tuesday. A case has been registered under relevant provisions of the IPC, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and IT Act, they said. This comes days after the NCPCR, the country’s apex child rights body, asked Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy to explain why no action had been taken against Twitter as per its letter to Delhi Police dated May 29. In its letter, NCPCR had asked Delhi Police to book Twitter on the basis of the findings of its recent inquiry in which it had found that child sexual abuse material (CSAM) was easily available on the platform. The complaint was against Twitter Inc and Twitter Communication India Private Ltd., the police said. In its May 29 letter, NCPCR had said that it was found that “the toolkit for deep and dark web” was also available on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/case-against-twitter-for-giving-access-to-child-porn/article35047187.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 labourers fall to death at under-construction site||Three labourers died while another is battling for life after falling from a height at an under-construction DDA site in Dwarka on Tuesday evening. A case has been registered and investigation taken up, the police said. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that a PCR call was received about the accident at Dwarka Sector-14. Three of them were declared brought dead when taken to hospital. The deceased have been identified as Panna Lal, Basant, and Mangal Prasad Singh, while Surender Rai is undergoing treatment. Preliminary probe revealed that the labourers were in an open lift when the incident happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-labourers-fall-to-death-at-under-construction-site/article35047185.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. launches app for EMC||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia reviewed progress of the Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum (EMC) in schools and launched a web application for all heads of schools [HoS], teachers and coordinators to access EMC-related teaching-learning material. Mr. Sisodia said that the government has decided to give Rs. 2,000 to children as seed money after reviewing the prototype they create based on their idea. “We are ready to give Rs. 50,000 if children want to form a group of 25 students and create an enterprise. We will use the approach used in Shark Tank [a TV show] to give seed money. Every HoS and teacher should watch that show and implement a similar approach in their schools,” he said. Mr. Sisodia said that the school community needs to accept EMC as a subject as it is not just an initiative or a scheme but an indispensable subject that will equip students with the mindset and skills needed to triumph in any challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-launches-app-for-emc/article35047178.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||No headway in Dwarka honour killing case||Five days on, Delhi Police has made no headway in the honour killing case reported from Dwarka in which a couple was shot multiple times allegedly by her family members. A senior police officer said that over 20 raids have been conducted in Haryana but the accused have managed to remain absconding. “There are leads but they are not working out. Day in and day out, teams have been working to find the accused,” the officer said. The police said that of the six accused who had entered the victims’ rented house, three, including the woman’s brother and cousin have been identified while the other three are unknown. On June 24, six men entered Kiran Dahiya and Vinay Dahiya’s house and shot at them multiple times. Vinay succumbed to injuries while Kiran is still undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-headway-in-dwarka-honour-killing-case/article35047184.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Fresh summons issued to Deep Sidhu, other accused in R-Day case||A Delhi court on Tuesday issued fresh summons to actor-activist Deep Sidhu and other accused in connection with violence and resultant damage at the Red Fort during the Republic Day farmers’ rally this year. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar directed all the accused to appear before it on July 12 through videoconference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fresh-summons-issued-to-deep-sidhu-other-accused-in-r-day-case/article35047179.ece
30 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers’ movement played a role in Bengal poll: Yashwant Sinha||Trinamool Congress leader Yashwant Sinha said on Tuesday that the party and the National Front of the Opposition parties was in support of the farmers’ movement against the contentious farm laws. He met BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, general secretary Yudhvir Singh and other protesting farmers at the Ghazipur border. “We stand by you and in the future meetings of the National Front, it would be discussed how to hit the road to support the demands,” he said. Mr. Sinha said the farmers’ movement played a role in Bengal elections. “When the leaders of the Samyukta Morcha went to Bengal before the Assembly poll, they said people should not vote for the BJP. It contributed to the outcome. If the BKU plays a similar role in the U.P. elections, this movement will create an impact on the voters’ mindset.” Mr. Tikait reiterated that their movement was apolitical and that the BKU was not supporting any political party. “We welcome all the political parties that support our movement but we will not share the stage with any political party nor will allow any political group to use our stage.” Mr. Sinha said he had been an MP and could say that the parliamentary procedure was not followed while passing the three farm laws, and the government would have to repeal them. “We are also in favour of bringing in a law guaranteeing the MSP. The MSP should be decided on the basis of the law and not the largesse of the government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-movement-played-a-role-in-bengal-poll-yashwant-sinha/article35047190.ece
30 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||34 minors died of COVID-19 in three months in Assam||COVID-19 claimed the lives of 34 minors in three months in Assam. During this period, 34,606 minors were infected by the novel coronavirus, data provided by the National Health Mission, Assam, showed. An analysis of the children and teenagers showed 5,755 were less than five years old and 28,851 were between six and less than 18 years. The State’s Health officials said during the ongoing phase 3 of the Assam Community Surveillance Programme, most of the children who tested positive stayed with their COVID positive parents or guardians in home isolation. “We have advised positive parents to opt for institutional quarantine,” Health Minister Keshab Mahanta said. Officials said many of the 34 children who died had comorbidities pertaining to the heart and kidneys, particularly among those aged up to 5 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/34-minors-died-of-covid-19-in-three-months-in-assam/article35047189.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Xi honours PLA soldier killed in Galwan||A People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldier who died in the June 15, 2020 clash in Galwan Valley was among 29 people honoured by China’s President and Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping on Tuesday. The presentation of the ‘July 1 medal’ comes ahead of the party’s 100-year anniversary, which is set to be marked in Beijing on Thursday with great fanfare, including a speech by Mr. Xi. Ahead of July 1, Mr. Xi honoured 29 people who were “outstanding party members”. Among three of the awardees honoured posthumously was Chen Hongjun, a PLA soldier who died in the Galwan Valley clash last year. China had, in February, announced military honours posthumously for Chen and three others, finally confirming it had suffered casualties some eight months after the clash. Twenty Indian soldiers died in the clash that marked the most serious violence on the border since 1967. Mr. Xi said the recipients of the medal had “maintained staunch faith” which was “to stay true to the original aspiration and dedicate everything, even the precious life, to the cause of the Party and people”. He said “generations of Chinese Communists have fought tenaciously for national independence and liberation, for prosperity and strength of the country, and for the happiness of the people.” The PLA, unique among militaries as the military of a political party, has held its own commemorations ahead of July 1, including a ceremony and series of activities by the Xinjiang Military Command “to learn how PLA heroes, including the martyrs of the Galwan Valley conflict, defended and guarded the country’s borders”, the Communist Party-run Global Times reported, adding that the troops took a vow saying, “If war comes, I will not hesitate to rush like you to dedicate my last heartbeat to our motherland”. Mr. Xi used Tuesday’s occasion to call on the more than 91 million party members “to boldly advance toward the second centenary goal of fully building a modern socialist country, as well as the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation”, referring to the 2049 centenary of the People’s Republic of China. Building border villages Among those honoured was Zhoigar, a Tibetan resident of a model border village called Yumai, who had in 2017 received a letter from Mr. Xi praising her patriotism and saying her example “will motivate more herders to set down roots in the border area like galsang flowers, and become guardians of Chinese territory”. Mr. Xi has pushed a plan since 2017 to build “moderately well-off villages” in border areas, under which 628 villages would be developed mostly along the borders with India and Bhutan. Some of the new settlements have come up on disputed territory claimed by India and Bhutan. Other recipients of the award included Wang Shumao for “participation in the construction of the Nansha Islands [as China calls the Spratly Islands], developing civilian forces to safeguard China’s legitimate rights in the South China Sea and leading the way in resolutely safeguarding China’s territorial integrity and maritime rights without fear of death,” and Wang Zhanshan, a veteran of the Korean War (referred to in China as the “War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea”), the Global Times said. Among the winners was Zhang Guimei, awarded for her work in setting up China’s first free high school for girls from poor families, Memetjan Wumer, an ethnic Uighur, awarded for being “a leading model against religious extremist forces” in Xinjiang, and Liu Guijin, a former diplomat, recognised for his contributions to China-Africa relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-honours-pla-soldier-killed-in-galwan/article35046743.ece
30 June 2021||Washington,||Judge dismisses competition cases against Facebook||A federal judge in Washington DC dismissed two antitrust (competition) lawsuits against Facebook brought by the U.S.’s trade regulator, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), and a coalition of 48 States and jurisdictions. The cases alleged that Facebook crushed competition by buying out its rivals like WhatsApp and Instagram. After the ruling, Facebook’s shares hit record highs and its market capitalisation crossed $1 trillion for the first time. Judge James Boasberg dismissed the FTC case on Monday, saying it was “legally insufficient” and did not provide enough evidence that Facebook had a market share of at least 60% in the social-networking market. The judge said that in goods markets, market share could be calculated using revenue or units sold for instance, but “this case involves no ordinary or intuitive market”. However, the judge did not dismiss the underlying complaint in the case and gave the FTC time until July 29 to file a new complaint. In the second case, brought by a coalition led by the State of New York, the plaintiffs had alleged that Facebook’s acquisition of Instagram in 2012 and WhatsApp in 2014 ran afoul of competition law. In dismissing this case, the judge said there had been a “long delay” between the underlying events and the lawsuit. The FTC and the New York Attorney General’s office said they are reviewing the decision as they decide their way forward. The judge’s actions come as regulators have sought to break up Facebook and as both Democrats and Republicans have been tightening the screws on Big Tech. In June, the administration named Lina Khan, a progressive who has been critical about how large tech companies have wielded their market power, as chairwoman of the FTC. Pressure has also been growing from Congress. The Judiciary Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives voted last week to send a package of six Bills focussed on antitrust (competition) issues in the tech sector to the full House floor for a vote. The package included legislation to increase merger fees, block big tech companies from buying potential competition and curbs on these companies favouring their own products online over those of their competitors’. Shares hit record highs Following the judge’s decision, Facebook’s share price increased to a new high of $358.03 on Monday afternoon and the firm crossed a market capitalisation of $ 1 trillion for the first time. Facebook welcomed the ruling and said it competes fairly. “We are pleased that today’s decisions recognise the defects in the government complaints filed against Facebook. We compete fairly every day to earn people’s time and attention and will continue to deliver great products for the people and businesses that use our services,” a Facebook spokesperson said.  (With inputs from the Associated Press)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/judge-dismisses-competition-cases-against-facebook/article35046740.ece
30 June 2021||GONDAR,||Tigray forces ‘seize’ capital||Tigrayan forces made further gains against Ethiopian government troops and their allies on Tuesday, with a spokesman reporting they were in full control of the regional capital, residents said Eritrean forces had left. “We are 100% in control of Mekelle,” Getachew Reda, spokesman for the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), said on Tuesday, referring to the regional capital. There had been some fighting on the outskirts of the city, but that was now finished, he said. “Our forces are still in hot pursuit to south, east, to continue until every square inch of territory is cleared from the enemy.” Reuters could not independently verify his statement because almost all phone links to Tigray are down. The TPLF, an ethnically based political party that dominated Ethiopia’s national politics for nearly three decades, has been battling the central government since early November and has made major territorial gains in the past week. The fighting has forced around 2 million people to flee their homes amid reports of ethnic cleansing, brutal gang-rapes and mass killings of civilians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tigray-forces-seize-capital/article35046741.ece
30 June 2021||Washington,||U.S. sending Bangladesh 2.5 mn vaccine doses: WH||The United States began shipping 2.5 million doses of Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine to Bangladesh on Tuesday, a White House official said, as the South Asian country confronted a wave of new infections. “Thanks to the U.S. commitment to playing a leading role in ending the pandemic everywhere, 2.5 million doses of the Moderna vaccine will begin to ship to Bangladesh,” said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Illustrating the urgency, delivery is expected to be completed this week. Bangladesh, which neighbours India, began a severe lockdown on Monday in response to spiraling infections from the Delta variant. People are restricted to their homes, with offices closed, traffic shut down and the security forces enforcing compliance. The White House said that its vaccine shipments — mostly made through the World Health Organization’s Covax programme — come free in all senses. “We are sharing these doses not to secure favours or extract concessions. Our vaccines do not come with strings attached. We are doing this with the singular objective of saving lives,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-sending-bangladesh-25-mn-vaccine-doses-wh/article35046874.ece
30 June 2021||Johannesburg,||Zuma gets 15 months in jail for contempt of court||In a historic ruling, South Africa’s top court on Tuesday handed the country’s former President, Jacob Zuma, a 15-month jail term for “egregious” contempt of court after he refused to appear before graft investigators. Mr. Zuma was told to turn himself in within five days, failing which police will be ordered to arrest him and take him to jail. The ruling sets a precedent for South Africa — and a benchmark for the continent — by jailing a former head of state for failing to respond to a corruption probe. “Mr. Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma is guilty of the crime of contempt of court,” Constitutional Court judge Sisi Khampepe said. Mr. Zuma, 79, is accused of enabling the plunder of state coffers during his nearly nine-year stay in office. Most of the graft investigated by a commission involve three brothers from a wealthy business family, the Guptas, who won lucrative government contracts and were allegedly even able to choose Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/zuma-gets-15-months-in-jail-for-contempt-of-court/article35046746.ece
30 June 2021||Baghdad,||Iraqi fighters mourn those killed in strikes||Thousands of members of Iraq’s Hashed al-Shaabi paramilitary alliance gathered in Baghdad on Tuesday to mourn members killed in U.S. air strikes along the Syrian border. With chants of “vengeance for the martyrs”, the Hashed members massed in Freedom Square near the Iraqi capital’s high-security Green Zone, where the U.S. Embassy is located. Security forces were deployed in large numbers, sealing off the Green Zone after recent incursions by armed groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iraqi-fighters-mourn-those-killed-in-strikes/article35046744.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Apt judicial reminder in era of over-criminalisation||The criminal justice system is an instrument of state and a key index of the state of democracy. Every punishment which does not arise from absolute necessity is tyrannical, said French jurist Montesquieu. In fact criminal law should be used only as a ‘last resort’ (ultima ratio) and only for the ‘most reprehensible wrongs’. Unfortunately, ‘crimes’ originate in government policy and, therefore, criminal law reflects the idea of ‘power’ rather than ‘justice’. Should civil society activists, students, intellectuals and protesters be charged for the crime of terrorism? Is every criminal a terrorist and every violent crime a terrorist activity? Did Parliament in enacting the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, (TADA) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA) intend to punish ordinary criminals under these anti-terror special laws? Example of misuse In the period 2015-2019, as many as 7,840 persons were arrested under the draconian UAPA but only 155 were convicted by the trial courts. Most would eventually be acquitted by the higher courts. Even Congress governments misused TADA (enacted in 1985 and amended in 1987). Till 1994, though 67,000 people were detained, just 725 were convicted in spite of confessions made to police officers being made admissible. In Kartar Singh (1994), the Supreme Court of India had observed that in many cases, the prosecution had unjustifiably invoked provisions of TADA ‘with an oblique motive of depriving the accused persons from getting bail’. It added that such an invocation of TADA was ‘nothing but the sheer misuse and abuse of the Act by the police’. UAPA’s experience has been worse than TADA. UAPA has also been equally used and abused. The recent 133 page bail order of the Delhi High Court in Asif Iqbal Tanha (June 15, 2021), that led to the release of three student activists, has come as a bolt from the blue for the Delhi police. At the heart of the controversy is the meaning of the term ‘terrorism’ and when UAPA can justifiably be invoked. No consensus on definition Though there are more than 100 definitions of terrorism available globally, there is no universal definition of the term ‘terrorism’ either in India or at the international level. The UN General Assembly had given this task to a committee, but in almost 50 years or so there has been no consensus on the meaning of terrorism. The fight against foreign occupation is to be kept out of terrorism as today’s terrorist may be tomorrow’s freedom fighter. Accordingly, neither TADA nor UAPA has a definition of the crucial terms ‘terror’ and ‘terrorism’. Section 15 of UAPA merely defines a terrorist act in extremely wide and vague words: ‘as any act with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, security, or sovereignty of India or with intent to strike terror or likely to strike terror in the people....’ How is such a terrorist act committed? UAPA says ‘by using bombs, dynamite or other explosive substances or inflammable substances or firearms or other lethal weapons or poisonous or noxious gases ... or by any other means of whatever nature to cause or likely to cause death or injuries...,’ What is the meaning of the expression ‘by any other means’? When a general word is used in any statute after specific words, it is to be interpreted in the context of specific words. Thus, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests cannot be covered by this expression. In Yaqoob Abdul Razzak Memon (2013), the Supreme Court said that terrorist acts can range from threats to actual assassinations, kidnappings, airline hijacking, car bombs, explosions, mailing of dangerous materials, use of chemical, biological, nuclear weapons etc. Since the three student activists did not do any of these things, Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Siddharth Mridul could not be convinced of their involvement in any terrorist act. Through an authoritative and enlightened bail order entirely based on the apex court judgments, Justice Bhambani reminded the Delhi police of the true meaning of a terrorist act. Other judgments In Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (1994), the Supreme Court had defined terrorism as the ‘use of violence when its most important result is not merely the physical and mental damage of the victim but the prolonged psychological effect it produces ... on the society as a whole’. Its main objective is to overawe the government or disturb the harmony of society or ‘terrorise’ people...’. Thus, what ‘distinguishes ‘terrorism’ from other forms of violence is the deliberate and systematic use of coercive intimidation’. In Kartar Singh (1994), the Supreme Court held that a mere disturbance of public order that disturbs even the tempo of the life of community of any particular locality is not a terrorist act. By this interpretation, the CAA protests in a few localities of Delhi cannot be termed as terrorist activity. Even in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, the Supreme Court, in Nalini and 25 Others (1999) held that none of the accused had intent to overawe the government or strike terror among people, and therefore the killing of Rajiv Gandhi and 15 others was not held to be a terrorist act or disruptive activity under Section 3 of TADA. In Ram Manohar Lohia (1966), the apex court explained the distinction between ‘law and order’, ‘public order’ and ‘security of state’. Law and order represents the largest circle within which is the next circle representing ‘public order’, and the smallest circle represents the ‘security of state’. Accordingly, an act may affect ‘law and order’ but not ‘public order’. Similarly, an act may adversely affect ‘public order’ but not the ‘security of state.’ In most UAPA cases, the police have failed to understand these distinctions and unnecessarily clamped UAPA charges for simple violations of law and order. In the historic PUCL judgment (2003) where the constitutionality of the Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA) was under challenge, the Supreme Court had highlighted another vital dimension of terrorist act by including within its meaning amongst other things the ‘razing of constitutional principles that we hold dear’, ‘tearing apart of the secular fabric’ and ‘promotion of prejudice and bigotry’. Justice Bhambhani reiterated the first principle of criminal law, i.e., criminal provisions are to be given the narrowest possible meaning. It is a sad commentary on our criminal justice system that even the mention of this rule of thumb is being considered as a breeze of fresh air in an atmosphere of curtailment of liberties and democracy tilting towards authoritarianism. Relying on A.K. Roy (1982) where the constitutionality of the National Security Act (NSA) was challenged, Justice Bhambhani concluded that to ensure that a person who was not within the parliamentary intendment does not get roped into a penal provision, more stringent a penal provision,  it must be more strictly construed. The apex court itself had held that while construing preventive detention laws such as the NSA, care must be taken to restrict their application to as few situations as possible. In Sanjay Dutt (1994) as well, the Supreme Court had held that those whom the law did not intend to punish are not to be roped in by stretching the penal provisions. In recent times, the Allahabad High Court had to quash 94 of 120 cases in which NSA has been invoked. Accordingly, the Delhi High Court concluded that since the definition of a ‘terrorist act’ in UAPA is wide and somewhat vague, it cannot be casually applied to ordinary conventional crimes, and the act of the accused must reflect the essential character of terrorism. Indeed, the CAA protests were not terrorist acts. Defining terrorism may be difficult but does not everyone know when an act of terror is really committed? What must be done One hopes that, henceforth, our police will be far more cautious in charging people under black laws such as UAPA, the NSA, etc. In any case, no anti-terror law, howsoever stringent, can really end the problem of terrorism. Pushing a civilised state to state terrorism is the tried and tested strategy of all terrorists. Let us not fall in their trap. Radicalisation generally succeeds only with those who have been subjected to real or perceived injustices. Let us remove injustice to combat terrorism. The creation of a truly just, egalitarian and non-oppressive society would be far more effective in combating terrorism. Faizan Mustafa is Vice-Chancellor, NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/apt-judicial-reminder-in-era-of-over-criminalisation/article35046727.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Méndez’s anti-torture vision is still distant for India||In a past interview, Juan E. Méndez, former UN Special Rapporteur on Torture, recounts his fears while being tortured for “intelligence” by security forces of the military junta in 1970s Argentina: “I was very scared during the interrogations. Twice they had to call a doctor to check if they could continue torturing me without killing me. Only then did I realize that I could die. But when you are in that situation you live minute by minute, thinking of the moment when the torturers will get tired and stop so you can have a break”. Mr. Méndez reminds us of the palpable fear created in the exercise of torture. Decades on, instilling fear through torture — physical or psychological — to reach the “truth”, is still seen as an effective interrogation “technique” by security forces. The reality that torture persists suggests that belief in its utility overrides the moral arguments and legal prohibitions against it. Torture does not work A latest effort to combat torture during investigation, spearheaded by Mr. Méndez, reinforces empirical evidence that torture does not work. Launched in June 2020, the ‘Principles on Effective Interviewing for Investigations and Information Gathering’, dubbed the ‘Méndez Principles’ (https://bit.ly/3A6P8Xo), were developed through a comprehensive, expert-driven consultative process. The Méndez Principles aim to provide a cohesive blueprint of practical measures to replace torture and coercive interrogation with “rapport-based” interviews, reinforced through legal and procedural safeguards at every step. They offer practical guidance for non-coercive interrogations; address heightened vulnerabilities in custody; and provide specific guidance on training, accountability and implementation. They are to apply to all authorities who have the power to detain and question people, including the police, military, and intelligence. At their core, the Principles seek to prevent coercive techniques and torture by introducing a paradigm shift away from “confession” based information gathering. Crucially, they are grounded in scientific empirical studies across disciplines — psychology, criminology, sociology, neuroscience — which establish that coercive interrogation is counterproductive. Extreme torture tactics, such as forced stress positions or waterboarding, have been shown to significantly damage the affected person’s memory and recollection of information. Aggressive questioning is more likely to make the interviewee resistant, or ‘say anything’ just for the threat of violence to stop. Coercive interviewing leads to unreliable information and false confessions. These studies provide scientific evidence to reject the widely-held misconception that a certain degree of ‘pressure’, or physical pain, will yield accurate information. Its persistence in India With their emergence as a new set of aspirational standards, it is tempting to assess whether the Méndez Principles can readily apply to the Indian context. Unfortunately, enough evidence indicates that the Indian context typifies the belief in the utility of torture, and is embedded in institutional culture and accommodated by law. In spite of the prohibition of and safeguards against “third degree methods”, they are normalised in police practice. Even the National Human Rights Commission has said that “custodial violence and torture is so rampant in this country that it has become almost routine”. The belief that a certain degree of fear and pressure is necessary to compel a suspect to cough up the “truth” is widely held by police officers. This emerged strongly in a 2019 survey of about 12,000 police personnel across India, published by Common Cause and Lokniti (https://bit.ly/3jw5ljb). Three out of four personnel felt that it is justified for the police to be violent towards “criminals”, and four out of five personnel responded that there is nothing wrong in the police beating criminals to extract confessions. Scholars, Khanikar (2018; https://bit.ly/3h5Wfrq) and Jauregui (2013; https://bit.ly/3AaXwFm), studying the police in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, reveal practices of using tools such as wooden sticks in interrogation, signalling the presence of tools to beat or intimidate, while perversely labelling them with suggestive phrases like “ aan milo saajna ” (“come to me, my beloved”). Coercion and the resort to violence are common in both the choice of tools and approach to interrogation. There would need to be a fundamental shift in police thinking before the goal set by the Méndez Principles of moving from coercive practices to “rapport-based interrogation” can be realised. Structural constraints fuel the persistence of torture, since it is seen to be effective. Investigating officers are in short supply, and have little scope to develop specialisation in investigative work. Working under perceived or actual constraints, of inadequate resources, political pressure, and an overburdened legal system, officers conjure the image of a vigilante cop compelled to take matters into their own hands. Popular films, and political and public support to illegal police killings as in the Hyderabad ‘Disha’ case (November-December 2019), further legitimise the vigilante cop as the only ‘hope’ for serving justice. Tacit acceptance by law Additionally, Indian law creates conditions which further permit torture through the “back door”. While confessions before a police officer are not admissible evidence, to prevent the police from resorting to torture, other legal provisions have the effect of indirectly accommodating the use of torture in investigative practice. Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act permits the admissibility of statements before the police to the extent that they relate to the recovery of material objects, often called ‘recovery evidence’. Thus, investigators still have incentive to seek “disclosures”, and information implicit in a confession, as central to their investigation. Torture and falsification, by forcing an accused to sign on blank papers, are known abuses in the use of this provision. In an opinion study of former Supreme Court judges published in 2018 (https://bit.ly/3x6zNnU), 12 out of 58 judges acknowledged the heightened risk of torture as the shortcut method to obtain recovery evidence. Yet, Indian law still does not bar tainted evidence obtained through torture or coercive methods as inadmissible. It is up to individual judges to decide whether to rely on it or not. The introduction of so-called scientific techniques of interrogation, such as lie detectors and narco-analysis, are often presented as the solutions to end physical torture. Jinee Lokaneeta’s analysis in The Truth Machines (2020) reveals that introduction of these techniques, without addressing the existing conditions which perpetuate torture, has resulted in psychological forms of torture, supplementing coercive interrogation strategies. While the scientific validity of these techniques in determining the “truth” is held suspect, Indian law allows evidence voluntarily given by an accused through these techniques to be used as corroborative evidence. What can be voluntary in police custody without the protective cover of enforced safeguards? In all of these ways, Indian law remains ambivalent and fails to fully prevent torture and coercion from creeping in. Structural constraints, popular culture, and political approval have shaped policing institutional cultures to valorise violence and coercion. Without urgent introspection, Méndez’s anti-torture vision will remain distant for India. Devika Prasad and Zeba Sikora are with Project 39A at the National Law University Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mndezs-anti-torture-vision-is-still-distant-for-india/article35046730.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||How Narasimha Rao found an ally in Germany||Diplomacy increasingly blends economics and politics. In this article, I look at how former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s momentous economic reforms of 1991 played out in Europe’s largest economic power. In September 1991, just before India’s Ambassador to Germany, A. Madhavan, was to retire, Prime Minister Rao travelled to Germany, mainly to fulfil an obligation from three years ago, to launch a year-long Festival of India. Some months earlier, India had tried to postpone this event on account of the financial distress that had brought the country to the brink of insolvency, but the Germans were adamant that the commitment made by an earlier Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, regarding the festival be honoured. A talkfest In Germany, an ‘accidental’ Prime Minister who was guiding India towards national renewal encountered a rejuvenated Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, who had just steered his nation to a serendipitous ‘unification’ with East Germany (which had come to pass thanks to the collapse of the Soviet Union). This created unforeseen chemistry. In effect, Chancellor Kohl decided to take a chance; he seemed to believe that the Rao government would survive though it lacked a parliamentary majority. Taking a small step, the two leaders decided to create an annual talkfest called the Indo-German Consultative Group (IGCG). At this talkfest, non-official public figures of the two countries (about half of them business leaders and the rest from the fields of academia, culture, the media, and science) were to discuss ways to steer the relationship between the two countries towards a new future. Two or three officials joined, but in a listening role; the IGCG’s recommendations would go directly to the two leaders. When I reached Bonn in May 1992, for the first working meeting at the German Foreign Office, I was told that the IGCG was an experiment for the Germans. They had no such mechanism with any non-ally country. Incidentally, nor did India, besides one with Japan, dating to the 1950s, which had ossified into an annual, unproductive ritual. In New Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs was cautiously optimistic about the new mechanism. It gradually appointed about 17 Indian figures, with P.N. Dhar as the co-chair. Germany had already named Deutsche Bank board member Ulrich Cartellieri as co-chair, and a sterling group of some 16 members. In both countries, the two Ambassadors worked with the co-chairs and the designated members, and discussed actionable ideas. The IGCG met in September 1992, at Bonn’s St. Petersburg Castle overlooking the Rhine river. Its recommendations covered a page-and-a-half. A day later, Chancellor Kohl received P.N. Dhar and I, and declared himself pleased. The Foreign Office, which is not given to hyperbole, said that the meeting had “exceeded their expectations”. That set the stage for Chancellor Kohl’s visit to India in February 1993, probably the first major visit by a foreign leader to Delhi after the 1991 reforms. While preparing for this visit, Chancellor Kohl’s Chief of Staff, Harald Nestroy, raised a problem. It was Kohl’s practice to take about 20 ‘special guests’ — top business leaders, a few academics, scientists and public figures on his visits. Kohl wanted he and his guests to meet Rao for a substantive discussion following his own official meeting with the Prime Minister. New Delhi firmly refused: there was no such practice in India. Mr. Nestroy asked whether Prime Minister Rao would accommodate this special request. I sought and obtained an assurance on reciprocity and used backchannels to convey this request to the Prime Minister. He knew well the importance of that German opening and agreed readily. At Hyderabad House on February 3, 1993, after lunch, the German businesspersons raised a host of issues over India’s reforms, urging improvements. Prime Minister Rao spontaneously invited them to give him all their suggestions. Kohl endorsed this, adding that when the Indian Prime Minister visited Germany a year later to continue their dialogue, they would discuss this further. Prime Minister Rao then added that he would respond to the German requests before he reached Germany. This was done; our response reached Bonn four days before the Prime Minister went there. A new practice More important, as the aircraft left Delhi, Chancellor Kohl gathered his friends and asked, “Why are we so absent from India?” India had found a good ally. A few months later, for the first and only time in his 16-year chancellorship, Kohl asked the Foreign Office to produce a study on their Asia Policy. When that was finalised (after the draft was debated in the Bundestag), China, Japan and India were named as Germany’s three ‘strategic partners’ in Asia. It was a first for India, in any western country; in those days, ‘strategic’ carried weight. At Prime Minister Rao’s return visit to Germany in February 1994, we stumbled into a new practice. Indian leaders were always coy about taking business delegations. This was despite the fact that by then, the three Indian apex bodies — CII, FICCI and ASSOCHAM — had begun to jointly host foreign leaders visiting New Delhi, to boost economic exchanges. But they had not “officially” been taken abroad by our leaders. That somehow seemed improper. Japan had a similar inhibition, which lasted much longer, into the 2000s. When I asked the Foreign Office to confirm a meeting for our businesspersons with Chancellor Kohl, they stonewalled us saying there was no such practice in Germany. Mr. Nestroy then stepped in and confirmed that India could bring the businesspersons, provided they were “accompanying the Prime Minister”. But a new problem came up. In New Delhi, high officials from the External Affairs Ministry and the Prime Minister’s Office said that the Indian businesspersons were not “officially” with the Prime Minister; they “just happened to be in Germany at that time”. That little impasse was sorted out via a direct approach with the Prime Minister, who said he had no problem with the businesspersons being associated with his visit. The above narrative is a small tribute to P.V. Narasimha Rao for his vision and guidance in executing our new diplomacy following economic reforms. He personally steered this, sweeping away accumulated cobwebs in our thinking. After 30 years, the details or individuals are unimportant. We were all in a new game, unfamiliar with its rules and modes. And we learnt as we went along. My tribute is also to a succession of Indian and German envoys and officials who have raised this bilateral relationship to a much higher level, one that is mutually profitable. Such pragmatism became embedded in our practice of international relations. Prime Minister Rao guided and led us from the front, permitting India a smooth transition to the post-Cold War world. We confront today a different and perhaps more difficult national economy to manage, in the midst of a complex international political front. We need similar adaptability plus an ability to improvise and innovate, guided by the lodestar of national benefit. Kishan S. Rana is former Ambassador, author of ‘Diplomacy at the Cutting Edge’ (2016), and teacher||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-narasimha-rao-found-an-ally-in-germany/article35046737.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The trouble with rankings||A culture of ranking is dominating today’s world. University rankings such as Times Higher Education and Quacquarelli Symonds create a huge uproar. But should they really deserve to be the yardstick of excellence in today’s higher education? The concept of a university There has been a paradigm shift in the concept of a university in the modern era from the ancient times when universities like Nalanda and Taxila existed. In his 1852 book, The Idea of a University , John Henry Newman assumed that knowledge should be pursued “for its own sake”. Newman used the ancient designation of a Studium Generale, or “School of Universal Learning”. “A University seems to be in its essence, a place for the communication and circulation of thought, by means of personal intercourse, through a wide extent of country,” Newman wrote. The idea of the university, however, was shaped through the reforms of Wilhelm von Humboldt in Prussia. Ever since the University of Berlin was founded in 1810, the ‘Humboldtian’ university became a model for Europe, and subsequently for the research universities of the U.S. The central Humboldtian principle was the fusion of teaching and research in the work of the individual scholar, and the objective of the university was to advance knowledge by original and critical investigation, not just to transmit the legacy of the past or to teach skills. In India, the Universities of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras were established in 1857. The immediate interest was to produce graduates to fill up the salaried positions emerging in the wake of colonial rule. The mottos of these universities, however, were “Advancement of Learning”, “ Śīlastataphalā Vidyā ” (The Fruit of Learning is Character and Righteous Conduct), and “ Doctrina Vim Promovet Insitam ” (Learning Promotes Natural Talent), respectively. In 1919, Rabindranath Tagore wrote: “the primary function of our University should be the constructive work of knowledge”. While the concept of a university has evolved a lot, blaming the contemporary universities from Newman’s standpoint would be like blaming a jet engine for not having the excellences of a windmill, as the philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre said. Back to ranking. In fact, weighted averages of scores for several performance-related criteria are considered for ranking of the universities. The criteria and their weights differ from one ranking organisation to another. Change in weights may produce a different list of rankings. The criteria constitute research income from industry; ratio of international to domestic staff and students; number of students, research papers, citations; etc. Small but important institutes might thus trail in the ranking race. Also, many people think ‘citation’ is an inappropriate measure of usefulness of a research paper. The most controversial part of the ranking methodology maybe reputational survey or academic peer review, where opinions of academics get importance. This component has significant weight, and these rankings have come in for criticism for too much emphasis on perception. Last year, seven leading IITs announced that they would boycott one such ranking, saying they are not satisfied with the transparency of the process. Churning out papers Research publication is important to enhance the rank. Academics are expected to keep churning out papers. An institute invariably seeks a list of recent publications once or twice a year from its faculty members. But how does that help in quality research? Peter Higgs, the 2013 Nobel Laureate in Physics, believes that he would not have got a job in today’s academic system because he would not be considered “productive” enough. When his department at Edinburgh University would ask for a list of recent publications, Higgs would reply: “None”. Still, today’s academics are mostly confined within the world of such ‘compulsory’ research and publication, for mere survival. The concept of a university should not be the same everywhere. Universities at Chicago, Harvard and Oxford might fancy making the achievements of their students or professors the yardstick of excellence. However, there are many universities which cater to the local people as the only spectacles of higher education and prism of enlightenment. Their importance is no less than the ‘elite’ universities. A university should be judged within its social perspective. The worth of university rankings, thus, is not very clear. “When we see a foreign University, we see only its smaller body – its buildings, its furniture, its regulations, its syllabus; its larger body is not present to us. But as the kernel of the coconut is in the whole coconut, so the University,” Tagore envisaged a century ago. We might need to redefine the idea of a university within the framework of an ever-changing social perspective and need. Atanu Biswas is Professor of Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-trouble-with-rankings/article35046733.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A vague and wanting statement||Recently, the Group of Seven or G7 met in Cornwall, England. The leaders discussed a number of issues, but failed to take a firm stance on the prevention of future pandemics. Pandemics of the future COVID-19 is not the last pandemic we are going to see. Given the closer proximity between humans and animals due to deforestation, displacement of humans, population growth, and the search for wild food, pathogens can easily be transmitted from animals to humans (zoonotic spillover). A report by the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response (IPPPR) notes that most of the new pathogens’ origins are zoonotic. Further, climate change is allowing the permafrost found in Arctic regions to melt and is reviving pathogens and organisms that were either once thought to be long gone or remain unknown. Recently, bdelloid rotifers, a microscopic creature that was slumbering for at least 24,000 years, was unearthed from the permafrost, which is melting in places due to climate change. Revich and Podolnaya (2011) conclude that vectors of deadly infections of the 18th and 19th centuries may make a comeback due to the same reason. Given that we are still in the midst of a raging pandemic, what was the G7’s response to all this? The Carbis Bay Health Declaration of the G7 fails to take any concrete stance on many (or arguably, any) issues. The G7 merely “acknowledge the bold recommendations of the [IPPPR] and the other review committees” and state that they will “continue to work” with other countries, the G20, the World Health Organization (WHO), and other organisations. The Declaration takes “note” of the IPPPR’s recommendation for a potential treaty under the framework of the WHO, suggesting a failure to reach a concrete agreement. Over 25 leaders from other regions have already supported the idea of a new treaty. Such a treaty is needed to plug holes in the current system and strengthen national capacities and resilience. COVID-19 has taught us that a pandemic anywhere is a pandemic everywhere. If the capacities of developing countries are not strengthened, another virus could spread around the world. Without giving any material support, G7 offers vague commitments to “strive for fairness, inclusion and equity” and “support vulnerable countries”. Need for a holistic approach The world needs to adopt a holistic approach for the prevention of future pandemics. Dr. Jorge E. Viñuales et al., in their article in The Lancet , argue that the need is to focus on “deep prevention”. They draw a distinction between upstream, midstream, and downstream stages of intervention. Downstream intervention refers to steps taken on the public health front (for example, prevention of disease spread). ‘Deep prevention’ focuses on upstream and midstream intervention. In the former, one would focus on the ‘One Health’ approach, which acknowledges the interconnection between humans, animals, plants, and the shared ecosystem. This approach can be given varying levels of intrusiveness. Towards the extreme end, it might involve banning wet markets, such as the one suspected to be the origin of COVID-19. China banned such markets in 2003 after the SARS outbreak; however, incentives to keep the industry open eroded the ban eventually. Although the Declaration seems to support ‘One Health’, it dilutes it to encouraging coordination efforts between the UN, WHO, World Organisation for Animal Health, and others. Viñuales et al. suggest that the midstream intervention would involve setting up a science and policy panel such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Such a panel could ensure that science informs the law, pre-emptively detect pathogens of concern, and identify potential hotspots for an outbreak and set up a mechanism for regular inspection by the national authority and appropriate international oversight, among other things. Shubham Janghu is a lawyer practising in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-vague-and-wanting-statement/article35046734.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Flying terror||The use of drones to attack an Indian Air Force base in Jammu on June 27-28 brought to the fore a troubling, though not unanticipated, new mode of terrorism for the country. Though there were no casualties at the base, the fact that there were at least two more subsequent attempts to use drones to attack military targets points to the future of terrorism. The use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), autonomous weapons systems and robotic soldiers by states in warfare and policing has raised moral and practical questions that remain unresolved. Non-state actors have caught up quickly. In 2018, Syrian rebels used homemade drones to attack Russian military bases in Syria; later, the same year, Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro had a narrow escape after a drone flying towards him exploded a short distance away. In 2019, Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for bombing Saudi oil installations using drones. New modes of sabotage and violence enabled by technology reduce costs and risk of identification for terrorists while increasing their efficacy. Simultaneously, security agencies would find conventional tools redundant in combating terrorism. Terrorism may not even require organisations, as individuals with sufficient motivation and skills can carry out such attacks and remain under the radar like the drones they use. The existing international framework for controlling the proliferation of technology that can be weaponised, such as the Wassenaar Arrangement and Missile Technology Control Regime, is also largely useless in the emerging scenario. States including India have sought to deal with terrorism with a combination of stringent laws, invasive surveillance, harsher policing and offensives against other countries that support terrorist groups. This approach has only had limited success in ensuring peace anywhere while the human and material costs have been high. The exponential proliferation of new technologies and Artificial Intelligence, vertically and horizontally, will make the task of combating terror even more challenging. The Jammu drone attack, Indian authorities reportedly suspect, was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba, which is patronised by Pakistan. The same group was behind the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which perpetrators came by boats from Pakistan. India has tried to punish Pakistan for its support to terror groups in recent years which has shown some success. The entry of drones calls for a more complex response to terrorism. Terror groups do capitalise on state patronage but technology is enabling them too to be autonomous in an unprecedented fashion. From turning passenger planes into missiles in 2001, terrorism has come a long way, and one cannot foresee where it will go next. Enhanced international cooperation and consensus on the development and deployment of technologies are required to deal with the challenge. India can and must take an active role in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/flying-terror/article35046722.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Coming soon||Film-makers around the world have often made extraordinary efforts to keep cinema alive. Under a repressive regime in Iran, directors such as Abbas Kiarostami, Mohsen Makhmalbaf and Majid Majidi fought for art as a basic social need with films like Where Is the Friend’s Home? , The Cyclist and Children of Heaven . In India, during the Emergency when the government apparatus came down heavily on any criticism, the prints of Amrit Nahata’s political satire Kissa Kursi Ka , filmed in 1975, were destroyed. Even though a revised version was released in 1978, it invited several cuts from the Central Board of Film Certification. For the past few years, the CBFC has objected to the content of several films, ordering cuts. Now, a proposed amendment to the Cinematograph Act, 1952, will make it even more difficult for film-makers to work on thorny or controversial subjects. The draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill 2021, which has been put out for public comments, has a provision that allows the Government to order re-certification of a film already certified by the CBFC. Film-makers argue that the new provision adds one more layer of censorship to the existing process. Already in April, the Government took the ordinance route to scrap the Film Certificate Appellate Tribunal (FCAT), a statutory body set up to hear appeals of film-makers against decisions of the CBFC. In 2000, the Supreme Court had upheld the verdict of the Karnataka High Court in the K.M. Shankarappa vs Union of India case that the Union government cannot exercise revisional powers in respect of films that are already certified by the CBFC. The draft acknowledges the existing apex court order but has added a new clause: “…that on receipt of any references by the Central government in respect of a film certified for public exhibition, on account of violation of Section 5B(1) of the Act, the Central government may, if it considers it necessary so to do, direct the chairman of the board to re-examine the film”. The provision of Section 5B(1) of the Act, the draft says, is derived from Article 19(2) of the Constitution “which imposes reasonable restrictions upon the freedom of speech and expression in the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India…” New restrictive laws have come into place for over-the-top (OTT) platforms as well. Giving the Government powers to vet content not only curbs freedom of expression but also quells democratic dissent. Fresh barriers to content generation are a threat to the existing space for public discourse and are indicative of the current pressures on freedoms from authoritarian tendencies of the ruling establishment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/coming-soon/article35046723.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Air and water pollution (From an editorial)||Air and water pollution has reached such critical levels in the advanced countries that their environmental experts have warned that if remedial measures were not taken immediately the world would soon die of a choking cough, if not of a water-borne disease. In this race for self-destruction, Indians do not seem to be lagging far behind, judging from what was revealed at the discussion on environmental pollution held in Madras last week-end. Dr. A. Ramachandran pointed out, for instance, that the Cauvery river has become so contaminated by waste products dumped into it by industrial units that fish in the river have been killed, crops fed by its water have been damaged, many people living on its banks and drinking its water have fallen prey to river-borne diseases and wells on either side of the river upto a distance of 15 kilometres have been affected. This situation should be particularly disturbing to the citizens of Madras who will be getting Cauvery water soon when the Veeranam project is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/air-and-water-pollution-from-an-editorial/article35046731.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘OPEC risks forcing India to tap Iran for oil if prices stay high’||Ahead of a crucial OPEC meeting on July 1, India’s Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said he was working to persuade oil exporting countries to moderate surging oil prices and warned that high prices would push the country to tap alternative import sources such as Iran. Stressing that inflation was a major challenge for the economy, Mr. Pradhan said India had already, over the last few months, exhausted the strategic petroleum reserves it had built up last year by taking advantage of lower oil prices. “India is a very price-sensitive market. With utmost politeness, I have got my own spending behaviour. If somebody is planning our Budget is 80$(a barrel)-driven, then I am sorry. My affordability is the primary thing for me,” he said at the BloombergNEF Summit. He also said India would choose options offering competitive prices within its ‘global diplomatic framework’, including Iran if the sanctions imposed on it by the U.S. were lifted. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (OPEC+) are expected to discuss a possible easing of supply cuts, amid a rebound in global demand, on July 1. With retail prices for petrol crossing Rs. 100 a litre in several States, Mr. Pradhan conceded that ‘today’s price is very challenging’. “I am persuading my friends in OPEC... I hope the price will be a little bit sober,” he said. The Minister also expressed confidence that the demand for petroleum products would return to pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/opec-risks-forcing-india-to-tap-iran-for-oil-if-prices-stay-high/article35046707.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Lanka ‘banking on’ $1 bn India swap deal||Sri Lanka is “banking on” a $1 billion currency swap from India to meet its debt repayment obligations this year and tide over the current economic crisis, a senior official of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka said. The island nation has already serviced part of its debt this year, and is preparing to repay the remaining more than $3 billion over the next six months, officials said. With an international sovereign bond maturing soon, a $1 billion repayment is due in July. “We are expecting a $400 million swap from the Reserve Bank of India in a couple of months through the SAARC facility,” said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity given the sensitivity of the ongoing bilateral negotiations. “But the additional $1 billion is going to be crucial for us,” the official added. Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had in May 2020 asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a “special” $1.1-billion currency swap to help the country boost its foreign reserves. “It has been more than a year... it is a decision that has to be taken by the political leadership in India, it is beyond the RBI,” the Sri Lankan central banker said. While official sources in New Delhi earlier indicated that negotiations on the issue were “ongoing”, the Indian government is yet to respond to both President Rajapaksa’s request, as well as Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa’s February 2020 request for a debt freeze, even as bilateral talks have continued at high levels. On June 21, Sri Lanka’s Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena, held a telephone conversation with his counterpart S. Jaishankar, during which they agreed to co-operate on “common issues in the region”, Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement. The release made no mention of Colombo’s pending requests for economic assistance. Meanwhile, the Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka on Tuesday said in a statement that the country was focussed on managing its debt service obligations this year. Sri Lanka’s gross official reserves currently stand at $4 billion, excluding the “standby” about $1.5 billion swap agreement with the People’s Bank of China. On inflows, Governor W. D. Lakshman said a $250 million swap from the Bangladesh Bank was expected in July and the $400 million SAARC facility from the RBI was expected in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lanka-banking-on-1-bn-india-swap-deal/article35046698.ece
30 June 2021||MUMBAI,||ZF to invest €200 mn in India, recasts business||German firm ZF has announced an investment of about €200 million in India and consolidation of its business domains here to drive growth in the next decade. The company is into driveline and chassis technology as well as active and passive safety, “Despite the current severe situation regarding COVID-19 in India, the ZF Group strongly believes in the long-term growth potential of the region,” said Holger Klein, ZF Member of the Board responsible for Asia Pacific and India. “Therefore, we are launching a Refresh India four-point strategy.” This includes an intensive plan to rapidly grow the business in the country. “We plan to invest around €200 million in the next few years to aid this growth through product launches, manufacturing and engineering footprint expansions, hiring and other developments across all business domains,” he said. ZF Group recently divested its shareholding interest of 49% in Brakes India to meet the Anti-Trust guidelines of CCI, post the acquisition of WABCO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zf-to-invest-200-mn-in-india-recasts-business/article35046703.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||FM wants monetisation of oil assets expedited||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday called for speedier monetisation of oil and gas assets this year and asked Ministries to expedite capital expenditure projects to revitalise the economy after the second wave of COVID-19. While the Budget has provided an outlay of Rs. 5.54 lakh crore for FY22, the Minister said public sector enterprises need to complement it with their own steps to ramp up capex. She was reviewing spending plans and the implementation status of Budget announcements with top officials from four departments — Steel, Space, Housing and Urban Affairs, Petroleum and Natural Gas. At the meeting, she asked the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to try to front-load capital spending and facilitate private investment by providing support and removing bottlenecks. The Petroleum and Natural Gas Ministry was asked to expedite monetisation of assets and the Department of Space was asked to focus on domestic procurement wherever possible, the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-wants-monetisation-of-oil-assets-expedited/article35046705.ece
30 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Fresh stimulus to raise fiscal deficit by 60 bps’||The latest credit push for the pandemic-hit sectors and other relief supports will have an additional 60-basis point (bps) impact on the fiscal deficit, and can offer an additional liquidity window of Rs. 70,000 crore to banks, according to a report by SBI Research.  Capital relief Assuming equal distribution of the new announcement of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore, with 50% and 75% guarantee cover and a risk weight of 100%, banks may have a capital relief of about Rs. 7,500 crore that can further generate credit of about Rs. 70,000 crore, the report showed. The fiscal impact of the latest announcements and those from earlier is not linear as a substantial portion of the package is contingent liabilities. Ignoring these, the immediate impact will be slightly more than Rs. 1.23 lakh crore, or about 0.6% of the GDP, SBI chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh said in the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fresh-stimulus-to-raise-fiscal-deficit-by-60-bps/article35046711.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,||TVS Auto Solutions unveils digital unit Ki Mobility||TVS Automobile Solutions Ltd. (TVS ASL) has announced the formation of a new subsidiary Ki Mobility Solutions, an online-to-offline digital platform. The firm has raised Rs. 85 crore from tech investors for expansion.  “Ki Mobility is the country’s first full-stack O2O (online-to-offline) digital platform that would offer quality, standardised and cost-effective service to vehicle owners of two-wheelers, passenger cars and commercial vehicles across the country,” said R. Dinesh, director, TVS ASL. The digital platform is a maiden attempt in the industry to enhance the livelihood of automobile entrepreneurs, he said. “Ki Mobility will provide quality, transparent and cost effective first-time-right service solutions to vehicle owners with the unmatched convenience of thousands of organised multi-brand garage owners in 270 towns across the country,” said G. Srinivasa Raghavan, MD, TVS ASL. TVS ASL also announced the 100% acquisition of GoBumpr, one of the largest B2C service aggregation platforms, for an undisclosed sum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-auto-solutions-unveils-digital-unit-ki-mobility/article35046714.ece
30 June 2021||MUMBAI,||RIL, ADNOC ally for UAE petchem unit||Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) said it has signed an agreement with Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) to invest in a large petrochemical hub being set up at TA’ZIZ in Ruwais, Abu Dhabi. Under the agreement, the two companies would construct an integrated plant with capacity to produce 9.4 lakh tonnes of chlor-alkali, 1.1 million tonnes of ethylene dichloride and 3.6 lakh tonnes of PVC annually, RIL said. ADNOC is gearing up for growth with TA’ZIZ, a chemicals hub and industrial ecosystem based in Ruwais, with an investment in excess of AED 18 billion and a number of other projects, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-adnoc-ally-for-uae-petchem-unit/article35046699.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bharti to invest $500 mn more in OneWeb||Bharti Enterprises will invest an additional $500 million in OneWeb, via its arm Bharti Global, to become the largest shareholder in the satellite communications company. “OneWeb has completed its transformation with the exercise of a ‘call option’ by Bharti to invest an additional $500 million into the company,” OneWeb said in a statement. “On completion of the call option and with Eutelsat’s $550 million investment, Bharti will hold 38.6%. The U.K. Government, Eutelsat and Softbank will each own 19.3%,” the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-to-invest-500-mn-more-in-oneweb/article35046708.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,||SBI to cap free withdrawals at four from July||State Bank of India (SBI) would levy service charge on cash withdrawals beyond four free transactions at its branches and ATMs for basic savings bank deposit accounts, effective July 1. The lender said it would collect Rs. 15 plus GST per cash withdrawal from its own ATMs and branches as well as other bank ATMs. The first 10 cheque leaves would be free in a financial year. Thereafter, Rs. 40 plus GST would be collected for a 10-leaf cheque book and Rs. 75 plus GST for a 25-leaf cheque book respectively. For an emergency cheque book, Rs. 50 plus GST for 10 leaves or part thereof would be collected. Non-financial transactions and transfer transactions would be free, SBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-to-cap-free-withdrawals-at-four-from-july/article35046709.ece
30 June 2021||Chennai,||SFL bags GM’s vendor award for eighth year||Sundram Fasteners Ltd. (SFL) has bagged the General Motors’ ‘Supplier of the Year’ award for the eighth time. The Rs. 3,065-crore TVS Group company was the only Indian firm to bag the award, SFL said in a filing with the BSE. Over the last 25 years, SFL had been supplying components such as transmission shafts and radiator caps across GM brands. “Despite the pandemic-related challenges in 2020, we managed to deliver excellence by adroit stock and inventory management, prudent manufacturing planning and intelligent logistics coordination, without compromising the health and safety of our people,” managing director Arathi Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sfl-bags-gms-vendor-award-for-eighth-year/article35046712.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,||TPL Q4 net profit surges to Rs. 62.73 crore||Tamilnadu Petroproducts Ltd. (TPL) reported standalone net profit for the fourth quarter surged to Rs. 62.73 crore from Rs. 1.98 crore in the year-earlier period on higher revenue. Revenue from operations rose 34% to Rs. 349 crore. The board recommended a higher dividend of Rs. 2.50 a share for FY21 (Rs. 1.50), the company said in a statement. The pandemic had impacted economic activities on a global scale, said Ashwin C. Muthiah, vice-chairman. In these times, TPL, in spite of the challenges, had performed well and with resilience, he said. Having seen substantial growth through value addition in the second half of the year, it had doubled its profitability, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tpl-q4-net-profit-surges-to-rs-6273-crore/article35046715.ece
30 June 2021||Mumbai,||JLR unveils Range Rover Sport SVR at Rs. 2.19 crore||Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) India has introduced Range Rover Sport SVR in India at prices starting at a little more than Rs. 2.19 crore ex-showroom in India. It is available with SVR’s 5.0 I supercharged V8 petrol engine that delivers 423 kW power and torque of 700 Nm and is capable of accelerating from 0-100 km/h in 4.5 seconds, JLR India said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jlr-unveils-range-rover-sport-svr-at-rs-219-crore/article35046701.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A four-year cycle will give the WTC the right touch of authority||In boxing it is said that the big guy will always beat the small guy. Luckily that is not true of all sports (actually, it’s not even true in boxing, but that’s a convenient belief), or a small country with limited resources where cricket is not even the most important sport would not be the World champions in Test cricket. India, 11 times larger in area than New Zealand, with GDP 13 times greater (World Bank figures, 2019) and population 260 times more, also have the richest cricket board in the world and a larger pool to choose from. The World Test Championship (WTC) was a reminder that whatever your strengths outside the field, only 11 players can play, and New Zealand’s 11 were better than India’s on those rain-affected days. Hard but fair Australians like to think of themselves as a team that plays hard but fair; recent events have shown, however, that that is only half true. It is New Zealand who play that way, their fairness including a cloak of decency that often confuses opponents who are forced to behave more decently towards them than they would against other teams. That is often the way. The better behaved get their opponents to behave better too. Some years after New Zealand formally decided that they would not sledge their opponents, Australia’s then coach Darren Lehmann said his team ought to adopt such a policy. It did not last (if it ever began), but it was an interesting development. During the 2015 World Cup final, Australia’s wicketkeeper Brad Haddin sledged New Zealand because, he said, they made him “uncomfortable” with their “nice attitudes” in the tournament. In the last few years, New Zealand have shown that you don’t have to be overly aggressive, insensitive or abusive to win cricket matches. This attitude has made them everybody’s second favourite side across the world, and the neutrals’ favourite. They have set such high standards that if a fielder coughs out of turn, it might be interpreted as poor behaviour! But civility and graciousness are only one aspect of their game, and that alone isn’t guaranteed to win matches. For that you need a team that has the talent and the toughness — Kane Williamson is a good example — to take the battle to the enemy. You can be tough without being boorish, an important lesson for India who might have been the superior side even in English conditions, but looked like a team over-reliant on one or two players. The result was important, however. If one of the aims of the WTC was to attract new fans to the greatest version of the game, then a draw might have turned many away. Fans deal increasingly in black and white, either and or, and when two teams contesting over five days (six, in this case owing to the rain) come away with a draw, it can be both confusing and distancing. It didn’t matter who won so long as one team did; even if for long stretches it did appear as if neither team would. Did the WTC work? The pandemic meant last-minute rule changes. Percentage of points, not total points, was taken into account, a reckoning that will stay in place for the next cycle ending in 2023. That we finally had a championship with all its flaws, its lack of enthusiasm for many years since it was first mooted in the 1990s, its criticisms even as it progressed must count as a success of sorts. Change in format Virat Kohli thinks the final ought to be a three-Test series, and there’s something to be said for that even if it means loosening the tight calendar a bit. Teams in the fray might have to keep some weeks free not knowing whether they might make it to the final. This year, for example, Australia were in the running till they lost four points for falling two overs short in the Boxing Day Test against India and also missing a tour of South Africa. There is call for including all 12 Test-playing countries, dividing them into groups with perhaps promotions and delegations. This will not affect bilateral series which are decided by the respective boards anyway. A four-year cycle will give teams more breathing space, and provide the proper authority. The two-year cycle is fine for T20, but Test cricket deserves a longer stretch, in keeping with the nature of the format. To be fair, the artificial world around sport during the pandemic distorted cricket’s long-awaited innovation. Many of the expected certainties wobbled in this uncertain world. The greatest success of the WTC — apart from New Zealand’s triumph — was that it was played to a finish, and a champion side emerged. We will get a better understanding when all the elements are in place in the next cycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-four-year-cycle-will-give-the-wtc-the-right-touch-of-authority/article35046718.ece
30 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Good mix of experience and young talent’||The Indian shooters will be high on confidence at the Tokyo Olympics thanks to their consistent performances at the highest level in recent times, London Games bronze medallist Gagan Narang said on Tuesday. He said the 15-member squad combined experience and exciting young talent. “I feel India has the best chance to win medals in mixed events in both 10m air rifle and pistol events. Those who have been at the Olympics can count on their experience, while the young brigade will have no baggage to carry and this can be the biggest advantage,” the 38-year-old told The Hindu . “The youngsters can afford to just go out there and enjoy the competition and give their best. Everything that is required by the shooters is being provided at the right time. They were sent abroad when the pandemic was at its peak so that their training was not affected. Onus to perform “Never before was there such coordination and effort with the right approach between the Union Sports Ministry, SAI and the federation, along with corporate support. Now, the onus is on the shooters to perform,” Narang said. “In terms of experience, most of the Indians who will be in Tokyo have won medals at different levels, including World Cups. Their mindset has changed dramatically in the last decade. Raring to go “In our early days, we were just happy to participate in the Olympics, then think of competing in the next one and then target medals. Now, these youngsters are raring to take on the best in their maiden Olympics. Importantly, they are well-versed with the latest rules too,” Narang said.  The youngsters can afford to just go out there and enjoy the competition and give their best||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-mix-of-experience-and-young-talent-narang/article35047168.ece
30 June 2021||LONDON,||Barty beats Suarez Navarro in emotion-filled contest||Ashleigh Barty’s bid to win Wimbledon, 50 years after fellow Australian Evonne Goolagong Cawley bagged her first title, got off to a bright start with a 6-1, 6-7(1), 6-1 victory over Carla Suarez Navarro on Tuesday. Suarez Navarro, who has returned to the circuit after battling cancer, dominated the second set tie-break and won 7-1 after losing the first set. Barty, however, pulled herself together and cruised through in the decider. The 41-year-old Venus Williams defeated Mihaela Buzarnescu of Romania 7-5, 4-6, 6-3, serving 10 aces in the match. Former Wimbledon champion Angelique Kerber advanced by beating Nina Stojanovic 6-4, 6-3. In men’s singles, Roger Federer survived a huge scare to reach the second round when French opponent Adrian Mannarino was forced to retire with injury at the start of the fifth set. Eight-time champion Federer was level at 6-4, 6-7 (3/7), 3-6, 6-2 when Mannarino called it quits after just one point in the decider. The Frenchman, celebrating his 33rd birthday, had suffered a bad fall in the seventh game of the fourth set. Alexander Zverev served 20 aces and only 18 unforced errors as he swept pasat qualifier Tallon Griekspoor 6-3, 6-4, 6-1. On Monday, two-time champion Andy Murray won his first Wimbledon singles match since 2017 with a 6-4, 6-3, 5-7, 6-3 victory over 24th seed Nikoloz Basilashvili. His last appearance in the singles tournament at Wimbledon four years ago ended in a five-set loss to Sam Querrey in the quarterfinals. A long-standing hip problem, which required surgery, then pushed him tearfully to the brink of retirement.   Wimbledon gave me a really good gift. One of my last matches here, against Ash, No. 1 in the world, Centre Court, with the roof. Was amazing. I am the most happy player in the tournament Suarez Navarro   I keep being asked if this is my last Wimbledon or last match. No. I want to play. He [Basilashvili] is ranked 28 and I have hardly played any matches and I beat him. I will keep going Murray    The highlights   1 - 2018 champion Kerber's first match win at a Major since the 2020 US Open. She had three straight first-round defeats - 2020 French Open, 2021 Aus Open and 2021 French Open  1 - 2010 finalist Zvonareva earned her first Wimbledon main draw win since 2014  90 - Venus’ 90th Major appearance in singles, an Open Era record. The win over Buzarnescu was her 90th at the All England Club in her 23rd Wimbledon    Fallen seeds   Men: 15-De Minaur, 19-Sinner, 24-Basilashvili, 27-Opelka, 30-Davidovich Fokina  Women: 28-Riske, 29-Kudermetova||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barty-beats-suarez-navarro-in-emotion-filled-contest/article35046959.ece
30 June 2021||Taunton,||India needs an immediate change of tack||India will have to change its batting approach and play more freely in order to bounce back against formidable hosts England in the second women's One-Day International here on Wednesday. India conceded as many as 181 dot balls on way to posting a below par 201 which England chased down rather comfortably to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series on Sunday. Wednesday’s game could see India making multiple changes in the playing eleven as the batters' inability to rotate the strike is proving to be a big issue. Though Mithali scored 72, her strike rate was below par and T20 skipper Harmanpreet Kaur is desperately seeking some consistency. India went in with only one specialist spinner in Ekta Bisht at Bristol besides the three pacers.  Sneh Rana, who did brilliantly with both the bat and ball on her Test debut, can be the second spin all-rounder alongside Deepti Sharma. On the other hand, England played a near-perfect game to outplay an out-of-sorts opponent.  The teams (from):   India: Mithali Raj (Capt.), Smriti Mandhana, Shafali Verma, Punam Raut, HarmanpreeKaur (Vice-Capt.), Deepti Sharma, Taniya Bhatia (wk), Sneh Rana, Jhulan Goswami, Shikha Pandey, Jemimah Rodrigues, Arundhati Reddy, Puja Vastrakar, Ekta Bisht, Radha Yadav, Poonam Yadav, Priya Punia and Indrani Roy (wk).   England: Heather Knight (Capt.), Tammy Beaumont, Kate Cross, Nat Sciver, Sophia Dunkley, Lauren Winfield-Hill, Anya Shrubsole, Katherine Brunt, Sophie Ecclestone, Amy Jones (wk), Freya Davis, Tash Farrant, Sarah Glenn, Mady Villiers, Fran Wilson, Sarah Glenn and Emily Arlott.   Match starts at 6.30 p.m. IST .   All we need is one good knock from the top three and that will give us a platform (to make a significant score) Jhulan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-needs-an-immediate-change-of-tack/article35046961.ece
30 June 2021||Paris,||Back-to-back classics on a dramatic day||Kylian Mbappe missed the crucial penalty on Monday as world champion France crashed out of the Euro 2020 in a shoot-out against Switzerland, which goes through to a quarterfinal tie against Spain, which itself was taken the distance by Croatia before prevailing 5-3 in extra-time. Switzerland triumphed 5-4 on penalties after a remarkable 3-3 draw in Bucharest. France had earlier come from 1-0 down to lead 3-1 and looked to be cruising through, only to concede two late goals. Missed penalty Switzerland went ahead early on when Haris Seferovic headed in a cross, but it looked set to rue the moment early in the second half when Ricardo Rodriguez’s penalty was saved by Hugo Lloris. By the hour mark the game had turned on its head with Karim Benzema controlling Mbappe’s pass to fire in the equaliser and then nodding in Antoine Griezmann’s centre. Paul Pogba’s stunning curling strike into the top corner seemed to have put Les Bleus out of sight, but Seferovic pulled one back and substitute Mario Gavranovic netted a last-minute equaliser to force extra time. With no further goals, the tie went to penalties and all nine kicks were converted before Mbappe saw his effort saved by Yann Sommer.  Slipping up Somehow the drama in Bucharest topped that in Copenhagen earlier, when Alvaro Morata netted an all-important goal as Spain prevailed against Croatia, but only after it also let slip a 3-1 lead.   The results:   Croatia 3 (Pedri 20-og, Orsic 85, Pasalic 90+2) lost to Spain 5 (Sarabia 38, Azpilicueta 57, Ferran Torres 77, Morata 100, Oyarzabal 103) ( aet, 3-3 after 90 minutes).   France 3 (Benzema 57, 59, Pogba 75) drew with Switzerland 3 (Seferovic 15, 81, Gavranovic 90) ( aet, Switzerland won 5-4 on penalties) .    By The Numbers   2 - With eight goals scored, Croatia and Spain produced the second-highest-scoring match in Euros history  3 - France’s elimination is just the third time in Euros that a side has failed to progress from a knockout game having led by 2+ goals  9 - Number of own-goals in this edition, as many as in all previous editions combined  14 - The number of shots Kylian Mbappe has taken without scoring in this edition  14 - The total goals scored in the day’s two pre-quarterfinal ties||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/back-to-back-classics-on-a-dramatic-day/article35046964.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Akbar in Drona list||Indian motorsports’ governing body FMSCI has nominated its president Akbar Ebrahim for the Dronacharya Award besides sending Jehan Daruvala’s name to the government for Arjuna Award after inexplicably ignoring him last year. Racer-turned-coach Akbar’s name was also recommended for Dronacharya last year but none of FMSCI’s nominations for the national sports awards was short-listed by the government-appointed selection panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akbar-in-drona-list/article35046988.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Neeraj Chopra pulls out of Switzerland event||Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra pulled out of a top-level competition in Switzerland on Tuesday, owing to fatigue. Neeraj was to compete in the Spitzen Leichtathletik event in Lucerne, a World Athletics continental tour silver-level competition where the likes of Olympics gold medal favourite Johannes Vetter of Germany and some other top javelin throwers are taking part. It is learnt that Neeraj had reached Lucerne but decided to skip the event to give his body some rest after a lot of travel. Training The 23-year-old will now proceed to Upsala in Sweden for training and is expected to take part in the Gateshead Diamond League (England) on July 13. That would be his biggest event before the Olympics. Besides Vetter, Andreas Hofmann (Germany), Keshorn Walcott (Trinidad and Tobago) and Bernhard Seifert (Germany), who all are above Neeraj in the Road to Tokyo list, are lined up for the event. Neeraj had won bronze in the Kuortane Games in Finland on Saturday with an effort of 86.79m, behind season-leader and 2017 world champion Vetter (93.59m) and 2012 Olympics gold medallist and 2016 Games bronze winner Walcott (89.12m). That was his third best performance this season since re-writing his own national record during the Indian Grand Prix 3 in March at Patiala with a throw of 88.07m. A few days later, he reached 87.80m during the Federation Cup at the same venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-chopra-pulls-out-of-switzerland-event/article35047098.ece
30 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Hard work paid off, says Sajan Prakash||Last week, Sajan Prakash was under pressure after the 19th International swimming meet in Belgrade. Despite having the best Indian performance (1:56.95) in 200m butterfly, Sajan wasn't happy, for he had missed the A cut for Tokyo Olympics. Sajan only had one more meet in Rome to achieve the Olympic A standard qualification mark and he was feeling the heat. Reworked strategy Sajan reworked his strategy before the Rome meet with coach Pradeep Kumar. They analysed his Belgarde race, breaking it into smaller parts, and decided that Sajan needed to gain speed and distance in the early part of the race to qualify. In Rome, Sajan then knew exactly what he had to do and paced his race well to qualify. He went fast in the first half of the race, clocking 25.99s for the first 50 metres and 55.56s for the 100m and finished the race in 1:56.38s. He had finally breached the qualifying mark of 1:56.48s which he has been chasing since 2019. Sajan was a relieved man, and said his hard work in Dubai with coach Pradeep had paid off. “I am very happy that I was finally able to achieve this. It meant a lot to me as I have been chasing this mark for the last two years. Injury and lockdown affected my training. For the last one year I was training hard with my coach Pradeep Kumar in Dubai. It was difficult to get entries for meets. I was denied entry for a meet in France but managed to get one for the Belgrade meet. “I did my life best in the Belgrade meet and knew I had to come up with something extraordinary in the Rome. The six days gap we got between the two meets was used to analyse and plan strategy for my race. “We came to conclusion that I needed to have more power and speed in the first half of the race. I went all out from the start and was able to execute my plans well,” he said. Benchmark Dronacharya S. Pradeep Kumar said Sajan's effort should be considered as a benchmark in Indian swimming. He also said his ward was capable of improving his performance in Tokyo. “It is a great achievement and it means he is among the top swimmers in the world. But world standards are improving everyday. I feel Sajan can still improve this performance in Olympics. I consider his effort as a benchmark in Indian swimming which upcoming swimmers can try to emulate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hard-work-paid-off-says-sajan-prakash/article35047106.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rahi fine-tunes skills in preparation for Tokyo||Rahi Sarnobat’s charming personality often masks a strong competitive streak. And she has also learnt to respect the self more than the competitors. After winning the sports pistol event in an absolutely world class field in Osijek, Croatia for her third World Cup gold, Rahi put things in perspective. “Our duty is to consider ourselves equally good. We cannot go into a competition thinking that these guys are better. “We have to go in thinking that we are tough competition for them,” said Rahi. Rahi keen on getting some quality competitions under her belt before the Tokyo Olympics, not only took part in the European Championship and the World Cup, but also shot in Croatia’s National championship. Her qualification score of 581 in the Delhi World Cup in March has improved to 591 in Osijek. Struggling “I was struggling with my qualification score. However, I knew it was just a process. I was going on the right path. It was a matter of getting enough competition,” said Rahi. She was concerned about getting the technical aspects right, rather than thinking about the medal. The gold was a mere assurance that she was doing things right and getting really ready for Tokyo. Speaking about Manu Bhaker, who placed seventh place, Rahi said, “Manu is talented, hard working and sincere. I think the only shooter who can do it is Manu. She will do it at the right time. This experience will give her the extra fire to perform much better in the Olympics. “This was more like a trial for the Olympics. I had a word with her after the competition. She was expecting something in the final. But, experience is also equally important, like the medal.” With a battery of coaches helping the shooters in fine tuning themselves, Rahi is confident that they are well poised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahi-fine-tunes-skills-in-preparation-for-tokyo/article35047112.ece
30 June 2021||Cuiba,||Argentina seals top spot in group||Lionel Messi became Argentina’s most capped international player on Monday, marking the occasion with two goals as he led his national team to a 4-1 win over Bolivia at the Copa America. The 34-year-old Messi’s 148th appearance for Argentina beat the mark previously held by retired defender Javier Mascherano. His two goals and one assist helped Argentina ensure top spot in Group A, setting up a quarterfinal against Ecuador on Saturday. Easy win An Argentina team split between frequent starters and substitutes beat last-place Bolivia easily. Papu Gomez opened the scoring in the sixth minute. Messi netted the two following goals. The first came from the spot in the 33rd and the second after a beautiful lob over Bolivian goalkeeper Carlos Lampe in the 42nd. Erwin Saavedra scored for Bolivia on the hour but substitute Lautaro Martinez restored the three-goal cushion in the 65th from close range. In Rio De Janeiro, Uruguay beat Paraguay 1-0 to finish second in Group A and move into a quarterfinal against Colombia. The result also left Chile to face defending champion and host Brazil in the next stage. Edinson Cavani scored from the penalty spot in the 21st minute for the only goal of the match. Uruguay would have had to face Brazil if it had lost to Paraguay, which had already secured its place in the knockout phase.  The results: Group A: Argentina 4 (Gomez 6, Messi 33-pen, 42, Martinez 65) bt Bolivia 1 (Saavedra 60); Uruguay 1 (Cavani 21-pen) bt Paraguay 0.    Quarterfinal draw  Peru v Paraguay Brazil v Chile Uruguay v Colombia Argentina v Ecuador||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentina-seals-top-spot-in-group/article35047001.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Mental health campaign for kabaddi ecosystem unveiled||In the wake of the pandemic, Kabaddi Adda, a digital market leader, has unveiled its new mental health campaign for the kabaddi ecosystem at the grassroot level. Titled ‘Mann Ki Jeet’, the campaign has been supported by kabaddi leaders including, former captain of the Indian kabaddi team Ajay Thakur, along with National players such as B.C. Ramesh, Ashok Shinde, Rishank Devadiga, current Indian captain Deepak Niwas Hooda and veteran player Dharmaraj Cheralathan and Dronacharya Awardee coach Rambir Singh Khokhar, in addition to the CEOs of the Pro Kabaddi League. Dr. Santosh Kumar Chaturvedi, former Dean and senior professor of psychiatry at NIMHANS Bangalore, among other prominent doctors, will be on board as well, according to a release on Tuesday. The campaign, which has three closed door sessions, will be accessible to everyone and primarily be hosted in Hindi, for kabaddi players. As part of this initiative, special invites have also been extended to kabaddi players and coaches from 90+ academies (800+ players) who have qualified to participate in the upcoming K7 kabaddi tournament. Ajay Thakur said: “I too have been suffering from anxiety and depression since the pandemic. I would now like to help young players.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mental-health-campaign-for-kabaddi-ecosystem-unveiled/article35047036.ece
30 June 2021||BENGALURU,||Bengaluru FC signs Rohit Kumar||Bengaluru FC has signed midfielder Rohit Kumar on a two-year deal, the club announced on Tuesday. Rohit, BFC’s first acquisition of the summer, will join the squad ahead of its upcoming AFC Cup Playoff clash against Eagles FC. Rohit joined the DSK Shivajians academy in 2016, and earned promotion to the club’s first team in 2016. Having made his I-League debut the same year, Rohit moved to Indian Super League side FC Pune City at the end of the season. After two years with FC Pune City and a season with Hyderabad FC, the 24-year-old most recently represented Kerala Blasters.  Rohit is BFC’s first acquisition of the summer   Rohit will join the squad ahead of its upcoming AFC Cup Playoff clash against Eagles FC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-fc-signs-rohit-kumar/article35046989.ece
30 June 2021||CHENNAI:,||CFC signs Narayan Das||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) confirmed the signing of defender Narayan Das on a two-year contract, after a season-long stint with SC East Bengal. The 27-year-old, who is predominantly a left-back, is currently the second highest capped player in the Indian Super League with 107 appearances till date. “I am really happy to join a champion team like CFC. My family and friends are also overjoyed. It is every player’s dream to help his team win, and I am no different. I aspire to prove my worth, play every single game and help the club in fulfilling the quest for a third ISL title. “Even as the opponent I have always enjoyed the atmosphere at the Marina Arena, and I want to tell our brilliant fans to keep supporting us, because it is their backing that gives us the extra motivation,” said Das.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-signs-narayan-das/article35047039.ece
30 June 2021||Chennai,||TNPL players draft today||The Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) is set to be conducted from July 19 to August 15 and the players draft for the fifth edition will be held on Wednesday. The tournament was scheduled to start on June 4 and had to postponed due to the pandemic. It is now expected to start in Chennai next month. The TNCA is awaiting final permission from the State government considering sporting competitions can be held in category II and III districts at outdoor venues only till 5 p.m. while the matches will start only after 6 p.m. As per the player regulations for 2021, teams can choose to retain any number of players from their 2020 squad and a maximum of 30 players may be picked in the draft. The draft was initially supposed to happen in May. Once the final approval comes through, the players will enter the bio-bubble on July 4.  As per the player regulations for 2021, teams can choose to retain any number of players from their 2020 squad and a maximum of 30 players may be picked in the draft||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnpl-players-draft-today/article35047037.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Mary Kom to train in Italy||M.C. Mary Kom has decided to join the rest of India’s Olympics-bound boxing team in Italy for training to avoid the added restrictions on those travelling to Tokyo from here. Mary Kom will take off for Assisi in a day or two to join the eight other boxers, who are set to leave for Tokyo from there. She was training at Pune’s Army Sports Institute so far. “I have returned to Delhi and will leave for Italy may be tomorrow or day after. “There are stricter quarantine restrictions on those who are travelling from India. I want to avoid them,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mary-kom-to-train-in-italy/article35047107.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||AITA nominates Ankita, Prajnesh for Arjuna||Ankita Raina and Prajnesh Gunneswaran have been nominated for the Arjuna Award by AITA, which has also sent names of Balram Singh and Enrico Piperno for the Dhyanchand honour. Ankita and Prajnesh both won singles bronze medals at the 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta and Palembang.   Prajnesh who is ranked 148, has played five Davis Cup ties for the country. In the Lifetime achievement category, Balram, who has a 50 year-long association with Indian tennis, will vie for the honour along with Piperno, who coached the Davis Cup team between 1991-2001.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aita-nominates-ankita-prajnesh-for-arjuna/article35046986.ece
30 June 2021||PATIALA,||Seema seals Tokyo spot||For years, Seema Punia has been battling doubts, from self and others. There have been questions raised on her continuing to receive federation patronage, doubts on whether she was a spent force and concerns on her continued training in Russia without much public information. On Tuesday, she put all that to rest, qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics with a throw of 63.72m. The 37-year-old was relieved after achieving the mark. “I am thankful to Lalit Bhanot sir for being the only one from my junior days to keep faith in me. So many had declared my career over, I had to prove myself to everyone in the system and outside. There are no words to explain,” a teary Seema admitted. There was little else of note on the final day of the National inter-State championships with the women’s 4x100m disappointing in its timing and final attempt to qualify for Tokyo, clocking 44.15 seconds. The men’s 4x400m squad, too, performed below-par, perhaps unwilling to push itself after being assured of Tokyo participation.  The results: Men: 200m: 1. Lovepreet Singh (Pun, 21.04s), 2. Kaliga Kumarage (SL, 21.13), 3. Nithin B (TN, 21.20); 3000 steeplechase: 1. Shankal Lal Swami (Har, 8:46.36s), 2. Vikram Singh (MP, 9:15.53), 3. Md. Nur Hasan (UP, 9:17.96); 4x400m: 1. India (3:05.22s), 2. Punjab (3:09.84), 3. Haryana (3:13.02); Javelin: 1. Rohit Yadav (UP, 77.74m), 2. Shivpal Singh (UP, 77.31m), 3. Sumedha Ranasinghe (SL, 77.28m).   Women: 200m: 1. Anjali PD (Ker, 24.01s), 2. BIM Jayamanne (SL, 24.08), 3. Harika Devi (Tel, 24.64); 1500m: 1. Harmilan Bains (Pun, 4:15.52s), 2. Chanda (Del, 4:18.96), 3. PU Chitra (Ker, 4:20.29); 3000 steeplechase: 1. Parul Chaudhary (UP, 10:01.58s), 2. Komal Jagdale (Mah, 10:10.31), 3. Nilani Rathnayake (SL, 10:12.02); 4x100m: 1. India (44.15s), 2. Sri Lanka (44.55), 3. Telangana (45.91); 4x400m: 1. India (3:38.46s), 2. India-Mix (3:47.16), 3. Punjab (3:54.77); Discus : 1. Seema Punia (UP, 63.72m), 2. Sonal Goyal (Del, 49.50), 3. Madhu Renu (Raj, 47.55) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/seema-seals-tokyo-spot/article35046951.ece
30 June 2021||MUMBAI,||T20 WC dates confirmed||The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Tuesday confirmed that the T20 World Cup will be played from October 17 to November 14. The announcement came a day after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) informed its affiliates about hosting the tournament in the United Arab Emirates and Oman due to COVID-19 concerns. Now that the suspense over the window for the T20 World Cup is over, the BCCI hierarchy is hoping to finalise the dates for the latter half of the Indian Premier League, set to start in UAE on September 19. While October 15 is being looked as a tentative date for the final, the schedule may be crunched should all stakeholders feel the necessity for a longer break between the IPL final and the T20 World Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/t20-wc-dates-confirmed/article35046953.ece
30 June 2021||FOUGERES,||Mark Cavendish wins a stage after five years||A last-gasp addition to his team, Mark Cavendish rolled back the years as he claimed his 31st Tour de France stage victory on Tuesday — five years after his last success on the world’s greatest cycling race. The Briton, who finished outside the time limit in his previous participation in 2018, crashed out in 2017 and hinted at retirement last year. He is now three victories away from the Tour’s all-time stage win record held by Belgian great Eddy Merckx. Cavendish, back in the Deceuninck-Quick Step team this season after a five-year hiatus, powered past his rivals in the final straight to beat France’s Nacer Bouhanni to the line. Belgian Jasper Philipsen took third place while his Alpecin-Fenix teammate Mathieu van der Poel retained the overall leader’s yellow jersey. “So many people did not believe in me, you know...these guys do,” a tearful Cavendish said afterwards, referring to Deceuninck-Quick Step. “I thought I’d never be back.” The day had begun with a rider protest, asking for safer racing conditions after numerous crashes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mark-cavendish-wins-a-stage-after-five-years/article35046955.ece
30 June 2021||Chester-le-Street,||Woakes, Root make it 1-0||Chris Woakes paved the way for victory and Joe Root delivered it with ease as England cruised to a five-wicket win over Sri Lanka with 15.1 overs to spare in the first ODI on Tuesday. Woakes claimed four for 18 from 10 overs, restricting the weakened tourists to 185 in 42.3 overs. Jonny Bairstow took 43 off the target in a frenzy of boundary-hitting at the top of the order and, after a brief wobble, Root took the hosts across the line with an unbeaten 79 as England reached 189 for five in 34.5 overs.  The scores: Sri Lanka 185 in 42.3 overs (Kusal Perera 73, Wanindu Hasaranga 54, Chris Woakes 4/18, David Willey 3/44) lost to England 189/5 in 34.5 overs (Jonny Bairstow 43, Joe Root 79 n.o., Dushmantha Chameera 3/50).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/woakes-root-make-it-1-0/article35046956.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||BAI issues guidelines on vaccination||The Badminton Association of India (BAI) on Tuesday said it has asked its State units to get its players and officials vaccinated for resumption of the domestic season under strict COVID-19 guidelines. According to BAI’s guidelines, players above 18 years, coaches, technical officials, organising team and staff need to be fully vaccinated and are required to carry their certificates. For those below 18, it will be made mandatory to carry a negative RT-PCR report with a barcode, 96 hours prior to departure from their respective stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bai-issues-guidelines-on-vaccination/article35046716.ece
30 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Clippers keep series alive||Paul George scored 41 points as Los Angeles Clippers kept its NBA Western Conference finals series alive with a battling 116-102 road victory over Phoenix Suns on Monday. With the Suns poised to clinch a series victory in front of an expectant home crowd, George once again carried the Clippers on his back to stave off elimination. The Clippers talisman exploded for 20 points in the third quarter alone to take the game away from the Suns, who took a fleeting lead midway through the period with a Chris Paul jump shot. It was the only time the Suns held the lead throughout game five. The win marked the third time during these playoffs that the Clippers have won an elimination game, and Monday’s win came without several starters, including the injured Kawhi Leonard. George was in commanding form once more on Monday after a quiet first half. George was backed with 23 points by Reggie Jackson while Marcus Morris added 22 and DeMarcus Cousins 15 points. The Suns were led by Devin Booker with 31 points.  The result: Western Conference finals: Phoenix Suns 102 lost to Los Angeles Clippers 116 (Suns lead series 3-2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/battling-win-for-clippers/article35046996.ece
30 June 2021||BENGALURU,||Aditi qualifies for Tokyo||Golfer Aditi Ashok booked her spot in the Tokyo Olympics, it was announced on Tuesday. Aditi sealed her second consecutive Olympic appearance by qualifying in 45th place in the women’s final Olympic golf rankings. A three-time winner on the Ladies European Tour (LET), Aditi finished 41st at Rio. The 23-year-old turned professional in 2016. A year later, she became the first from India to compete in the prestigious Ladies Professional Golf Association (LPGA) Tour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aditi-qualifies-for-tokyo/article35046998.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arjun takes lead but Aronian catches up||Arjun Erigaisi continued to impress the chess world by beating Levon Aronian once before the Armenian hit back to make it 2-2 in the first set of the quarterfinals in the Goldmoney Asian Rapid online rapid chess tournament on Tuesday. In the most-followed match of the day, Magnus Carlsen scored twice over Wesley So before taking the first set 2.5-1.5. Having escaped with a draw in the first game, 17-year-old Arjun came up with a brilliant finish in the second. He was ready to capture Aronian’s queen when the game ended. A little earlier, Arjun missed a fine tactical sequence where he could have sealed the game by catching Aronian’s queen with a knight ‘fork’. Eventually, this missed opportunity did not hurt Arjun. Aronian hit back in the third game to draw level and the fourth game proved an equal draw.  The results: Quarterfinals: Set One: Arjun Erigaisi drew with Levon Aronian (Arm) 2-2; Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Wesley So (USA) 2.5-1.5; Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol) drew with Ding Liren (Chn) 2-2; Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) bt Anish Giri (Ned) 3-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-takes-lead-but-aronian-catches-up/article35046952.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: CDCA league, II div., Mamallapuram vs Sumangali (7.30 a.m.); Willow vs Tiruporur (1 p.m.); Sumangali, matting; I div., Alagesan vs SKMT (1 p.m.); Sumangali, turf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article35047035.ece
30 June 2021||Kolkata,||FIG confirms Pranati’s Olympic quota place||The International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) has confirmed Indian gymnast Pranati Nayak’s qualification for the Tokyo Olympics. As per a FIG communication received by the Gymnastics Federation of India (GFI) on Monday, Pranati, who won a bronze medal in vault at the 2019 Asian championships, has got an all-around slot following the reallocation of quota places under the 2020 continental championships criteria. The reallocation was done due to the cancellation of the Asian championships, which was an Olympic qualifying event. After Dipa Karmakar in 2016, West Bengal girl Pranati has become the second gymnast from the country to qualify for the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fig-confirms-pranatis-olympic-quota-place/article35046990.ece
30 June 2021||June 30 2021 08:10 IST,||Sudoku — June 30, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-30-2021/article35047494.ece
30 June 2021||Mumbai,||Govt. notification on height of idols annoys Ganesh mandals||The Maharashtra Home Department’s notification restricting the height of Ganesh idols inside public Ganesh mandal s to four feet for this year’s festival has irked the umbrella organisation of public mandal s in the State, who said that the decision was taken without consulting them. The notification issued on Tuesday said that the height of public Ganesh idols would be four feet, while that of private idols would be restricted to two feet. It clarified that the pandal s could be set up only in coordination with COVID-19 guidelines laid down by the local civic body. Appealing to public mandal s to avoid overcrowding for darshan , the notification advised that online darshan may be facilitated via cable networks, websites and Facebook. The notification has also prohibited processions on Ganesh Chaturthi as well as on the visarjan (immersion) day. It advised that the last traditional puja be conducted at home instead of at the place of immersion. Also, artificial ponds may be set up in collaboration with municipal corporations, public mandal s, housing societies, elected representatives and voluntary organisations. Several guidelines have, however, irked the public Ganesh mandal s. “The Maharashtra government annually holds a meeting with us before announcing the guidelines, which has ensured that the festival is celebrated smoothly and without any enmity. But despite our repeated representations and also on behalf of sculptors, we were not called for any meeting this time,” said Naresh Dahibavkar, president, Public Ganesh Festival Mandals Coordination Committee, Mumbai. Mr. Dahibavkar said that the restriction on the height at public mandal s should be reconsidered, and also that the festival be celebrated in a bio-bubble with vaccinated volunteers. “We request a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to discuss our issues. Decisions taken in that meeting will be accepted by all,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-notification-on-height-of-idols-annoys-ganesh-mandals/article35047307.ece
30 June 2021||Chandigarh,||AAP sounds poll bugle in Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday sounded the poll bugle for the Assembly election in Punjab due early next year by announcing up to 300 units of free electricity to every household, if the party formed the next government. At a press conference here, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said: “I believe as per our calculation, the electricity bill for around 77% to 80% households will be ‘zero’.” The AAP supremo also announced that all old and pending domestic bills would be waived and connection to all those that had been cut would be restored, so that people could live a dignified life. “Punjab has surplus electricity, yet there are frequent cuts. There is deficient power for agriculture. We will ensure that electricity is supplied 24 hours,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “Electricity is a very big issue in Punjab and the situation is very bad. Despite being a power-surplus State, the tariffs are the highest in India,” he said, and attributed it to a nexus between the private power plants and those in power, who from time to time had looted the people. Personal guarantee Mr. Kejriwal offered personal guarantee to fulfil all promises. “As soon as we form the government, we will implement the decision of 300-unit free electricity. Also, we will waive the pending domestic electricity bills straight away. As far as the promise of providing 24 hours supply, it will take some time. I assure you that between 3-4 years, it will be done. The agriculture sector will continue to get free power, he said. Hitting out at the ruling Congress, Mr. Kejriwal said: “These are not promises of Captain, but Kejriwal’s guarantee,” in a veiled attack on Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Responding to questions, Mr. Kejriwal said ‘mafia’ rule was rampant in Punjab including sand, mining, drugs, liquor, and transport among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-sounds-poll-bugle-in-punjab/article35047177.ece
30 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s recovery rate rises to 96%||Maharashtra reported 8.623 recoveries against a surge of 8,085 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday as the State’s active case tally dipped to 1,17,098. A total of 231 deaths were reported, as per the Health Department, with 156 deaths occurring in the last 48 hours and a further 75 being from the past week. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,21,804 while the State’s case fatality rate is 2.01%. The State’s total cases have reached 60,51,633 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 58,09,548 with the recovery rate rising again to 96%. “Of a total 4,13,98,501 laboratory samples tested thus far, 60,51,633 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 14.62%) have returned positive with over 1.90 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported 946 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,53,583. As per the State Health Department figures, 16 deaths were recorded as the toll touched 16,688. According to district authorities, the active cases declined to 9,300 while the death count has reached 17,889. Mumbai recorded 556 new cases to take its total tally to 7,21,516 while the active count stood at 12,684. Twelve fatalities took the city’s toll to 15,426. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra added more than 1,300 new cases taking its total cases to 1,53,331 of whom 10,875 are active. As many as 53 deaths saw the toll climb to 4,625. Neighbouring Satara registered 751 new cases and 24 fatalities, pushing its total case tally to 1,92,146 of whom 7,596 are active. Its death toll has gone up to 4,619. Sangli logged 938 new cases and 14 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtras-recovery-rate-rises-to-96/article35047303.ece
30 June 2021||Pune,||Denied benefits for pandemic work, Pune’s waste collectors protest civic body’s apathy||After toiling throughout the successive waves of the pandemic despite peril to their lives, waste collectors of the city-based SWaCH — a cooperative of self-employed waste collectors — have protested the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) failure to give them benefits like life insurance and dues for the work accomplished during the lockdowns. SWaCH’s unique contract system has helped the PMC save hundreds of crores of rupees. “The waste collectors have yet to receive the safety equipment, life insurance, medical assistance, and allowances in spite of written promises of corporators and councillors,” Harshad Barde, director of SWaCH, said. He said that the PMC proffering ad hoc short-term extensions of the contract by  a single or couple of years was akin to a “pandemic band aid’, and unlikely to benefit the waste management, people, and the waste pickers. On Monday, more than 50 waste pickers (as per COVID-19 norms), under labour leader Baba Adhav, staged a protest in front of the PMC office. The agitation was backed by the Congress, which accused the BJP, which controls the PMC, of denying SWaCH workers their rights. The PMC’s contract with SWaCH expired in December 2020 and only temporary extensions  of one or two months have been granted since to the waste collectors, adding to the uncertainty of their livelihoods. “A few months or a one-year extension is a poor sop designed to tide over the critical election period [PMC poll in 2022] and then we will be dumped by the wayside. We have toiled to set up this model. Without us, the PMC would have had to spend an additional Rs. 500 crore over five years,” Supriya Bhadakwad, a waste collector, said. Vidya Naiknaware, another waste collector, said that citizens paid a nominal Rs. 2 per day for garbage collection services, while the taxpayers saved over Rs. 100 crore a year owing to the SWaCH model. “Our cooperative collects 75% of the city’s waste while the other 25% collection, serviced directly by private contractors or the PMC’s trash collectors, costs citizens three or four times more,” she said. “What is the BJP, which reigns supreme in the PMC, up to? Does it intend to drive these waste pickers out of their jobs by destroying the SWaCH cooperative model? These waste collectors, who bear the brunt of the city’s waste collection, have been seeking redress for their grievances time and time again. Yet, on every occasion, they have been fobbed off by the BJP corporators and the Mayor with false promises,” Pune Congress spokesperson Ramesh Iyer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/denied-benefits-for-pandemic-work-punes-waste-collectors-protest-civic-bodys-apathy/article35047305.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Balaji Srivastav gets additional charge of Police Commissioner||Senior IPS officer Balaji Srivastav will hold the additional charge of the Commissioner of Delhi Police when incumbent S.N. Shrivastava retires on Wednesday, the Home Ministry said on Tuesday. In an order, the Ministry said Mr. Srivastav, a 1988-batch IPS officer of the AGMTU cadre, will discharge duties as the Commissioner of the Delhi Police in addition to his present responsibility of Special Commissioner of Police (Vigilance) till a full-fledged head of the national capital’s police force is appointed. He has previously worked as the DGP of Puducherry and Mizoram and Special Commissioner, Intelligence, Economic Offence Wing and Special Cell, Delhi. Mr. Srivastava has served Cabinet Secretariat for nine years and handled sensitive assignments. He did Economics (Hons.) from St. Stephens College, University of Delhi followed by M.A. (Economics) from Delhi School of Economics and LL.B. from Delhi University. S.N. Shrivastava too initially took the additional charge of Commissioner of the Delhi Police in February 2020 in the wake of the communal riots in the Capital following protests over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. He was regularised as Commissioner of the Delhi Police only last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/balaji-srivastav-gets-additional-charge-of-police-commissioner/article35047162.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||5 cases of rectal bleeding reported in recovered COVID-19 patients||Five cases of Cytomegalovirus (CMV)-related rectal bleeding were reported in COVID-19 recovered patients during the second wave at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, a private hospital in Delhi, according to hospital authorities. One of the five patients died due to “massive bleeding” and “severe” COVID-19-related chest disease, the hospital said. All five patients were immunocompetent before COVID-19, which means they did not suffer from any condition that lowered their immunity. Doctors said CMV is usually present in the body, but it develops into a disease when a person’s immunity is lowered after COVID-19 infection. “Any person who recovered from COVID-19, if they have abdominal pain or blood in their stool, they should immediately go to a hospital. Also, hospitals should test for CMV if they see these symptoms,” said Anil Arora, Chairman, Institute of Liver, Gastroenterology and Pancreaticobiliary Sciences at the hospital. Antiviral therapy “Out of the five cases with age group of 30-70 were from Delhi NCR, four had presented with lower gastrointestinal bleed that is bleeding in stools and one patient presented with intestinal obstruction. Two of them had massive bleed, one requiring emergency lifesaving surgery in the form of removal of right side of the colon and one of them succumbed due to massive bleeding and severe COVID chest disease. Other three patients were successfully treated with antiviral therapy with ganciclovir,” Dr. Arora said. He said that mucormycosis, white fungus and CMV are opportunistic infections and they are looking for people with weak immunity. “After recovering from COVID-19, you have to build your immunity by eating healthy food. You have to avoid junk food,” Dr. Arora said.  After recovering from COVID-19, you have to build your immunity by eating healthy food. You have to avoid junk food Anil Arora Chairman, Institute of Liver, Gastroenterology and Pancreaticobiliary Sciences||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/5-cases-of-rectal-bleeding-reported-in-recovered-covid-19-patients/article35047159.ece
30 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Allahabad HC refuses relief to interfaith couples||The Allahabad High Court has refused to grant relief to interfaith couples, citing non-compliance of the contentious new law against unlawful conversion of religion, in particular the mandatory requirement of submitting a declaration form before the District Magistrate (DM) 60 days prior to conversion. In three recent cases, the court dismissed petitions filed by interfaith couples citing non-compliance of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 (now an Act). ‘Conversion not legal’ A Muslim woman from Muzaffarnagar got married to a Hindu man on February 27. She submitted before court that she had converted to the Hindu religion and a certificate by a ‘sanskar adhikari’ of the Arya Samaj was issued. Citing sections 8 and 9 of the unlawful conversion law, the court said the woman’s conversion “cannot be held to be legal, therefore, no relief can be granted to the petitioners.” In another case, a Muslim woman from Banda entered into ‘nikah’ with a Hindu man after he adopted Islam on March 5. A certificate of acceptance of religion of Islam by the man signed by a ‘kazi’ was submitted by the couple. Citing Sections 8 and 9 of the law, the court held the marriage illegal. Section 8 of the new law against unlawful conversion states that one who desires to convert his or her religion, he or she shall give a declaration in a prescribed form at least 60 days in advance to the DM. Section 9 mandates that the converted person shall send a declaration in a prescribed form within sixty days of the date of conversion to the DM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/allahabad-hc-refuses-relief-to-interfaith-couples/article35047175.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Khori Basti residents seek relief from demolition order||Several residents of Faridabad’s Khori Basti staged a demonstration at Jantar Mantar here on Tuesday demanding that their houses be spared the Supreme Court-ordered demolition.  The demonstrators also submitted memoranda addressed to the President, the Prime Minister and the Home Minister seeking revocation of the demolition order to protect the lives of lakhs of people during the pandemic. Holding placards that read, “Save Khori” and “Don’t render labourers homeless during a pandemic”, hundreds of residents of Khori Basti, which is spread over 170-acre forest land in Faridabad, staged the demonstration around 12 p.m. The demonstrators included a large number of women. Social activist Sanjay Raj, leading the demonstration, said there were 30-odd religious structures, a gaushala, a burial ground, and a government primary school in the colony. He claimed that the colony had around 10,000 houses and was inhabited by over a lakh labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Uttarakhand, Chattishgarh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and other States. Mr. Raj said the residents of the colony were living under the shadow of constant fear and the power and electricity connections to the colony were snapped a fortnight ago.  Seeking a remedy to the court order, the residents, in a joint memorandum, said the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad is forcing the residents to vacate their houses citing court order was wrong from a “humanitarian perspective”. ‘Life and death’ They further said that the Haryana government should have made arrangements for their rehabilitation before carrying out the demolition. The residents said it was a question of “life and death” for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/khori-basti-residents-seek-relief-from-demolition-order/article35047164.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||City sees 101 new cases; vaccine stock to last 2 days only||The city reported 101 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,34,094, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, four deaths were reported, and the total number of deaths stood at 24,971. A total of 66,397 tests were done in a day and TPR was 0.15%. Of the total cases, 14,07,592 people have recovered and there are 1,553 active cases. A total of 2,04,522 doses were administered on Monday, as per a vaccination bulletin. “Vaccination in Delhi is going on at high speed. On June 28], more than 2 lakh vaccine doses were administered in one day...,” AAP MLA Atishi. The city’s vaccine stock will last for only two days, as per the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-sees-101-new-cases-vaccine-stock-to-last-2-days-only/article35047165.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘AAP workers attacked BJP men at behest of Sisodia’||Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Tuesday alleged that AAP cadres had attacked and beaten up BJP workers at the behest of Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. Mr. Bidhuri said a BJP delegation would soon meet the Delhi Police Commissioner to urge him to fast-track the investigation. “Deputy CM had gone to Rohtas Nagar to inspect civil work on the construction of a school. The Rohtas Nagar BJP MLA, Jitender Mahajan, had already conveyed to the authorities that they would like to submit a memorandum to Mr. Sisodia,” Mr. Bidhuri said. The memorandum pertained to termination of services of guest teachers and non-payment of salaries to teachers. In addition to this, it was also to be submitted that all the people who had died because of shortage of oxygen should be given Rs. 10 lakh compensation and government job, the LoP said. “As soon as Mr. Mahajan made a move to submit a memorandum to Mr. Sisodia, the AAP cadres started misbehaving with BJP workers. Soon, BJP workers were beaten up for no reason,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. Sisodia responds In response to the incident Mr. Sisodia tweeted: “Today, protesting against the construction of a school in Rohtas Nagar, BJP leaders and goons ransacked the school. Broke my government vehicle, broke the school gate and misbehaved with the women teachers, engineers and workers present inside. Why are the BJP's so annoyed about having a school, studying and writing?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-workers-attacked-bjp-men-at-behest-of-sisodia/article35047155.ece
30 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai corporation starts vaccination for homeless people||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has started a COVID-19 vaccination drive for homeless people and beggars where its officials first counsel them and after getting their consent, collect their biometric data and inoculate them. The drive was rolled out from its Belapur division last week. “The corporation is taking care not to leave out a single person. We have already vaccinated 250 chemists and our next target is those working in salons,” NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said. A team of doctors and nurses has been set up to visit the places identified by the NMMC’s social development department to vaccinate homeless people. “The most difficult part is to convince them. There are also drug addicts who cannot be administered doses as they can be prone to complications arising out of vaccination. On the first day, 103 people were counselled but only 14 agreed to get themselves vaccinated,” Mr. Bangar said. Software developed The Commissioner said a software to collect biometric details (fingerprints) had been developed at the corporation level. “We also register their names on the government portal before vaccination,” he added. NGOs have also been roped in to identify homeless people. Till now, 74 such people have been vaccinated by the NMMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/navi-mumbai-corporation-starts-vaccination-for-homeless-people/article35047302.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||Mahila Cong. leader, others join Delhi BJP||Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress general-secretary Parveena Sharma along with 40 other workers joined the State BJP in the presence of its president Adesh Gupta here on Tuesday. Welcoming Ms. Sharma and others in the party, Mr. Gupta said every citizen of the country had full trust in the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The party has always been encouraging women and believes women empowerment is our aim. Women are never safe in AAP and Congress,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “In fact, the Congress has lost its base and relevance while women are being physically exploited in AAP. As both parties are without aim or leadership it is only the BJP, which is working for people’s welfare,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mahila-cong-leader-others-join-delhi-bjp/article35047156.ece
30 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||City records hottest day of the year||The Capital recorded its hottest day of the year on Tuesday with the maximum temperature settling at 43 degrees Celsius, which is six degrees above normal for this time of the year. Heatwave conditions prevailed in the city with the humidity level hovering between 78% and 25%. The minimum temperature was recorded at 27.4 degrees Celsius.  Delhi, which usually comes under the influence of heat waves in May and June, had a relatively mild summer with the maximum temperature not rising above the 42.2 degrees Celsius mark. However, delay in monsoon, scheduled to arrive on June 27, has sent temperatures soaring. Relief expected soon The forecast for June 30 reads: “partly cloudy sky accompanied by gusty winds. Heatwave conditions at isolated places. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 42 and 29 degrees Celsius respectively”. Some relief is expected July 1 onwards in the form of thundershowers that are likely to bring down the temperature by a few notches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-records-hottest-day-of-the-year/article35047166.ece
30 June 2021||New Delhi,||AIIMS Nurses union seeks DA from PM||AIIMS Nurses Union on Tuesday wrote to the PM , demanding disbursal of Dearness Allowance (DA) to all healthcare workers who have shown “great courage and patriotism by serving the nation during this deadly pandemic”. “As most of the healthcare workers are finding it difficult to make both ends meet due to an increase in fuel prices and non-disbursal of DA, we humbly request you to kindly intervene to un-freeze the DA of government servants and to ensure early disbursal of the pending DA with arrears,” the letter read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aiims-nurses-union-seeks-da-from-pm/article35047160.ece
