07-10-2020||News||Protect Indian crafts; ban Chinese imports | Analysis||On a cold February morning in 2017, I was in Paris, on my bi-annual reconnaissance of European fashion. We were striding down Avenue Montaigne, a street that connects the Eiffel Tower with the famous Champs-Elysées , the most glamorous street in the fashion world, which houses the haute couture designers of Europe. To my surprise, there was a queue, around the block, of Chinese customers waiting to enter the LVMH store. As I was about to enter the store, I was approached by two Chinese women. They requested me to buy two handbags from the Louis Vuitton range at any price and had the money in hand. There was a quota system of sales in the store, and since they had exhausted their quota, they needed help.In February, I was visiting the same avenue. The economy was undergoing great pain, and it was apparent with the absence of well-heeled customers. The Chinese were the only buyers around who were wooed by the French. Gone were the days of quotas on purchases.But it is not just in terms of consumption patterns. The Chinese have become a force to reckon with in the fashion world, as they manufacture and supply almost all of the luxury clothing and goods to the world. But Covid-19 has dramatically altered the situation, with the market for Chinese goods shrinking.China, however, remains focused on flooding the India market, by supplying copies of indigenously popular crafts, at a fraction of the cost. The Chinese do not work with a costing policy on their goods when they enter a market. It is, at best, a political policy which decides the price of their products. This means they can undercut anything, at any price, to get into India’s fashion and wedding business. They have been quick to create a collection, based on deep research of the values and habits of the Indian consumer. Unfortunately for Indian handmade crafts, China is focused on the production of machine-made alternatives, copying designs from India’s vast resources of craft skills, practised even today by 16 million Indians.This cannot be allowed to continue, especially in a context where Indian craftsmen and women are already confronting rising unemployment due to the Covid-19 crisis. One really must look very carefully at why India is today being inundated with Chinese copies made on cheap fabrics, which is now taking on a vast repertoire — Benarsi and Chanderi saris; Rajasthani crafts of bandani, printed on synthetics; copies of mirror work embroideries of Gujarat and Kutch; a whole repertoire of kantha, suzani, phulkari and Lucknow embroideries, recreated on synthetics by digitised machinery in China; Banjara bags and Kolhapuri chappals, mostly imported from Xinjiang; fake cashmere from Mongolian wool, labelled as pashmina. Not one of these products, imported from China, now rapidly available in most markets, in big or small-town bazaars, helps generate local employment. Instead, they take away work from established craft sectors.India is the only country which has preserved its fashion identity, and given indigenous fashion a young, modern interpretation based on traditional silhouettes, crafts and textile processes organic to the country — a truly Make in India product. It is a miracle, and an enigma, especially if one compares it with countries as disparate as Japan and Mexico where organic clothing is now in museums and the countries follow diktats of the ramps in Paris, with little relevance to their traditional culture and climate. In India, this miracle is a combination of a deep presence of India’s cultural textile crafts and its newfound affluence.For most people I have spoken to, the most controversial and troubling trend is the substantial Chinese inroad into the Indian religious festive markets. I don’t have any quarrel with fairy lights being imported, though this is not rocket science and can be easily be produced in India. But I do think we need to review the imports of diyas; images of Ganesh, Durga, Lakshmi and Saraswati; Radha and Krishna sets for $1 to $50, from a country that is not sensitive to India’s religious preferences. This is almost sacrilegious, as these deities are traditionally carved by hand, made of clay and straw, by a combination of sculptors and potters. These are often done during the festive season in sheds in most village communities; the ritual of creating mud objects for worship is deep and historic. These are biodegradable, have an authenticity which gives them their character, and are based on the principle of recycling. We must protect our potters by banning imports of religious objects which are produced in moulds with modern-day materials, and pollute rivers where they are immersed after the festivals. With Covid-19, the traditional orders for potters are slow this year and it makes no sense to get containers of diya alternatives, and Diwali-gifting options from China.As part of Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), India needs to review the present situation of imports of non-essential items. An already-strained crafts sector needs protection, not competition from giants in Shijiazhuang and Xiamen, who, in plastic moulds, will churn out any number of images for Holi and Diwali, or volumes of fake embroideries on digital machines at no price at all. These imports from China must be banned immediately before the festive seasons begin, to save our craftspeople from more pain than they are facing already.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/protect-indian-crafts-ban-chinese-imports-analysis/story-zWBFwyrajIHZibuefosj5K.html
07-10-2020||News||Decoding the secret of Modi’s communication | Analysis||Having been a journalist and an anchor for many decades, there is one question that many people keep asking me. “Rajat ji, who is your favourite anchor?” While most professionals compare themselves to their own earlier versions and improve over them, honestly, everyone has someone else in their profession that they like and so do I. However, it is when someone outside your profession shines in a role such as anchoring that one sits up and takes notice. In my rather short list of favourite anchors, I have a non-journalist entry — Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The latest instance of his excellent skill of holding and moderating a meaningful conversation was seen in the Fit India Dialogue 2020. As a yogi who had become the global brand ambassador of yoga, he was fittingly the moderator of this dialogue. And as a karmayogi who has never taken a day off, he is also the epitome of fitness. However, that is not what stood out in the conversation; it was something else.From a young female Kashmiri footballer to a cricket superstar, from a nutritionist to a yoga guru, Modi spoke to everyone effortlessly and held forth on their respective topics with elan. The ease with which he connects to people from many walks of life, something that I had observed long ago, was there for everyone to see.The warmth Modi exudes also helps people connect easily with him. This breaks the ice and puts people at ease and makes them open up, forgetting the fact that they are speaking to a larger-than-life leader. For example, in the same “Fit India” interaction, he cracked a joke with Milind Soman about his age, created a phrase “Ace It Like Afshan” for the footballer, and asked Virat Kohli about the Yo-Yo test.When it began, some people thought that Mann Ki Baat would be a monthly speech on the radio. But Modi has made it a conversation where he, as the anchor, brings together the successes and stories of common people. Even there, he is a calm and knowledgeable anchor whenever he is speaking to people. The conversations are always engaging. An engaging conversation is possible only when people are looking to learn from one another with an open mind. This ability to think that they may have something to learn from the other person is what makes people good listeners. An important reason behind Modi’s excellent conversation skills is that he sees himself as a constant learner. He may be the prime minister, but he still thinks he can look to learn something from everyone, young or old.A good anchor should be sufficiently knowledgeable about different topics to hold the conversation with people from different domains. This ability to be a constant learner has not only helped Modi converse better with people, but has also helped him in a different way. He knows quite a lot about many topics. He has said many times that he has spent some time in most districts of India, especially before he began to hold national positions in his party. Being among the people has helped him gain great knowledge about India’s vastly diverse people and cultures, which one cannot get from books or newspapers; it’s practical knowledge. This is the sort of knowledge that, if one wants a media parallel, separates an anchor who has reporting experience from a studio-bred anchor who does not have experience of the heat and dust outside.In a recent interaction organised by Niti Aayog, Modi was speaking to a few bureaucrats and technology experts on skill mapping- and employment-related issues. I came away impressed by the precise questions he asked on connecting people with skills, employability, social infrastructure in worker clusters, rating of companies based on how they take care of employees and forecasting of manpower requirements in upcoming industrial clusters. He elevated the level of conversation with his specific questions and inputs that even the panellists could not help saying that it inspired them to think deeper.A similar trend was seen across the multiple interactions he had during the coronavirus pandemic with media, doctors, and various other sections of society. He spoke with specifics at hand, calmed everyone and made everyone remember why they were doing what they were doing.Indians are generally passionate about conversations. This is the reason why Modi’s conversations, be it “Fit India Dialogue” or Mann Ki Baat or a host of other such conversations are avidly followed by people. However, the “X factor” in all of them is Modi. The most articulate orators are good at mass communication which is often unidirectional. However, Modi is a rare phenomenon who is both a mass communicator as well as an excellent moderator in multi-directional communication. In fact, given the “aggression” in news studios of late, some anchors can take a leaf or two out of Modi’s book, that research, preparation, and composure create enriching conversations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/decoding-the-secret-of-modi-s-communication-analysis/story-OwnVGIqcvGob9GVAofVLQO.html
07-10-2020||News||Covid-19 vaccine: India’s key role in ending the pandemic | Analysis||At the turn of the century, the new infections of HIV/AIDS were on the decline in high-income countries, primarily because of the rollout of highly effective anti-retrovirals (ARVs). However, in sub-Saharan Africa, the virus continued to ravage the population. Of the 34 million global cases, more than two thirds of all infections were in that region and many of those infected were young people or children who could not afford the high costs of treatment. In 2000, less than one per cent of people living with HIV in low- and middle-income countries had access to treatment.That same year, activists, experts and leaders from Indian generic-producing pharmaceutical groups came together and agreed to produce lifesaving ARVs at a fraction of the cost (less than a dollar a day for the triple therapy) and distribute them across low- and middle-income countries. Those efforts paid off with tens of millions of lives being saved as treatment rates increased exponentially. It also provided a blueprint for how new health technologies, including diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines can be effectively scaled up and priced so that they’re accessible to those that need them most. Now,after Covid-19 has taken its millionth life, India once again has the opportunity to take the lead in tackling a pandemic by acting in solidarity and utilising its world-leading industries for the benefit of all. And the good news from the United Nations General Assembly is that Prime Minister Narendra Modi committed to the global fight against Covid-19: “As the largest vaccine producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today. India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis.” Furthermore, Indian manufacturers recently pledged to make hundreds of millions of Covid-19 doses available for low- and middle-income nations in 2021 as part of an expanded distribution effort that again demonstrated Indian’s global leadership. Covid-19 has hit India hard in recent months, but there are promising signs that the epidemiological curve is starting to flatten. Key to controlling the outbreak has been the ability to scale up testing, enabling health officials to treat those who are sick and trace their contacts to break the chains of transmission. This is not the first time our country has tackled an infectious disease, which many said would be impossible to wipe out. It has now been nine years since India saw its last case of polio, and it was a combination of government leadership, millions of health workers trained to identify and isolate cases, continuous innovation in the delivery systems – including new ways to record child vaccination and electronic registries – and a safe and effective vaccine that led to its elimination. An effective vaccine is unsurprisingly a major focus of the world’s current response to Covid-19. Laboratories across the world are working around the clock to design and deliver an effective inoculation in record time, with some products already in phase three trials, which is the final stage of testing whether a vaccine is safe and effective for widespread rollout. In this regard, India has been on the forefront of bringing the world together. Along with now 167 countries, it has joined the COVAX Facility, which has the biggest and most diverse Covid-19 vaccine portfolio in the world. The facility set up by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and the World Health Organization (WHO) is designed to ensure that as new vaccines are discovered, they are shared effectively around the world. This ensures that those who are most at risk – including health care workers and the vulnerable – are protected first. To do this, WHO has designed an allocation framework that means all countries involved in COVAX will receive a supply of its approved safe and effective vaccines. This isn’t just the morally right choice; it’s also the smart economic choice because by sharing a limited supply of vaccines equitably, countries can vaccinate high-risk populations. Rejecting vaccine nationalism and coordinating across borders will ultimately save many more lives, help to stabilise health systems across the world and ensure a truly global economic recovery. COVAX has outlined an ambitious goal to scale up vaccine production so that two billion doses are available by the end of 2021. Long considered the pharmacy capital of the world, India, which already supplies large amounts of medicines and vaccines to global health programmes such as PEPFAR, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis and Gavi, will have a key role in achieving that wide-scale roll out of a Covid-19 vaccine.India was at the forefront of the AIDS crisis and continues to be a major force in driving research and development on Covid-19, vaccine preventable diseases like rotavirus and neglected tropical disease. By joining the COVAX Facility, we have once again sent out a powerful message to countries across the world that India is committed to working across borders to fight disease and improve health for all. Our nation is home to some of the brightest minds in health, medicine, and logistics, and it is right that we should share that expertise with others to ensure that, as a global community, we are more the sum of ours parts in our response to Covid-19.Dr Soumya Swaminathan is Chief Scientist at the World Health Organization The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-vaccine-india-s-key-role-in-ending-the-pandemic-analysis/story-HiAssMfWqfgv23sKPKro0K.html
07-10-2020||News||A new science, tech innovation policy||The Covid-19 pandemic triggered the worst global catastrophe since World War II. The world economy has hit one of the worst recessions ever.However, extraordinary situations need extraordinary responses. Despite the economic distress caused by the pandemic, India has launched several comprehensive and forward-looking policies, which will bring about a paradigm shift in national development. From the National Education Policy (NEP) to the Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission and other associated reforms, a serious attempt is being made to steer the country towards self-sufficiency, and adopting innovative solutions to foster sustainable growth, secure jobs, and increase competitive abilities.A wave of transformation is discernible in all sectors of the economy. It is in the same manner that we are fine-tuning the role of science, technology and innovation (STI) to tackle emerging social, economic and environmental challenges. Keeping the new world order in mind, the task of re-energising the economy is now being undertaken through the finalisation of a new national Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy (STIP) 2020. The foundational values of the proposed STIP-2020 are being inclusive, expert-driven, bottom-up, decentralised, inclusive, evidence-based, and knowledge-supported.STIP-2020 is being launched by the government at a crucial juncture. A policy that aims to transform must be adaptive to dynamic change. STIP-2020 is India’s fifth policy on science and technology and is being finalised amid unprecedented circumstances, in the backdrop of the global pandemic and resultant economic distress. The current situation demands a considerable departure from previous policies in terms of processes and outcomes.There is no doubt that we need to encourage more social “experimentation” and implement a policy that will ensure disruptive social entrepreneurship in all sectors. Therefore, the new policy seeks to provide space for initiatives to protect the diversity of innovation, harness entrepreneurial potential and steer qualitative change in people’s lives. This is the only way to tackle the kind of sustainability crises that we are facing at the moment and also prevent them in the future.We have tried to change the entire STI ecosystem in the last six years. It has undergone a rapid transformation in terms of relevance, scope, and scale. These changes must reflect in our policy positions to ensure a long-term development trajectory and vision for the country. Moreover, Covid-19 has introduced some new learnings and added different dimensions to the STI ecosystem.Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has given a clarion call to achieve Atmanirbhar Bharat. This will need a greater focus on the development of indigenous technologies and encouragement to grassroots-level innovation. This is the opportune time to build strong connectivity among government, academia and industry. The country must take advantage of the emergence of disruptive and impactful technologies. The government’s focus on equity and inclusion issues is becoming much more relevant than ever before.India’s STI growth trajectory over recent years has been impressive. Our entry into the club of the top 50 countries in the global innovation Index with a rank of 48 (a massive improvement from 81st place in 2015) speaks volumes for our potential. Keeping this as a top priority, the new STI policy aims to address issues at the grassroots and build a long-term pathway, which will fulfil the dreams and aspirations of millions of young Indian scientists and students. This can be achieved only through an inclusive and participatory policy formulation process. Hence, the STIP-2020 process has been divided into four interlinked consultation tracks.Track-I involves extended public and expert consultations carried out by the Science Policy Forum that aim to reach out to Indians citizens across the world, for their comments and feedback. Track-II relates to expert consultations through 21 thematic group discussions. Track-III includes consultations with ministries (including line ministries) and states/Union Territories in keeping with a decentralised approach and Track-IV comprises apex-level consultations and advice.A total of 150 categories of stakeholder consultations have taken place so far, in which more than 25,000 people participated and held extensive discussions. STIP-2020 will also address some key issues such as increasing the expenditure on research and development (R&D) to 2% of the gross domestic product, private sector contribution to R&D, technology indigenisation and self-reliance, equity, and inclusion, mainstreaming traditional knowledge systems, strengthening industry-academia-government interconnectedness, ease of doing research, science-diplomacy strategy and building strong Centre-state partnerships.I am confident that STIP-2020 will lend an impetus to strategies which contribute not only to economic growth and productive diversification, but also to sustainable and inclusive development. I expect STIP-2020 to be a true enabler of transformation for the nation. Harsh Vardhan is Union minister for science & technology, earth sciences, health, & family welfare. This article is a part of a series on STIP-2020 The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-new-science-tech-innovation-policy/story-CMgJoTbX3Fg5k4WnNsnLQM.html
07-10-2020||News||Alternative medical tools against Covid-19||In the absence of a proven vaccine against Sars-CoV-2, exploring alternative ways to combat the disease is key. The development of targeted reactivated antibodies, discovering new antiviral molecules and other effective tools of immunotherapy could provide a boost to immunity against the virus. “Designer antibodies”, with neutralising ability for the virus, have become an important tool in treating infectious diseases. The best example is that of a lethal infectious disease caused by the Ebola virus. Researchers developed a therapeutic antibody cocktail involving two fundamentally different antibodies, one from a genetically-humanised mouse and the other from a human survivor with the same disease. Humanised mice are commonly used as small animal models in biomedical research. Their immune system is modified such that it becomes an efficient source of naturally-selected fully human antibodies. In a recent paper published in Science, scientists at Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. exploited the same technology to successfully generate pairs of highly potent antibodies against the coronavirus spike protein, which could be used as a therapeutic antibody cocktail aimed at minimising the viral load in patients with Covid-19. But why does one need a cocktail of two antibodies? It turns out that individual antibodies, no matter how good, are not potent enough against a devastating disease such as Covid-19 since the virus is able to find ways to escape being neutralised. Regeneron, on September 29, announced the first data of their phase 1/2/3 clinical trial of an investigational antibody cocktail, REGN-COV2. The trial involving 275 patients showed reduced viral load and improved symptoms in non-hospitalised patients. The greatest improvement was observed those who had failed to mount their own effective immune response prior to treatment, suggesting that such a “designer antibody” could emerge as a substitute for the naturally occurring immune response. No unexpected side-ffects have so far been recorded. The results of the trial have generated so much of confidence that physicians have opted to treat United States (US) President Donald Trump with this “experimental antibody”, with a large dose of eight grams, as against the usual dose of 2.4g. The second weapon for controlling the spread of the coronavirus is based on a better understanding of the mechanism driving its high infectivity. In a paper published in Science, a team of researchers at the University of Bristol unexpectedly found molecules of a free fatty acid, namely linoleic acid (LA), buried in a tailor-made pocket within the receptor-binding domain of the virus protein. Using the powerful imaging technique, electron cryo-microscopy (Cryo-EM), they were able to decipher the structure of the virus Protein LA complex at a near-atomic resolution. LA is a constituent of linseed oil, used in many industrial processes including the manufacture of linoleum. It is indispensable for many cellular functions including maintenance of cell membranes in the lungs so that we can breathe properly. It plays a vital role in inflammation and immune modulation and is the most likely molecule to which the Sars-CoV-2 attaches itself in order to enter the human body. The next step is to develop a drug that could distort the virus spike protein and prevent it from attaching to the molecules of LA. The third strategy is based on interferons (IFNs), that get released by host cells in response to the presence of several viruses. Besides their antiviral properties, these molecules play an important role in anti-tumour and immunomodulatory responses. Of the various varieties, type 1 IFN-a is known to influence the development of innate and adaptive immune responses against viral infections. In a study published in Science, Paul Bastard and colleagues have reported that in about 10% of patients with serious Covid-19, the interferon response gets crippled by the development of neutralising IgG auto-antibodies that attack IFNs itself at the onset of critical disease. Interestingly, none of the 663 people in a control group with mild or asymptomatic Sars-CoV-2 infection had these rogue antibodies. An interesting feature of this study is that the majority of patients with IFN-attacking antibodies are males (94%) with half of the gravely ill being over 65 years of age. This helps explain why older men face a higher risk of severe disease. The study raises an important possibility. Could synthetic IFNs given before or soon after the infection help block the virus before it causes severe disease? Interferon therapy has already been approved as immune-boosters in several diseases, including cancer and hepatitis. Several trials have already been initiated for Covid-19 at a dozen universities in the US and Europe and their results point to IFN safety and faster clearance of the virus, particularly if the therapy is initiated early. The Covid-19-era has witnessed unprecedented swiftness in scientific collaboration. Several welcome possibilities have emerged and these have the potential to protect the high-risk health care workers, while also lessening the severity of Covid-19 in hospitalised patients until the vaccine becomes available. In the absence of a proven vaccine against Sars-CoV-2, exploring alternative ways to combat the disease is key. The development of targeted reactivated antibodies, discovering new antiviral molecules and other effective tools of immunotherapy could provide a boost to immunity against the virus. “Designer antibodies”, with neutralising ability for the virus, have become an important tool in treating infectious diseases. The best example is that of a lethal infectious disease caused by the Ebola virus. Researchers developed a therapeutic antibody cocktail involving two fundamentally different antibodies, one from a genetically-humanised mouse and the other from a human survivor with the same disease. Humanised mice are commonly used as small animal models in biomedical research. Their immune system is modified such that it becomes an efficient source of naturally-selected fully human antibodies. In a recent paper published in Science, scientists at Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. exploited the same technology to successfully generate pairs of highly potent antibodies against the coronavirus spike protein, which could be used as a therapeutic antibody cocktail aimed at minimising the viral load in patients with Covid-19. But why does one need a cocktail of two antibodies? It turns out that individual antibodies, no matter how good, are not potent enough against a devastating disease such as Covid-19 since the virus is able to find ways to escape being neutralised. Regeneron, on September 29, announced the first data of their phase 1/2/3 clinical trial of an investigational antibody cocktail, REGN-COV2. The trial involving 275 patients showed reduced viral load and improved symptoms in non-hospitalised patients. The greatest improvement was observed those who had failed to mount their own effective immune response prior to treatment, suggesting that such a “designer antibody” could emerge as a substitute for the naturally occurring immune response. No unexpected side-ffects have so far been recorded. The results of the trial have generated so much of confidence that physicians have opted to treat United States (US) President Donald Trump with this “experimental antibody”, with a large dose of eight grams, as against the usual dose of 2.4g. The second weapon for controlling the spread of the coronavirus is based on a better understanding of the mechanism driving its high infectivity. In a paper published in Science, a team of researchers at the University of Bristol unexpectedly found molecules of a free fatty acid, namely linoleic acid (LA), buried in a tailor-made pocket within the receptor-binding domain of the virus protein. Using the powerful imaging technique, electron cryo-microscopy (Cryo-EM), they were able to decipher the structure of the virus Protein LA complex at a near-atomic resolution. LA is a constituent of linseed oil, used in many industrial processes including the manufacture of linoleum. It is indispensable for many cellular functions including maintenance of cell membranes in the lungs so that we can breathe properly. It plays a vital role in inflammation and immune modulation and is the most likely molecule to which the Sars-CoV-2 attaches itself in order to enter the human body. The next step is to develop a drug that could distort the virus spike protein and prevent it from attaching to the molecules of LA. The third strategy is based on interferons (IFNs), that get released by host cells in response to the presence of several viruses. Besides their antiviral properties, these molecules play an important role in anti-tumour and immunomodulatory responses. Of the various varieties, type 1 IFN-a is known to influence the development of innate and adaptive immune responses against viral infections. In a study published in Science, Paul Bastard and colleagues have reported that in about 10% of patients with serious Covid-19, the interferon response gets crippled by the development of neutralising IgG auto-antibodies that attack IFNs itself at the onset of critical disease. Interestingly, none of the 663 people in a control group with mild or asymptomatic Sars-CoV-2 infection had these rogue antibodies. An interesting feature of this study is that the majority of patients with IFN-attacking antibodies are males (94%) with half of the gravely ill being over 65 years of age. This helps explain why older men face a higher risk of severe disease. The study raises an important possibility. Could synthetic IFNs given before or soon after the infection help block the virus before it causes severe disease? Interferon therapy has already been approved as immune-boosters in several diseases, including cancer and hepatitis. Several trials have already been initiated for Covid-19 at a dozen universities in the US and Europe and their results point to IFN safety and faster clearance of the virus, particularly if the therapy is initiated early. The Covid-19-era has witnessed unprecedented swiftness in scientific collaboration. Several welcome possibilities have emerged and these have the potential to protect the high-risk health care workers, while also lessening the severity of Covid-19 in hospitalised patients until the vaccine becomes available. Dr Narinder Kumar Mehra is Indian Council of Medical Research Emeritus Scientist (Hon) and former Dean, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/alternative-medical-tools-against-covid-19/story-B7mqN8u9JmN7SboF5NqIsK.html
