09-10-2020||News||The lack of mobility hinders the India story||There has been a lot of discussion in the public domain lately about dynasties and nepotism in fields ranging from the film world to politics. Let’s look at nepotism. What is wrong with people going into a family business or following the family tradition into professions such as medicine, acting, or politics?The obvious answer is that this gives the person an unfair advantage because those with similar abilities and who have put in as much effort could have very different outcomes, depending on their background. One could argue that while this is true, those who get an opportunity through family ties still have to perform well. So, from a broader perspective, isn’t there a zero-sum aspect to this? One person getting a favour deprives another person, but the total gains and losses cancel out, don’t they? This is not true. Nepotism imposes not just individual costs but wider social and economic costs. Those with family connections don’t face the same level of competition as outsiders, exactly as domestic companies face much less competition when there are import barriers. Breaking in is much harder for an outsider than it is for an insider as the pool of outsiders is much wider and those who have the talent may never get the opportunity to showcase it. Therefore, there is a loss of potential output or value to society because of the resulting misallocation of talent.That is a direct negative effect. There is comprehensive evidence that family firms are often beset by inefficiency, with bad management affecting the productivity of the entire organisation. There are further indirect negative effects of nepotism on efficiency. If it is known that rewards depend on connections and not on effort and initiative, it would divert people’s efforts away from productive work to networking and lobbying.So, how does nepotism persist? Why aren’t there some corrective forces at work that would chip away at the inefficiencies and let talent blossom? Standard economic logic would imply that market competition would push out bad products and bad performers. After all, talent is a resource and if it is inefficiently deployed, it should be in someone’s interest to exploit a market opportunity — exactly as we would expect land that could be prized real estate not to remain unused. There are two main reasons why this may not happen.First, there are often explicit barriers to competition. This gives incumbent groups monopoly power and enables inefficient practices such as nepotism to flourish. Examples of such entry barriers include economic institutions such as monopolies, syndicates and cartels; social institutions such as the caste system and patriarchy; and policies that prevent the inflow of workers, goods and services from outside, such as anti-immigration laws and protectionism. Here, potential competitors are explicitly excluded and, therefore, insiders get undue advantage because of restricted competition. However, the losses of outsiders and the gains of insiders do not cancel each other out. Because of restricted competition, there is a loss to society from lack of access to the best technologies, products, skills and services.Second, a less open and subtle channel of nepotism has to do with the fact that in certain domains, it is not easy to come up with an objective measure of quality. It is hard for a bad mobile phone to survive in the market or a mediocre sportsperson to survive international competition. The ordinary consumer can separate the good from the bad and the marketplace would tend to weed out the bad. But for many professions, quality or performance is not that visible or cannot be readily and independently verified. In the case of research, for example, evaluation of quality is based on peer-review. By their very nature, these opinions are based on information and judgement that outsiders cannot hold up to scrutiny. Therefore, to the extent the opinions of experts, referrals, reputation, endorsements, and networks are necessary to certify quality in any field, they become a potential breeding ground for nepotism.Of course, nepotism is just one of the symptoms of a much of broader issue — the lack of mobility. In a mobile society, where family background does not determine what occupation someone enters or where one is located — a lot of the kind of conflicts (pro-farmer vs pro-business, pro-worker vs pro-industry) we see around us would be less relevant. Even though average levels of income and educational outcomes have improved following economic liberalisation, mobility remains low overall, whether in occupation or educational attainment.How to facilitate mobility is the real challenge, not the stale debate about redistribution versus growth. Policies that reduce the barriers that the less-advantaged face usually come from the Left, while reforms that facilitate greater competition are advocated by the Right. These are, in fact, complementary as far as mobility is concerned: The greater the competition in product and labour markets, the higher the demand for talent and skills, and policies helping the disadvantaged but meritorious acquire necessary skills and training will push up supply. How to design such policies and whether we will have the political will and the State capacity to implement them, as always, are the main challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-lack-of-mobility-hinders-the-india-story/story-S0bXf5WXgulWMfKfRzUBvJ.html
09-10-2020||News||Boosting India’s mental health care apparatus||Mental health has had its Cinderella moment this year. From being the neglected and stigmatised domain of health care, it has become, in the wake of the socio-economic upheaval caused by Covid-19, the newest woke slogan. Public health experts, media, policymakers, self-styled gurus and social media influencers, among others, have expressed their views on this in the past six months. Everyone has a story and a solution; but little has changed on the ground. Many myths about mental health remain in our collective thinking — those who face mental health problems are weak; seeking help makes one dependent; psychiatric medicines are addictive; and psychotherapy and counselling can alter people’s thinking instantly. In a recent study in Lancet on the Burden of Mental Health in India, it was reported that, in 2017, there were 197.3 million people with mental disorders, comprising 14·3% of the total population. Mental disorders contributed 4·7% to the total Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY) in India in 2017 as compared to approximately 2·5% in 1990 (one DALY essentially being one lost year of “healthy” life). Various studies have reported that the treatment gap is as high as 95%. Treatment, even when available, is largely focussed on medicines. Access to psychological and social interventions for mental health problems is not available to most people. The more vulnerable — children in institutions and in need of care and protection, the homeless, women who face violence, people living in conflict areas and those facing discrimination due to identity and disability — are the least likely to have access to mental health services. One of the key barriers to access is the lack of mental health human resources. The World Health Organization’s Mental Health Atlas in 2017 documents that India has around a total of 25,000 mental health workers. India spends 1.3% of its health budget on mental health. The current strategies for developing human resource are focussed on training more psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, psychiatric nurses and psychiatric social workers, whose numbers are woefully inadequate. But if all commissions for women, child care and protection organisations, schools, universities, employee-assistance schemes, neighbourhood clinics and wellness centres were to integrate mental health in the services they provide (as required by the law), the need for mental health human resources would be a few hundred thousand skilled professionals. If access to mental health services for all has to become a reality, we have to rethink the current traditional definition of mental health human resources and revamp the methodology for developing these.In an article to be published in Indian Journal of Social Psychiatry, a case has been made to synchronise the mental health human resource strategy with the development of community mental health services. India needs to work towards a three-tiered mental health workforce comprising associates, practitioners and specialists. The associates would be the primary level workers for mental health interventions at the village or urban cluster-level. They would make up a new cadre of frontline community mental health workers which can be set up by repurposing the present Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) cadre, first-response community development workers or members of women’s self-help groups. More importantly, employment guarantee schemes in both rural and urban areas could include community mental first aid as one of the activities which qualify as work provided by them.The mental health associates would be the first point of contact, and would be able to form empathetic relationships, support people in decision-making and work with an individual or a group of individuals under supervision. They would also work towards increasing awareness and linking people to crisis intervention and secondary and tertiary mental health services.The next level, practitioners, would form the spine of mental health service delivery and would be graduates with specific training in community mental health. Their competencies would include supporting adaptive coping programmes; providing online behavioural and cognitive interventions; supporting care and protection processes in residential and community settings; facilitating informed choices, independence, safety, dignity, privacy and participation in everyday life for those living with mental health problems. These practitioners would also start conversations and galvanise communities around initiatives to challenge stigma and facilitate inclusion.The specialists would include the current mental health professionals, but would also strategically allow post-graduates in psychology and social work to upgrade their skills through an advanced diploma in community mental health. They will provide leadership, training, tertiary services and supervision.We have lived with the legacy of institutional care mechanisms and related limitations of human resource planning for too long. The current pandemic should precipitate a disruptive change. It must be used to not only mitigate the present psycho-social impact, but lay the foundations for a more comprehensive network of mental health services in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/boosting-india-s-mental-health-care-apparatus/story-olc40ZPR4krIxAqKi41jjL.html
09-10-2020||News||Use technology to improve governance||A memorable quote paraphrased from the Arthashastra by Kautilya goes: “It is as difficult to prevent a government servant from corruption as to prevent a fish from drinking water.” This suggests that corruption is not a new phenomenon.The East India Company is known to have struggled to keep corruption in check. In fact, the problem of corruption in the social and political spheres has often come in for strident criticism.This issue has triggered several measures aimed at enhancing integrity in public life – the enactment of the Public Procurement Bill, Lokpal Act incorporating, inter alia, the disclosure of assets by public servants and reforms in higher judicial appointments to name a few. While there are divergent positions in terms of strategies and focus areas, the one point of convergence is the unanimous acceptance that technology and e-governance promotes greater transparency.It has been five years since the adoption of the United Nation (UN)’s sustainable development goals (SDGs) by India and other member states. It can be argued that corruption in public life, directly or indirectly, adversely affects the achievement of all 17 SDGs. A proactive and preventive vigilance regime is critical to the realisation of these SDGs. Governments are expectedly risk-averse in dealing with both public policies and public money while enterprises thrive on risk-taking. This often hobbles the entrepreneurial spirit in the public sector. How do we make governance more effective without inhibiting its objectives? Today, administrative affairs grapple with leakages in public delivery of welfare and development goals on account one critical problem— manual processes that can be very easily manipulated. These are often so complex and laborious that even a well-intentioned public servant is, on occasion, chary of implementing beneficial decisions. Technology can cut through much of these daunting processes.In the recent discourse on procurement methods, transparency of policy, procedure and practices is increasingly being seen as an imperative when utilising public money.However, transparency is not an end in itself. The whole process must be open to public scrutiny. The transparency of procedure as seen in online applications is one of the simple yet effective features of digitisation, as it shifts the onus of submitting correct information and data to the applicant. In an effort to plug leakages in procurement systems, the government launched the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) in 2016 for goods and services required by central and state governments, and public sector undertakings. This not only made it simpler to procure goods and services but also significantly impacted cost savings. An assessment by the Centre for Public Impact showed that the savings from the implementation of GeM has been substantial. The price reduction of approximately 56% of goods and services coupled with demand aggregation has led to savings of ₹40,000 crores annually. Given the fact that the public procurement economy in India constitutes about 20% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), it is imperative to build on this initiative with a view to onboard as many goods and services as possible. In the next decade, the business of government is going to experience massive disruptions. This comes on the back of technological enhancements that reduce the need for intermediaries and ensure that the sanctity of process remains unimpeachable. One such technology is blockchain. NITI Aayog released a discussion paper earlier this year, in which it identified use-cases where the technology can potentially improve governance ranging from tracing of drugs in the pharmaceutical supply chain to verification of education certificates. The three key principles of blockchain technology are transparency, decentralisation and accountability. One of the most productive areas of intervention for this technology would be in land records. A vast developing country like India, with its diverse land tenure systems, is bound to have major problems in this area. The system is riddled with inefficiencies that reduce trust in the government. Currently the United Nations Development Programme is involved in Proof of Concept (POC) pilots across India. This is to create an immutable history of transactional records that helps in checking authenticity; create a tamper-proof system to avoid forgery; create a distributed ledger so that all stakeholders see the same information and set up a secure encrypted environment, where updates are available in near real time. The NITI Aayog paper notes that, in order to ensure that transactions are not fraudulent, the physical presence of witnesses is mandated at the time of sales deed registry. Deployment of blockchain would potentially eliminate the need of these processes while maintaining the sanctity of the transaction. This has several spin-off benefits. It helps create a tamper-proof audit trail that allows for tracking decision-making and ensures that such decisions are in accordance with anti-corruption principles. It addresses concerns around cyber security that come with any effort towards digitisation. Currently there are interesting pilots being conducted across the world, where deployment of blockchain is being tested for public procurement. From the perspective of Internal Controls and Governance (Vigilance), it is strongly recommended to employ a five-part test while assessing such deviations from process: One, whether the issue being pursued has corruption connotations; two, the general reputation of the employee involved; three, whether better options were available and ignored without valid reasoning; four, whether the situation inhibited the selection of any other option but the one finally chosen; and, five, whether the larger interest of the organisation was safeguarded.However, a significant factor in blockchain’s success will be the ability to develop/reform laws and building robust data protection and maintenance regimes. Until such time, blockchain is not likely to have a significant impact in creating an integrity-first governance ecosystem. The general environment now is in favour of a regime which ensures that companies not only do profitable business but do so in an ethical manner. The United Nations Convention against Corruption ratified by India in 2011 as well as the anti-corruption principles of the the Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development (OECD) cover a wide swathe of vulnerable areas and aspects of business operations including anti-bribery, public procurement and conflict of interest. Going forward, more countries will be obliged to establish laws and mechanisms to ensure clean business operations.India needs to review its existing legal frameworks to address issues around, inter alia, data security, corrupt practices and corporate governance with a view to address anti-corruption objectives. The government made a significant change to the Prevention of Corruption Act in 2018. In the earlier regime, even honest public officials were harassed if a decision provided pecuniary advantage to a person without any public interest. Now the element of intention has been added under the definition of criminal misconduct. Similarly, broadening the definition of “unfair advantage” and the introduction of corporate criminal liability will go a long way in apprehending or deterring those indulging in bribery. While these amendments will help guide the work of internal control agencies, it is important to institutionalise a system where compliance and established processes can be routinely checked and quantified. A metrics-based system for oversight in governmental processes will bring about transparency, build trust with citizens and spur further digital innovation to make any administration more robust. We must also focus on the well-intentioned public servant who finds the processes leading to greater transparency and ensuring value for taxpayers’ money cumbersome and who is, therefore, tempted to short-circuit these. Well-intentioned though she may be, any attempt to overwrite the processes despite even demonstrable honesty of purpose, carries the major risk of opening the system to misuse by dishonest players and will lead to the loss of public trust and decimation of the structure of public procurement. It is only through robust yet streamlined procedures that a bureaucrat can achieve the intended outcome and avoid unintended consequences. Rajesh Ranjan is an Indian Police Service officer The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/use-technology-to-improve-governance/story-suvMkrNUIETDsA2ghdJRPM.html
09-10-2020||News||Covid-19 should force India to think about its elderly population||In the last six months, Covid-19 has exposed the collective neglect and ignorance on how we take care of our elderly. While certain mitigating measures have been put in place, this would be an opportune time to consider a fundamental shift in re-imagining elderly care. The western model of moving older people to specialised care homes is being re-examined as such communities in the United States (US) and Europe have become epicentres of Covid-19-related fatalities. This is despite such facilities having high-grade infrastructure, trained personnel and proper safety protocols. A recent article by Dileep Mavalankar and Jallavi Panchamia of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar, in these pages, focused on India’s old age homes which seem to have staved off the coronavirus so far. But, as rightly pointed out by the authors, more data-based and scientific research needs to be done to study the full impact of Covid-19 in old age homes. The Association of Senior Living India (ASLI), an industry body representing senior care in India, has played a vital role in allowing members to share information, and learn from best practices on how the senior living industry can manage better infection control and Covid-support systems.Of the 110 million elderly population in India, not more than a few thousand stay in senior living/old age homes. Over 99% either stay alone or with their children and most want to remain in their homes. It is important to find ways to empower older people to continue to live safe, secure, healthy and engaged lives in the place they love the most — their home. It is now clear that even after vaccines become available, the challenges the elderly, who are more vulnerable, will face are likely to continue. The current health care system looks at the elderly as “patients” suffering from a particular disease. This disease-centric view in the health care industry often ignores the fact that most older people have multiple co-morbidities, and both they and their family members are unaware of the complex inter-relationships between disease treatments. The increasing trend towards nuclear families, job-related migration, shifting social norms, and an increasing preference among elders to stay independent make their lives more vulnerable. In many ways, the life of an older person is disconnected — disconnected from health care, transportation, home-support systems, emergency systems, and most important, social engagement. Social distancing is something the elderly have experienced for decades now. However, if technology and a greater understanding of their needs are interweaved, they can have the choice of remaining at home. Several neighbourhoods and resident welfare associations have recently demonstrated that there are possibilities where inter-generational teams can take the responsibility for addressing the needs of the elderly in the community. Older people connected with offline and online communities can finally look forward to dealing with a “pandemic” they have faced all along, that of loneliness. Better technologies and sensors facilitate their staying at home and yet have the community at just a click away. The problem lies in the perception that there is something wrong with becoming an older person. Old age is no different from other stages of evolution. But our collective imagination has stopped thinking beyond adulthood and billions of dollars are spent on the “being young” mindset. We need a more productive dialogue among the elderly, their associations, civic bodies, urban designers and health care leaders on how we can have a long-term, partnered, inclusive and holistic care approach for the elderly. Systems for taking care of the elderly have failed across the world. The solutions call for innovation and inclusion. Perhaps India can show the way. Saumyajit Roy is co-founder, EMOHA elder care The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-should-force-india-to-think-about-its-elderly-population/story-gvj88qjoJffFG5ybI13ztN.html
09-10-2020||News||The Babri verdict is a step towards peace||On September 30, after 28 years, a special court in Lucknow acquitted all the 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. It found no credible evidence to support the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)’s charges that the demolition of the disputed structure on December 6, 1992, was a premeditated conspiracy by the accused. It held that it was a spontaneous act, beyond the control of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and other leaders present at the site on the day. The controversy started when following permission from the Supreme Court (SC), and under the watch of an observer appointed by it, hundreds of thousands of kar sevaks congregated in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, to perform a symbolic kar seva, an expression of the religious sentiments of worshippers of Ram at a distance from the structure. The assembly was never declared unlawful by any authority. However, without the knowledge of the kar seva organisers, certain stray groups inveigled themselves into the crowd of kar sevaks, broke the barricades, and moved towards the disputed structure. Defying the orders of the authorities and requests from the kar sevaks, these groups began demolishing the structure. Meanwhile, the kar seva organisers were left stranded on the dais at the Ram Katha Kunj on the orders of the authorities, helpless to prevent the demolition. Speaking of that day, senior BJP leader, LK Advani, stated in an interview that December 6, 1992, was the saddest day of his life.Subsequent to the demolition, two FIRs were filed at the Ram Janmabhoomi police station. These were politically motivated and aimed at maligning the BJP and other leaders present in Ayodhya. In the first FIR, filed against unknown persons, the time of demolition was recorded as 12 pm, while in the second FIR, filed against Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and six others, 10 minutes after the first FIR, the time of demolition was recorded as 10 am. During the subsequent trial, this inconsistency could never be satisfactorily explained by the prosecution or the witnesses. The FIRs started off as being two separate investigations, first by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the crime branch and then by CBI. Subsequently, the cases were transferred from Lalitpur to Rae Bareli to Lucknow, with one of the cases being transferred back to Rae Bareli and then finally being clubbed together by the SC in 2017 to be heard by a special court in Lucknow.At various junctures, proceedings against some of the accused were dropped and then reinstated. During this long, arduous period, multiple appeals were filed, both by the accused and the prosecution.Finally, the SC gave Surendra Kumar Yadav, Special Judge, Ayodhya Prakaran, the task of concluding the trial with categorical directions that he not to be transferred till it was completed. The charge-sheet was initially filed by CBI in 1993 and subsequently a supplementary charge-sheet was filed in 1996. The Congress was in power when the investigation was conducted. The prosecution produced 351 witnesses and 625 pieces of evidence, including photographs, audio and video cassettes and newspaper and magazine reports. Despite this, the sheer lack of primary evidence proved that the prosecution’s case had no solid ground. Under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, secondary evidence can be relied upon only if the lack of primary evidence is explained to the satisfaction of the court. As noted by the special court, no such explanation was forthcoming. On the various charges brought against the accused, including those under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 153B (imputations prejudicial to national integration) and 505 (statements conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, the special court noted that none could be proved against any of the accused. Primarily, this was attributed to the broken chain of custody of the audio and video cassettes with absence of analysis by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) to confirm their veracity. In the 2,300-page-long verdict, the special court analysed all aspects of the case, including witness testimonies and the evidence produced in great detail and came to the conclusion that none of the charges were sustainable.Even the Liberhan Commission had found no evidence of a conspiracy behind the demolition. The order of the special court has now finally vindicated the BJP’s stand that neither its leaders nor any kar sevaks were involved in the demolition. This should help everyone to move forward towards a harmonious future. Bhupender Yadav is national general secretary of the BJP and Rajya Sabha MPThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-babri-verdict-is-a-step-towards-peace/story-Kg2UWBRqgU8oimhHko0fOM.html
