01-04-2020||---||Cops, admn come to poor’s aid||Jalandhar, March 31 As many as 1,532 police personnel have been deployed by the Jalandhar rural police at nakas, for patrolling and other public welfare-related duties owing to the curfew imposed due to coronavirus outbreak.  SSP Jalandhar, Rural, Navjot Mahal said: “A WhatsApp group has also been created to coordinate directions for the meticulous compliance of directions of the administration. The public is also being motivated to ensure compliance and assist the Police Department in maintaining law and order in the district.” He said due to the curfew, all medical stores and grocery shops had been closed. “However, various groups have been formed in the district by halqa supervisory officers and SHOs to provide food, milk, vegetables and other essentials to the needy families. Today, 11,231 packets of cooked food and 3,089 ration kits were disbursed to the needy families. In the last few days, 35,531 packets of cooked food and 11,792 ration kits have been disbursed to the needy,” the SSP said. He said to maintain the protein level of police personnel, they were being provided with chicken and meat at the police mess of all police stations.  Meanwhile, the civil administration distributed 5,400 packets of food material to the needy and underprivileged people, especially migrant labourers working in the city, from its central warehouse, where the relief material is being sent to them. DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said the administration distributed 5,400 packets of dry ration among the needy people on Monday. He said each packet contained 5 kg wheat flour, 5 kg rice, 1 kg sugar, 1 kg pulses and 250 gram tea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-admn-come-to-poors-aid-63990
01-04-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Jalandhar techie develops website for health advice||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, March 31 While the country is going through a serious health crisis, many good Samaritans are also coming forward to help people in one way or the other — be it in kind or cash.  Likewise, a city-based techie Sandeep Kumar Gupta has developed a website that will help people in getting free medical consultation at a single click. With the help of a Delhi-based doctor couple, he has created an online portal — coronafreeworld.com — that will bring doctors and patients under a single roof.  Sandeep Kumar Gupta, director Sakaar Micro Solutions Private Limited, Jalandhar, said: “The free medical consultation service website has been launched for those patients who are seeking healthcare consultation directly from doctors. Without breaking their self-isolation period, patients can virtually chat with doctors and get satisfactory medication and consultation.” Gupta adopted this initiative with the help of Doctor Neeraj Aggarwal, who is an ENT specialist at Hindu Rao Hospital, New Delhi, and his wife Agrima, who is a cancer specialist at Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi. Notably, the doctor couple has already started online consultancy service for people during the lockdown period.  “After visiting the website, patients will first have to register themselves and provide their identification details, so as to verify the authenticity. After submitting their identification, patients will receive an OTP on their registered phone number and subsequently would be connected to the doctors. In addition, the qualification and experience of doctors available on coronafreeworld.com will also be mentioned to clear the doubts of patients,” Gupta said.  Also, the portal has been designed in such a way where any kind of doctor registered with the Medical Council can login. The service has been integrated to execute the communication between the doctor and patient in a virtual manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-techie-develops-website-for-health-advice-63989
01-04-2020||---||Officials take stock of arrangements in city, nearby areas||Jalandhar, March 31 Taking cognisance of large assembly of people at Dilkusha Market, near banks and ATMs on Monday, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar today reviewed law and order situation in the city.   Following the relaxation of curfew for buying milk, vegetables, fruits and other items of daily use,  a large number people came out of their homes taking advantage of the relaxation. Residents defied orders, came out on streets flocking shops and banks. In order to minimise the traffic congestion, the DC and the CP along with other senior offices visited the city and appealed people to stay indoors.  The officers inspected BMC Chowk, New Jawahar Nagar, Model Town, Guru Amardass Chowk, Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, Skylark Chowk, Namdev Chowk, Sri Ram Chowk, Luv Kush (Milap) Chowk, Shashtri Chowk, Madan Flour Mill Chowk, Partap Bagh, Bhagat Singh Chowk, Panj Peer Chowk, Adda Hoshiarpur Chowk, Mai Heeran Gate, Patel Chowk, Workshop Chowk, vegetable and fruit market, Maqsoodan, Jail Chowk, Bhagwan Valmiki (Jyoti) Chowk, Dr BR Ambedkar (Nakodar) Chowk and other areas. Senior police officers also inspected the vulnerable areas of the city and directed the cops to ensure that the curfew was strictly imposed in city.  Bhullar said no one should be allowed to take the law into their hands. The violators will be  booked under Sections 188 and 269 of IPC, he said.  Hoshiarpur: Commissioner Jalandhar Division Raj Kamal Chaudhary said during the curfew restrictions residents would get all items of daily use. The health workers would spray concentration of sodium hypochlorite for disinfecting villages and cities. He was taking stock of the arrangements made by the district administration in a meeting held at the District Administrative Complex here on Tuesday. He also sought the cooperation of social organisations in the hour of crisis. He said the needy persons should be identified and provided with the necessary items. He took information about the persons home quarantined by the Health Department and said these persons should be followed continuously. He also enquired from the jail superintendent about the release of prisoners from the central jail on parole. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said there was no shortage of food items in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/officials-take-stock-of-arrangements-in-city-nearby-areas-63988
01-04-2020||---||RCF to remain shut for two weeks||Jalandhar, March 31 Following the directions of the Railway Board, the operations at the Rail Coach Factory (RCF) will remain suspended till April 14. During these two weeks, the RCF office in Delhi will also remain closed, a release issued by RCF PRO Jitesh Kumar read. The spokesperson said mandatory activities would be carried out on the premises. He said all employees had been asked to stay at their home.  A central control group had been set up inside the campus for the supply of essential items, including medicines, grocery, milk, LPG cylinder, he added.   Ravinder Gupta, General Manager, has asked all employees and their families to stay indoors and abide by the guidelines of the Centre to check the coronavirus spread.   Officials said though they had started conceiving designs to convert non-AC coaches into isolation wards in the event of any eventuality, it had been decided that no new coaches would be converted for the purpose.    “Only old coaches will be modified. It will be carried out at the repair centres. As of date, no work has been allotted to the RCF,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rcf-to-remain-shut-for-two-weeks-63987
01-04-2020||Phagwara||Retiring cops get two-month extension||Amid the ongoing curfew, the state government on Tuesday extended the services of all retiring police personnel and Home Guards till May 31, to strengthen the citizen outreach on the ground. It was confirmed by Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh while talking to The Tribune here today. The orders will also apply to officers/officials whose retirement orders stand issued, said a notification. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/retiring-cops-get-two-month-extension-63985
01-04-2020||---||Control room flooded with queries||Jalandhar, March 31 In Nawanshahr, many residents are frantically calling the control room, set up at the administrative complex, even to know about common cold and cough symptoms.  There is a lingering fear among people even if they are developing minor symptoms in this season. Those who are due for delivery, too, are calling to know as to where they can go amid this problem. Apart from this, NRIs have been calling and asking the staff regarding testing. Labour class and migrant labourers are seeking help in getting ration and food. “Most of the calls that we are receiving are from daily wagers,” a staff member operating the control room said. NGOs and good Samaritans have been lending a helping hand to people who are running out of ration. Cooked food is being served to them at this hour. One of the councillors said the system needs to be more systematic because there was little help from the government. Not only this, NGOs and others must check that the food is equally distributed among the needy and there is no repetition, because in this case, sometimes those who have nothing suffer the most. On the other hand, providing succour to the needy and underprivileged sections of society, the Punjab Government led by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday distributed 4,500 packets of dry ration in the district.  Divulging the details, Additional Chief Administrator, Jalandhar Development Authority, Navneet Kaur Bal, who was overseeing the central warehouse constituted by the administration to ensure the distribution, said these packets were sent to various areas of the district. She said the packets contain 22,500 kg wheat; 22,500 kg rice; 4,500 kg sugar, 4,500 kg pulses, 4,500 bottles of oil and 4,500 packets of tea. Bal said no stone was being left unturned for giving relief to people in this hour of crisis, adding that so far 9,900 packets of dry ration containing 49,500 kg wheat flour; 49,500 kg rice; 9,900 kg pulses; 9,900 packets of tea and 9,900 bottles of oil have been distributed to people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/control-room-flooded-with-queries-63984
01-04-2020||Jalandhar||Promote pre-primary to Class IV students, SCERT tells dist officials||All District Education Officers (DEOs) in the state, in a letter issued by the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) on Tuesday, have been told to promote all students of Classes pre-primary to IV to higher classes irrespective of whether they appeared for exams or not, under the ‘Right to Education (RTE) Act’. “As classes are suspended in the state and all other schools till April 14 in view of coronavirus, it has been decided that students of primary and pre-primary classes, whether appeared in the session ending examination 2019-20 or not due to any reason, should be promoted to the next class under the RTE Act”, the letter reads. Meanwhile, the DEOs have also been asked to convey this message to the class teachers concerned and further forward the message to parents of the students via mobile phones or WhatsApp groups. Harinderpal Singh, DEO (Secondary), confirmed that all students had been promoted to the next classes as results could not be declared in view of the lockdown. He said results of Classes VI, VII, IX and XI had already been declared through WhatsApp and telephone calls and the teachers had started their online counseling for the next classes. “We are also assisting students of Class X via video and audio calls as their board examinations are still pending and would be conducted once the situation normalises,” the DEO said, adding that on the instructions of the Education Secretary, the teachers had started taking revision class of Class X students through Edmodo app and are uploading competitive quiz too for all students. He said all students and teachers through social media were contributing in spreading awareness regarding Covid-19 by asking people to stay inside and adopt every precaution being suggested by  health experts. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/promote-pre-primary-to-class-iv-students-scert-tells-dist-officials-63983
01-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Good doers distribute ration among needy||Jalandhar, March 31 Some good doers have come forward to help homeless and labourers who have been struggling to get food items and ration in view of the restrictions imposed to contain the Covid-19 spread. Members of the Bakhshish International Charitable Society under the leadership of Sant Baba Daljit Singh have been distributing free rations among the needy and are spraying disinfectant in various localities and slum areas. A member of the society said they had so far provided ration to over 400 needy families residing at Quila Mohalla, Kamal Vihar, Basti Sheikh, Chogitti, Kalia Colony, Pathankot Bypass, Ladhewali, Khurla Khingra and among other localities. He said they had distributed packets of ration containing black gram, chickpeas, rice, sugar, wheat flour, tea, salt, potato, onion and cauliflower. Besides, as a preventive measure against the spread of coronavirus, disinfectant was sprayed in many localities and slum areas. “Also, we educated people about maintaining hygiene, washing hands regularly and staying away from each other and follow the government’s instructions,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/good-doers-distribute-ration-among-needy-63982
01-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Passengers seek regular meals at night shelters||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 31There was a time when hardly any visitor was seen at raen baseras (night shelters) of the railway station or the city bus stand, but after the curfew was imposed, both night shelters are full.In the absence of any other accommodation, all stranded passengers, including men, women and children, have been shifted to these shelter homes. However, owing to the inadequate arrangements, passengers and migrants spending their nights here are only counting their days and waiting for the lockdown to get over.“The otherwise empty night shelter at the city railway station is full of people these days. Forget about maintaining 1 metre distance, the passengers are even sharing beds due to the shortage of required number of bedding. Contrary to the capacity of around 42 beds, around 40-45 passengers, who couldn’t make it to their native place, are presently residing at the night shelter,” said Lakhwinder Singh, a helper at the shelter home. Besides, after two women left the shelter home due to medical reasons, two women are still staying here. Some of the local homeless people sleep outside the shelter home.Manmohan Kumar, a 27-year-old youth from Maharashtra, who got stuck due to the cancellation of his train to Mumbai, said: “It’s been six days since I’m staying here. I had gone to Chandigarh for a job interview before the Janta Curfew was announced and after finishing my interview, I went to Amritsar to board the Golden Temple mail. However, when I reached there, I was told that that the train has been cancelled and after spending two days in Amritsar, a local transporter told me that there was a direct bus to Delhi from Jalandhar. Hence, I bought a second hand cycle to reach here but after reaching here, I was shocked to know that there was no such bus. Subsequently, with the help of the police, I came here and am staying at the night shelter since then.”Dependent on NGOs for food, he said the district administration should at least do something to provide regular meals to stranded people.Despite the fact that it had been written outside that first-aid kit was present inside the night shelter, no one has been trained to give first-aid. In addition, the occupants rued about the unhygienic atmosphere around the shelter home, as there were no hand sanitiser or mask available.A couple from Uttar Pradesh, who left the night shelter at the railway station three days ago, complained about dirty bathroom. Mattresses and blankets were also dirty.Another stranded passenger from Mathura appealed to the administration to arrange a visit of doctor, as many people visit the place every day. Arvind Kumar, the caretaker of the shelter said, since the place was close to Kazi Mandi, a 24-hour presence of cops was needed, as passengers were scared of the presence of miscreants..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/passengers-seek-regular-meals-at-night-shelters-63981
01-04-2020||Jalandhar||‘Starving’ daily wagers bang thalis in Jalandhar||Residents of villages, bastis, slums and residential areas here today banged utensils on their rooftops to protest the unavailability of food on a call of the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee and Pendu Mazdoor Union.Residents of Nurmahal, Nakodar, Shahkot, Jalandhar West, Kartarpur, among other areas stood on their rooftops banging pots, pans, containers, tin cans and utensils.While many daily wage labourers, farm labourers, rickshaw-pullers and vendors have been rendered workless due to the lockdown, activists said arrangement for food was not yet made.Activists also said many of the panchayats were not providing groceries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/starving-daily-wagers-bang-thalis-in-jalandhar-63709
