02-04-2020||Talwara||Liquor vend defies curfew orders||St Soldier Group donates Rs 5 lakhJalandhar: St Soldier Group of Institutions came forward to extend help to feed poor by donating Rs 5 lakh to District Relief Fund Society, Jalandhar. The cheque was handed over to Vishesh Sarangal, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, by Chairman Anil Chopra, Vice-Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra, and Managing Director Manhar Arora. Vice-Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra said for this noble cause, the directors, principals and teachers of St Soldier Group of Institutions have donated one day’s salary which accumulates to Rs 5 lakh.” OCAshtami puja a low-key affairJalandhar: The Ashtami celebrations largely remained confined to homes amid Covid scare. Families performed puja, prepared puri, chana and halwa but did not invite girls for Kanjak Pujan. Some families, however, chose to distribute the prasad to the poor sitting outside locked temples or slum areas. Raksha Sharma, a resident of Model Town, said: "We did not want to bring in girls from the neighbourhood as it would not have been a wise decision amid the accelerating spred of Covid-19 in the country.” OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/liquor-vend-defies-curfew-orders-64428
02-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Divyang Jaswinder — Real warrior on field||Hoshiarpur, April 1Despite his disability, Jaswinder Singh, a Divyang warrior of the district Health Department, is working in the field against coronavirus with full vigour.Proving his mettle, the 38-year-old divyang multi-purpose health worker of sub-centre Bharowal under Primary Health Centre, Posi, Jaswinder Singh, covers 30 houses door to door in nine villages, where he is following home-quarantined people and also performing other responsibilities given by the department. Jaswinder said his leg was amputated during an accident in 2009, but he did not lose courage.He said: "While appointing me as a multi-purpose health worker in the Health Department on September 6, 2019, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had said that I should never consider myself less than anyone and should do my duty with diligence and hard work. It hit me and hence I am doing my work with complete dedication." Jaswinder made an appeal to the people: "We are doing our duty to keep you safe in your homes, so everyone should do only one thing to help us - do not get out of your homes, stay inside, stay safe." Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat praised Jaswinder Singh's dedication to duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/divyang-jaswinder-%E2%80%94-real-warrior-on-field-64422
02-04-2020||Jalandhar||MP to minister: Help Indians stuck abroad||Member of Parliament (MP) Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Tuesday urged External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to ensure that necessary assistance was provided to all Indians stuck abroad in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Chaudhary wrote that many Indians, including students, are stuck in various countries due to the ongoing travel ban enforced by the Central Government to control the spread of the virus.He said he had received many calls from people who were worried about the well-being of their loved ones stuck abroad. The Doaba region of the state has a large number of NRIs living in foreign countries. “Indians stranded there have complained about the non-availability of essential items such as eatables, masks and sanitisers. Since they are required to stay at home and cannot go to work, especially students who support themselves by working part time, their limited resources are running out fast,” the MP said.He requested Jaishankar to look into the matter at the earliest and direct Indians missions to take care of Indian citizens and provide them necessary assistance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-to-minister-help-indians-stuck-abroad-64421
02-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Covid infection can affect heart directly: Expert||Hoshiarpur, April 1The coronavirus infection can cause ‘myocarditis’ in the heart, which is an inflammation and is lethal. Though mostly, it affects lungs and causes pneumonia, a lot of cases have now come forward, where it has affected heart lethally. Dr Virendar Sarwal, cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon on Tuesday informed that a study led by Dr Zhibing Lu at Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University has found that 20 per cent of patients hospitalised with Covid-19 had some evidence of heart damage.Many were not known to have underlying heart disease. But they often had abnormal electrocardiograms in addition to elevated troponin levels, which sometimes soared to levels seen in patients with heart attacks, he said.The risk of death in such patients is four times more than in a normal patient in heart attack and surprisingly, most of the patients do not have a history of heart disease, said Dr Sarwal. But so much about this new pathogen is unknown and it was not yet clear what might cause heart damage following infection, he said.“Myocarditis can likely be caused either by the virus itself, or the body’s immune and inflammatory response to the virus,” he said, adding: “It is possible, but not yet established that myocarditis results from an immune system that lurches out of control while trying to turn back the coronavirus, pumping out such excessive levels of chemicals called cytokines that cause inflammation that they damage the lungs and the heart alike.”“The condition, called a cytokine storm, is more serious in older people and in people with underlying chronic diseases,” said Dr Sarwal, adding that cytokines also promote blood coagulation and interfere with body’s clot-busting system.At the same time, fever caused by the virus increases the body’s metabolism and the heart’s output of blood. As a result, patient’s heart struggles with an increased demand for oxygen but a reduced supply, an imbalance that may lead to heart damage.But doctors cannot rule out the possibility that coronavirus directly damages the heart. Other reason of these patients succumbing to heart infliction is heart rhythm problems, where it is arrhythmias or heart blocks and they prove fatal, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-infection-can-affect-heart-directly-expert-64420
02-04-2020||Nakodar||Three held with weapons||The Nakodar police arrested three hardcore criminals and recovered three pistols,120 live cartridges,30 gm of ice, 125-gm heroin,3,000 US dollars, one car and a bike from their possession in three cases during the last 24 hours.This was stated by SSP Navjot Singh Mahal while talking to this correspondent here on Wednesday. The SSP said a police party arrested a motorcycle-borne drug peddler identified as Jatinder Singh, alias Sunny, a resident of Sohal Khurad village and recovered 25 gm of heroin and impounded his bike on Tuesday.A case under the NDPS Act was registered. He said the accused during interrogation confessed that he bought the heroin from another criminal Gurdeep Singh, alias Bittu, a resident of Mehmoodpur village.SSP Mahal said the police arrested Bittu and recovered a .38 bore revolver, one 315 bore pistol, 115 live cartridges of different weapons,100 gm of heroin, 30 gm of ice, 3,000 US dollars, one Canadian passport , a gun scape and a car from him. The SSP said Bittu confessed during interrogation that he usually supplied weapons, ammunition and drugs to gangsters. A case under relevant sections of the IPC has been registered against Bittu, the SSP said.In the third case, the police led by ASP Nakodar Vatsala Gupta arrested a accused, identified as Rimpi of Rehmanpura in Nakodar on Wednesday. The police seized one revolver and five live cartridges from his possession. A case under the Arms Act has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-held-with-weapons-64419
02-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Vendors sell veggies at exorbitant prices||Nakodar, April 1Even though Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma is daily fixing rates of vegetables and fruits to be sold in Jalandhar district but an increasing trend is being observed in profiteering during the lockdown and during the curfew hours in urban and rural areas.Vegetable vendors are selling vegetables and fruits at exorbitant rate even more than double as fixed by the Deputy Commissioner . The situation is worse in rural areas.Residents of Baina Pur village, under Nurmahal police station, on Wednesday purchased tomatoes at Rs 60 whereas, the price fixed for the same by the Deputy Commissioner is Rs 30. When they told the vendor about the price fixed by the Deputy Commissioner, he refused to listen and stated giving arguments that why he had been selling the tomatoes at higher price.When contacted, Nakodar Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amit Kumar Panchal said he had directed officials of market committee to display the rate list issued by the Deputy Commissioner at public places, saying action would be taken against those, indulging in black marketing, adding that such complaints were pouring in regarding high prices.Issuing order on March 29, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has said that Covid-19 had created terror in the world and the Central Government had also declared it an epidemic and it was spreading in the country.The order said curfew was imposed on March 23. Good health of the people is important and they should get fresh vegetables and fruits. It has been observed that there is no uniformity in the prices of vegetables and fruits and the general public has been suffering.Chief Minister Capt Amarindar Singh on Tuesday issued a strict warning to those, who were indulging in black marketing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vendors-sell-veggies-at-exorbitant-prices-64418
02-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Zomato, Swiggy, Amazon help Jalandhar administration to deliver ration||Jalandhar, April 1The district administration’s tie-up with online delivery companies — Swiggy, Zomato and Amazon — is not only serving the purpose of residents and grocery store owners, who do not have delivery boys, but is also helping companies in bringing their business back on track.Earlier, the administration had allowed kiryana stores to deliver grocery at homes, but in the absence of any set mechanism with them, residents were facing problems in contacting the store owners as their numbers were mostly out of reach or busy. Hence Zomato, Swiggy and Amazon were roped in as they already have an experience of home delivery.Vasu Arora, cluster manager, Zomato, said they were now delivering grocery items in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Phagwara. He said 25-30 of their delivery boys were catering to the needs of residents.He said over 20 store owners from Jalandhar were connected through Zomato and their stock with prices were available on the app. “We have been receiving a good number of orders on a daily basis. We have not restricted the delivery of supplies to a particular distance. The delivery boys are taking orders from every corner of the city,” he said, adding that we also request customers to make payments online to avoid exchange of currency.Another delivery boy of Swiggy, spotted on the BMC Chowk, said: “Since Covid-19 outbreak, the business was adversely affected as people were avoiding food from outside. Now when the lockdown has been imposed, all restaurants are closed, but after tying up with grocery stores, we have got our livelihood back,” he said.He said 10 to 15 stores are available on their app, and people are happy with the service, as they wear gloves, masks and follow all directions of the administration.Meanwhile, Satinder Kaur, a housewife, said: “This is a good step by the district administration, as Zomato, Swiggy boys know how to locate an address. Moreover, ordering on calls was taking too much time, as we first used to confirm the price and then place an order.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/zomato-swiggy-amazon-help-jalandhar-administration-to-deliver-ration-64417
02-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Doctors who treated ‘super spreader’ test negative||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 1It’s been a close shave for all doctors, who tested Nawanshar’s 70-year-old elderly – the state’s first Covid-19 deceased and official ‘super spreader’.The delighted doctors are now thanking their stars that the virus spared them.Dr Yashpal Basra, Phagwara doctor who tested himI feel we were lucky. Fear loomed large on all our staff members and the hospital regarding consequences if we tested positive. While testing him, I wasn't aware of his travel history, nor did the family inform us. We treated him as a diabetic and hypertension case because his sugar levels were 550 and blood pressure 200, when he came to us. The next day they expressed willingness to go to a Jalandhar hospital, following which the family chose to go to Patel hospital.The Nawanshahr elderly left a trail of patients behind across the state, which so far includes two deaths (his own and that of a 65-year-old Moranwali priest on Sunday) and 29 positive patients from Nawanshahr (19), Jalandhar (4) and Hoshiarpur (6).However, the virus has miraculously spared 16 doctors and medical staff, who tested or treated him. The samples of all these 16 doctors have tested negative.In all, the elderly was tested or treated by at least 23 doctors (and support staff) across Phagwara, Jalandhar and Nawanshahr. At Phagwara, eight people treated him, including a doctor, at the Patel Hospital in Jalandhar; nine people (including two doctors) treated him at Civil Hospital Jalandhar as well as Nawanshahr - three people each.Of these, the tests of at least 16 people were taken, all of which tested negative. These include one from Nawanshahr, seven from Jalandhar and eight from Phagwara. The Nawanshahr doctor was the first to test the elderly and raise alarm over him, uncovering a trail of cases. Barring him other are seven (of total 9) staff at the Patel Hospital and eight persons (a doctor and seven staff members) of Phagwara private hospital, who have also tested negative.The three staff members at Jalandhar and three staff members at Nawanshahr were not tested. Jalandhar health authorities had previously informed that the Jalandhar staff had been placed under quarantine but they were asymptomatic.The last persons whose reports arrived on Monday were the three support staff of Phagwara private hospital.Dr Basra tested a sizeable number of Phagwara and Phillaur’s population. Many people from rural areas bank on him for health services in the area. The Nawanshar elderly visited him in a very serious condition and died a day later at Nawanshahr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctors-who-treated-super-spreader-test-negative-64416
02-04-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Punjab’s first Covid positive person shares his victory against deadly virus||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, April 1Gurdeep Singh, the first Covid positive case in Punjab, who has recovered, says strong willpower and thorough adherence to doctors’ instructions was the only way to deal with coronavirus.Gurdeep Singh, first Covid positive case in PunjabDuring treatment, doctors and the staff took good care of me and also boosted my morale, due to which I was able to recover from the illness. Due to good health services, food and care, I was able to get back to my family.If someone is suspected to be suffering from this disease, he should come forward for treatment instead of getting afraid and panicking or hiding and running away because it can be dealt with proper isolation.Gurdeep, a resident of Khanur village in Hoshiarpur district, had returned from Italy and was found to be suffering from coronavirus at Amritsar airport. Gurdeep said he reached India from Italy on March 3, along with his son and wife. He had fever four days before coming to India and recovered after having some medicine. At that time, he thought it was common fever due to the change of weather. After landing at Delhi airport, he informed about the fever and after a 7-hour stay in Delhi, he left for Amritsar via a flight. He was checked by a team of doctors at Amritsar airport and was taken to Government Medical College, Amritsar, where he was kept in the isolation ward, after being suspected of covid infection. He was tested and his report came positive. During this time, he kept following the instructions of doctors for treatment. He was comforted with the information that none of his family was found positive. Gurdeep said during treatment, doctors and the staff took good care of him and also boosted his morale, due to which he was able to recover from illness.Praising the services provided at the isolation centre, Gurdeep said due to good health services, food and care, he was able to get back to his family.Gurdeep said if you hide the disease, you can become a threat not only for yourself but also for others. So, if someone has severe fever, dry cough and difficulty in breathing, then instead of running or hiding, he should go to a health centre. By proper investigation and treatment and maintaining social distance, one can get rid of coronavirus and others can also be saved. Gurdeep appealed to everyone to follow the lockdown implemented by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjabs-first-covid-positive-person-shares-his-victory-against-deadly-virus-64415
