03-04-2020||Jalandhar||Covid-19: In Jalandhar, a wedding in the times of curfew||Jalandhar-based artist Neha Mahajan says she had dreamt that her ‘Mr Right’ would come riding a horse and take her home after a gala ceremony which was attended by her friends and family. But owing to curfew restrictions imposed by the government to check the spread of coronavirus, all the meticulous planning that she had been doing for the nearly the past three months went haywire. Only her parents and two sisters could be a part of the wedding solemnised today at Sangat Singh Nagar gurdwara here this morning.The family availed curfew passes from the administration only for five persons. As they reached gurdwara, groom Ramandeep Singh, a sculptor-cum-businessman, along with his four family members came from Mansa. The families brought along with them dispensers of hand sanitizer and face masks, besides other goodies meant for exchange.The families said that all the bookings of the banquet hall, caterers, flower decorators, parlour etc had to be cancelled as Neha’s parents and her in-laws decided that they would not postpone the marriage and would hold it in a simple way as per the government restrictions. “Even my maternal uncle could not reach here from Chandigarh for the bangle ceremony and our local acquaintance played that role last evening. I now somehow believe that fate is all-powerful and it is ‘he’ who ultimately decides how things will eventually turn out to be. Ever since we got engaged in December, we had been doing all the planning, which came of no use at the end. Also, I have begun to believe that no-frills marriage is the best way to get wedded and I have enjoyed it thoroughly”, said Maqsudan locality-based girl who is a fine art postgraduate and has served as a lecturer in a local college.On no chances of honeymoon or even local outings, the couple said, “We have no problem with that. We are mentally prepared to stay at home. Since both of us will not be able to go to work, we will enjoy each other’s company and spend more time with the family”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-in-jalandhar-a-wedding-in-the-times-of-curfew-64993
03-04-2020||Phagwara||3 commission agents booked||varsity turns to online teachingPhagwara: Keeping in view the sensitivity of the quarantine days in mind, GNA University has commenced with its online teaching and doubt clearing sessions for students locked down at homes. The objective of these sessions as propagated by the Pro-Chancellor of the University, S Gurdeep Singh Sihra is to “Stay connected, stay updated’. Giving due reverence to the motto of the Pro-Chancellor, every teacher under the stewardship of the Dean of every faculty is taking online classroom sessions. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-commission-agents-booked-64686
03-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Poor deprived of essential items in Phagwara||Phagwara, April 2Despite efforts of the Civil and Police Administration, poor residing in several parts of the town, including Tibbi Mohalla and Basant Nagar were deprived of items of daily use.Manju Rani, a domestic help, residing in Tibbi Mohalla, said she tried to collect food packets but due to pick and choose and partiality being adopted by the distributers, she could not get free meal yesterday also.Meanwhile, Azad Singh of Basant Nagar, also levelled same allegations and knocked the doors of media. Despite repeated attempts neither ADC Gurmit Singh Multani nor SDM Gurwinder Singh Johal could be contacted.It was learnt that the officers were busy to attend Kapurthala DC who came to attend brief ceremonial farewell of ADC Multani on the last day of his service yesterday. The Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal and SP Manwinder Singh also attended the function. So no one was available to listen to the poor.Meanwhile, violation of curfew was noticed at Khalwara Gate, Mehli Gate, Palahai Gate, Daddal Mohalla and in posh locality of Hargobind Nagar on Tuesday.Though Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner (DC) Deepti Uppal has fixed the rates of essential commodities but these are being sold at higher rates. The DC and SSP Satinder Singh have appealed to the residents to follow the curfew norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poor-deprived-of-essential-items-in-phagwara-64685
03-04-2020||Nakodar||Flag march organised against Covid||The Nakodar police on Wednesday organised a flag march in connection with the lockdown and the curfew.The march was led by SDM Amit Kumar Panchal and ASP Vatsala Gupta.Amit Kumar Panchal said the march was organised to strengthen residents to observe the norms of the lockdown and the curfew and appealed them to keep themselves safe by locking themselves in their houses and cooperate with the administration against the war against Covid. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flag-march-organised-against-covid-64684
03-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Social stigma associated with Covid-19 needs campaign||Hoshiarpur, April 2The Savera Social Welfare Society on Wednesday urged the Central and the state governments to launch a full-throated campaign to prevent stigma being attached to coronavirus. In a press release issued here on Wednesday, Dr Ajay Bagga, a social activist, and a retired Civil Surgeon, said that no stigma should be attached with coronavirus as was seen in our country during early stages of HIV and AIDS spread. He said false information being circulated in social media about coronavirus was leading to discrimination and this type of discrimination leads to stigmatisation among a section of society. Foot soldiers like health employees and others against Covid-19 are being discriminated and are asked to leave accommodation by their landlords, he added. Dr Bagga said at some places, people are objecting to opening of quarantine centres near their place of living.Bagga further stated that patients treated successfully after infection of coronavirus and those suspected to have it, migrant labourers and any religious group need not be discriminated. Need is to have specified physical distancing, repeated hand washing with soap and water to prevent Covid-19.He also urged opinion leaders to speak against discrimination and stigmatisation of Covid-19. He said rather gratitudes be expressed to foot soldiers by sprinkling flowers on health employees, sanitation workers and street vendors for doing excellent work in this period of crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-stigma-associated-with-covid-19-needs-campaign-64683
03-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Teachers keep students updated on coronavirus||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 2Amid the curfew restrictions imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, government schoolteachers are in regular touch with their students. They are making sure that they keep the students updated regarding the pandemic.Ravinder Kang from Government Primary School, Uggi, has constantly been sending various cartoon caricatures with storytelling on the coronavirus to students. Besides, Kang has been asking the students to take various precautions.Students are also getting knowledge of Covid in the question-answer format.Kulwinder Singh from government school, Mundi Cholian, said, "Whenever I read or watch any article or news report about the coronavirus, I share it with my students and their parents through social media. Amid this, I also send them various positive thoughts and messages, which keep them inspired."Deepak Kumar from a government school in Lohian said most of the students, who study in the school, belonged to the economically weaker section and they were not on social media. He said therefore, he ensured that he disseminated messages on the pandemic through announcements from gurdwaras.Teachers said even the Education Department had been sending various instructions, which they were sharing with their students."The department is apprising us of various precautionary measures need to be taken against the coronavirus. We are sharing the same with students. We are also giving them homework so that they keep studying in their homes," said a teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-keep-students-updated-on-coronavirus-64682
03-04-2020||---||MP Sadique gives Rs 15L to Faridkot medical college||Faridkot, April 2All employees of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) and its constituent medical, nursing, physiotherapy and pharmacy colleges in the state donated their one-day salary to help government to check the spread of coronavirus on Wednesday.BFUHS Vice-Chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said, “It is our little contribution during this time of crisis and I am thankful to all my staff for their contribution.” The total of one-day salary of the BFUHS employees will be about Rs 12 lakh.Mohammad Sadique, MP from Faridkot, has announced Rs 15 as help to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, from the MPLAD fund. Meanwhile, GGSMCH with the help of University College of Nursing (UCON), Faridkot, on Wednesday started training and sensitisation of nursing staff, helpers and sweepers in the medical college and hospital.Dr Raj Bahadur said lots of rumours were doing the rounds about Covid-19 on social media, especially when it came to health and wellness suggestions, so UCON had taken up the responsibility of training and sensitizing the field workers of the hospital to the causes, prevention and symptoms of the virus.He said there was information on social media being shared but was not supported by science and the training of the field staff was our response to this false information and myths about Covid-19.During the training session, teaching staff of UCON said when giving or taking health advice, it was important to focus on the facts. It was important not to panic, but to prepare and educate yourself based on science and research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-sadique-gives-rs-15l-to-faridkot-medical-college-64681
03-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||58-year-old man returned from UK tests positive||Hoshiarpur, April 2 The district has reported yet another coronavirus case taking the total to seven. One person has recovered from the virus while another one had died. The latest patient, Harjinder Singh, had come with his sister, brother-in-law and two nieces from England on March 13.   Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said Harjinder Singh(58), a resident of Pensra village in Posi block, was admitted to the Civil Hospital on March 29 and was referred to the Medical College, Amritsar, on April 1 due to his deteriorating condition. Dr Jasvir said his report was tested positive for the virus today. After finding positive the authorities have sealed Pensra village. Dr Jasvir said 41 samples were taken on Thursday, including 36 from the village. So far 213 samples have been taken by the Health Department related to Kovid-19, out of which 163 samples have come negative and the reports of 44 persons are awaited.  Meanwhile, the village wore a deserted look after residents came to know about  Harjinder’s  positive report. As of now 908 persons have been home quarantined in Garhshankar.   Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said residents did not need to panic but protect themselves taking precautions. The administration is ready to deal with every situation and spray of sodium hypochlorite is being done in cities. As many as 1,429 villages  have been disinfected in the district. Food packets and dry food are being provided to  needy families in collaboration with different organisations. The DC said home delivery of essential items such as milk, vegetables, fruits and medicines are being made regularly and the services of Zamato are also being taken by the administration for the convenience of residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/58-year-old-man-returned-from-uk-tests-positive-64680
03-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Fail to find buyers, farmers feed vegetables to cattle||Hoshiarpur, April 2Farmers have been finding it difficult to sell their produce in the absence of buyers.Some farmers and traders from Malerkotla had brought cucumbers and radishes to the city market, but they could not find any buyers.They even tried to sell their produce at low prices, but to no avail. The farmers were left with two options either to spend more money to take these back or discard them here.As they will have to spend more in taking these back and they did not have much money, they decided to feed them to cattle. They took about five tonnes of cucumber and one tonne of radish to a gaushala in the city.Mohammed Irfan and Saddam Hussain, who took five tonnes of cucumber and one tonne of radish to cattle in the gaushala, said they were left with no choice but to feed these to cattle as no one was ready to buy their produce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fail-to-find-buyers-farmers-feed-vegetables-to-cattle-64679
03-04-2020||---||DC, top cop lead flag march||Jalandhar, April 2A day after the CRPF was deployed in the city, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Thursday led a flag march and took the stock of the ground-level situation in the city during the ongoing curfew. This was the second flag march in the city this week.Starting from Company Bagh Chowk, the Deputy Commissioner and Commissioner of Police along with other officers led the flag march in various areas of the city. The march passed from Bhagwan Balmiki Chowk, Dr BR Ambedkar Chowk, Guru Ravidas Chowk, Manbro Chowk, Model Town Chowk, Chunmun Chowk, Guru Amardass Chowk, Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, Skylark Chowk and other areas.During the march, the Deputy Commissioner and the Commissioner of Police gave necessary directions to officials for ensuring proper implementation of curfew to check the spread of coronavirus. They said curfew had been imposed for ensuring safety of people.They said to ensure proper implementation of curfew, people should remain in their homes, adding that strict action would be taken against anyone who was found violating the norms.Trust staff sanitise police stations, coloniesOn the directions of Chairman of the Jalandhar Improvement Trust Diljit Singh Ahluwalia, officials and staff of the Jalandhar Improvement Trust along with Kaku Ahluwalia, Youth Congress leader, sanitised all police stations under the Jalandhar Commissionerate to check spread of Covid-19. Ahluwalia said this initiative was important and it was a way of telling the police that they care for the former. “They are working hard by leaving their families and doing the duty for the safety of all citizens,” he said. In past days, the Trust also sanitised other colonies such as Guru Amardas Nagar, Bibi Bhani Complex, Master Gurbanta Singh Avenue, Ranjit Singh Avenue, EWS Flats, Surya Enclave and, Surya Enclave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-top-cop-lead-flag-march-64678
03-04-2020||Jalandhar||‘Cancellation of Budget meet won’t affect work’||A number of meetings have been cancelled in the Municipal Corporation due to the Covid scare. Earlier, the General House meeting was also not held. Now, a meeting proposed to pass the civic body Budget has been cancelled.      Mayor Jagdish Raja said cancellation of the Budget meeting would not affect the work. “MC works will be carried out in the city as per the routine. The Local Bodies Department sends Budget allocations for cities if a meeting is not held. On this basis, the work can be carried out,” he added.   The Mayor, along with sanitation adhoc committee chairman Balraj Thakur, inspected various garbage dumps in the city. Since the curfew, MC officials have been ensuring that the city remainsclean.   “We visited various areas and instructed sanitation workers to perform their duty properly. We think this is the time when we can check and chalk out plans for the cleanliness of the city,” said Thakur. He said as all establishments, including industries, were shut due to the curfew, there was not much trash.    “We have taken the help of one of the religious heads who will ensure that no area remains unclean,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cancellation-of-budget-meet-wont-affect-work-64677
03-04-2020||---||DC for sale of veggies by farmers directly in mandi||Jalandhar, April 2As arhtiyas today announced to lodge a protest and strike work in the subzi mandi at Maqsudan from tomorrow onwards, the district administration today warned them against any such move while also planning an alternative to rope in farmers directly for sale of vegetables in the market.The arhtiyas are annoyed with the administration over the suspension of licences of five shop owners in the mandi after they refused to accept the directions to shift their stalls of tomatoes to the backyard of the mandi. The directions had been issued to ensure that there was no rush in the main mandi area for grabbing tomatoes and the social distancing norm was maintained amid the coronavirus scare.Deputy Commissioner Varinder K Sharma said he had only temporarily suspended licences and not cancelled them but the arhtiyas remained adamant and decided to hold a protest against the administration.The DC has today warned them of not resorting to any such pressure tactic and said: “These are not routine days. We are amid a curfew and making restrictions to ward off the pandemic. What if anyone contracts the disease from the mandi and then further spreads the same to families of buyers and sellers”.But as the arhtiyas refused to budge, the DC took a strong stand and announced that he could even bypass them and go for his plan B of roping in farmers directly in the mandi and breaking the nexus of arhtiyas to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities such as vegetables and fruits to residents. Attempting to break the cartel of arhtiyas and jacking up of prices, the administration has also been daily issuing price list of vegetables and fruits at which these items are to be sold.Sharma today categorically said if anyone would try to disrupt or paralyse the supply of these goods in this hour of crisis, then severe action would be taken against him.He said the administration would not sit idle and watch theatricals of any person who was thinking of personal gain in this situation. They would face strict action by the administration.The Deputy Commissioner said any sort of hoarding and profiteering would not be tolerated. He warned hoarders and profiteers that any malpractice in the district would be dealt with an iron hand, adding that nobody would be allowed to take law in their hands.Sharma said severe action would be taken against people flouting norms in the larger public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-for-sale-of-veggies-by-farmers-directly-in-mandi-64676
03-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Police act tough against curfew violators in city||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 2Even as the state government has imposed full curfew with no relaxation to combat Covid-19, a large number of city residents were found violating curfew rules. Hence, the police are acting tough against violators.After cancelling curfew passes of several people who were reportedly found misusing the same to come out of their houses, the city police have issued 327 challans to the offenders and 23 offenders have also been arrested under Sections 188 of the IPC in the two past days.Police personnel deployed on roads and in streets said Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar has directed them to take stringent action against those coming on roads unnecessarily. From various busy roads of the city, 39 vehicles, including two-wheelers and four-wheelers, were also impounded. Besides, six companies of the CRPF were also roped in today and every entry and exit point of the city was sealed for vehicular movement. Appealing residents to stay indoors, police personnel monitoring checkposts said along with Section 188, the arrested suspects, would also be framed under Sections 269 and 270 of the IPC.ACP Bimal Kant, ACP (Headquarters), who, along with his team, was patrolling around the railway station and other areas, said four four-wheelers were also impounded from the arrested persons.He said till March 31, around 76 cases were registered against those who violated the curfew orders and arrest warrants were issued against 93 offenders.“It was sad that even after so many announcements and directions, people were reluctant to stay inside their houses. In many instances, we even had to resort to scold residents to send them back to their houses. People were assembling in markets despite the lockdown orders,” said Vimal kant.Meanwhile, Bhullar, stated, to stop the spread of coronavirus, the city police have now decided to get tough with those defying curfew orders. Only those having emergency situations would be allowed to visit medical stores . In-addition no vehicular movement was allowed in the city roads. He also urged people to stay indoors till the curfew was being observed.Around 76 cases registered till March 31: CopACP Bimal Kant, ACP (Headquarters), who, along with his team, was patrolling around the railway station and other areas, said four four-wheelers were also impounded from the arrested persons. He said till March 31, around 76 cases were registered against those who violated the curfew orders and arrest warrants were issued against 93 offenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-act-tough-against-curfew-violators-in-city-64675
