05-04-2020||Aparna Banerji---||71 Jamaatis placed under quarantine||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, April 4 As many as 71 members of the Tablighi Jamaat have already been placed under quarantine in Jalandhar and Kapurthala by the police after their return from various Jamaats across the country began surfacing. Eleven members of the Jamaat have also been placed in isolation at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar. The health authorities said they had reports of 19 members of the Markaz, of whom 11 were isolated at the Civil Hospital and rest were being traced. A total of 50 persons have been placed under isolation at Nakodar, Jalandhar, after coming into contact with a member of the jamaat who had recently returned from the Markaz. Quarantined in 16 quarters in Nakodar, the police have also pasted quarantine stickers outside their homes. An additional 11 Tablighi Jamaat members, 11 at Uggi and 18 at Adampur,  are also under surveilance. At Kapurthala, 21 members of the Jamaat,– at Kot Karar Khan village, have been placed under quarantine. SSP Rural, Jalandhar, Navjot Singh Mahal said: “About 50 from Jalandhar had been placed under quarantine. A man who had returned from Delhi and came in assosiation with them has been placed under quarantine at the Civil Hospital as a precautionary measure. It is only his associates who’ve been placed under quarantine. Additional members of the jamaat are also under surveillance in Adampur and Uggi.” Kapurthala SDM Varinder Pal Bajwa said: “A total of 21 jamaat members had been quarantined in Kapurthala. Fourteen members of the Jamaat who had come from Mumbai and seven from Delhi have been quarantined.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/71-jamaatis-placed-under-quarantine-65934
05-04-2020||Our Correpondent---||DC, SSP lead flag march in Nakodar||Nakodar, April 4 Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Senior Superintendent of Police (rural) Navjot Singh Mahal today led a flag march and took the stock of the situation in the town during the ongoing curfew. During the march, the Deputy Commissioner and the SSP gave necessary directions to officials for ensuring proper implementation of curfew to check the spread of coronavirus. They said curfew had been imposed for ensuring safety of people. Sharma said to ensure proper implementation of curfew, people should stay in their homes, adding that strict action would be taken against those who would be found violating the norms. He said compliance rate of curfew in Nakodar was good. He said today’s situation was just like war and children and elderly were most prone to get the infection, adding that the administration had made all arrangements for providing necessary  facilities to residents. He thanked the police and people for their duty and cooperation in the fight against the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-ssp-lead-flag-march-in-nakodar-65933
05-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Violators held from Nakodar, Shahkot||Nakodar, April 4   The Nakodar police have intensified its campaign to ensure strict compliance of the lockdown and the curfew and have introduced drone surveillance to nab people violating norms. Nakodar Assistant Superintendent of Police Vatsala Gupta said Nakodar city police had registered one first information report (FIR) in this connection on Friday and arrested one person, Nakodar sadar police registered two FIRs and arrested three violators and Nurmahal police registered four FIRs and arrested four persons. She said the accused were loitering violating the curfew orders, adding that one would not be allowed to defy the restrictions.  She said cases under different Sections of the IPC and Sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005 had been registered against the suspects but they were release on bail.  She said many two wheelers had been impounded and traffic challans were issued to the violators. Shahkot Deputy Superintendent of Police Piara Singh said the police have registered two cases and arrested three persons on the charge of violating the curfew norms on Friday.  Mehatpur police on Friday registered two cases and arrested three persons and Lohian Khas police registered three cases and arrested four persons on Friday. The Bilga police registered four FIRs and arrested five persons on the charge of violating the curfew on Friday, said SHO Surjit Singh Padda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/violators-held-from-nakodar-shahkot-65932
05-04-2020||---||Drones help cops nab 20 curfew violators in city||Jalandhar, April 4 Within 24 hours after unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) were pressed into service for enhancing surveillance in the areas under the jurisdiction of the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police, 20 persons have been held for violating curfew norms. Divulging the details, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Saturday said an ultra-modern technology was being used for keeping an eye over the hotspots and vulnerable areas of the district. During the UAV surveillance, the police had identified some people violating the curfew norms. Subsequently, 12 FIRs were lodged against 20 persons who were later arrested for flouting the norms. Bhullar said following the interception by the UAVs, the accused were identified as Mahavir Gupta of Maqsoodan; Mithlesh Tangri of Toor Enclave; Akhilesh Kumar of New Guru Nanak Nagar; Vinod Kumar Shiv Nagar; Gurdial Singh Kot Baba Deep Singh Nagar; Mangal Singh Kot Baba Deep Singh Nagar; Mani Basti Gujan; Dev Rao Sidaarth Nagar; Raj Bahadur Bank Colony; Dharminder Singh Khurla Kingra; Sunny Singh Folriwal village; Stephen Folriwal village; Birbal Sofi Pind; Ashish, Chandan, Vijay Kumar and Rajnish Tiwari of New Defence Colony; Sarabjit Singh of Lasuri Mohalla; Harpreet Singh Padhiana village; and Davinder Singh of New Dashmesh Nagar. Meanwhile, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and the Commissioner of Police, who examined the working of UAVs at Model Town market, briefed that the move was aimed at ensuring strict compliance of the curfew. They said the curfew had been imposed for the betterment of people so that the Covid-19 virus could be stopped from spreading its tentacles. Bhullar said UAVs could cover an area of 2 km in all directions and could fly up to a height of 200 m.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drones-help-cops-nab-20-curfew-violators-in-city-65931
05-04-2020||Nakodar||Tweet from CMO helps youth meet his aunt||A tweet from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Saturday helped a student of CT Institute, who had been suffering from mental health issues for the past couple of days, meet his aunt here.    Harsimran Singh on Saturday tweeted that he is living alone in a village near Nakodar and due to the current situation, he has been facing mental health issues. He said there was no one with him as his entire family is settled in Dubai.    Harsimran sought help from the Punjab Government and the district administration as he wanted to go to his aunt’s place in Nakodar.     Reacting to his tweet, the CMO asked the district administration to look into the matter immediately. Swinging into action, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma and SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, rushed to the spot. The DC and SSP were accompanied by a team of doctors, which examined him.   The DC and SSP said the administration was with every resident in this time of crisis. They asked Nakodar SDM Amit Kumar and ASP Vatsalha Gupta to make necessary arrangements for ensuring that the youth meets his aunt.   — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tweet-from-cmo-helps-youth-meet-his-aunt-65930
05-04-2020||---||Silver crowns of idols stolen from Shiv temple in city||Sultanpur Lodhi, April 4 Though crime incidents are on the decline due to the spread of coronavirus in the district, an incident of theft took place at the Shiv temple, near the entrance to the Rail Coach Factory, today. Two miscreants, including a plumber and a welder, entered the temple in broad daylight and decamped with the silver crowns of the idols of Lord Shiva and Goddess Durga. Since the temple, and the nearby RCF were closed due to lockdown, there was little movement around due to which the miscreants commited the theft easily. Entering the temple around 2 pm, the duo first broke the shutter of the temple with an iron rod. Then they broke into an aluminum partition between the temple and adjoining satsang hall. After entering it, they broke glass frames around the idols of the deities and stole two silver crowns. They also took away the cash offerings. The two, however, also made an unsuccessful attempt to break open a huge donation box. A complaint has been lodged at the Hussainpur police post on the basis of a statement given by KP Chauhan from the temple and Jai Prakash, the caretaker of an adjoining gaushala. The CCTV camera footage of the incident helped the ASI-cum-incharge of the Police Post, Paramjit Singh, in identifying the suspects. One of the miscreants has been identified as Sonu, a plumber from Bhulano village. The other suspect belongs to Tibba village of Kapurthala. He is yet to be identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/silver-crowns-of-idols-stolen-from-shiv-temple-in-city-65929
05-04-2020||Jalandhar||Pvt varsity sets up $1 million fund to combat Covid-19||Lovely Professional University (LPU) on Friday announced that it had set up a fund of USD 1 million to combat the outbreak of Covid. The fund can be accessed by a multi-disciplinary task force set up under the LPU Vice-Chancellor. Researchers, faculty members and student entrepreneurs are part of the task force who will work towards finding ways to flatten the curve and reduce the spread of the epidemic over the course of next few months. The university will continue to add to the fund in the due course of time. The task force aims to use the latest technologies such as AI, machine learning, IoT and 3D printing to control the spread of the coronavirus. It will also research the economic and social impact being caused by Covid. It has been in action for the past two weeks and the first product developed by it is an IoT device known as ‘Kawach’ to promote safe social distancing. The device, which can be worn as a pendant, vibrates and glows in case someone breaches the user’s safe space of 1 metre. The device is equipped with a hand wash reminder and a temperature sensor. The pilot testing of ‘Kawach’ has been successfully conducted and the team is now looking for the right manufacturing partners. Ashok Mittal, Chancellor, LPU, said: “At the LPU, we have brought together the best minds across disciplines to find solutions that can help reduce the spread of the pandemic.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pvt-varsity-sets-up-1-million-fund-to-combat-covid-19-65928
05-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||IMA denies claims of suspending OPD services by private hospitals||Jalandhar, April 4 Taking cognisance of reports that private hospitals have shut OPD services during the present crisis, the state unit of the IMA alleged it to be a false propaganda against private hospitals and said the IMA had voluntarily extended the support to the state government to shoulder the responsibility of fighting Covid- 19. “The state IMA has been discouraging OPD services to maintain social distancing. However, it does not mean that private doctors and hospitals are running away from their responsibility of providing healthcare facilities to patients. Private doctors and hospitals have consistently been providing free of cost healthcare facility to the public through telephone and WhatsApp,” said Dr Paramjit Maan, state secretary, IMA. He said only those patients were being asked to visit clinics and hospitals who could not be treated through telemedicine. He urged people not to be misled by the false propaganda as such misconceptions in public mind would dampen the spirit and morale of doctors and paramedical staff. He added that the doctors and paramedical staff at private hospitals had been dealing emergencies while keeping all precautions to check spread of coronavirus. He said the DMC (Cardiac Centre), Ludhiana, had provided consultation and telemedicine facility to as many as 20,175 cardiac patients so far during the lockdown period. Besides, ‘Covid-19 app’ for extending telemedicine facility has also been prepared for the convenience of the public. “Doctors, so far, have provided facility of telemedicine to over 1,000 patients on this app. A list of 570 doctors and the available facility of  about more than 300 ventilators have also been provided to the government and the administrative authorities concerned  in Nawanshahr district to tackle any emergent situation,” Dr Navjot Dahiya, president, IMA, Punjab. He said he, along with his team of doctors, today visited Pathlawa village of Banga district, the epicentre of Coronavirus in the state. “The IMA team of Nawanshahr is working there and providing regular services to villagers and giving free of cost medicines,” he added. He said the doctors also interacted with people and sensitised them to precautions and preventive measures to check the spread of the dreaded coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-denies-claims-of-suspending-opd-services-by-private-hospitals-65927
