14-04-2020||Jalandhar||1,523 quarantined in Garhshankar||8 held for not wearing maskJalandhar: Continuing its spree against people violating curfew norms and not adhering to Covid precautions, the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police on Monday arrested eight violators. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that eight persons —Mintu, Paramvir, alias Ravi, Simranjit Singh, Baljeet Singh, Kewal Krishan, alias Rinku, Rajiv, alias Gora, Hardial Singh and Karan Kumar — were arrested for not wearing face masks. Bhullar added that 12 FIRs were also registered against 16 persons for flouting curfew norms in the city. Besides, the traffic police challaned 258 vehicle owners, while 13 vehicles were impounded for curfew violations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-523-quarantined-in-garhshankar-70886
14-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Rurka Kalan women team up to sew three-layer masks||Jalandhar, April 13In the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the district, women at Rurka Kalan village have come forward to stitch three-layer cotton masks in a bulk for villagers and those who are working on the frontline.At least 40 women from the village, in groups and individually, have been sewing masks round the clock for all residents of the village, people residing in nearby villages, police personnel and health workers."The idea behind sewing masks for village residents was the brainchild of Youth Football Club (YFC), which then in collaboration with the gram panchayat started the initiative. Thereafter, women in the village, who knew stitching, volunteered to offer their services," said Kulwinder Kaur Kauldhar, sarpanch, Rurka Kalan.She said although the population of their village was 8,000 and they had prepared around 15,000 masks so far. She added that an effective mechanism had been put in place to deliver the same to every house in the village.Gurmangal Das, managing director, YFC, said on an average, they were preparing at least 400 to 500 masks on a daily basis. "We have distributed over 7,000 masks among villagers and some health workers. After we complete the distribution process in our village, we will supply the masks to nearby villages, rural police officials and others," he said.Das said all women had been making masks free of cost either at the village's community centre or their houses. "The cloth and sewing machines for the purpose are being provided by the panchayat and the YFC through voluntary contributions. We are hopeful that it would help the panchayat prevent the spread of Covid," he added. "The panchayat and the YFC have further decided to engage these women in making handmade sanitary napkins for the village girls so they do not have to move out of their houses until the lockdown ends," said Das, adding that their objective is to save villagers from Covid.Together in fight against covid-19At least 40 women from the village, in groups and individually, have been sewing masks round the clock for all residents of the village, people residing in nearby villages, police personnel and health workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rurka-kalan-women-team-up-to-sew-three-layer-masks-70884
14-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Stuck in Italy, Ginni connected with fans through social media||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 13Releases Song Early, Courtesy Covid-19City-based singer Ginni Mahi had planned a gala launch of her song ‘Bolo Jai Bhim’ for Tuesday. The song was recorded by a UK-based company months ago and its release was scheduled for April 14 on the Dr BR Ambedkar Jayanti. But the fate had some other plans in store.As Ginni is stuck in Italy and waiting for things to be normal so that she can return, the singer has already released her song on social media. She was on a Europe trip since March 14 and had performed in Austria, Holland and Italy. She was scheduled to go ahead with a series of many more events when the coronavirus spread forced her to cancel all her programmes and duck herself and her dad inside a friend's house in Italy."Had everything been normal, I would have been in France on Sunday for a performance before my return to Delhi on Tuesday. I had a show in the national capital where I was to perform at a function to mark Baba Saheb's Jayanti. But things are not always destined the way we plan. I still thank the Almighty for keeping us safe wherever we are. Even from here, I am connected with my fans through social media and I am sharing my new song with them, though electronically. They have sent me all good wishes for the launch of my new song and I too have reciprocated telling them to stay indoors, adhere to the advisories on lockdown, remember Baba Saheb and his teachings by reading about him and listening to the songs dedicated to him," Ginni said, adding that she was missing her 'riyaz' and it was not possible there in the present circumstances.A PG student of music from Apeejay College here, Ginni said, "This would have been the launch of my 45th song. I had released my first album in 2012. But this one was special as it came with a different style with more of a southern touch than my usual Punjabi stuff. I started off with songs on Baba Saheb and they still remain my favourite. I believe that music is a powerful tool to spread his message on equality far and wide. The popularity that I have been able to achieve so far is because of his blessings."Asked about her attempts to return home in Jalandhar, she said, "I am here with my dad, who is in touch with Neeharika Singh, Deputy Chief of Mission, in Rome. We have put in our demand for a flight back home. The family with whom we have been putting up is taking care of us very well. From here, we have been talking to mom and brothers everyday through video conferencing. The Covid curve is somehow flattening in Italy now, but it is increasing in India. We are telling them to stay indoors and take care. I am hoping to catch them in another few weeks or so."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stuck-in-italy-ginni-connected-with-fans-through-social-media-70883
14-04-2020||---||Markfed launches home delivery of essential items||Jalandhar, April 13To give reprieve to people amidst curfew, Markfed has started door to door supply of essential goods to people.Sachin Garg, district manager, Markfed, said to facilitate the people in getting these goods, the supply has been started by the Markfed. He said high quality goods like pulses, sugar, wheat flour, ghee, oil, spices, rice, salt and others were available to the people at affordable prices. Garg said various teams had been constituted for ensuring the supply of these goods at the doorsteps of people.He said the step had been taken in larger public interest to facilitate the people in getting these high quality goods via home delivery. He said people desirous of getting these goods could call on the numbers of Markfed officers. For home delivery of goods, people can call on grain market number 9914018777 and BSF Chowk number 9041278458, Garg said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/markfed-launches-home-delivery-of-essential-items-70880
14-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||‘Hammer and dance’ policy can help contain Covid-19 spread: Expert||Hoshiarpur, April 13 “To contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country at the earliest, India must take lessons from the experiences of others countries,” said Dr Deepak Puri, senior cardiovascular thoracic surgeon, in a press release issued here. He said the exercise of contact tracing and isolating suspected cases has yielded results in China and South Korea. “We must also learn from the mistakes that the US and European countries have committed. They did not enforce lockdown in the initial stages of the Covid-19 outbreak, as a result of which the number of cases spiraled and their hospitals got burdened.” he said. As India has a large population density and inadequate healthcare facilities to tackle disease like Covid 19, it is important to control its spread in the initial stages to prevent occurrence of a disaster, he said. Dr Puri said according to an analysis done by him, along with doctors from AIIMS and California-based foreign author Tomas Pueyo Stanford, over 100 people may get infected by Covid-19 within six months, of which 4.5 crore may die”. However, if we adopt all preventive measures strictly, we can restrict the number of infected patients to around 12,000 and deaths to less than 300, said Dr Puri, who is also the chairman of cardiomersion, a global grouping in the field of cardio care. If we adopt a middle path, we will see 50,000 infections and 1,000 deaths, he said.  He said the people must not panic and pressurise the authorities to lift the restrictions. We should wait till the rate of growth in number of Covid-19 patient declines, Dr Puri said. “We should prepare for gradual relaxation over a period of several months to prevent recurrence of cases. This is called the hammer and dance policy to contain the virus spread effectively,” he said. According to the policy, we must adopt stringent lockdown till the infection rate starts decreasing, thereby availing ourselves of time to strengthen our health infrastructure, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hammer-and-dance-policy-can-help-contain-covid-19-spread-expert-70875
14-04-2020||Kapurthala||RCF starts bulk production of hand sanitisers||The Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, has achieved another milestone to fight against Covid by preparing hand sanitisers as per the guidelines of the WHO.  According to chief quality manager Nitin Chaudhary, it not only meets the demand for sanitisers in the RCF and staff families, but also helps in hygiene of employees who are in essential services. This is less than half the cost of commercial grade hand sanitisers available in the market. The staff of RCF’s Metallurgical and Chemical Lab adopted special precautions to maintain the composition and quality of the chemicals aused. An additional highly purified lab isopropyl alcohol, glycerol, and hydrogen peroxide has been added to its mixture to follow the procedure described by the WHO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rcf-starts-bulk-production-of-hand-sanitisers-70874
14-04-2020||Aparna Banerji  ---||Sanitisers with CM, local doc’s photos being distributed in city||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, April 13 Hand sanitisers with pictures of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and a private doctor are being distributed at hospitals and among police personnel in Jalandhar. “Not-for-sale” these sanitisers have been distributed for charity purposes by Red Cross Society. Since Sunday, the administration is giving the sanitisers to the Civil Hospital staff. The hospital staff said since Sunday, they were giving these sanitisers with Chief Minister’s pictures to people.  The inscription reads, “Hand rub santiser, the ethanol, hydrogen peroxide and glycerol contents.” With a picture of the Chief Minister with folded hands, the inscription at the bottom reads it has been manufactured by a Rajpura-based firm. Meanwhile, other sanitisers read “Orthonova Hospital” with a picture of a doctor. The district administration said these sanitisers were donated to Red Cross Society, but the donor or the source was not known. These were being distributed free. Dr Harpreet Singh of Orthonova Hospital (whose face is on some sanitisers) said, “I had ordered the sanitisers a bit prior to the lockdown. When it was announced, I knew there would be a dearth and people would hoard hand sanitisers. Therefore, I ordered 2,000 for friends and those who need these. These have been made by a Faridabad firm and I have a GST number for the consignment. These are all for charity and none of them are for sale. Though I am authorised to sell sanitisers, these have been reserved only for needy people. I have given these to officials and staff of the Civil Hospital.” DC Varinder Sharma said, “In view of the high demand for hand sanitisers, these have been disbursed among the health staff. The hand sanitisers were donated by an anonymous person to the Red Cross Society. We don’t know the donor. These are being used to ease the burden of health staff who constantly need sanitisers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitisers-with-cm-local-docs-photos-being-distributed-in-city-70873
14-04-2020||Jalandhar||Covid dampens Baisakhi spirit||Baisakhi festivities in the city remained a low-key affair this year. People largely celebrated the  festival indoors amid a curfew in the wake of the Covid pandemic. The only public celebration outside Guru Nanak Mission gurdwara was a shower of flower petals on the priests dressed as ‘Panj Pyaras’.  The ceremony was organised by a few Sikh activists. People took to the social media and posted the pictures of ‘jalebis’ and ‘sewiyan’ specially made for the occasion at home. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-dampens-baisakhi-spirit-70872
14-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Mystery shrouds death of 19-year-old LPU employee||Phagwara, April 13  Diwakar (19), a resident of  Sheshpur in Uttar Pradesh, died under mysterious circumstances at a hospital in Jalandhar on Monday.  The victim was an employee of Lovely Professional University (LPU). While confirming it, Phagwara SDM Gurwinder Singh Johal told The Tribune on Monday that the victim was working at a mess of LPU and was suffering from jaundice. He was taken to Johal Hospital but was immediately referred to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, but could not survive.  Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM)Johal said blood samples of the victim had been sent to the lab to detect whether it was a case of Covid-19. However, it could be confirmed on Tuesday only after getting the report. Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has instructed the administration to take  precautions to prevent the spread of the disease.  However, the body of the victim has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital. The SDM said the administration would leave no stone unturned to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The family members of the victim have been informed about the incident, said SDM Gurwinder Singh Johal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mystery-shrouds-death-of-19-year-old-lpu-employee-70871
14-04-2020||Jalandhar||Farmers to be issued UIN for wheat procurement||Jalandhar DC Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal on Monday said farmers would be issued Unique Identification Number (UIN) for ensuring smooth and hassle-free procurement of wheat in a staggered manner.The officials also took stock of arrangements for the procurement season starting from April 15 at the Bhogpur grain market. They said the process would continue till June 15.The officials said the UIN would ensure that only farmers who had been issued the slip would be allowed to enter the grain market for selling their golden grain. The slips would have a special hologram and only the bearers of the original slips would be allowed at the grain market. The officials said the state government and the district administration were committed to procuring every single grain of the farmers in this hour of crisis. The norms of social distancing would be strictly followed.They said during the procurement process, coupons would be issued by market committees to arhtiyas, which would be subsequently given to the farmers. A farmer would be entitled to take multiple coupons each day or on different days depending on space and would be entitled to bring one trolley having about 50 quintal wheat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-to-be-issued-uin-for-wheat-procurement-70870
14-04-2020||---||SBS Nagar police assure doorstep delivery of essentials amid curfew||Nawanshahr, April 13 In order to check the residents from coming out on roads to stock their essential supplies, SBS Nagar SSP Alka Meena has launched an initiative “Helping Hands” to ensure that there is no shortage of supplies in any household of the district.  Turning the “Khaki” uniform into colour of care and compassion, the SSP had roped in cops to distribute supplies at the door steps of underprivileged. After visiting various areas, the cops on Monday handed out as many as 6,755 grocery kits, 2,03,400 cooked food packets, ration items, including 110 kg wheat flour, 130 kg rice, 10 kg pulses, 560 kg potatoes to langar committees.  “Helping Hand SBS Nagar Police have virtually lent new dimensions to its community service project currently underway in the district to help people fight the Covid-19 crisis. Making the drive comprehensive, the cops also distributed 20,000 sanitary pads among women, 40 medical kits, 300 mosquito repellent creams and organic oil. The policemen are going door to door to locate the elderly couple living in distress to lend their helping hand”, said the SSP.  Meena further added that she had lunched the drive with the help of local philanthropists and NGOs that helped them in locating people living with meagre means.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sbs-nagar-police-assure-doorstep-delivery-of-essentials-amid-curfew-70869
14-04-2020||---||Women football makers hit rough patch||Jalandhar, April 13Shobha who had been stitching football for the last 20 years is now sitting idle. She used to make footballs for a sports unit, however, after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the nation, she hasn’t been getting more orders.Her husband, who used to run a kiosk, has gone into depression in the absence of work. Shobha has decided to stitch the remaining footballs with a hope that she would soon receive a call for more orders. She is among the thousands of women of Ram Nagar, Basti Nau, Kabir Nagar, New Rattan Nagar and other slum areas of Jalandhar who worked for Jalandhar sports goods industry. They used to earn a meagre amount of Rs40 to 50 per football, but even that is lost now.Talking to The Tribune, Shobha, a native of UP, said: “Paise ki bahut dikkat hai, gharwala bimar hai isi chinta mein (There is a shortage of money and my husband has gone into depression because of the situation we are in). Nobody is allowing us to open kiosk. I don’t know what future holds for us. I have heard that the lockdown has got extended. I wonder how will we make ends meet now?”Laxmi Devi, who used to stitch shoes in a factory, said she used to earn Rs7,000 per month by stitching shoes in a factory. Her husband, who was a daily wager, had not been working for more than a month after his leg was broken. “So far, I had been sustaining my family. I even started doing domestic chores in other people houses, but my services were terminated,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-football-makers-hit-rough-patch-70641
14-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar brings 24 areas under containment plan||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 13A massive containment plan has been introduced in the district, which witnessed 24 positive cases and two deaths (one suspected) so far. As many as 4,868 persons have been quarantined and 530 sampled. Twenty-four areas have been brought under the containment plan.In view of the rise in cases, the administration has turned the Punjab Institute of Medical Science (PIMS), a meritorious school and an engineering institute into isolation centes in case the Civil Hospital’s emergency runs out of beds.Three congested market areas, two villages and a university near the city have already reported cases of Covid. Doaba’s new hotspots include Mitha Bazaar, Lal Bazar, Nijatam Nagar, Narayan Nagar, Maqsudan, Kotla Heran (Shahkot) and Kartarpur. The staff of various private hospitals have also been put under complete or partial quarantine.One of the patients who tested positive today is a media professional. While the Civil Hospital has a 315-bed isolation centre, a 1,420-bed back-up has also been arranged across the PIMS (400 beds), meritorious school (500 beds), National Institute of Technology (NIT) (500 beds) and an IMA-arranged isolation unit at Billi Chuharami village (20 beds).Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Varinder Sharma said, “We have a 1,735-bed back-up to fight any eventuality. As many as 24 areas are under our containment plan and isolated places like meritorious school, NIT and PIMS have been shortlisted for isolation zones. Four patients have recovered so far.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-brings-24-areas-under-containment-plan-70648
