17-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Curfew no excuse for these fitness lovers to ditch exercises||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 16From attending virtual workout sessions to opting for dance-based fitness programmes, city-based fitness lovers are leaving no stone unturned to follow their fitness regime actively.City resident Honey Chandar used to visit CrossFit Centre for workout and since it was closed due to the curfew, it was initially a struggle for him to find the motivation to exercise alone.Though he is missing out on regular weight training sessions in the gym, this didn’t bother him for a longer period. Gaining some motivation from home workout sessions on social media, he has actively been keeping himself fit for the past 20 days.“After the curfew was imposed, gyms were closed and I was disappointed. I was only worried about my regular workout sessions. I tend to gain weight easily when I don’t exercise. Therefore spending initial days without any fitness schedule, I switched to social media to see what my gym mate were doing. Taking me by surprise, I came to know that fitness lovers immediately started working out at their homes only. Connectivity with the like-minded people on social media also kept them motivated. Now, it has been almost three weeks since I have been enjoying my fitness schedule at my home,” said Honey.A lot of people have been sharing their daily yoga and cardio sessions on Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook. Residents have also been exchanging their fitness routines, keeping each other motivated by variations in exercises.Ranjit Singh, a gym owner, said, “After the lockdown, pilates, yoga, stretching, skipping, stairs jumping and several other exercises formats are popular among fitness lovers.”“Practising dance-based exercises like zumba are being seen as a good option to stay fit,” said Sumit Kaushik, who seems to have been enjoying his virtual workout. He said the lockdown was no excuse to ditch exercises.Moreover, sportspersons residing on the PAP campus have also been actively practising social distancing and focusing on off-ground exercises for fitness. ASI Vikar Kumar, an athletics coach, said players had been directed to focus on core-based exercises by staying indoors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/curfew-no-excuse-for-these-fitness-lovers-to-ditch-exercises-72321
17-04-2020||Jalandhar||Ration on chair ploy to boost social distancing||Social distancing, no handing of ration, this is what councillor of Ward No. 78 Jagdish Samrai has been following now. In a new way, the councillor has stopped distributing ration at houses. He has instead placed chairs at a place with distance and put bags of ration on them.“The idea is that we don’t want exchanging of hands, to avoid spread of any infection. We have instead made a register of people who are in need of the ration and have started a slip system, through which we keep slips with names along with the bags and the beneficiary will come and take the bag,” said Samrai who had earlier started giving cooked food for needy residents of his ward. Besides, he has also been ensuring that nobody falls ill and providing medicines to those having severe illness and who are on medication.Auto-rickshaw drivers seek financial helpDemanding financial assistance from the government, auto-rickshaw drivers in the city under the banner of the Bhagat Singh Auto Union on Wednesday approached officials of the district administration and asked them to register them as daily wage labourers.While submitting a memorandum to Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Jasbir Singh, Ranjit Kumar, president of the union, said the statewide lockdown had made a huge impact on the livelihood of auto-rickshaw drivers.“Unable to make any money during the lockdown period, the auto-rickshaw drivers are worried about paying the monthly instalment of their vehicle loan. Though banks have been directed not to demand monthly instalments from customers, once the curfew is lifted, the auto-rickshaw drivers will have an additional burden of paying the loans”, said Ranjit.Rakesh Verma, general secretary of the union, urged the government to include them in the daily wage labourers’ category and provide them all facilities which they were availing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ration-on-chair-ploy-to-boost-social-distancing-72319
17-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Residents opt for self-quarantine||Hoshiarpur, April 16In the district, after nearly 99 per cent of the villages have adopted self-quarantine, residents of the Bahadurpur area have also started opting for self-quarantine to avoid the spread of Covid-19.Taking the initiative, residents of Bahadurpur, the densely populated area having narrow streets, have come forward to quarantine their own area. The area has been sealed by residents. The Bahadurpur gate, built at the entrance of the area, has been closed for movement by youths with barricades made of ropes, sticks and bamboos.The youths, Anit Nayar, PK Shiv, Pankaj Kumar Baggu, Joginder Pal and Pappu, who were present at the gate, told that the movement of people in the locality was continuing unabated. Despite the lockdown, some addicts also used to camp before the mohalla’s houses and on the platforms built in front of shops. Residents decided that the area should be sealed for prevention and his initiative had been taken due to this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-opt-for-self-quarantine-72318
17-04-2020||Jalandhar||All wheat procurement centres to be sanitised||To check the spread of coronavirus in mandis during the ongoing procurement season, a sanitisation drive will be carried out at all purchase centres. DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said ahead of the procurement season of wheat, which started from Wednesday, the district administration had already carried out a sanitisation drive at a massive level at all 156 purchase centres across the district.He said as hundreds of farmers would daily visit these centres, utmost care needed to be taken for checking the spread of Covid in the grain markets. The DC said it had been decided to embark a special drive for desensitising the purchase centres on a regular basis. The DC said it was more important to sanitise these purchase centres for keeping Covid at bay.“Teams of the Mandi Board will spray sodium hypochlorite in grain markets. Besides, the administration will ensure that employees engaged in the procurement operations get masks, hand sanitisers and soaps. Every step will be taken to ensure that coronavirus is checked in an effective manner during the entire procurement operations,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-wheat-procurement-centres-to-be-sanitised-72317
17-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||This organisation is serving langar to 1.5 lakh every day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 16Ever since the lockdown was announced, a Hoshiarpur-based organisation has been sending 32 vehicles packed with steaming hot langar to feed the poor and underprivileged across a number of villages.At Sangal Sohal village where the organisation feeds 2,000 persons daily, villagers say there hasn’t been a day when its van has failed to arrive on their doorstep.Started by US-based Manjit Singh, the Dhan Guru Ramdas Ji Langar Sewa has become the lifeline of the underprivileged clamouring for ration and feed as many as 1.5 lakh people on a daily basis. His younger brother Buta Singh runs the service when he is not around.Lifeline of underprivilegedBeing run from Dhan Guru Ramdas Sewa Asthan at Pur Hiran village at Hoshiarpur, the langar is prepared at the state-of-the-art building built on over three kanal. There are several imported machines that churn out 12,000 rotis in an hour. Groceries are being brought from Delhi even during the lockdown. Special storage utensils ensure food stays warm for six to seven hours. The vehicle is also specially designed, with attachments that can be easily converted into tables and stools, if need be.The state-of-the-art equipment, special vehicles and machines brought here from the US and Japan ensure the langar sewa churns out fresh food for villages across the state.Adept at langar distribution, the organisation started disbursing langar to 25 hospitals (and a residential primary school of the state) from February 19. When the lockdown was announced, the organisation was flooded with SOS calls. It hired more vehicles and started feeding the underprivileged.Being run from Dhan Guru Ramdas Sewa Asthan at Pur Hiran village at Hoshiarpur, the langar is prepared at the state-of-the-art building built on over three kanals. There are several imported machines that churn out 12,000 rotis in an hour. Groceries are being brought from Delhi even during the lockdown. Special storage utensils ensure food stays warm for six to seven hours. The vehicle is also specially designed, with attachments that can be easily converted into tables and stools, if need be.Buta Singh says, “People clamouring for food on highways gave my brother the idea to start the service. Every year, during Guru Ramdas Gurpurb, my brother comes back from the US to Delhi and walks all the way from Delhi to the Golden Temple, Amritsar. On many occasions, he has been asking us all to distribute food or langar to the poor he saw stranded on the road.”Speaking on how they manage groceries even during the lockdown, Buta Singh says, “We only want to serve the best quality. Certain suppliers in Delhi serve us the best quality grains, rice etc. Our vehicles have curfew passes. But today also, a vehicle got stuck in Karnal, However, with the DC’s intervention, we managed to get the supply.”Started in February 2019, the langar sewa was initially serving to 25 hospitals – primarily government hospitals – as well as a (residential) primary school in Hoshiarpur. After the lockdown, the service has been expanded to include as many people as possible.While langar for 7,000 is being sent to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, a facility has also been arranged at Muktsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-organisation-is-serving-langar-to-1-5-lakh-every-day-72315
17-04-2020||Jalandhar||Fire control room set up||Couple arrested with poppy huskPhillaur: The Criminal Investigating Agency of the Jalandhar (rural) police on Thursday seized 16 kg of poppy husk from a couple and arrested them. The Investigating Officer (IO), Surjit Singh, said the suspects had been identified as Shindar Singh of Bute Dian Chhana village and his wife Mohindar Kaur. The IO said the suspects were travelling in a vehicle (PB 10 DS 7372), in which the poppy husk was kept. The police intercepted the vehicle at a naka. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. OCWebinar held on mental healthJalandhar: A webinar was organised by the Department of Management for students of MBA, BBA and BCom classes on the topic of “Ensuring Mental Health in Academia and Placement Tips”. The resource person was Varun Aggarwal, chief branch manager, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance. He briefed the students about physical and mental wellbeing. He laid stress on managing stress by spending quality time at home with family members and doing household chores, meditation, yoga, indoor exercises, etc. Dr Inderpal Singh, HoD, management, KCLIMT, applauded the efforts of the resource person. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fire-control-room-set-up-72314
17-04-2020||---||6 new cases take tally to 31||Jalandhar, April 16On March 26, the district had four cases. In the past 21 days – a labyrinthine network of Covid contacts – primarily cases of bazaar areas – has taken the district tally to 31, next only to Mohali.With the Health Department indulging in a race against time to trace Covid contacts, new cases are being reported from bazaar areas in Jalandhar every day. The two new glaring examples today include a new contact from the Basti Sheikh area and a man who claims he had only a two-minute meeting with the Mitha Bazaar deceased’s son (who is currently under isolation).The six positive cases reported today include 56-year-old husband of the Shahkot deceased woman, a 30-year-old nurse who treated her at a Model Town hospital, a 32-year-old woman contact of the Raja Garden mediaperson, a 42-year-old woman contact of the Purani Subzi Mandi woman, a 40-year-old Mittha Bazaar man, who is a contact of the city’s first deceased Mittha Bazaar chemist’s son, and a new case of 59-year-old Basti Sheikh man reported with respiratory disease.Every few days a new bazaar area is being added to the list of areas being placed under containment plans. Bazaar areas so far having been affected include – Qila Mohalla, Purani Subzi Mandi, Mittha Bazaar, Lavan Mohalla, Bhairon Bazaar, Maqsudan as well as the basti areas – Basti Danishmandan and Basti Sheikh.At least two persons from a media organisation have tested positive. Two more persons working at one of the media organisations tested positive in Himachal Pradesh last night. At least three private hospitals have directly been affected and over 20 employees of the Civil Hospital placed under quarantine.Nodal officer, Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh, said: “Six people have tested positive today, one of them, a 59-year-old man from Basti Sheikh, has no travel history. A staff nurse from a Model Town-based hospital has also tested positive. We have placed over 5,000 persons under home quarantine and more contacts are being traced out. We also began door-to-door samplings today. The department is closely tracking all prospective cases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-new-cases-take-tally-to-31-72313
17-04-2020||Jalandhar||Goods worth lakhs gutted at showroom||Goods worth lakhs gutted in a furniture showroom at Makhdumpura locality in Shastri Nagar here after a fire broke out last night. Panic was created in the area after the incident that was reported  around 10 pm in Nanda Furnitures. Three LPG cylinders and an oxygen cylinder were also damaged. A four-wheeler also turned into ashes after it caught fire. However, no casualty was reported as around six teams of fire personnel reached  the spot on time. It took over two hours to control the fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/goods-worth-lakhs-gutted-at-showroom-72308
17-04-2020||---||NIT develops shoe-sanitisation facility to combat Covid||Jalandhar, April 16 Experts at Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar (NITJ) have been working on a slew of initiatives that can help to combat the spread of Covid-19. Since apprehensions are being cast that even shoe sole could act as major source of coronavirus transmission, to maintain hygiene and reduce the risk of possible virus contamination from shoe sole, a team comprising Prof RK Garg from the Department of Industrial and Production Engineering, Prof Anish Sachdeva from the Department of Industrial and Production Engineering and Dr Shailendra Bajpai from the Department of Chemical Engineering has created a shoe-sanitisation facility that can disinfect shoe sole of a visitor entering the campus in less than 30 seconds. A solution of 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite has been used to disinfect the shoe sole. The experts are of the opinion that the facility would significantly reduce the possible risk of Covid-19 transmission from shoes of visitors entering the campus. The faculty has also developed a low-cost face mask and cost-effective surgical gown/PPE for healthcare workers. Prof A Mukhopadhyay and Prof V Midha, Department of Textile Technology, have developed the low-cost face mask to reduce the risk of droplet infection. Face masks help in stopping large particle droplets, splashes, sprays or splatter and aerosol that may contain germs (viruses and bacteria) from reaching the wearer’s mouth and nose and thus, help in preventing transmission. Further, they have started the work on cost-effective surgical gowns/ PPE for health care workers.  Surgical gowns/PPE address a dual function of preventing transfer of microorganism and body fluids from operating staff to patient and also from the patient to the staff. A group of faculty, led by Director of the institute Dr Lalit Kumar Awasthi, voluntarily arranged food for labourers living in nearby villages around the campus. These daily wagers were without work and money due to imposition of curfew. Every day, 180 packets of food have been distributed regularly since March 22. To promote hand hygiene and minimise the transmission of the virus among inhabitants of the campus, a team comprising Dr Shailendra Bajpai from the Department of Chemical Engineering, Dr Kiran Singh from the Department of Physics and Dr Vikramjit Singh from the Department of Chemistry has developed a low-cost alcohol-based hand sanitiser. The sanitiser was prepared using isopropyl alcohol as the main ingredient. Bottles containing the sanitiser were distributed among students, staff, and residents of the campus free of cost. The sanitiser was made available at all entrance gates of institute’s offices and hostels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-develops-shoe-sanitisation-facility-to-combat-covid-72307
17-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur---||Uncertainty looms over conduct of semester examinations at colleges||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, April 16 Even as almost all colleges and universities have been conducting online classes for its students, there is uncertainty over the conduct of semester examinations that were slated to start from April end or May beginning. The studies have taken a big hit especially since campuses got shut on March 15 to ward off the spread of coronavirus. However, since the past two weeks almost all institutes have been attempting their best to cover up syllabus by online teaching using various mobile applications. But the moot point remains as to how and when universities would be able to conduct the semester examinations. Even the authorities are not able to foresee as to what would be the situation in a month or so. “At this point of time, we are clueless as to when we will be able to conduct the examinations. As per our university calendar, we would have announced our examinations from April 25. But going by the fact that Jalandhar is among the Covid-19 hotspots and the Prime Minister has already extended lockdown till May 3, examinations will surely be delayed,” said Rajneesh Sharma, PRO, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University. He said: “We do not want to give any time frame of start of examinations at this stage as it only adds to confusion. When lockdown started, the mid-semester examinations were already on. We are yet to conduct those papers. But any announcement would come from our side only after the government takes a decision on opening of institutes”. Online classes for university students and those from its affiliated colleges had started from March 27. The authorities of colleges in Jalandhar affiliated with Guru Nanak Dev University, however, maintain that the semester examinations could start from May 22 onwards. “While earlier we were expecting examinations to start from May 15, now we are expecting a delay of one more week. The university has already announced its plan to hold examinations in three shifts instead of two, with one shift starting early morning from 7 am. It has been decided to maintain more distance between students as they take their examinations. Even the paper pattern is likely to have more choices in questions”, said Ajay Sareen, principal, HMV College. “For the same reason, we have completed 95 per cent of our syllabus through online mode, keeping some time for revision, clearing of doubts and giving question banks to the students. Our online classes have been drawing an average of 98 per cent attendance,” she said. Asked if students from rural areas were facing problems in using ICT tools, she said: “Even remote villages of the state have good Internet coverage. We have not got any such feedback. However, some students from Jammu were facing Internet-related problems. To overcome it, teachers are sending videos of all lectures on WhatsApp groups which they can see later too.” Parents of several students in villages said their children were conveniently handling classes on Zoom moble app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/uncertainty-looms-over-conduct-of-semester-examinations-at-colleges-72306
17-04-2020||---||Microbiologist at Covid lab tests positive in Jalandhar||Chandigarh, April 16The state reported 11 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the count to 197. Six cases surfaced in Jalandhar, three Patiala and two Pathankot. Besides, a patient undergoing treatment in Amritsar passed away today.Sixty-year-old Sansar Singh Bhaini of Passwal village in Gurdaspur died at GMCH, Amritsar. He had attended the cremation of his relative, a former Army subedar who had died of coronavirus in Jalandhar.With Jalandhar emerging as the second-most active hotspot of the state, Medical Superintendent Dr Mandeep Kaur has been transferred. The patients who tested today positive in the district included two contacts of a Shahkot woman -- her 56-year-old husband and a 30-yer-old nurse who treated her.Notably, three people, including a microbiologist, also tested positive for Covid-19 via rapid test. Their swab samples have been sent to Amritsar for confirmation. At least 10 staff members of the civil hospital and close contacts of the microbiologist have been put under quarantine.In Patiala, the wife and two children of an infected social worker tested positive. Civil Surgeon said all three were shifted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital. He said they were earlier home-quarantined. The Health Department informed that around six persons who came in contact with the family members would also be tested after two days. Following three news cases in the district, the department started the screening process of the entire city.(With inputs from Ravi Dhaliwal, Aparna Banerji and Karam Prakash)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/microbiologist-at-covid-lab-tests-positive-in-jalandhar-72060
