18-04-2020||Jalandhar||JIT chief donates to relief fund||27-year-old goes missingNakodar: A 27-year-old youth went missing recently. Dalbir Kaur, a resident of Guru Nanak Colony, complained to the police that his son Sukhjit Singh, alias Raja, left the house for a morning walk on April 12, but did not return. Investigating Officer (IO) Mohan Singh said a missing report had been filed in this regard. OCTwo booked for rash drivingNakodar: The police have booked two persons under Sections 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC on the charge of rash driving and causing hurt by endangering life. Uggi police post in-charge Lovelin Kumar said the duo had been identified as Resham Singh of Barsal village in Jalandhar and Dharam Pal, alias Kalu, of Khan Pur Dhada village. Harbhajan Singh, a resident of Khairra Dona village in Kapurthala, told the police that the duo were travelling in an SUV (PB 08 BM 9956), which was driven rashly and negligently, on Tuesday. The vehicle hit his bike and injured him seriously. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jit-chief-donates-to-relief-fund-72836
18-04-2020||Our CorrespondentPhagwara||Interactive smart dustbin for hospitals developed||A team of engineering students of Lovely Professional University (LPU) has developed an interactive smart dustbin, ‘Ally’, for use in hospitals and medical centres. The innovative product is a contactless waste collection and disposal bin. It follows voice commands, moves on a predefined path inside a controlled environment, helps contact less collection of waste by opening its lid automatically, senses its current status or level; initiates the disposal procedure once the waste is filled to a predefined threshold and gets ready for reuse.Contactless waste collectionThe innovative product is a contactless waste collection and disposal bin. It follows voice commands, moves on a predefined path inside a controlled environment, senses its current status or level and initiates the disposal procedure once the waste is filled to a predefined threshold and gets ready for reuseThe estimated cost of the prototype bin is Rs 20,000. The said bin is 3 ft high, 1.5 ft wide & it weighs around 5 kg. LPU expects a 25 per cent drop in the price post its commercialisationLPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal said, “The LPU team has developed a prototype of the bin and conducted successful trials within the university. We are now looking for industrial partners to commercialise the product. The final product is expected to be ready for deployment in two months, adding that “Ally” can be relevant for picking waste from quarantined areas like rooms, without any human contact. The fact is that it works via voice command, which makes it easy for the hospital staff to use it conveniently without any contact.”In fact, there is a pressing need for frontline workers to work in a safer environment. The smart bin ‘Ally’ is indeed a smart contactless dustbin in that sense. This bin is another product that has been conceptualised and developed under the one million dollar fund, specially set up by LPU to combat the outbreak of Covid-19.Along with LPU Professors Dr Lovi Raj Gupta, Dr Rajesh Singh, Dr Anita Gehlot, some of the research students, involved in the time needed scientifically developed innovative engineering product ‘ALLY’, are Prabin Kumar Das, Vanka Vinay Kumar and KM Vaishanvi Gupta.The estimated cost of the prototype bin is Rs 20,000. The said bin is 3 ft high, 1.5 ft wide & it weighs around 5 kg. LPU expects a 25 per cent drop in the price post its commercialisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/interactive-smart-dustbin-for-hospitals-developed-72835
18-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Covid: Over 550 Lovely Professional University students screened||Phagwara, April 17Teams of the Health Department on Friday conducted screening of over 550 students and employees, who are residing on the campus of Lovely Professional University (LPU). Senior Medical Officer Kamal Kishore and Nodal Officer Naresh Kundra told The Tribune on Friday that screening of around 2,250 students had been conducted on the LPU premises till now.A total of 69 samples were sent to lab for Covid-19 test from which 33 persons were tested negative while the report of remaining 36 could be received by tomorrow.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Kapurthala Deepti Uppal told The Tribune here on Friday that the officers had been instructed to implement the curfew orders in the district strictly. The DC said the campus of LPU has been sealed. However, she instructed the officials to take care of the common man and their requirements also.Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh said the police had registered 216 FIRs and arrested 372 persons on the charge of violation the curfew norms in the Kapurthala district till Thursday night. The police have impounded 57 vehicles of the violators.SHO (City) Phagwara Onkar Singh Brar said 20 persons were arrested in Phagwara on the charge of curfew violations on Thursday. Most of the violators had opened their shops during the curfew, said the SHO.Meanwhile, District Youth Congress Committee president Saurav Khullar on Thursday donated 50 PPE Kits to cops who are making efforts to maintain law and order and help residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-over-550-lovely-professional-university-students-screened-72833
18-04-2020||---||No relief to MSMEs has bizmen worried||Jalandhar, April 17Veopar Sena has expressed worry over the fact that in the speech delivered recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not mention anything on the condition of MSMEs. “We had expected that some relief would be given to industrialists, but nothing of that sort happened which is worrisome. The PM has appealed that no one should fire employees which is appreciable, but the government should think about problems we are facing,” Ravinder Dhir, the president said.The industrialists have been asking for help from the state government as well as the Centre on the issue. However, on Tuesday, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had urged the Centre to reconsider its directives asking industry and shops/commercial establishments to continue paying full wages to their workers during the lockdown period, as it may push them to bankruptcy.The CM has urged the Central Government to look for innovative solutions to protect the interests of the workers in these difficult times, without causing irreparable damage to the industry and commercial establishments.However, the owners of industrial units were taking care of their workers and were ensuring that they face no problems by giving them salaries on time.“But the problem is that the governments are not understanding that how would we earn. Who would we send our products to? How would we manufacture new products and where would we buy the raw material from? These are some serious concerns which seriously need to be addressed as soon as possible,” he said.Since the lockdown started, lack of work has become a serious problem for the industrialists. When the lockdown was announced, several migrant workers had started returning to their native places, to which the industrial owners were asked to not to expel their workers and to ensure that they were paid on a regular basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-relief-to-msmes-has-bizmen-worried-72832
18-04-2020||Jalandhar||This councillor inspects streets to ensure people stay indoors||Ever since the outbreak of novel Covid, social distancing is one of the most-talked about and advisable rules to follow to keep one away from this deadly disease. There are several areas in Jalandhar which are congested and people hardly follow the practice.However, to ensure people follow the rule, councillor from Ward No. 38 Onkar Rajiv Tikka visits every street of his area on his scooter to make them understand the importance of social distancing.“It has been several days since the lockdown, so people are getting bored and feeling frustrated in their homes. I got to know that they are coming out of their houses and interacting with neighbours and sitting together, especially in the evening. Since then, I have been making rounds every day to check if everybody is following social distancing,” he said.Tikka, who is also a member of an NGO in his ward, also distributes food and ration to the needy. “People come to me with their problems. It’s not that they are not aware of the situation, but they are running out of patience,” he said.Tikka said he felt that it was his duty to make people of his ward understand that it was important for their own safety to stay home. There are several areas in the ward such as Sant Nagar, Mohalla Tej Mohan Nagar, Uttam Singh Nagar, Kot Mohalla, and Mohalla Chaaiaam in the ward that are very congested, he said.“I try that I listen to everyone’s problem and then offer some solution to them,” he said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-councillor-inspects-streets-to-ensure-people-stay-indoors-72828
18-04-2020||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiHoshiarpur||He is working on watercolour painting series on life, nature||Renowned painter Dr Jaspal S feels that the coronavirus has changed the life. He said his life had come to a halt at home due to the lockdown imposed for the safety of people.His Recent prizesPunjab Lalit Kala Akademi SanmaanProf BP Kamboj Kaka Ratan AwardAchiever’s Award on 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak DevAll-India Art Exhibition of Art Point Gold Medal Award“Since the curfew was imposed, I have been staying indoors. I study art literature and four hours daily, I remain busy with my new watercolour painting series on life and nature to explore my feelings,” said Dr Jaspal.‘I’m keeping myself busy in painting’“Since the curfew was imposed, I have been staying indoors. I study art literature and four hours daily, I remain busy with my new watercolour painting series on life and nature to explore my feelings,” says renowned painter Dr Jaspal S. “As part of the series, I have drawn four paintings. I wish to draw 18 to 20 paintings. Taking the advantage of free time, I have submitted my two paintings for international and national exhibitions,” he says.“As part of the series, I have drawn four paintings. I wish to draw 18 to 20 paintings. Taking the advantage of the free time, I have submitted my two paintings for international and national exhibitions,” he said.“When I was drawing the third painting of the series, a thought came to my mind that human beings are puzzled and thinking of their life. Humans are finding a solution which is shown here with an anchor in water here in small quantity to find the fish out of small sources (water in pot). The fourth one is under process,” he added.The painter said, “I have a practical view about the expansion of life where a bird is pregnant, which means holding a life. It is upside down and the bird has a small foetus. The life we were enjoying have come to a halt, but the bird as a metaphor of flying life again marks a new beginning.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-is-working-on-watercolour-painting-series-on-life-nature-72825
18-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Fire breaks out at grain godown||A fire broke out at a grain godown in Marnaiyan village here on Friday afternoon. The fire started from a store where empty gunny bags were kept in the godown and spread rapidly. Later, the fire brigade was informed. People made attempts to control the fire before the arrival of fire tenders. A fire official, Vinod Kumar, said three fire tenders were pressed into service and it took around two hours to douse the flames. Several empty gunny bags turned into ashes while no damage to grains was reported. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fire-breaks-out-at-grain-godown-72820
18-04-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Panic grips Jalandhar residents after pizza delivery boy tests +ve in Delhi||Panic gripped city residents after a pizza delivery boy tested positive in Delhi, leading to isolation of 72 families. They demanded that all vegetable and fruit vendors, drivers and employees engaged in doorstep delivery should be screened and sanitised before starting work.Though the district administration’s tie-up with online delivery platforms such as Swiggy, Zomato and Amazon was proving a boon for the residents, after the Delhi delivery boy’s case, they are in a dilemma whether to make orders online or not. Also, they have been receiving a number of WhatsApp messages to discontinue the practice as a precautionary measure.Talking to The Tribune, Jasleen Kaur, a resident of Urban Estate, Phase II, here, said: “Since the lockdown, we have been relying on mobile applications such as Zomato, Swiggy and Fatafat for grocery and medicines. The case of the pizza delivery boy in Delhi has come as an eye opener as it is not at all safe to make orders online,” she said, adding that now she would prefer buying goods on her own instead of home delivery.She said the administration must take action in this regard and ensure regular screening of vegetable/fruits vendors, sanitation workers and others who are working during the present crisis.Another resident Manav Naurla said home delivery of essential items such as food in lockdown days has been a compulsion for everyone.“We have to be more cautious from now onwards and people should take delivery from doorstep using gloves and keep items in some corner for at least 12 hours,” he said, adding that the authorities should issue medical certificates to all workers and arrange protective gear for them.Vasu Arora, cluster manager, Zomato, said all necessary precautions were being taken by the company to ensure safety of delivery boys as well as residents.He said masks, gloves and sanitisers had been provided to all boys and cash payments had been restricted.“Once they receive items from shop, they send a selfie to the company and after we approve the same, they leave for delivery. They have been asked to keep delivery items on doorstep and avoid physical contact,” he added.Meanwhile, ADC (G) Jasbir Singh said all steps to ensure safe delivery at residents’ doorsteps had been taken. He said guidelines had been issued in this regard and screening of vendors and other delivery staff was also being done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panic-grips-jalandhar-residents-after-pizza-delivery-boy-tests-ve-in-delhi-72819
18-04-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||2 arrested for delivering fast food in curfew||Getting to know through social media about a home-based restaurant delivering fast food illegally, the SDM, Hoshiarpur, laid a trap and caught the suspects red-handed. He placed an order for food for himself and when two delivery boys of the restaurant arrived to deliver the food, they were arrested and a case was registered against them by the city police.SDM Amit Mahajan told The Tribune this evening that as they got information about a pamphlet being circulated on social media for home delivery of fast food, a trap was laid under the supervision of Hoshiarpur DC Apneet Riyait and the delivery boys were caught red-handed.An FIR was registered against the suspect, Mohit Sharma of Chand Nagar and Kunal of gali no. 3, Chand Nagar, in Bahadurpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-arrested-for-delivering-fast-food-in-curfew-72816
18-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||No gala feast, wedding held at residence amid curfew||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 17It was planned to be a gala wedding. A banquet and a resort were booked – one for the shagun ceremony and the other one for the main wedding function. There was a guest list of over 400 people. Thereafter, the family planned a pilgrimage to the Gudrwara Hazoor Sahib followed by a honeymoon for the couple to Maldives.But things did not happen the way these were planned. The wedding of Canada-based Madhurmeet Singh and Jalandhar-based Kirat Kaur was planned for April 5. As not just banquets but even gurdwaras are closed, the families decided to postpone the marriage for some weeks. Since normalcy does not seem to be returning so soon, the families finally got together and solemnised the wedding on Friday.The parents of the couple, a priest and a professional photographer attended the marriage function. Groom’s mother Tajinder Kaur, a mathematics teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, said , “Since the gurdwara was not open, we were told by the priest to look for a house which had the Sri Guru Granth Sahib bir. The house of bride’s maternal aunt had it at their place. Since we were told to keep the assemblage minimum, aunt’s family members temporarily moved out of their house before we can go. Even the brother of the bride missed.”Tajinder said, “Madhurmeet is our only child. Since it was the only wedding in our family, we had big plans for him. He has PR holder in Canada and has been working as an accountant with a firm there. He was to come here for marriage on March 20, but he flight was preponed to March 13. Upon his return, we remained quarantined for 14 days. Unsure of how it all would happen, we decided to postpone the marriage.”“We thought that celebrations, parties, honeymoon and travel can happen any time later when normalcy gets restored. We must thank God for our well-being, take his blessings and go for a simple wedding. And thankfully everyone agreed,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-gala-feast-wedding-held-at-residence-amid-curfew-72814
18-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||7 new Covid cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 17In a relief to the Health Department, the 43-year-old Jalandhar-based microbiologist, who was tested positive for Covid-19 in the rapid test on Wednesday, has tested negative in the swab test. Over 10 hospital staff, key lab staff playing a foundational role in carrying out tests, had been placed under home quarantine after she tested positive.Seven more people also tested positive in the district on Friday taking the tally to 38. In two days, 13 persons had tested positive in Jalandhar.Meanwhile, the microbiologist is pivotal in testing Civil Hospital staff and had set up the rapid testing. She had also been in contact with the lab staff at the hospital. So far, over 20 nurses have already been placed under quarantine at the Civil Hospital.Four children were among the seven persons who were tested positive on Friday.Three of those tested positive include contacts of the 40-year-old Raja Garden-based mediaperson who tested positive on April 13. Two of his relatives are children. The three include his one-year-old nephew, eight-year-old daughter and 60-year-old mother. The fourth person to test positive is a 25-year-old male relative of the Purani Sabzi Mandi woman. Two other children are the eight and nine-year-old granddaughters of the 70-year-old Basti Danishmandan elderly who tested positive on Tuesday. The seventh is a Neelamahal area- based 24-year-old man, contact of the Mittha Bazar deceased man’s son.The 70-year-old Basti Danishmandan man is also the father of a colleague of the Raja Garden mediaperson.The direct and indirect contacts of the Raja Garden mediaperson — reported in the city and in Himachal Pradesh — have reached eight. Meanwhile, a team of the Health and Police departments also placed 98 persons linked with the media organisation under home quarantine last evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-new-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-district-72810
