19-04-2020||  ||These youngsters make regular efforts to meet shortage of blood||Approach residents every day to convince them to donate blood for patients Frontline Warriors  Ajay Joshi  Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, April 18  At a time when people have been staying indoors to keep themselves protected from Covid, some city-based youngsters have come forward to help patients suffering from thalassemia and other blood disorders.   From approaching residents to convince them for blood donation to supplying blood units at the Civil Hospital, these youngsters everyday ensure that there is no shortage of blood amid the lockdown.  After the outbreak of the coronavirus, it has become a daily task for Vardhan Chaddha (27), Trishala (27) and Amanjot (26) to browse their social media pages and contact list to approach local residents for blood donation so that they could cope with the shortage of blood units.  Like various other services, blood donation in the district has also come to a halt immediately after the lockdown. The situation had thrown up a major challenge to those engaged in the vital task of providing blood transfusion services to patients suffering from thalassemia and other blood disorders.   However, keeping their service intact, these youths, who are part of an NGO, The Blood Association, have been stocking up blood units everyday. They have also been taking care of nearly 70-80 children suffering from thalassemia in the region. Besides, they make sure that there routine blood transfusion doesn’t affect due to the lockdown.  Vardhan said, “To work in the field, we have obtained curfew passes from the administration. As blood donation camps can't be organised due to the Covid scare, we have also been providing free pick-and-drop facility to residents, who wish to donate blood. In addition, with the help of an ambulance provided by the Red Cross Society, we take the donors to the Civil Hospital from the rear gate so that they don’t come in contact with Covid suspects and patients. Proper safety measures are also being followed during the transfusion and blood donation.”  With the help of Satinder Soni, chairman of the association, Ashwani Kapoor and Manish Athreja, they have been managing to get around 15 to 20 donors every day. Besides, thalassemia and other patients get around 10 to 15 blood units on a daily basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/these-youngsters-make-regular-efforts-to-meet-shortage-of-blood-73112
19-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||With family in Canada, college principal devotes time to poetry||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 18When most of the people are spending quality time with their family members during the lockdown period, it is a different life for Lyallpur Khalsa College principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra (50). Since his wife, two daughters and son are in Canada, he has been with his helper at his residence in Golden Avenue here.“Since my children are studying in Canada, my wife joined them in September. She was to return by March-end and she had even got her flight tickets booked. But I told her to get the tickets cancelled and stay back with the children. Now, we really do not know when the lockdown will end and she will be in a position to return,” he said.Dr Samra said he had been doing several things which he had never done earlier. “Alone, I have been observing nature so intensely and drawing all happiness from it. I have been sharing some work that my helper used to manage on his own. I have been enjoying gardening and watering the plants. I enjoy seeing each plant growing and flowers blooming all around. I never used to go to the kitchen. I would earlier eat whatever my helper brought and prepared for me. But now I tell him what I want to eat. I keep an eye on grocery items. These days, I even tried my own hand at cooking for the first time in 50 years,” he added.Being an academician and having studied only mathematics, Dr Samra said it was for the first time in his life that he started reading Punjabi poetry of Bhai Veer Singh. “I especially asked a colleague to mail me the link of his poems. I had read his poems as a student. But watching flowers blooming all around and listening to the melodious sounds of koel each morning, I decided to go through the poems all over again. I have been reading each and every word penned by him and realising how deep were his thoughts on nature at that time,” said the principal.He added that a poem which has enthralled him the most is ‘Dard Dekh Dukh Aunda, Duniya Da Dukh Dhek Dhek Dil Dabda Dabda Janda, Andarla Panghar Vag Turda, Neino Neer Vasanda’.“I read this poem in the present context when there are so many people in all over the world battling a disease and dying because of it,” he said. Dr Samra is quite active on social media and remains connected with his college colleagues and students. He has also been regularly monitoring the online teaching pedagogy followed by his staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-family-in-canada-college-principal-devotes-time-to-poetry-73109
19-04-2020||Kapurthala||Varsity donates Rs 22L for relief||3 arrested with poppy husk, cashPhillaur: The police seized 19 kg of poppy husk and cash amounting to Rs 2.63 lakh from three persons on Saturday and arrested them. SSP (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal said the police had also impounded three cars of the suspects. They had been identified as Shinder Singh of Mehatpur village, Jagjit Singh of Phillaur, and Balbir Singh of Bilga. oc2 held with stolen bikes, cell phonesPhagwara: The police on Saturday seized two stolen bikes, an air-conditioner and three cell phones from Satinder Singh and Budh Singh, residents of Ranipur-Rajputan village. SP Manwinder Singh said they were nabbed at a checkpoint near Jagpalpur village, while their third accomplice Harpreet managed to escape. The duo were produced before the Judicial Magistrate who sent them to two-day police remand. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/varsity-donates-rs-22l-for-relief-73108
19-04-2020||---||CBSE schools urge govt not to object to collection of fees||Jalandhar, April 18The CBSE Affiliated Schools Association (CASA) has written a letter to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla clarifying that due to coronavirus lockdown schools are not putting any pressure on parents for fee. The members have also stated that the schools are not running behind making money in this hour of crisis but they are only concerned to give their child the best possible future.The members said many parents were contacting schools to deposit fee of their children, as they want to avoid the burden of fees on themselves later, in that case the government should have no objection. They said the bookshops were closed due to the lockdown and parents were not able to buy books.The association has appealed to the government to provide a solution of this problem of parents and children in the present time. Chairman Anil Chopra gave his suggestion to the government that to solve the problem, they should give the responsibility of sending books to parents to an online delivery service. He said no school should earn money in the time of crisis but it was a necessary for the future of the kids.Apart from this, in another letter sent to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Anil Chopra has sought clarification on how the schools would be in a position to pay salaries to the staff and monthly expenses without collecting fees from the students. “The unaided schools are dependent only on fee to pay salaries and monthly expenses like electricity, water, health, transport, security, housekeeping, sanitation, wi-fi network etc. The state government must formulate a policy made by other states like UP and Haryana in the interest of schools”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cbse-schools-urge-govt-not-to-object-to-collection-of-fees-73105
19-04-2020||---||Nawanshahr MLA honours employees of Health Dept||Nawanshahr, April 18Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh has honoured as many as 161 employees of the district Health Department. He extended financial help for Rs 3.5 lakh to them. He distributed ration kits among 70 sewadars of the Health Department here at the Civil Hospital.Earlier, the MLA has also given Rs 5.50 lakh to different NGOs and Rs 3,800 ration kits to the needy from his own pocket.While expressing his gratitude towards doctors, paramedical staff and safai sewaks, the MLA said he had no words to explain the dedication of the "Real heroes", who worked at the isolation wards of the hospital to fight the Covid-19 head-on, when Nawanshahr emerged as the first hotspot in Punjab.DC Vinay Bublani and SSP Alka Meena also lauded the concerted efforts of the medical fraternity in making the crusade against Covid-19 successful after the emergence of alarming situation due to the death of the first Covid-19 victim Baldev Singh and detection of 18 more Corona positive cases thereafter.The MLA also expressed satisfaction over the fact that Nawanshahr is one of the 25 districts in the country, that have witnessed no new corona positive case. Besides, the staff deputed at isolation ward, he also lauded the contribution of the ASHA workers, ANMs, Anganwari workers and supervisors working in the field, in the fight against the dreaded pandemic.KS Ghumman, ADGP, Punjab Home Guards, also visited the town to boost the morale of the Home Guard jawans at the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-mla-honours-employees-of-health-dept-73104
19-04-2020||Jalandhar||Door-to-door survey begins in villages||The Community Health Centre (CHC), Bara Pind, has started an extensive door-to-door Covid field survey in all villages. In the survey, officials will inspect people having travel history and those who have symptoms of any kind of flu. Meanwhile, the field staff of the Health Department have been visiting the houses of pregnant women for antenatal check-up and to provide them uninterrupted medical facilities. Providing information, Dr Joyti Phokela, SMO, CHC, Bara Pind, on Thursday said during the survey, ASHA workers would daily cover 25 houses and make local residents aware of Covid. “Lists of people with foreign travel history have already been prepared and they will be screened. Besides, contact tracing of positive cases and quarantine activity will be scaled up. Over 60 persons with hypertension, diabetes and heart diseases will be given special attention as they are more prone to get affected by Covid,” the SMO added. In case of any suspected case, the field workers would immediately inform their medical officers for appropriate action, said Dr Phokela, adding that the government had announced a special incentive for ASHA workers for carrying out the survey. The SMO said ANMs and other field staff had continuously been monitoring pregnant women and visiting their houses to ensure their safe delivery and early identification of any high-risk pregnancy. “Immunisation has been carried out at the Community Health Centre and Primary Health Centre under the supervision of medical officers. Social distancing and infection control standards are followed,” the doctor said. In Shahkot, SMO AS Duggal has said 719 persons were screened in 169 houses at Kotla Heran village where a patient was found. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/door-to-door-survey-begins-in-villages-73101
19-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||16 morning walkers held||To discourage people who go out for a morning walk in violation of the curfew orders, the Hoshiarpur police on Saturday conducted a special drive at various places and arrested 16 morning walkers. Giving information, SHO (City) Inspector Gobinder Kumar Bunty said the drive had been started on the directions of Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and SSP Gaurav Garg. The SHO said as many as 16 persons, who were walking on streets, roads and public places in the morning, were rounded up and taken to the Lajwanti Stadium, a temporary jail. An FIR has been registered against them. Appealing to people, the SHO said, “The administration and the police department should be supported to break the chain of coronavirus and people should stay at home”.2 nabbed for violating curfewPhagwara: The police have arrested two shopkeepers on the charge of violating curfew norms on Saturday. SHO (City) Onkar Singh Brar said they had been identified as Jeet Singh and Davinder Singh. They opened their shops during restricted hours of curfew. Meanwhile, a karyana shop was reportedly burgled on the Phagwara-Khotrra road on Friday night. The burglars entered the shop after breaking the locks of the shutter and decamped with valuables worth Rs 20,000. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16-morning-walkers-held-73099
19-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||ATM guard works in double shifts to make both ends meet||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 18On a hot April afternoon, Subhash Kumar (50) was standing guard outside an ATM in the cit, braving the constant flow of visitors coming to withdraw money amid the lockdown.This is one of the two gruelling jobs Subhash balances between to make ends meet during the lockdown. Earlier, he was working at a Jalandhar-based mall. He lost that job and he is yet to receive one-month salary. He said he called up the organisation for the salary, but to no avail.Owing to less financial sources, he works at two ATMs – one in the day and another at night. With a white handkerchief tied across his face, he said, “My former employer didn’t pay me, what could I do? Now, I work here.”He said, “For the past three days, I have been working here. Earlier, I was a guard at a mall. During the lockdown, they said my services were not required. I have been calling them for the pending dues. My son works as a daily wager and daughter was a computer operator at a media house. But after reports of people at the workplace came positive, we stopped sending her to the office. With no other work, I have taken two jobs as an ATM security guard.”On being asked about fear for the coronavirus, he said, “What do I do then? I have to work.”Daily wagers worried as ration is running outRaju (25) and Pawan Kumar (21) came to withdraw money at one of the ATMs where Subhash is a security guard.Raju, who is a daily wager, and Pawan, has a sugarcane juice vend, were also short of money. Both live in a labourers’ colony. Pawan said, “I don’t have much money and I don’t know how many days we will have to spend like this. There is no business and our rations will run out soon.” Raju said, “We are 40 to 50 families staying at Buta Pind. Most of us are daily wagers and we don’t have any work. Some of us have families too. So far, we haven’t received any ration from anyone. At present, we have been making do by helping each other. But the remaining ration won’t last for long.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/atm-guard-works-in-double-shifts-to-make-both-ends-meet-73098
19-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Huge relief as 60 contacts of OT assistant test negative||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 18As many as 60 contacts, including 15 employees of Sacred Heart Hospital, testing negative for Covid-19 today, has come as a great news for the private health sector in the city.Arvinder Singh Mintu (53), an Operation Theatre (OT) assistant at Sacred Heart Hospital in Jalandhar, had tested positive on April 9. His 60 contacts, including 15 staff members of the hospital, have tested negative today.Working as an OT assistant for the past 30 years as well as a physiotherapist, this 53 year-old man is popular in the city’s social as well as medical circles.The Sacred Heart Hospital authorities, social activists and city doctors flooded Arvinder, commonly known as Mintu, with calls. Prayers were also said in gurdwaras and churches for his good health and among those who called him included senior doctors practicing in the country as well as abroad.Arvinder has a daughter in Australia. His wife and mother here also tested negative.Having assisted many eminent surgeons in surgeries, his services also being sought after as a physiotherapist, which he has pursued for over 20 years. His sample testing positive had become a major cause of concern. The scenario could also have become a major worry for the hospital.However, with all his contacts testing negative, it has come as a huge relief for the health sector.Arvinder said: “Apda aundi hai, hausla rakho, rabb da bhana manno, ghabruan di ki lor hai (crisis comes, have courage, deem it God’s wish, why panic).”He said: “After I tested positive I was worried about my daughter in Australia. But I am deeply indebted to my friend Baljit Singh who, along with his wife Komal, took my daughter to their home and took all responsibility of her – as she was apprehensive. They asked me to leave her worries to them. That healed me. Fer main sher ban gaya (then I became a lion),” says Arvinder.Baljit is the nephew of Arvinder ’s adopted sisters Manjit Kaur and Harvinder Kaur. He is in isolation since April 9 and he will be tested again after the quarantine period. Spending time doing Japuji Sahib path and citing lines from Gurbani, Arvinder also expressed gratitude to Dr Sr Mary Lawrence and Administrator Dr Grace Poomkudy as well as Dr Usha, who provided solace to him and said prayers for him.1 discharged in GarhshankarGarhshankar: Harjinder Singh of Pensra village here was discharged from the GMC, Amritsar, after he recovered from Covid-19. Harjinder is the third person from the region and fourth in the district to beat coronavirus. He went to Ivy Hospital, Nawanshahar, for a check-up on April 2, but from there, being symptomatic of Covid-19 infection, he was referred to the Garhshankar Civil Hospital and later, he was shifted to Amritsar GMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/huge-relief-as-60-contacts-of-ot-assistant-test-negative-73097
19-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Follow guidelines to tackle Covid-19, says Cong leader||Phillaur, April 18 The guidelines and orders restricting the movement of the public in the wake of Covid-19 have been issued in the larger interest of society and people must follow them to defeat coronavirus, said Congress leader and Assembly in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary after taking stock of the ration distribution here on Friday. Over 1,000 families received bags of ration at the office of the Municipal Council and on their doorstep in ward nos. 5, 10 and 13 in Phillaur. Chaudhary said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government was taking every possible step to minimise the hardship of people amid the unprecedented crisis. He appealed them not to go out of their houses and said in case of emergency, the instructions issued by the government must be followed. It is compulsory to wear face masks in public places to avoid the spread of the virus. He also urged arhtiyas and farmers to follow advisories of the administration during the wheat procurement process, adding that it was a challenging time for everyone and cooperation of everyone was required. EO Vijay Dogra, former municipal councillors Paramjit Bharti, Vaibhav Sharma, Ranjit Masih, Raj Kumar Hans and Balak Ram were among those others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/follow-guidelines-to-tackle-covid-19-says-cong-leader-73096
