21-04-2020||---||Jalandhar reports another case, count 48||Chandigarh, April 20There seems to be some relief in the state, as just one case was reported in the past 24 hours. With the new case from Jalandhar, the total count has reached 245.According to the state media bulletin, the condition of one patient is critical and he has been put on a ventilator.With a 35-year-old media personnel testing positive in Jalandhar, the total number of Covid-19 patients in the district has risen to 48. The said person is a member of the same media house from where five cases were reported last evening. A majority of these persons are residents of the inner city areas and Pucca Bagh. These areas have been sealed and the Health Department is carrying out sampling of their close contacts.The 35-year-old man, who tested positive today, is a resident of New Moti Nagar in Maqsudan. As many as six people had tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Sunday, five of them from the same organisation.The first person to get infected was a 40-year-old resident of Raja Garden. His four family members were previously tested positive. They comprised his mother, daughter, sister and a nephew.Meanwhile, a 19-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member, who had tested positive a few days ago in Kapurthala district, was discharged today after his sample tested negative for the second time. A total of 162 out of 163 samples taken from Lovely Professional University have also tested negative.As per the department, so far samples of 6,797 suspected persons were sent for testing. Of these, 6,273 samples were found negative and reports of 279 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-reports-another-case-count-48-73903
21-04-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar residents contribute Rs 21.3 lakh for Covid relief||Labourers given homemade masks Nawanshahr: Local BJP activists comprising former secretary of district unit Poonam Manik, Rajni Kanda and Ekta Ballagan, in coordination with DSP Raj Kumar, who has been deputed as nodal officer of ‘Helping Hands Nawanshahr Police’, distributed homemade cotton masks among labourers working at the grain markets here on Monday. DSP Raj Kumar said as many as 250 homemade cotton masks were distributed to labourers. He lauded the gesture of Poonam Manik, Rajni Kanda, Ekta Ballagan, Ashwani Ballagan, former district BJP president, Ashu Angra, Mohit Jain, Dinesh Jain, Bharat Jyoti Kundra, for providing masks to labourers, who have been facing a lot of health hazards at the grain markets. He also lauded the efforts being put in by the activists of the local unit of ‘Art Of Living’ for distributing 260 ration kits to needy families. OCPPE kits sought for safai sewaks Phagwara: Punjab Agro Industrial Corporation Chairman Joginder Singh Maan has urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to take early steps for the security and safety of thousands of sanitary workers who were fighting against Covid-19 at the frontline. Maan, while drawing the attention of the CM towards the sanitary workers, who are working in highly infectious zones by removing most infectious particles, demanded sufficient PPE kits for them. Mann said the sanitary workers had been displaying exemplary commitment for work which was unparalleled and the entire society was indebted to the “soldiers of cleanliness” for this noble cause. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-contribute-rs-21-3-lakh-for-covid-relief-73960
21-04-2020||Nakodar||Gang of sand miners busted, two arrested||Tightening the noose around illegal mining, the Shahkot police on Monday arrested two persons, booked another 10 and seized 11 tractor trolleys (including two loaded with sand) and one JCB machine.A police party, led by DSP Jaspreet Singh conduct at a mining site on the banks of Sutlej river in Rampur village.Those arrested were identified as Lakhwinder Singh of Shahlapur village and Jatinder Singh of Pandher village in Nakodar. However, Chaman Lal and Mukhtiar Singh, both residents Rampur, Veerpal of Kotla Suraj Mal village, Harpreet Singh of Pandher village, Jassa of Bhoepur village, Tejinder Singh of Ucchian Mallian village, Gopi of Kapurthala, Lakhi and Gurjit Singh, both residents of Saidpur village, and Mangi of Nimajipur village managed to flee. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-sand-miners-busted-two-arrested-73959
21-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Lockdown effect: Friends unite after 23 yrs, come up with film||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20Merely a week ago, a set of Bollywood celebrities were searching for Senior Bachchan’s spectacles in a film titled ‘Family’ — Bollywood’s response to the Covid-19 lockdown. While the lockdown has got the creative juices of many flowing, a bunch of women, all 1997-batch passouts from a Jalandhar college, have come up with their own version of a lockdown film. Ten friends who were hostel mates at HMV College Jalandhar, caught up with each other during the Covid-19 lockdown virtually.Virtually togetherWe were hostel mates and had all been together during the hostel days at HMV College. We had glorious happy memories from those days but after leaving college, we got busy with our lives, jobs and families and lost touch. I was talking to only a couple of friends. Rachna Puri, a friend of mine who was also a hostel mate, called me during the lockdown. We talked about a lot of things and she came up with the idea and we decided to give it a go. Beenu Rajpoot, creative filmmakerThe fruit of their nostalgic meeting amid the lockdown is a 5 minute 26 second film titled Reunion – When Hearts Meet! The film is a result of their ‘virtual’ collaboration (without personally meeting each other) 23 years after they left college, and is entirely a product of circumstances arising out of the lockdown.A talk between two friends resulted in an idea of a short film to commemorate their friendship. Directed by a creative filmmaker Beenu Rajpoot, the film was released on Youtube on Sunday. The film has been conceptualised by her hostel mate and friend Rachna Puri, who came up with the idea in the first place. Beenu has previously made films, including ‘Suran Di Malika – Surinder Kaur’, ‘Banaras – Kaba-e-Hindostan’, ‘Born to Dance’, a biopic on kathak virtuoso Shivana Narayan, among others.Pieced together by Beenu, the film comprises independent videos that all friends sent from their respective homes. These were pieced together into a 5 minute 26 second film by Beenu Rajpoot – to whom all friends sent the short videos. The film involves the team work of 10 people and features nine of them – Rachna Puri, Sonika Sharma, Sukhnandan Sandhu, Aarti Gupta, Radhika Sekhri, Karuna Jain, Preeti Handa Vohra, Manju Gandotra and Anjali Gupta.The film was premiered on Zoom on April 18, 2020, to celebrate ‘Punar Milan 2020’ of HMV College Jalandhar. The film was launched online by college principal Dr Ajay Sareen on the official online channel of HMV the same day.Beenu Rajpoot said: “We were hostel mates and had all been together during the hostel days at HMV College. We had glorious happy memories from those days but after leaving college, we got busy with our lives, jobs and families and lost touch. I was talking to only a couple of friends. Rachna Puri, a friend of mine who was also a hostel mate, called me during the lockdown. We talked about a lot of things and she came up with the idea and we decided to give it a go.”All characters featured in the film are Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya’s (HMV’s) 1997 batch pass outs, who caught with each other again during the lockdown.Rachna Puri, who herself features in the film, is founder and director of Vectormob Company in Mumbai.Beenu said: “I studied five years in HMV and all of us were together during that time. The lockdown only made us realise how schedules take a toll over friendships due to busy lives. When we were free, we couldn’t even catch up. And now, we are eager to meet. While it was impossible to see each other personally during the lockdown, we have thus titled the film Reunion. Without the lockdown, we wouldn’t have even thought of the idea. One of the first things we will do after the lockdown is see each other.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-effect-friends-unite-after-23-yrs-come-up-with-film-73958
21-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Amid turmoil, this NGO helps unite mentally-challenged boy with kin||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20On March 31, 20-year-old Javed, who is mentally challenged, boarded a train to nowhere. His father Lukmaan, a rickshaw puller, launched a manhunt the next day to find him, but to no avail. Unable to find him for days, they lost hope they would see their child again in the middle of Covid lockdown.However, the efforts of a Jalandhar-based activist as well as the Amritsar police ensured the return of the boy back to his parents days after he went missing from his home in Mayur Vihar, Delhi. The boy, who left home on the intervening night of March 30 and 31 after a fight with his mother, ended up in Amritsar. With the efforts of the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled people (NCPEDP) and Jalandhar-based activist Amarjit Anad, who was informed about the child by a Lucknow-based NGO, the child reached back to his parents.Bruised and beaten while on the road, for three days activists set up liasions with various ministries and NGOs to get the child home.Amarjit Singh Anand said, “I received information about this child from a shopkeeper in Amritsar and through NCPEDP executive director Armaan Ali on March 31. With the intervention of the centre and the Amritsar police, the child was sent back to his home on April 4. It took several days for us to trace and retrace the child.”Found outside a shop in Amritsar on March 31, the child ran away again after which through intervention from the ministry and Anand’s calls to both disability activists and the police in Amritsar – the child was traced to border village Kambo on April 3.Various stakeholders who intervened to help find Javed include – the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Secretary, Shakuntala Gamlin, CEO, National Trust, Amritsar Police, Gurpreet Sapra, Director, Social Security, Commissioner, Disabilities, Punjab and Gurinder Singh, Chairman, Amrit Parivar Parent Association, Amritsar.Anand said, “It took us three days of liasions and phone calls to finally trace the child. The Amritsar police played the key role. They found the child and sent him back to his parents on April 4. The Covid test of the boy was also conducted and finally he was dropped to his parents who otherwise might have been unable to trace him during the lockdown.”Anand is also working for the disability sector for Covid in Jalandhar. He is also overseeing the helpline started for disabled senior citizens and widows in the district. Lakahan Sentmar, a neighbour of Lukmaan, said, “It was with the intervention of an activist from Jalandhar and another Delhi-based NGO that the child could be brought back. I found his parents grieving that he had taken a train to his village. Due to the lockdown, the family had lost all hope of finding the boy back. But due to active intervention in Punjab, the child was brought back to his parents. He had been hurt and one of his legs was swollen. It seems at places he might also have met some hostile elements, but at least now the family has got their child back. He is currently undergoing treatment for the injuries he incurred while he was away.”The boy was traced to AmritsarThe boy, who left home on the intervening night of March 30 and 31 after a fight with his mother, ended up at Amritsar. With the efforts of the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled people (NCPEDP) and Jalandhar-based activist Amarjit Anad, who was informed about the child by a Lucknow-based NGO, the child reached back to his parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-turmoil-this-ngo-helps-unite-mentally-challenged-boy-with-kin-73957
21-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||This lawyer enjoys break from his work with his family members||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20Having remained busy with high-profile cases for the past 37 years, it has been a forced break but one of the most enjoyable times in the life for city’s top criminal lawyer Mandeep S Sachdev.Now, I realise that I have earned a lot of money in my life, but these are all artificial gains. I have not been able to spare much time for my family for whom I have been earning. There is nothing more precious in life than having a cup of tea in the balcony with my wife every morning amid a cool breeze and beautiful flowers all around. Having breakfast with my daughters, watching movies sitting with them and enjoying mouth-watering delicacies prepared by them give me all the joy of my life. Mandeep S Sachdev, criminal lawyer“Ever since I started practising in 1993, I have been taking just holidays for two days in a year. I have made sure that I visit the gurdwara and attend the programmes marked the Gurpurb celebrations. The rest of the days, I work non-stop from 9 am to midnight, preparing cases for my clients. Besides, I have to stay out of home for two to three days a week for cases listed in the High Court or the Supreme Court. But the ongoing lockdown has changed my life completely,” said the lawyer, who has earlier been the District Bar Association president.Expressing his feelings, Sachdev said, “Now, I realise that I have earned a lot of money in my life, but these are all artificial gains. I have not been able to spare much time for my family for whom I have been earning. There is nothing more precious in life than having a cup of tea in the balcony with my wife every morning amid a cool breeze and beautiful flowers all around. Having breakfast with my daughters, watching movies sitting with them and enjoying mouth-watering delicacies prepared by them (using YouTube recipes) give me all the joy of my life. The only point where we have a clash is over the choice of movies as my wife and I prefer old movies, while they enjoy the new ones.”He said, “There is so much relaxation in my life that even my dog Boozo (a Labrador) seems to be asking me as to why I was at home all the day. He keeps coming to me and enjoys playing with me.”Sachdev said, “Had there been no lockdown, I would have attended the marriage of my cousin on April 12-13 in Agra, which had to be postponed. I was to visit the US embassy last week for my visa extension to attend another wedding in the family in June. Even that wedding has been put off. Since I cannot help being active socially, I have been calling up friends and family members, messaging them and asking their well being. I have been active on Facebook as well. While I earlier used to post my pictures while studying in my legal library at home or attending court cases, these days I discuss various debatable topics.”He said, “Earlier, I used to remain anxious about winning a case. But these days, all my anxiety is around the fact that the world should not suffer and India should win this war against the coronavirus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-lawyer-enjoys-break-from-his-work-with-his-family-members-73955
21-04-2020||Jalandhar||No sanitisation in some wards, allege Jalandhar residents||Residents have complained that sanitisation has not been carried out in several wards.Balraj Thakur, chairman of the Sanitation Adhoc Committee, which is looking after the sanitisation process in every ward, said people were telling him that no one had gone to some areas in their wards for sanitisation.“In several areas, the process has been finished with spraying pumps. There is a possibility that people didn’t get to know when the process was being carried out,” he said. He said in some of the wards, the sanitisation process was carried out with fire brigade machines and no complaint was received.Administration continues to provide essential itemsIn its drive to provide essential items to people, the district administration on Monday supplied 1,02,067 litres of milk and 9,106 quintals of vegetables and fruits to them on their doorstep. Several teams of Milkfed, Mandi Board and Food and Civil Supply Department under the supervision of the Deputy Commissioner have been providing the essential items in the district. The teams of Milkfed led by general manager Rupinder Singh Sekhon have been supplying milk and other products. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-sanitisation-in-some-wards-allege-jalandhar-residents-73954
21-04-2020||---||Man held for storing sanitisers, 2-ply masks in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 20The police on Sunday arrested a person for allegedly storing 559 litres of sanitiser and 4,500 two-ply masks.Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said acting on a tip-off that a gang engaged in black marketing of sanitisers is active in the area, the police set up a naka in the Deol Nagar area.“During the checking, a police party led by ASI Rattan Singh found seven cases of 210 sanitisers of 500 ml packing, five cases of 20 bottles of five-litre sanitiser and one case of 4,500 two ply masks from a car. The police arrested driver of the vehicle, identified as Deepak Kumar, who resides in Defence Colony near Khalsa College,” said Bhullar.Thereafter, the police raided his house and seized three cases containing 480 hand sanitisers of 100 ml packing, 2,340 bottles of 100 ml sanitizers and three other cartons of 720 sanitisers of 100 ml from a Skoda car (CH 03 P 1946).A case under Section 188 of IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act 1897, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and relevant section of the Essential Commodities Act has been registered against the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-for-storing-sanitisers-2-ply-masks-in-jalandhar-73952
21-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Jalandhar residents have no fear of law||Jalandhar, April 20Despite the fact that 315 FIRs have been registered against the curfew violators in the city, a section of morning and evening walkers have no fear of the law. They even do not take seriously the administration’s warning against walking outside at a time when Covid-19 is spreading its tentacles in the country. They are often seen walking on roads, nearby parks and in their localities.Retd Major General’s appeal to walkersBeing a retired Army person, I am an ardent lover of outdoor physical activity. But considering the situation at this juncture, I have accepted the guidelines of the government to stay indoors. But it is strange to see that some people are just cocking a snook at every order that the government is issuing. They seem to be totally unconcerned about the consequences it could have on society and humanity at large. Violators deserve legal action. I will urge them to stay home for the safety of humans and the nation. Major General Arun Khanna (retd), Jalandhar residentThe police say that they are keeping an eye on violators through nakas, patrolling vans and unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). They have received complaints from people of various localities about their neighbours stepping out of their homes unnecessarily for jogging and cycling causing inconvenience to others.“We have taken CCTV footage and booked residents of various housing societies as police patrolling teams have found many people walking in the evening in their society parks with their kids. We will continue with the drive until residents do not understand their responsibility and stay inside,” officials said.Talking to The Tribune, ACP Samar Vaneet on Monday said, “From March 23 to April 19, the police registered 315 FIRs, including 60 against those who had not worn face masks. Around 412 people were arrested and 6,612 challans issued. Around 508 vehicles were impounded for flouting the curfew.”He said Section 144 was imposed everywhere in the country. “You should step out of house only for essential services. You cannot move around everywhere aimlessly,” he said, adding till the curfew was lifted, people should adhere to the guidelines otherwise strict action would be taken against the violators.The ACP said the curfew was imposed so that the spread of Covid 19 could be checked. “If people keep coming out of their houses for morning and evening walks or without any purpose, they are not only risking their own lives but also those of their family members, neighbours and everyone in their locality,” he said.He appealed to the residents to abide by the law for their own safety and said no one would be allowed to violate the law in the city.DC, CP hold flag marchJalandhar: The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Varinder Kumar Sharma, and the Commissioner of Police (CP), Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, on Monday said containment zones in the district have been completely sealed and no outsider would be allowed entry to the areas. The DC and CP led a flag march of security personnel here. Later, they said the march was held to instil a sense of security and safety among the residents and boost the morale of cops who were rendering 24X7 hour duty at nakas. The CP said those found violating the curfew would be dealt with sternly. They said after surfacing of Covid-19 cases in the city, Anand Nagar, Raja Garden, Ravidass Nagar, Mitha Bazar, Neela Mahal, Old Sabzi Mandi, Narayan Nagar, Jatt Pura, Basti Shiekh, Balmiki Mohalla, Makhdoompura and Nizatam Nagar, along with some adjoining areas, have been declared as containment zones.Three arrested for curfew violationTo tighten the noose around the persons violating curfew norms by not wearing masks or by milling around without curfew pass, the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police on Monday arrested three persons and registered cases against them. Besides, around 225 traffic challans were issued on Monday and 22 vehicles were impounded for violating curfew.5 held in Mehatpur, BilgaNakodar: The Shahkot police arrested two persons for violating curfew on Sunday. Deputy Superintendent of Police Paira Singh said a case has been registered against the persons. He said that the suspects were roaming around without curfew passes. He said those violating the curfew would be booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, adding that several traffic challans have been issued and vehicles impounded in the past few days for the violation. Meanwhile, the Bilga police arrested three persons for violating the curfew on Monday and registered a case against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-have-no-fear-of-law-73951
21-04-2020||Kapurthala||Five booked for fraud||Covid-19: jamati tests negativePhagwara: A Tablighi activist, Afjal Sheikh, a resident of Kot-karar-khan village, near Kapurthala, who was admitted and being treated at Isolation ward after tested positive for Covid for the past 16 days was on Monday again tested and found negative. Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal and Civil Surgeon Jasmeet Bawa said here on Monday 162 out of 163 samples taken from LPU campus were tested negative. Only one Neetu Chauhan who was tested positive is under treatment at Kapurthala Hospital. Meanwhile, she clarified that the shops of stationary, academic books, air conditioners, air coolers, deserts coolers, ceiling, table fans and even electric goods repair shops would remain closed till May 3. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-booked-for-fraud-73945
21-04-2020||Manav Mander||Jalandhar resident cured, discharged from Ludhiana hospital||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20A Jalandhar-based resident, who has been admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), has been cured of Covid-19. Her second consecutive test came negative and she was discharged from the hospital today.Helpline numbersDist Ludhiana: 0161-2444193State: 104Info for tracking of foreign travellers: 0161-4622276One can also contact:Dr Divjot Singh: 9041274030 Dr Ramesh: 9855716180The 72-year-old woman tested positive on March 27. Meanwhile, a total of 1,143 samples have been taken in the district, of which 1,098 have come out negative. None tested positive in the district today.‘Covid testing’ at DMCHDayanand Medical College and Hospital started ‘Covid testing’ in its accredited laboratory from today. Secretary of DMCH Prem Kumar Gupta said as per the instructions from the Central and state governments, the fee for Covid-19 testing for general public cannot be exceeded from Rs 4,500, hence the DMCH is giving 25 per cent concession on the actual cost of testing which is Rs 6,000.“With regard to the samples to be received through the government authorities, a 60 per cent discount will be given and Rs 2,500 will be charged,” said Gupta.DC, top cop test negativeAfter taking the rapid test, Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal underwent a swab test at the DMCH today. He also tested negative for the same. The Commissioner of Police has also tested negative.Sabzi Mandi visitors to undergo testingThe Deputy Commissioner said the administration would start testing all visitors to the Sabzi Mandi with “rapid testing kits”. He said sufficient number of these kits had been received in the district and the testing would start shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-resident-cured-discharged-from-ludhiana-hospital-73764
