22-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur reports no new case in three weeks||Hoshiarpur, April 21No positive case of coronavirus has been reported in the district for the past 21 days. Giving information, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said residents had supported the administration by staying indoors. The DC said they should continue to do the same in the coming days so that the battle against the virus could be won with solidarity.She has appealed to people, who have been quarantined at their homes, to support the administration in this time of crisis. The DC said she hoped that the district would be declared coronavirus-free soon.So far, six cases have been reported from the district. Of them, three have been recovered and one person has lost his life. Two patients are still in the isolation ward and it is being expected that they will be recovered soon.Another resident of the district, who came from Italy and was isolated in Amritsar, has been recovered and returned to his Khanur village.Praising the health workers, the DC said, “We have been able to stop the virus from spreading due to our health workers.Mayor’s OSD among 5 test positive in JalandharJalandhar: Five more coronavirus positive cases emerged in Jalandhar late on Tuesday evening, taking the tally to 53. One of the patients is Harpreet S Walia, OSD to the Mayor and a resident of Central Town, who had got himself tested a day before along with Mayor Jagdish Raja and other councillors. The Mayor and all councillors have tested negative. Being asymptomatic, Walia had met the Mayor even on Tuesday. After the report came on Tuesday, the Mayor, some councillors in Walia’s contact and a few MC employees have chosen to go into quarantine. Two persons include employees of a firm, which already has nine positive cases. They are from Raja Garden. The remaining two persons are Covid positive Congress leader’s contacts from the Neelamahal locality. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-reports-no-new-case-in-three-weeks-74489
22-04-2020||Jalandhar||Cops get PPE kits, sanitisers||After the death of a senior cop in Ludhiana due to coronavirus, the city police have swung into action to enhance the safety parameters for cops deployed in sensitive locations.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, DCP (Investigation) and ACP (Headquarters) Bimal Kant on Tuesday distributed 63 PPE kits, sanitisers, N95 masks among police personnel deployed in isolation wards, trauma centres and 18 containment zones.As many as 42 cops are reportedly deployed in ENT wards, trauma centre, isolation wards and other sensitive areas. From accompanying Health Department workers in bringing Covid patients to hospitals and guarding emergency gates, the cops are in constant touch with patients. Taking swift action, Bhullar on Tuesday distributed safety equipment among cops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-get-ppe-kits-sanitisers-74479
22-04-2020||---||Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa’s daughter cured of Covid||Jalandhar, April 21After the demise of Padma Shri Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa owing to Covid-19 and controversy over his viral audio indicating that he had not been taken care of well by staff at an Amritsar hospital, the state government perhaps was extra cautious in taking care of his Coronavirus positive daughter in Jalandhar. Jaskirat Kaur (30) from Lohian had brought to the Civil Hospital here on April 1, after she tested positive.Today, she was discharged from the hospital after all her reports came negative. A team of doctors of the Civil Hospital, led by Senior Medical Officer Kashmiri Lal, treated Jaskirat.After her treatment at the hospital, Jaskirat’s samples were again sent to Government Medical College, Amritsar, on April 17 in which her report was found negative. Another sample was also sent on April 19 for a confirmatory test in which again her report was found negative. Subsequently, she was finally discharged from the hospital today.Expressing satisfaction over the treatment given to her in the hospital, a nostalgic Jaskirat said the entire team of doctors, especially Dr Kashmiri Lal, treated her well like his own daughter. She thanked all medical and paramedical staff who took care of her in the past couple of days, adding that all these noble souls provided a humane touch to her and other patients.Jaskirat said the entire hospital staff was much cooperative and they took utmost care of her during these troublesome days. She urged people to combat the Covid-19 by staying back at their homes.She said there was no need to worry about the virus but precautions must be taken to ensure that the battle against it was won. She also showered praise for Punjab Police officers Balwinder Singh, a golf player, for standing with her and family in this hour of crisis.Oil dealers contribute Rs 2.22 lakh to relief fundAfter DC Varinder Kumar Sharma exhorted people to contribute generously to the District Relief Fund Society to fight the Covid, residents continue to support the administration. On Tuesday, Indian Oil (IO) dealers here contributed Rs2.22 lakh to the society.As per information, the Indian Oil Dealers of Jalandhar under the guidance of Atul Gupta, DGM, Indian Oil, Jalandhar; Iqbal Siddiqui; Rakesh Tikko; and Roopendra Jaiswal from Indian Oil and dealers Ranbir Singh Tut, Prem Chauhan and Nitin Goyal handed over a cheque for Rs2.22 lakh to ADC Jasbir Singh.Thanking IO officials and dealers, the ADC called upon philanthropists to come forward to help needy and underprivileged people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bhai-nirmal-singh-khalsas-daughter-cured-of-covid-74473
22-04-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Family of doctors provides free medical care||Hoshiarpur, April 21Joining the war against Covid, a family of doctors in Garhdiwala has come forward to provide primary medical facilities and medicines free of cost to local residents. The members comprised Dr Mohan Lal Thaman, a septuagenarian, his wife Sanjog Kanta Thaman, a retired district nursing officer, sons Dr Ajay Thaman, Dr Abhishek Thaman and daughter-in-law Dr Swarna Rai.So far, they have served 30 villages and Garhdiwala town and provided free medicines to more than 3,000 persons. The family has converted their cars into mobile dispensaries.Dr Ajay Thaman is a medical officer in a charitable dispensary at Dera Rampur Kheda. He also goes to the dispensary everyday.Septuagenarian Dr Mohan Lal Thaman is also available at his clinic adjoining their residence round the clock. Dr Ajay Thaman said, “A week after the curfew was imposed, we found that people were facing hardships in the absence of medical care. It was then that my father decided to join the fight against the virus and help the needy in this hour of crisis. We started our drive in a slum area on March 30 and till now we have covered more than 30 villages.””Besides doing general checkup, we provide medicines free of cost. We will continue to serve the people till the situation is under control,” said Dr. Mohan Lal.Turns their cars into mobile dispensaries||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/family-of-doctors-provides-free-medical-care-74468
22-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Braving odds, young sportspersons continue to practise at home||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 21The daughter of a daily wager, Harpreet Kaur, who is a bronze medal winner in national school games, does not miss to practise at her home even for a single day during the lockdown.The 15-year-old wrestler from Jalandhar is well aware of the coronavirus pandemic. Despite the income source of her family has stopped because her father is now without work, she hardly talks about it and says her entire focus is on her practise so that she can do well in the game once the lockdown ends.Like her, many sportspersons don’t have proper equipment such as mats at their home. But they practise on the ‘katcha’ floor.Having been lived in poverty, young sportspersons say the fear of coronavirus can’t lower down their spirits. Sportspersons belonging to economically poor families, who have played several tournaments, said this was another match of their life and their morale was high.Harpreet practises with her elder brother Nirmal. He said, “There is a lot of poverty and everything is tough. Despite that, practise doesn’t let us think anything else.”Father of a 21-year-old wrestler, Jaspal Singh is a factory worker. Jaspal said, “Ups and downs are part and parcel of life. I always say to my family members that everything is going to fine soon.”Former international wrestler Jagjit Singh, who is in the Punjab Police and posted in Ludhiana, has set up a wrestling academy. He has asked players to tell him if they need any help.Jaspal said whenever they need ration, Jagjit Singh always come up to help them.International coach Mandeep Singh at the academy said, “I am connected with everyone and asks players to practise at homes. Even though they belong to humbled families, they have amazing willpower like no one else.”Judoka Sharmila (15), whose mother, who used to work as a domestic help, has no work now. She is the only bread earner in the family. Sharmila had won a bronze medal in judo in the Khelo India national-level games.She lives in a room rented house in Jalandhar. Sharmila said, “I have been doing homework given by my teachers. Besides, I practise judo at the home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/braving-odds-young-sportspersons-continue-to-practise-at-home-74466
22-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||MLA wants to be part of team holding last rites of Coronavirus victims in region||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 21Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku has written to state Special Chief Secretary KBS Sidhu and the DC, showing his willingness to be part of a team constituted to conduct the last rites of Covid victims in the Doaba and Jalandhar regions.In the letter, Rinku said, “After consultations with my family and friends, I have taken the decision that if, God forbid, someone in Doaba or Jalandhar dies of Covid then my name be included in the team which is formulated to conduct their last rites. There are various doubts, fears and thoughts regarding Covid-19. It was seen that village panchayats and residents refused to allow the body of ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa at a village following his death a few days ago. Former official Jaswinder Singh’s family also refused to accept his body. These incidents have shaken the Punjab’s core values.”Speaking to The Tribune, Rinku said, “After the recent disturbing incidents, I felt there is need to dispel myths, fears and doubts surrounding those who die due to Covid-19. The last rites of people in the state have always been a community ceremony. After a death, no one cooks in the family, but neighbours serve them food and tea. But the scare regarding Covid has created doubts to this extent that leave alone neighbours, victims’ own families even don’t want to receive the bodies. I have therefore expressed willingness to be part of the team to conduct the last rites of such people.”He added, “My request has been acknowledged by the district administration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-wants-to-be-part-of-team-holding-last-rites-of-coronavirus-victims-in-region-74462
22-04-2020||Phagwara||Sri Lankan students to leave for home||All 102 students of Sri Lanka, (70) staying on the LPU campus and 32 outside the campus will leave for Sri Lanka in a special plane on April 23 from Amritsar. This was stated by Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal while talking to The Tribune here on Tuesday evening.She said these students were screened and treated by a team of doctors on Tuesday. LPU international affairs in- charge Aman Mittal also confirmed it and said the students would leave for Amritsar in special buses of the LPU from here.Meanwhile, Civil Surgeon Kapurthala Jasmeet Bawa said Afzal Sheikh, the first Covid patient of the district, had been discharged after receiving two negative Covid reports and had been kept in confinement at the Sainik Rest House for 14 days.The CMO said besides LPU student Nitu Chauhan was in a stable condition now, adding that the report of those who came in 162 high contacts of Nitu had also tested negative.She said the Department of Health was developing a face protection shield in the war against coronavirus, everyone was performing his responsibility in one way or the other.Dr Bawa said the Health Department had started conducting tests through rapid test kits. She said the lists of police personnel who were fighting against the virus would be called and their tests be conducted at the nearest government health centre. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sri-lankan-students-to-leave-for-home-74461
22-04-2020||Industry & Lockdown||Govt help must to alleviate business blues: Kochhar||THE industry — both organised and unorganised sector — has been hit hard due to the Covid-19 outbreak, as residents have been forced to stay indoors till May 3. In an interaction with GS Paul, ASSOCHAM (Punjab) chairperson and director of one of Asia’s leading producers of paper Suneet Kochhar spells out the adverse impact of Covid-19 on the paper industry and plans to refurbish it in the near future. Here are the excerpts:How has Covid-19 hit the Indian paper industry?A loss of approximately Rs10,000 crore has been estimated during the Covid-19 pandemic-driven lockdown for the Indian paper industry that accounts for 4-5 per cent of the global paper production. The ongoing crisis will see the sale of paper plunging as demand from the packaging, education, corporate and print media sectors has come to a naught. Not only with the paper industry, it will be the same story with every industrial unit. At present, 80 per cent of the economy has come to a standstill.The Centre and the state government must formulate a liberal policy like a one-time, one-month refund of GST to all units in April. Banks and public sector financial institutions can extend interest-free loans. Suneet KochharHow do you cope with the prevailing situation?We have shut down our operations temporarily as far as newsprint is concerned. With a dip in circulation, many editions have seen a digital push and there is negligible demand for newsprint. We can only carry on with our cardboard unit, used for packaging. It is also not viable as transport freight, too, has escalated manifold.What are the hiccups in operating the units?We were told to ensure payment of wages to workers, irrespective of the fact that their services were being utilised or not. On the other hand, no thought was given to the fact that there is no income due to lack of demand and production. There is no relaxation in taxes. Rather delay for a small period is the only solace for industrialists.How about arranging labour and wages?My biggest worry is how will we arrange the April salary that amounts to several crores. The UK, Germany and the US governments have announced to shoulder the burden of workers’ salaries up to 70 per cent to give a relief to the industry. There is no such policy here. I have never seen such a crisis in my life and nobody would have anticipated this situation. It was cumbersome to arrange workers’ transportation keeping in view the social distancing norm. Generally, factories across the country were never designed to house workers on the premises.How do you see the situation post Covid-19?It is time to reset the business model as the manufacturing sector can face severe workforce crunch. In our unit, over 30 per cent of the skilled labour, that we had outsourced and engaged in technical duties such as wielding, operating boilers and machines, has left for their native places in UP and Bihar. I will hesitate to engage local operators.What, according to you, should be the governments’ role?The Centre and the state government ought to formulate a liberal policy like a one-time, one-month refund of GST to all units in April. This step will at least restore their work. Till the situation returns to normal, banks and public sector financial institutions can extend interest-free loans. Many industries in the state availed of medium-term loans. Their instalments can be deferred without penal interest. The burden of workers’ wages can be reduced by utilising the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) dues already in the governments’coffer.When do you expect it to get back on track?There is no possibility of recovery in this fiscal. We presume that it will only get back when a vaccine is developed. Otherwise, the Covid threat will force governments to extend the lockdown repeatedly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-help-must-to-alleviate-business-blues-kochhar-74459
22-04-2020||---||ASHA workers playing their part in fight against Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 21Dr Amardeep Singh Duggal, Senior Medical Officer, CHC, Shahkot, said on Tuesday for the past 28 days country was under lockdown and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers were the part of such teams that were out to find out coronavirus positive and suspected persons and providing awareness on how to beat the virus.“ASHA workers are residing in their villages and acting as a shield for residents,” he said. The Health Department has given a task to ASHA workers to find NRIs who came to their respective villages. In the Shahkot block, with the help of ASHA workers as many as 442 persons were traced and quarantined, who came from abroad in recent days. Now, the ASHA workers are given the responsibility to do a survey in the locality and find out any person, who is suffering from cough, fever-like symptoms. Besides, they are also disseminating awareness on how to be safe from the pandemic.Left four year daughter at home to serve dutyThe first Covid positive case was reported on April 1 in Lohia. The next day, a survey started there to trace suspects. Sonia, an ASHA worker from Sabuwal village, had been assigned the task to work with a survey team in Lohia. She left her four-year-old daughter at home and peformed the 15-day survey duty in an affected area. Now, she is doing a door-to-door survey in her own village.Sonia says: “In survey days, when I would return home, my daughter used to came running to me and hug me. When I would refuse, she would cry. Somehow, my husband managed the situation. I am afraid and worried for my daughter, but to look after the health of the public is also my responsibility,” she said.Chandan Mishra, block extension educator, CHC, Shahkot, said an ASHA worker was aappointed against 1,000 persons. Now, 164 actvists are working in the block and doing door-to-door survey.“Today, ASHA workers and other teams covered 4,138 houses and screened 20,502 persons. ASHA workers are the backbone of the department, who strengthens its schemes at the grass-roots level,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asha-workers-playing-their-part-in-fight-against-covid-74452
22-04-2020||Our Correspondent||ASI accused of taking bribe||Hoshiarpur, April 21An ASI posted at Sadar police station allegedly threatened an arhtiya to impound his vehicle supplying fruits and demanded a bribe of Rs 2,000. Later, the amount was settled at Rs 1,000. A complaint by the victim has been filed with the Model Town police.According to information, Bhag Singh, who is in the business of selling fruits, was returning home after supplying the products. The Sadar police stopped his vehicle at a naka and asked him to show his curfew pass. When he showed the pass, the ASI said validity of the pass was over. To this, the businessman said the validity had been extended by the administration and the pass was valid. However, later he visited the victim at his office. According to the complainant, when the ASI reached, the complainant was not present and the ASI demanded Rs 2,000 from his worker. The ASI threatened that in case of non-payment of bribe, he would impound victim’s vehicle. Bhag Singh said his worker gave him Rs 1,000. The whole incident was recorded in CCTV cameras installed at the office. A phone call in which the ASI asked for the money has also been recorded.Balwinder Singh Jauda, SHO, Model Town, said the inquiry report had been sent to the SSP for further action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asi-accused-of-taking-bribe-74449
22-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Broadcasting of lectures through TV, radio begins||Jalandhar, April 21Following suggestions received from teachers and school heads of various schools in the state, the Education Department from Monday has started broadcasting lectures for Classes VII and VIII through TV and radio channels.The department has collaborated with channels that includes DD free dish channel no. 117, Dish TV channel no. 939 and Swayam Prabha 20 on Jio TV app to reach out to children who were earlier facing difficulties understanding the lesson via videoconferencing. The lectures would be broadcasted two times a day in the morning from 9 to 11 and repeat telecast of the same in the evening from 4 to 6.“Though only Classes VII and VIII have been included so far, efforts are on to start the same practice for all classes and have collaboration with more channels,” said Secretary, School Education, Krishan Kumar in the advisory, sent to teachers and school heads today through WhatsApp.He said more details of these channels and schedule of teachers would be shared with District Education Officers soon.Besides, to strengthen its e-learning concept, the state Education Department is in contact with a few radio channels which could provide time slots to teachers to deliver their lectures through the medium. “We have been receiving calls and suggestions from our teachers during the past so many days. Proud to acknowledge that despite summer vacations, teachers under the guidance of school heads and DEOs, have already started online classes despite all difficulties,” said Krishan Kumar while appealing to the teachers to circulate information regarding broadcasting of lectures on TV to all students and parents. The Education Secretary said the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) had already uploaded e-books on its website.“The SCERT has further segregated chapters on all subjects and had made PDF files. These files had been individually made available to the schools through social media and also to the website of the department. A link has been provided through Google drive from where these specific chapters to be covered in April and May can be taken out by the students and the teachers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/broadcasting-of-lectures-through-tv-radio-begins-74447
22-04-2020||Jalandhar||Doctors to observe Black Day on April 23||Condemning the mob attack on ambulance which was carrying Tamil Nadu’s neurosurgeon Dr Simon Hercules body for cremation on Sunday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, said it was a matter of concern that doctors who had died in their line of duty were treated in such an uncivilised manner.In a press release, IMA punjab president, Dr Navjot Dahyia said doctors, across the nation have maintained utmost restraint and patience in spite of extreme provocations. “Doctors have been abused, beaten up, denied entry and residence, but obstruction to cremation is the last straw that they can bear. If dignity is denied even in death, our patience and restraint loses the value,” he said.He said the IMA demand a special Central Law against violence on doctors, nurses, the health care workers and hospitals by an ordinance. Expressing his rage against the attack and denial to cremation; Dr Dahyia announced “White alert” on Wednesday and appealed to all doctors and hospitals to light a candle as protest and vigil.He further said the doctors will observe “Black Day” on April 23, and the doctors in the country would work with black badges. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctors-to-observe-black-day-on-april-23-74445
22-04-2020||Nakodar||Two held with heroin, cash||Illicit liquor seized, 3 heldPhagwara: The Satnampura police arrested two persons under the Excise Act on Monday evening. SHO Satnampura Usha Rani said the suspects had been identified as Jagwinder Singh and Manoj Kumar, both residents of Darveshpind, near Phagwara. Two boxes of illicit liquor were recovered from the suspects, the SHO said. The SHO said the suspects were nabbed at a checkpoint. In another case, the police seized one box of illicit liquor from a person on Monday and arrested him. The suspect has been identified as Surinder Pal of the Gobindpura locality in Phagwara. A case under the Excise Act has been registered. OCGoods gutted at Medical shopPhagwara: Valuables, including medicines, were reduced to ashes in a major fire that broke out at Duggal Medical Store in Hadiabad here on Monday. Jatinder Sehgal, owner of the shop, said medicines worth lakhs of rupees were gutted in the fire. Short circuit was said to be the cause behind the incident. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-heroin-cash-74444
