23-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Seven more positive for coronavirus, Jalandhar tally 60||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 23With seven more people testing positive in the district, the total number of cases in Jalandhar has reached 60. The district figures have doubled in the past one week - especially majority of them being reported from the inner city areas - or bazaar areas. Those testing positive today include five journalists (and kin) from a local media house and two cases from previous contacts. The five media house contacts include a 31-year-old male and a 30-year-old male and their 39-year-old woman and 70-year-old relative male as well as a 65-year-old woman from Jwala Nagar in Maqsudan.   The other two cases are a 46-year-old woman relative of Basti Danishmandan based 70-year-old man who previously tested positive and a 55-year-old woman of another COVID-19 positive case. Notably, the total cases of direct and indirect contacts testing positive from the media house have reached 23 in the district. While 10 of these are employees/journalists at the media house, the rest are their direct/indirect contacts and kin. The new cases are residents of Pucca Bagh, New Dashmesh Nagar, Basti Danishmandan areas.   One of the women testing positive in the district is also the mother of a block extension educator working in the health department’s mass media wing.While a figure of eight cases had been pegged for Jalandhar this morning — with one case already reported earlier – the health department by the evening said formally a report of total seven positive persons had been received with names today.Meanwhile, both the 72-year-old Nijatam Nagar woman and her son were also discharged – taking the total number of those recovered in Jalandhar to 7. The woman had been discharged on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-more-positive-for-coronavirus-jalandhar-tally-60-75073
23-04-2020||Phagwara||Wheat crop gutted in fire||PPE kits given to sanitation staffJalandhar: Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Singh Bunty on Wednesday distributed 100 PPE kits and sanitisers among safai karamcharis. He asked them to take all precautionary measures while doing their duty. Bunty said the safai karamcharis were working as frontline warriors and thus, they must follow all precautionary and preventive measures. “They have been working all day and night. It is important that they remain safe amid the Covid-19 pandemic and it is our duty to protect them,” he said. TNSTewari salutes covid warriorsGarhshankar: Interacting through videoconferencing with office-bearers and workers of the Congress youth wing, Member of Parliament Manish Tewari sought information on the situation in the Sri Anandpur Sahib parliamentary constituency amid the pandemic. He expressed happiness over the recovery of 18 Covid patients in Nawanshahr. Tewari appreciated the efforts of all frontline warriors engaged in the fight against the coronavirus threat. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wheat-crop-gutted-in-fire-74969
23-04-2020||Phagwara||Thermal screening mandatory for those entering Kapurthala: DC||Keeping in view the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases reported in some of the districts during the past some days, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate, Kapurthala, Deepti Uppal today issued stern instructions to all the civil, health and police authorities concerned of the district to allow any person entering Kapurthala district only after thermal screening at 21 checkpoints/nakas set up at inter-district boundaries.Confirming it, the DC told The Tribune here on Wednesday that no person could enter the Phagwara sub-division without thermal screening at Khajurala village on the Jalandhar-Phagwara road, Darveshpind on the Nakodar-Phagwara road, Chachoki on the Goraya-Phagwara road, Rehana-Jattan on the Hoshiarpur-Phagwara road, Mayo-Patti on the Rawalpindi-Panchhat road, Mehli on the Banga-Phagwara road.Uppal said in the Kapurthala sub-division, checkpoints were set up at Jallowal village on the Kapurthala-Nakodar road, Adhi-Khui village on the Jalandhar-Kapurthala road, Jairampur on the Kala Sangha-Jalandhar road, Kaulpur village on the Kapurthala-Kular road, Daiwind village on the Kapurthala-Kartarpur road.Meanwhile, the DC said all SDMs would ensure for the deployment of civil officials shift wise round the clock and thermal screening of all persons entering Kapurthala district. She instructed all SDMs of the district to coordinate with their respective senior medical officers to ensure periodic health check-up of field staff of various government departments as per the Covid protocol. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thermal-screening-mandatory-for-those-entering-kapurthala-dc-74949
23-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Doctors can provide e-consultation: IMA||Phagwara, April 22While encouraging the medical fraternity, Punjab Medical Council (PMC) has allowed the doctors of the state for e-consultation, including ‘Telephonic or WhatsApp Consultancy’, during the lockdown period in the state. This was stated by Indian Medical Association, Punjab, former president Dr SPS Sooch while talking to The Tribune here on Wednesday.He said the letter of the PMC vide no PMC/2020/23862 was issued to all medical practitioners in the state. Dr Sooch have inspired the doctors to adopt e-consultancy during curfew and not to believe on rumors. He said the IMA, Punjab, had already offered its services during the Covid-19 period.IMA Phagwara unit president Dr Mamta Gautam and secretary Harjit Kaur said they have circulated the notice of the PMC to all IMA members.Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday called off the nationwide symbolic protest against violent attacks on the medical fraternity amid Covid pandemic after getting an assurance of security from Union Home Minister, said Dr SPS Sooch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctors-can-provide-e-consultation-ima-74946
23-04-2020||Jalandhar||Curfew violators may lose passport, driving licence||Announcing zero tolerance policy against violators of the curfew imposed to contain the spread of Covid, the district administration on Wednesday announced that people defying orders may face confiscation of their passport and driving licence in the post-curfew period.Leading a flag march in various areas of the city and Kartarpur town, DC Varinder K Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet S Bhullar and SSP Navjot Mahal said some residents were still not taking the curfew seriously and roaming outside without any valid reason.They said the violators could face problems in getting their passport and driving licence after registration of FIR against them under Section of 188 of the CrPC. They added that as the violations would be treated as social crime, the violators would be dealt with sternly.Meanwhile, the officers also led a flag march which passed through the Ladowali road, Guru Nanak Pura, Choggiti, Guru Gobind Singh Avenue, Lamba Pind Chowk, Pathankot bypass, Bhagat Singh Colony and adjoining areas of the city.They said people must stay indoors and support the district administration in keeping the coronavirus at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/curfew-violators-may-lose-passport-driving-licence-74944
23-04-2020||in an interaction with Deepkamal Kaur||‘It will take 18 mths for hospitality business to come back on track’||How has the lockdown impacted the MBD group?We are into multiple industry right from education to hospitality and retail. Each segment has suffered in a different way. Since the hotel industry is tourism dependent, it will face the deepest dent and for the longest period of time, which could even be 18 months. Since our retail business is dependent on domestic usage, we expect to start reviving it in the next three-six months depending on product categories we are dealing with. Of course, consumption of people is getting shrunk because of fall in overall per capita income. Our third segment — education — will come back to shape within a month of opening of schools.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in near future?Since hotels and malls are in the no-no list of the government, we might be able to open our education vertical from May 3 if the lockdown is lifted. Telangana will be an exception as it already has announced the lockdown till May 7. Whenever it opens, we will get 30 per cent of manpower to work, including our editors and sub-editors (who are all currently working from home) and supply chain people.How are you dealing with the wages part?We have total staff strength of 4,000 employees at 62 locations. We have about 2,500 team members in education and 1,500 in malls and hotels. We do not want the lower rung staff to go through any pain. We are already giving them full pay, though our cash collections and recovery is nil these days. The very senior people, who already have good pay packages, will face 30 per cent deferral of pay. This deferral will be covered once the business resumes and we are in a comfortable position.What is the share of online education in your overall education segment?Our hard books business is 90 per cent. We had picked the online education as it is the demand of all students and teachers. They have wanted a mix of both. All those publishers who did not foray into online education have diminished. Thankfully, we picked it up. Recently, we have given access to 1,500 online books for Classes I to XII free of cost to teachers and students so that we are able to support them when they need us the most. This has given as a lot of enrollments in our app.Have any of your major investments got deferred because of the lockdown?Along with German company Steigenberger Hotels, we had started the construction of a hotel and development of commercial office space in Bengaluru, which has got stopped. The launch time was three years from now. But we can now foresee a further delay of six to eight months. But this is a hunky dory situation for us as we are already expecting hotel business will face the longest impact of 18 months or so.What are the lessons you have learnt from lockdown as a businesswoman?There are two main lessons that I have learnt from the situation. One is that growth cannot come with a lot of debt. Only those companies will survive the lockdown which have less amount of debt to repay. Even if deferrals come from banks, those with high level of debts to repay will face the toughest time. Even my dad, founder of the company, used to say the same. The second is that the fixed costs should be kept as low as possible and the companies should have a good amount of cash reserves and surpluses to take care of its people, even if the lockdown continues for the next two-three months.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Of course, it is a challenge since we are into the hotel business. But it is an opportunity too as lots of our competitors will face failures and will not be able to survive. But we will be among those who remain in the hospitality business.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-will-take-18-mths-for-hospitality-business-to-come-back-on-track-74942
23-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Khalsa Aid volunteers help soften the blow for needy||Jalandhar, April 22Time and again, Khalsa Aid has come forward to help out those in need. Be it 2018 Kerala floods when they reached Kochi, the rescue of Kashmiri students back to their valley after the Pulwama attack, or the time when they distributed Eid gifts among over 500 Syrian refugees. Yet again in the time of need, volunteers of the UK-based non-profit organisation have come forward to contribute their bit in the fight against Covid-19.Always on the frontlineNearly 32,000 volunteers across the country, with 300 alone in Jalandhar, are working round the clock to distribute langar and ration kits among the needy, PPE kits, masks and gloves among hospitals, police personnel and sanitation workers.The Khalsa Aid team in collaboration with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab chapter, has set up a 20-bed Covid-19 isolation centre at Malsian village in Shahkot to deal with any sort of unforeseen emergency in the near future.Nearly 32,000 volunteers across the country, with 300 alone in the city, are working round the clock to distribute langar and ration kits among the needy, PPE kits, masks and gloves among hospitals, cops and sanitation workers.Talking to this correspondent, Khalsa Aid Jalandhar head Tajinder Pal Singh said teams under the supervision of Amarpreet Singh, Khalsa Aid director (Asia), had provided PPE kits in more than 15 cities of the state."The kits have been given to government hospitals as well as police personnel working on the frontline. Nawanshahr, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Jagraon, Batala, Moga, Fazilka, Mohali, Patiala, Bathinda and Amritsar are some of the cities where the kits have been distributed," he said.Besides, the Khalsa Aid team in collaboration with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab chapter, has set up a 20-bed Covid-19 isolation centre at Malsian village in Shahkot to deal with any sort of unforeseen emergency in the near future. “To fight this pandemic, we need to scale up the health system and services. As there is a shortage of PPE kits in hospitals, our main focus is to support doctors, nurses, hospitals and administrations across the nation,” he added.He further said despite an unfortunate incident that happened on Tuesday and took away the life of one of their volunteers Inderjeet Singh while he was on his way to Faridkot and Bathinda to distribute PPE kits among doctors, there is no looking back for them as they had pledged to serve the humanity before anything else and irrespective of the circumstances.Besides, the organisation is also helping migrant workers stuck at various places by sending them back to their homes. On March 23, a Khalsa Aid team helped a pregnant woman and her husband who were stranded at the railway station here after the cancellation of trains by sending them off to Jammu on their own expenses. They also provided assistance to many daily wage labourers, who were stranded at the bus stand and other places by arranging free cab service for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/khalsa-aid-volunteers-help-soften-the-blow-for-needy-74937
23-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||This cager is devoting her free time to pets, painting||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22Kapurthala-based basketball player Harsimran Kaur, who used to practise all day, has now been spending her time with pets. Besides, she has been painting her flower vases.Harsimran has already made the state proud by making it to the National Basketball Association (NBA), and its global camp. She had received an invitation from the NBA to attend the global camp, which was held from February 14 to 16 in Chicago.Harsimran was the only basketball player from the state who had got this opportunity. She said, “When I attend camps, I hardly get chance to meet my two dogs whom I love very much. I used to see them on video calls whenever I visited foreign countries to attend camps. But now, I have been getting proper time to spend with them.” The cager added that she makes sure that she plays with them and make them eat with her.Harsimran said her love for gardening has again evolved. “I love flowers, plants and therefore, I have been spending some time in gardening,” she said. The young basketball player said she paints the vases in which plants are grown. “I never get time to do these things usually,” Harsimran said.Apart from giving her time to her long-lost hobbies, she doesn’t forget to exercise. “I don’t want to become lazy and thus, I have been practising hard now. In the initial days when the lockdown was announced, I did not practise for some days, because I wanted to rest. Then I realised that I could use the lockdown as an opportunity to practise twice than before,” she said.In the evening, Harsimran, a student of Class XII, also joins her online classes. “I am a commerce student and it’s a board class. So, it is important to study more,” she shared.Last year as well, Harsimran was the only player from the state to have attended the Asian camp organised by the NBA Academy and the National Collegiate Athletic Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-cager-is-devoting-her-free-time-to-pets-painting-74935
23-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Migrant workers leave for Bihar on bicycles||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22Even as Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on March 26 announced an economic package worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore to help migrant workers, labourers and poor amid Covid outbreak, a mass exodus of migrant labourers from the state doesn’t seems to end.Away from their hometowns, the migrants, mostly daily wage labourers, are finding it difficult to survive here with limited means. Considering themselves the worst affected by the outbreak, a group of migrant workers from Amritsar and Jalandhar today left for their native places in Bihar. Aiming to cover a distance of over 1,400 km on cycle, they are hoping to reach their villages in 10 days.Ramesh Yadav (48), a native of Patna, said, “I had come here in the last week of February this year to work on a construction site. Later, I moved to Amritsar to join my folks. However, having barely earned anything, we were forced to spend nights without proper food after the lockdown. It’s been more than a month now, and we kept waiting for the administration to arrange for our transportation, but nothing happened in this regard. Since we can’t stay here due to the shortage of money and food (as we live on the basis of daily income provided by the contractors) we decided to travel back to our villages.”After arranging bicycles, Yadav along with more than 20 other migrants started their journey in the dawn and are expecting to cover a distance of around 100-150 km daily. Joining the group in Jalandhar, Pinku (15), who worked as a mason on a daily basis at various construction sites, rued that after the lockdown was imposed, they had been denied payments, therefore they had no other option left, but to leave for their homes. Narrating a similar tale, Vikas Yadav said, “Like Punjab, our crop is also standing ripened in our villages that needs to be harvested. We had no idea that we would be left with nothing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrant-workers-leave-for-bihar-on-bicycles-74933
23-04-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Curfew relaxed in Hoshiarpur||District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait has extended the relaxations to open all wholesale and retail grocery, medical and meat and fish shops of the district from 6 am to 9 am daily. Besides, bookshops selling books of colleges and schools can be opened only on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 6 am to 9 am.The orderThe District Magistrate has also approved the opening of ATMs from 6 am to 9 am.Petrol pumps will be allowed to open from 6 am to 8 pm. While giving permission to the government construction works in the district, she has instructed to get approval from the Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) for the same. For opening warehouses and cold stores, it will be mandatory to get approval from the Additional Deputy Commissioner (General).The District Magistrate directed that for opening of industrial units, on behalf of the owner concerned, the manager should apply to the Industrial Centre, Hoshiarpur, and it would be necessary to follow the order no. 16 (dated April 15, 2020) of the Central Government. The industrial units can be opened only after getting approval. She has ordered milk vendors of the district to sell milk from 5 am to 9 am and 5 pm to 8 pm. She said permission would not be given for marriage and conferences in the district and only 10 persons would be allowed for last rites. During relaxations, it is mandatory for all individuals to use masks and maintain social distancing and strict action will be taken against violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/curfew-relaxed-in-hoshiarpur-74930
23-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Mayor, MLA Beri, kin go into self-quarantine; dist tally 53||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22With five more cases in the district testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the tally has risen to 53.18th patient discharged, Nawanshahr Covid-freeNawanshahr: Nawanshahr district was declared Covid-19 free as the district’s 18th case was discharged on Wednesday. Nawanshahr, the first district of the state which pushed the panic button after the death of Baba Baldev Singh of Pathlawa village died of Covid on March 18, has now emerged as a core fighter to combat the pandemic. On Wednesday, a 16-year-old grandson of the 70-year-old Nawanshar elderly has been discharged from the Civil Hospital. The administration gave him a warm send off as a mark of success of the concerted efforts in braving the ordeal.With the Mayor’s OSD testing positive in the city, it’s for the first time that an MC official has figured in the list of Covid positive people in the district.While the news has rattled the Municipal Corporation, the Mayor has now asked all councillors and MC employees who came in contact with him to step forward for testing.Mayor Jagdish Raja, MLA Rajinder Beri and his wife Uma Beri, along with other members of their families, had gone into 14-day self-quarantine.Those who tested positive include the Mayor’s OSD (45), who met the Mayor as well as several councillors and officials, including MLA Rajinder Beri and his wife Uma Beri.The other four persons who tested positive yesterday include two contacts of the Raja Garden mediaperson (a 56-year-old man and another 42-year-old man) and two contacts of the Neelamahal man (55-year-old mother and 20-year-old sister) who tested positive several days ago.With the Mayor’s 45-year-old OSD being a resident of the Central Town locality, the area was also sealed on Tuesday after the latter tested positive. Notably, while four of the five persons were tested positive through contact tracing, the OSD was the only person (among those testing positive on Tuesday) who was tested during a random sampling that was carried out to test 30 MC officials, including the Mayor.Of the 30 persons, only one sample tested positive and the remaining tested negative. Mayor Jagdish Raja said: “A member of the MC testing positive is indeed quite worrisome. I have had a word but so far there is no record of him coming in contact with any of those previously tested positive in the district. He has also denied having met Mitha Bazaar postive Congressman Deepak Sharma.”Other councillors to be testedThe Mayor said: “I and 29 other persons from the MC, including 22 councillors, have tested negative for Covid. However, we have appealed other councillors to get themselves tested for the cause of public safety. As many as 13 councillors have already volunteered. I believe 30 to 40 more shall be willing soon.” There are a total of 80 councillors in the Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar.While previously MLA Bawa Henry and his father had placed themselves in self-quarantine for 14 days after a Congress leader tested positive, none of them tested positive. MLA Sushil Rinku has previously denied that he was tested for Covid-19. Several councillors who were previously tested had also come out negative.Meanwhile, a home-quarantine sticker was also pasted outside the residence of the Mayor by the Health Department after his OSD tested positive last evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mayor-mla-beri-kin-go-into-self-quarantine-dist-tally-53-74929
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||6-month-old Phagwara girl tests positive at PGI||A six-month-old girl has tested positive for Covid-19 at the PGI. She was admitted with a medical condition of congenital heart defect for which doctors were planning a corrective surgery.As many as 54 health care workers at the Advanced Paediatrics Centre — 18 doctors, 15 nursing officers, 13 hospital attendant/sanitation attendant, two physiotherapist and six technicians — have been exposed to the virus. All of them have been quarantined. Four patients, along with their families, have been shifted to other cubicles.The baby, weighing 3 kg, was diagnosed with acyanotic congenital heart disease with congestive heart failure. She had ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect and patent ductus arteriosus.The Phagwara girl had remained at a Ludhiana hospital for 36 days and was subsequently referred to the PGI for a corrective surgery. She was admitted to the Advanced Paediatrics Centre (APC) on April 9 in a critical condition. She was stabilised and required continuous ventilatory support and antimicrobials. She showed gradual improvement in her general condition.“After a detailed assessment by cardiologists and cardiothoracic surgeons, she was due to be taken up for an open-heart surgery in the APC. However, a pre-operative test for Covid-19 turned out to be positive on April 21,” reads an official statement of the PGI.The baby was subsequently shifted to the Covid facility at Nehru Hospital Extension. She continues to receive ventilatory support. — TNSHer close contacts being screenedAll close contacts of the baby are being screened. “We are investigating how the baby got the infection. Given that the incubation period of Covid-19 is generally up to two weeks (though it can vary), it is possible that the baby ‘may have been incubating the infection’ at the time of admission to the PGI. However, as she did not have any suggestive travel history or family contact, she did not fulfil the requirements for pre-emptive screening,” said PGI officials.14 contacts of Sector 18 woman test negativeA total of 14 family contacts of the Sector 18 Covid positive case were sampled and all of them have tested negative for the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-month-old-phagwara-girl-tests-positive-at-pgi-74763
