26-04-2020||Naavniit Miterr||‘Relief package must for speedy revival of small-scale industries’||“I personally feel that many will perish as they will not be able to bear the financial burden even after the lockdown ends,” he said. With lots of automobile parts manufacturing units based in Pune, Uttarakhand and Amritsar, Miterr, whose company has a turnover of 200 crore and employs 500 persons, spells out challenges that MSMEs face in Amritsar due to the lockdown. Here are the excerpts of his interview with Neha Saini.How has lockdown impacted auto parts manufacturing industry?Most units are already shut down after the MHA notification and the global crisis has hit the production by at least 30 per cent. Demand and supply chain disruptions are being experienced. We, too, have shut down operations in our three units temporarily. Recently, we have got the permission to open our Uttarakhand unit on the condition that all the required arrangements must be made under the Covid-19 safety protocol guidelines. We have 125 employees working in our Uttarakhand unit, but at this time we will run the facility with only 30-40 employees.What is the biggest challenge you face in operating the unit?The biggest hurdle is the MHA directive that states criminal action will be taken against the management of any industrial unit if any Covid-19 patient is found in its premises. How can the state expect industrial units to start operations after this warning? Many industrial units are ready to open, but only if the clause is defined with practical relaxations. The interpretation of the law is not business-friendly. Also, with only 20-30 per cent staff is working, the social distancing norm will automatically apply.How are you bearing costs and wages of your workers?We have been giving them financial as well as other support for now. As per the guidelines, we are already paying them ESI and paying the monthly premium that they can access if required. But in the longer run, it will be difficult for MSMEs to bear such costs as there is hope of no revenue generation at least for two months ahead.What would be the situation like after the lockdown?I think that Amritsar's small-scale cottage industry, including weaving and knitting units, will be forced to shut shop. Also, after the lockdown, the biggest challenge will be to arrange for labourers, most of whom have returned to their native villages in UP and Bihar. The labour cost will be high and production slow, which will have an impact on the demand supply chain.What, according to you, should be the roadmap for revival?The industry will see a very painstakingly slow pace for the next few months after the lockdown is lifted. The local wagers might find their life back on track once industries open but we do not have reserves to support sustainability of small and medium enterprises. Unless relief packages are given by the government, the road to recovery will be very slow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/relief-package-must-for-speedy-revival-of-small-scale-industries-76469
26-04-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||He spends quality time with family||Hoshiarpur, April 25Music composer and writer Vivek Sahney has been utilising his free time in the lockdown with his sons and wife. He has composed new songs with his sons.Utilising these days in a perfect way, he has been completing his fourth book. Besides, he helps his wife Rupinder Kaur Sahney in household works.“During the lockdown, I have been spending quality time with my family. In normal days, I don’t get much free time. I help my wife in making food as I am a good cook,” said Vivek. He said, “Now, I have ample time to finish my fourth book. Hope I will complete it at the end of July. Moreover, I have been rearranging love of my life very religiously, which are my personal library and my music instruments.”Vivek’s sons — actor, singer and model Eshaan Sahney and DJ Neyant Sahney — most of the time stay out of the town due to their professional assignments.“I helped my sons compose and record a motivational song on fighting with the coronavirus. It is on YouTube now,” he said, adding that he has a small terrace garden.He said he loves cacti and succulents and started spending more time in the garden. “Sometimes, I sit there with my guitar or harmonium and sing old Bollywood songs,” he added.Vivek and his family members have been focusing on their fitness as well. “It is really fun staying indoors with family members that too with positive thoughts in the lockdown. Sometimes, my wife and I watch old films and remember our college and courtship days,” he shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-spends-quality-time-with-family-76468
26-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Sans safety kits, sanitation workers risking their lives to clean city||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 25In the war against Covid-19, sanitation workers have been playing a crucial role. When everyone is staying indoors amid the lockdown, sanitation workers come out of their houses to clean the city every day.From cleaning streets to lifting and dumping garbage, they have been performing their duties with devotion without adequate safety kits, including sanitisers and masks. They have been tirelessly working during the extraordinary situation to maintain hygienic conditions.Santosh Kaur (50) wakes up early in the morning and to avoid any kind of social contract, she reaches early ward no. 80 to clean streets in the area. Without any fear, she says her job is at par with that of police personnel and health workers."Adhering to all precautionary measures, I only focus on doing my work on time and then leave for home. I understand that how important it is to maintain cleanliness these days. Hence, we sometimes work for extra hours to make our contribution to contain the spread of the coronavirus," said Santosh, who travels around 8 to 10 km to reach ward no. 80.Like Santosh, hundreds of other sanitation workers take the risk of stepping out of their homes on a daily basis at a time when health experts and organisations have been urging extra steps to ensure appropriate cleanliness amid the coronavirus pandemic. Even since the lockdown was imposed, sanitation workers find it tough to reach their locations is the absence of auto-rickshaws. Due to which, they either commute by bicycles or two-wheelers after borrowing these from someone.Chandan Grewal, president, Punjab Safai Mazdoor Federation, said, "Around 1,800 sanitation workers have been performing their duties during the lockdown. Workers above 50 years and women have been exempted from their duties. With the limited safety kits, it is important to ensure their health and safety."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sans-safety-kits-sanitation-workers-risking-their-lives-to-clean-city-76467
26-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Villager booked for assault||Nakodar, April 25 The Nakodar sadar police have booked a villager on the charge of assaulting a co-villager on Friday.Investigating officer (IO) Lovelin Kumar said the accused had been identified as Sukhwindar Singh, alias Sukha, a resident of Mallias Kalan village.Amarjit Singh, a resident of the same village, complained to the police that the accused waylaid him on April 24 and assaulted him.The IO said Nakodar Assistant Superintendent of Police Vatsala Gupta and Station House Officer SS Virk reached the spot to review the situation and issued directions to registered a case in this connection. A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing s hurt ), 269 and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has been registered against the accused, as he violated the curfew order. The accused is still at large and raids were on to nab him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/villager-booked-for-assault-76458
26-04-2020||Our Correspondent ---||NRI couple booked for fraud||Phagwara, April 25 On a complaint by Harinder Kaur, a resident of  Bhandhal village near Phillaur, the city police have registered a case under Sections 417, 465, 467, 468, 471, 474, 120-B and 494 of the IPC against her USA-based husband Manjit Singh and his first wife Kamaljit Kaur, both from Urban Estate, Phagwara, and now permanent residents of the US. The victim, in her complaint to the police, said she got married in 2008 to Manjit Singh, who posed himself as a divorcee.  The victim said she delivered a son after one year of her marriage, but shockingly, she could not know that the accused got prepared the birth certificate of her son with the mother’s name as Kamaljit Kaur and hid the fact from her. She alleged that her accused husband then succeeded to get a passport for their  son with Kamaljit  as his mother’s name.  The complainant alleged that her husband, along with his first wife Kamaljit, hatched a conspiracy and took her son to the US, leaving her in India. She said Manjit had never divorced his first wife and moreover they wanted a baby, so he married her. The police are investigating the matter. 13 curfew violators held in Shahkot, Mehat Pur, Lohian Nakodar: To ensure strict compliance of the lockdown and curfew, the Shahkot subdivision police arrested 13 violators on Friday. Shahkot Deputy Superintendent of Police Paira Singh said the Shahkot police registered four FIRs on Friday and arrested six persons, Mehat Pur police registered two FIRs and arrested four persons and Lohian Khas police registered three FIRs and arrested three persons. He said some accused were loitering on two-wheelers, while others were transporting labour in their SUVs by violating the curfew orders, adding that nobody would be allowed to defy the restrictions. He said cases under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and section of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, were registered against the accused, who were released on bail after warning. He said many two-wheelers have been impounded and traffic challans been issued to violators. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-couple-booked-for-fraud-76454
26-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Rs 50K looted from ashram||Two unidentified robbers looted Rs 50,000 from Swami Pushpinder Swaroop, a resident of Mishar Kutia in Suraj Nagar locality, on the outskirts of the city on Thursday night. The miscreants reportedly injured him. Swami Pushpinder Swaroop said when he was alone at the ashram, two unknown persons entered it.  One of them seemed to be mentally disturbed. Coming in, they covered his face with a  cloth and a bag. When he resisted them, they hit him on the head and face with a knife. One of them held him hostage while the other took Rs 50,000 from the cupboard lying nearby.  After they left, he raised an alarm and his neighbours Rmeshwar and Sanjeev Talwar took him to the hospital, from where he was discharged after treatment. A case has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-50k-looted-from-ashram-76453
26-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||‘Odd-even formula’ in Maqsudan vegetable market from tomorrow||Jalandhar, April 25 Gearing up for decongesting the Maqsoodan fruit and vegetable market, the district administration was all set to implement the ‘odd-even’ formula for vegetable vendors from Monday. The Jalandhar civil and police administrations, led by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, have already chalked out a detailed strategy to implement the formula. One of the arhtiyas at the mandi, Rishi Chawla, welcomed the initiative of the administration and said it would help control the gathering at the mandi. “To contain the spread of Covid-19, it is required that we implement such rules and regulations that limit the number of people at one place,” he said, adding that along with the odd-even scheme, sanitation of the mandi at least twice or thrice a week must be ensured. He said at present, only the screening of vendors entering mandi was being done while disinfectant had not been sprayed even once there. “In the Amirtsar mandi, a disinfectant tunnel has been set up and all those entering it has to pass through the tunnel. The district administration must spare a thought about any such initiative too,” he said. Meanwhile, the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police and the SDM, who finalised the scheme, said the purpose was to decongest the wholesale fruit and vegetable mandi to reduce the risk of spreading the virus. They said at present, 2,000 vendors come to the mandi daily for getting fruits and vegetables to be supplied on the doorstep of people. However, both officers said instead of 2,000 vendors, only 1,000 would be allowed to come to mandis everyday. They said all 2,000 vendors were being issued fresh passes by the Mandi Board. As many as 1,000 vendors were being issued red passes through which they would be entitled to visit the mandi on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. They said the remaining 1,000 were being issued green passes through which they could visit the market on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. They said only the pass holders would be allowed entry in the mandi and no other person accompanying the vendor would be allowed. They said besides the odd-even formula, social distancing and segregation would be ensured, flocking would be stopped and access control would be made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/odd-even-formula-in-maqsudan-vegetable-market-from-tomorrow-76452
26-04-2020||Aparna Banerji---||Migrant dies, 5 more positive; dist tally 69||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, April 25 With six more persons testing positive for Covid-19, including one death, the total number of positive cases in the district has risen to 69. Jalandhar has now surpassed the total number of cases in Mohali and become the most affected district in the state by the pandemic. A 48-year-old migrant worker died of Covid at a private hospital this morning. The person was confirmed to be Covid positive hours after his death this evening. The six new cases reported positive today include an employee of a local media house and his contacts and the person who died today. The cases include a five-year-old boy and mother (65), wife (37) and cousin of the media house employee and another employee. The sixth person, who tested positive and died today, was admitted to a private hospital on Tuesday, whose sample was tested by a private lab in Amritsar. Reported to a local hospital with severe anaemia,  the person died at 2 am on Saturday. The private hospital said confirmation was received from an Amritsar laboratory at 2 pm that the patient had tested positive.  Dr Daljit Singh Johal, owner of the hospital and a veteran doctor, said: “The patient was reported on Tuesday morning with lower haemoglobin. Following this, he was isolated. We asked his attendants to take him to the Civil Hospital for Covid test, which they refused to do. We sent a mail to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) yesterday and two mails were sent this morning after his death but we never heard back from the hospital. After his death, we sought the DC’s help for the last rites, in view of the patient’s Covid status. After the SDM’s intervention, the patient was cremated this afternoon by our teams.” Dr Johal said his sample was confirmed as positive by the Amritsar-based private lab where we sent it for testing. He said: “He was conscious when he came to us, but his condition deteriorated after respiratory distress since Thursday and for two days he was on ventilator.” The 48-year-old was a Maharashtrian native staying at Basti Gujan and working at a leather factory in the city. Staying at a rented room, along with co-workers, he was brought to the hospital by his fellow workers. Dr TP Singh, Nodal officer Covid-19, Jalandhar, said: “Barring the cases associated with the media house reported today, the 48-year-old deceased was cremated with due Covid protocol amid his pending report status. We had not received an intimation from the Amritsar civil surgeon yet. The department is also looking into claims of mails sent to officials."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrant-dies-5-more-positive-dist-tally-69-76451
26-04-2020||---||High Court refuses to pass order on petition against Lovely Professional University||Chandigarh, April 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to pass any direction or order on a petition filed in public interest for instructing the Punjab Government and other official respondents to test students and other persons residing on the campus of Lovely Professional University for Covid-19.Taking up the case through videoconferencing, the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli asserted it was evident that necessary steps for conducting screening of all students and other persons residing on the university premises were being undertaken by the state in accordance with the Indian Council and Medical Research guidelines. Besides, a show-cause notice had been issued to the university and response was awaited.“Taking note of the facts, we do not find any necessity to issue any direction or pass an order in respect of the issues raised by the petitioner at this stage. Thus, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the present petition is disposed of granting liberty to the petitioner, as prayed for, to take up all possible grievances before the authorities and recourse to law, if so advised,” the Bench asserted.The petition was filed by Sahil Kumar, son of former union minister Vijay Sampla. He was, among other things, seeking directions for preventing the spread of the disease within the university campus. It was added that the university despite the spread of Covid-19 had retained 2,421 students in the hostel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/high-court-refuses-to-pass-order-on-petition-against-lovely-professional-university-76290
