28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 14 new coronavirus cases, state tally stands at 344||Punjab on Tuesday reported 14 new coronavirus cases, taking the state's case tally to 344.Jalandhar reported seven new coronavirus cases, taking the district's tally to 85. All those who tested positive were contacts of already known cases, the state's health bulletin saidMohali district reported two more coronavirus cases, taking the case tally in the district to 65. Both cases came from Dera Bassi's Jawaharpur village---a place that authorities sealed off earlier this month for being a hotspot.  Tarn Taran reported two new cases, taking the district tally to 7.One case was reported from Garhshankar in Hoshiarpur, taking the district's tally to seven.Both Tarn Taran and Hoshiarpur cases are new cases---the Punjab government's health bulletin describes these as ones whose source of infection were likely from outside Punjab.SBS Nagar reported two new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 22.The district, which formerly went by the name Nawanshahr, was the first district in the state to report a coronavirus and was considered a hotspor, but went without reporting a new infection for almost a month. That spell however was broken three days ago when the district reported its first case in 28 days.Twenty of Punjab's 22 districts have reported Covid-19 cases so far. Bathinda and Fazilka are the only two districts in the state that have not reported any coronavirus cases so far.Jalandhar is the district with the highest number of cases in Punjab, followed by Mohali. Patiala has the third highest number of cases at 61. Punjab has so far recorded 19 deaths. Suspected COVID-19 patient dies in PatialaA 24-year-old woman from Barnala district, who was suspected of having coronavirus, died at the isolation ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Tuesday. She was referred to the hospital on Monday evening. Hospital authorities said that her sample was collected yesterday but her test results were awaited.Meanwhile, a policeman from Ferozepur who became the district’s first coronavirus case tested negative on Tuesday. A video of the policeman doing rigorous exercises while in the isolation ward of Ferozepur Civil Hospital went viral recently.This development means that Ferozepur has no Covid-19 cases currently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-reports-14-new-coronavirus-cases-state-tally-stands-at-344-77495
28-04-2020||Nakodar||3 booked for duping man of Rs 8.8L||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-8-8l-77385
28-04-2020||Ashok Kaura||Eminent writer Dheer pens two Hindi books in one month||Phagwara, April 27Renowned Hindi writer Dr Jawahar Dheer, who had retired as District Ayurvedic Officer 10 years ago, has been utilising his free time effectively. During the lockdown period, he has written books — 'Ek Pheekee Se Muskan' and 'Teddi Gurdnon Wala Sheher' — in the past one month.We should obey instructions and advice of the administration in this crucial time. We must take all precautions. Dr Jawahar Dheer, Hindi writerHe is the brother of eminent Hindi writer Dr Kewal Dheer. At the age of 70, he is still passionate about his hobby of writing books. He has been listening to cultural programmes being broadcasted from Akashwani Jalandhar for the past 45 years.Now, he also watches various literary programmes on Doordarshan Jalandhar. The recipient of various awards, including Bhai Kanyia Award, Kewal Wig Award, Sahitya Shiromani Award and Giani Gian Singh Award, he was also honored by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. His one daughter is married in the USA and the other in Australia. His son Vishal Dheer is posted as ADG (Telecommunications) in Jammu.The writer and his wife Vandhana Dheer have been putting up in Professor Colony in Phagwara. Dheer has penned more than 100 books published in Urdu, Hindi and Punjabi.On the increasing cases of coronavirus, he said, "We should obey the instructions and advice of the administration in this crucial time. We must take all precautions."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eminent-writer-dheer-pens-two-hindi-books-in-one-month-77175
28-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Despite hiccups, he continues to feed cattle||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 27At a time when most people are confined indoors, Good Samaritans like Harminder Singh set their alarm clocks a little earlier than usual in order to contribute their bit in fight against Covid.His day starts at 2 am when he begins loading his truck with fodder, which he distributes at gaushalas in Jalandhar and Kapurthala.While ensuring food for humans is a worry for many amid the lockdown, Harminder Singh and his team ensures that the cattle get the feed on time."Earlier, we would arrange 600 to 650 quintal of feed per day, but the lockdown has affected the business and it has now come down to 300 quintal per day and at times 150 quintal per day," he said.Harminder says the supply to dairies as well as Hoshiarpur gaushalas has been stopped. Even though he has curfew pass, the police do not allow him to go there.Harminder says, "In the beginning, we also got orders from Hoshairpur gaushalas. They asked for 50 trucks. But we said we can't provide even five. However, we are taking fodder to two gaushalas at Jalandhar and Kapurthala daily. Depending on the day and the scenario, the supply alternates between 150 and 300 quintal per day."While he has to source the fodder from villages across Sultanpur Lodhi before supplying it further, Harminder says the fetching of produce alone also takes a day now."Earlier, we were getting the produce and supplying it on the same day. But since the police have become strict with regard to the plying of loaded trolleys in the day, we have to source produce one day and deliver it on another," he said."We start at 2 am and go to a village to get the fodder. The plying of trucks is permitted only between 2 am and 6 am now, therefore the supply is made the next day before 4 am," he said.Maintaining the routine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/despite-hiccups-he-continues-to-feed-cattle-77174
28-04-2020||SO far||‘Main task before me is to ensure safety of all’||I have been in regular touch with the Army officials and have assured them of all support from the civil administration for the safety of their men. For the same reason, I did not intervene in the issue of the milkmen who approached me when they were stopped by the Army from giving supplies in the Cantonment area. They have been making their own safer, internal arrangements.I have directed the police teams to ensure there is not even the slightest movement in the affected area. All requirements of the families are being provided for at their doorsteps. Though I am driving myself in the area to check the arrangements, my main task is to direct teams engaged in supplying ration to places where they are needed the most. Unlike other politicians, I have not got myself photographed anywhere as I feel it is absolutely not required.For the rest of the day, I have been keeping myself busy with fitness activities, including one hour of yoga and meditation, 10-km walk and one hour of gardening. It is after years that I have spent so much time with my family. I have also been calling up people not to fret over financial losses as these will affect not just them, but everyone. In any case, life will have to be started all over again once things open up.(As told to Deepkamal Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/main-task-before-me-is-to-ensure-safety-of-all-77173
28-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Jalandhar cops, residents show solidarity with SI Harjit||Jalandhar, April 27Following the ‘Solidarity Initiative’ announced by Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, residents in the city today enthusiastically participated in the campaign to condemn the attack on frontline workers, including cops, doctors and nurses.A large number of youngsters took to social media to share their images holding placards displaying ‘Main Bhi Harjit Singh’ and ‘Main Bhi Punjab Police’. Within minutes of the flagging off of the unique initiative #MainBhiHarjitSingh across social media, pictures and videos started surfacing on the virtual world to honour the bravery and calmness of SI Harjit Singh whose hand was chopped off by Nihangs earlier this month in Patiala. On the insistence of the DGP, even police personnel wore a badge of Harjit’s name and posted on social media.After the campaign was launched on social media at 10 am today, cricketer Harbhajan Singh, a native of Jalandhar, who is also a Punjab Police DSP, posted a video on his social media accounts to urge netizens to appreciate cops for their thankless job. In the 25-second video he was also seen wearing a name plate of Harjit, which was apparently made of paper.Joining the nationwide campaign to pay tributes to the sacrifice of SI Harjit, Neeraj Verma (17), a local resident, said it was unfortunate that the cop on ground duty had to go through such an ordeal. After uploading his picture on his Instagram account, he expressed grief and stated that he condemn the attack on frontline warriors who are tirelessly working to fight Covid. Another resident Archana (24) said after the brutal attack, Harjit had definitely emerged as the symbol of the nation’s fight against coronavirus.Meanwhile, cops deployed in the city also supported the campaign.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said: “It is a proud moment for the police forces and I salute our valiant warriors who are diligently performing their duties since the outbreak of Covid. Be it floods or any other crisis, the cops always perform their duties. Hence, we hope that such attacks would not be reported in the future.”Phagwara: Satnampura SHO Usha Rani on Monday wore a name plate of SI Harjit to pay tributes to the brave cop. Other police personnel also followed her. The SHO said: “Harjit has emerged as the symbol of the nation’s fight against Covid-19.”Police personnel in Kapurthala district, headed by SSP Satinder Singh, on Monday came out in support of the Patiala SI, sending a nationwide message of salute to Covid warriors.The SSP said the Punjab Police were saluting not only the bravery of the SI but also saying thanks to doctors and their teams for saving Harjit’s hand and his life. Families and friends of police personnel were also seen supporting the campaign. It will be continued in the next few days also.Nakodar: Meanwhile, the Nakodar police, led by ASP Vatsala Gupta expressed solidarity with SI Harjit by displaying name plates bearing his name. The Punjab Police on Monday launched the campaign on social media to highlight the bravery of the SI.Nawanshahr: Expressing Solidarity with fellow officer SI Harjit, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar Police participated in the ‘Mai Bhi Harjit Singh’ campaign by wearing badges displaying his name on their uniforms. Leading the district police, SSP Alka Meena, after changing her name plate with that of Harjit, posted a message: “District police respects all police personnel who are putting their lives at risk to put this nation back on its feet”, on district police’s Facebook page and twitter account. She said ‘Mai Bhi Harjit Singh’ was not only a campaign but a feeling of solidarity towards our fellow officer who was attacked in the line of duty. We all are inspired with his valour and courage. She also expressed gratitude to people who participated in the campaign.Hoshiarpur: Saluting SI Harjit, police personnel participated in the ‘Main bhi Harjit Singh’ campaign wearing the badges of the brave cop. Residents of the city also supported them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-cops-residents-show-solidarity-with-si-harjit-77172
28-04-2020||Phagwara||Man booked on dowry charge||Nanded pilgrims kept in hospitalPhagwara: Eleven pilgrims of Kapurthala district, including seven from Phagwara, who returned from Nanded Sahib (Maharashtra) on Sunday, were screened by a team of Health Department, headed by SMO, Phagwara. Their samples for Covid-19 test were taken on Sunday. The SMO said the pilgrims would be kept at the local Civil Hospital till their reports were received. OCIntoxicating tablets seizedPhillaur: The Bilga police seized 1,890 intoxicating tablets from three persons on Sunday and arrested them. DSP Phillaur Davinder Singh Attri said the suspects had been identified as Sumit Sapra, alias Kaka, a resident of Banga Road, Phagwara, Jarnail Singh of Narag Shah Pur village under Satnam Pura police station, Phagwara, and Dalvir Singh of Sunnar Khurd village, under Sadar Jamsher police station. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-booked-on-dowry-charge-77171
28-04-2020||It has been a testing time for one and all. The public health scare||Open House||Please email it to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday, April 30||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-77170
28-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||For Gurdaspur cops, UN medal winner leads the fight||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 27“I can do this, I thought. And even if I can’t, I have to.”This thought was uppermost in the mind of constable Hardeep Singh the moment he was asked to look after the needs of 36 PAP men who were lodged in the Dhariwal police station, a day after the lockdown came into effect.‘In good books of seniors’The man works for 15 hours a day. He is continuing with his good work of which the entire police force is proud. Success is not final, failure is not fatal; it is the courage to continue that counts. And that is what he is doing right now. - Swarandeep Singh, SSPHe is the winner of ‘The United Nations Medal’( 2008), when he had served as a member of the UN Peace Keeping Force in Congo.Hardeep rose to the occasion and not only provided succor to his colleagues, but at the same time he also decided to procure ration to feed scores of slum dwellers living nearby.Intelligence reports were quick to reach DGP Dinkar Gupta who, subsequently, decided to confer upon the ex-Army man the prestigious ‘DGP Honour for Exemplary Sewa to Society’.The constable dug deep into his resources to ensure his brethren take back fond memories when they return to their homes once the corona is reigned in.“Not only this, in these days of curfew when people do not move out fearing reprisals from cops, I regularly drive the ailing elderly to the civil hospital for treatment. Once I was taking a septuagenarian, suffering from a kidney ailment, when policemen at the checkpost stopped me. They told me I was ferrying my relative, which they said was nor fair, and reprimanded me. I had a hard time convincing them that the man was not at all related to me and that I was serving humanity in my own little way,” he said.Unknown to too many of his colleagues, Hardeep had served with the UN Peace Keeping Force in Congo in 2008 and that too with distinction.In 2000, while was posted as a havildar with 18th Sikh Regiment, he also shot dead two ULFA militants, one of them turned out to be an area commander known as Mintu Burman, whose name spelt terror for the locals in Nalbari district of Assam. Consequently, he was awarded the ‘Sena Medal’ by the Army Chief for “individual acts of exceptional devotion to duty.”In 2003, Hardeep underwent a rigorous month-long Commando stint in Belgaum. “This training taught me many things. One was that courage is not having the strength to go on, rather it is going on when you do not have strength,” he said.He was on cloud nine after being informed by SSP Swarandeep Singh about the DGP’s honour.While in Congo, Hardeep was given a piece of advice by his Commander that he is fond of quoting.“If you feel like losing everything, remember that trees lose their leaves every year and still they stand tall and wait for better days to come,” he recounts.Many distinctions to his credit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/for-gurdaspur-cops-un-medal-winner-leads-the-fight-77169
28-04-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Time to use unclaimed PF deposits’||IN an interaction with Neeraj Bagga, Kamal Dalmia, Director, Natraj Wooltax Ltd and Navneet Synthetic Ltd, both yarn processing units, which have been functioning from Old Focal Point since 1997, says that the yard industry too has been badly affected due to the lockdown. A popular product in fabric manufacturing, it is sold in markets of Delhi, Ludhiana, Jaipur, Varanasi, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Mumbai. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted the yarn industry?The lockdown has brought all activities to a grinding halt. So, our units are no different. All of us are sailing in the same boat of Covid-19. Yarn industry is a part of the textile sector. It begins from spinner, goes to yarn processing units further divided in yarn dying, doubling, twisting and spooling. Then weavers come on the scene who weave the fabric from yarn. Weaver is a big term which is further divided into circular knitting and warp knitting. Both these segments manufacture different patterns of clothes. Then appears farbic processing units and eventually garment manufacturers make shirts, trousers, women suits, kids wear and other varieties. So, the entire fabric manufacturing is a multiple handling job and no category can work in isolation. Hence, precautions for avoiding the coronavirus are very difficult to maintain.The lockdown has brought all activities to a grinding halt. So, our units are no different. All of us are sailing in the same boat of Covid-19. Yarn industry is a part of the textile sector. - Kamal Dalmia, Director, Natraj Wooltax Ltd Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in near future?We are keeping our fingers crossed for the curfew to be lifted or at least restrictions eased for the industry from May 3.How are you dealing with releasing salaries?We had already paid salaries to over 250 employees for the month of March. For the month of April, we are looking at the guidelines of the Union Government. In case, the government does not come out with any financial aid, then we will certainly release some ad hoc funds to all workers and employees for the month of April.Has any of your major investments got deferred because of the lockdown?All our investment planning for betterment in the units is under the process and it will be implemented for survival. As they intend to upgrade machinery which will reduce power and water consumption.What have you learnt from lockdown as businessman?We learnt that everything is not in our hand as the entire world came to a halt due to the pandemic. So, the Almighty is great and faith in him has increased. We feel that fabric is no longer a necessity in the priority list of people. First of all, durability of existing fabric has increased and non-availability of surplus funds in the pockets of people would be another major reason. They will have expenses such as food, EMI, education, rent and conveyance on hand.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Current crisis is a challenge, but it holds a promising opportunity in the long run for dedicated entrepreneurs.We feel that the future of India is promising as trust on China has eroded. Europeans, Japanese and G7 countries will gradually shift their industries out of China and India could be a destination to these units. Post lockdown, the government must offer incentives for setting up new industrial units.What are your expectations from the government?On the lines of lowering interest rate on the FDR, the government must curtail the rate of interest on the advances to the MSME sector. The government should expedite disinvestment process so that the fund so earned could be used for the MSME sector. It can help boost MSMEs. The government agencies like the Employees State Insurance Corporation ESIC and the Provident Fund Department have huge unclaimed and unutilised deposits with them. It is high time the government utilised these funds for the welfare of MSME workers as it was supporting the MGNREGA scheme. Pending refunds of the income tax and the GST should be immediately released. Instalments of the term loan, taken for upgrading machineries, should be deferred for at least a year. PSPCL should waive fixed expenses on power tariff of the industrial units for the lockdown period. The government must come out with a voluntary disclosure scheme and tax rate should not exceed the existing income tax slab to attract maximum disclosure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/time-to-use-unclaimed-pf-deposits-77168
28-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Social distancing a casualty at CHC in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 27Social distancing went for a toss when over 120 persons gathered at the Community Health Centre, Basti Gujan, for testing on Monday.Generally circles are marked for following social distancing. But on Monday, these were missing at the CHC. As many 124 contacts of the 48-year-old migrant, who died on Saturday and posthumously tested positive for Covid, reached the CHC for testing.Despite efforts of the local councillor, health teams and police personnel present on the spot, they did not follow social distancing. They were seen waiting on sidewalks, under trees and standing in queues close together at the CHC. The 48-year-old factory worker used to live in a rented room where six houses are situated closely.Councillor Jaspal Kaur Bhatia’s husband Kamaljit Bhatia said, “From six houses, 124 persons were called for testing. These houses collectively have 104 rooms and many migrants stay together. I reached the spot at 11 am after receiving information and they were already called. Instead of breaking the chain, it actually ended up posing a threat to many. Health teams in our area have been working hard. But whoever called them together made a mistake.“Despite our efforts, they refused to listen and I also asked police personnel to manage them, but to no avail. Contact tracing and testing of a huge number of people are proving to be an uphill task for the administration,” he added.Survey ends in Shahkot village, no case in 15 daysThe survey of the Health Department has been completed in Covid-affected Kotla Heran village of Shahkot. No positive case was reported from the village for the past 15 days.The quarantine period of residents of the village also ended today. But they are still advised to maintain precautions and not to go out of the village. A team of the Health Department will conduct the health check-up of residents. After the death of a village resident, Kuljit Kaur, she was tested positive on April 12. Following this, the village was sealed and samples of 18 persons, including family members of the woman, were taken. Later, the woman's husband, Malkiat Singh, was tested positive He is now undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital.Senior Medical Officer Amardeep Singh Duggal said the Health Department teams were continuously working to fight the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-distancing-a-casualty-at-chc-in-jalandhar-77161
28-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Outsiders’ entry to Hoshiarpur restricted||Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait has issued orders to seal the district’s border with Jalandhar and the entry from that district to Hoshiarpur has also been completely banned.In the order issued, the DC said national highways / link roads to Jalandhar district had been sealed. No person from Jalandhar or any other district would be allowed to enter Hoshiarpur.The DC said if any government employee who was a resident of Jalandhar district, but was posted in Hoshiarpur district could stay put here or get an exemption from the head of his department on the condition that alternative arrangements had been made at his place.Riyait said it was necessary to implement these restrictions in view of increasing Covid cases in Jalandhar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/outsiders-entry-to-hoshiarpur-restricted-77160
28-04-2020||Mahilpur||Tractor-trailer overturns,1 dies||A 40-year-old man was killed when the tractor-trailer he was driving overturned on the Adda Kotfatuhi-Mannanhana link road under the Mahilpur police station on Sunday night.Inspector Sukhwinder Singh, SHO of the Mahilpur police station, said Jaswinder Singh, alias Kala, of Bujrag village under the Samana (Patiala) police station, was reaping wheat straw in the Mahilpur area nowadays. On Sunday night, he was returning to Mannanhana village when his vehicle overturned in a ditch by the roadside and he was buried under it.Owing to the lockdown, nobody went to that side and he lay there for the whole night. Later, when his co-workers did not find him, they started searching for him. He was found lying dead under the tractor-trailer. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tractor-trailer-overturns-1-dies-77159
