29-04-2020||Industrialist Balram Kapur||‘Expect big companies to shift investment from China to India’||What is the impact of the lockdown on the auto industry?At present, health is the priority of everyone. So, purchasing of cars and other automotive products will take a back seat. Buying a car is not an immediate necessity for people. Once the situation becomes normal and people feel comfortable, they will think of purchasing cars. All manufacturing units are closed and the old stock has not exhausted yet. Besides, manufacturers are uncertain about demands.How much time the industry will take to get back on track?Industry unit owners are very much depressed. They will suffer for the next several months.What challenges will you face after the lockdown?There will be a major problem of migrant labourers. They will definitely leave for their native places once the lockdown is opened. In their absence, it will become difficult for the units to run properly. We deal with Tata Motors and Hyundai. They want that their outlets are opened so that their inventories are cleared and they get payments. Thereafter, they will purchase new materials. This is the cycle that has been badly affected.Is there any problem in making payments to workers?The industry is suffering losses at this point. There is neither turnover nor income. Workers are a part of our extended family and we are always with them. We have apprised the government that it will be very difficult for us to survive in the current situation.What are the hopes of revival of the Indian economy?We are expecting that big foreign companies will shift their investements from China to India. If this happens, it will be good for the Indian industry. Emotional detachment from China has started and I am hopeful that if the government makes industrial policies according to the new situation, it will be good for us. The industry has faced several ups and downs in the past too, but this is something we had never imagined. Despite that, we hope our economy will revive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expect-big-companies-to-shift-investment-from-china-to-india-77983
29-04-2020||------------||Tough times fail to dampen his spirit||Keeping date with responsibilityWearing a mask and gloves, Sushil Kalia, alias Vicky, a councillor of Ward No. 64, steps out of his house at 7 am and returns home late in the evening. He inspects all streets of his ward everyday to ensure residents feel safe and sanitation is maintained in order to contain the spread of Covid-19.-------Avneet KaurJalandhar, April 28Ever since the lockdown, Sushil Kalia, alias Vicky, a councillor of Ward No. 64, has been working round the clock to ensure sanitisation and availability of essential items on the doorstep of all residents in his area.Wearing a mask and gloves, Vicky steps out of his house at 7 am and returns home late in the evening. He inspects all streets of his ward everyday to ensure residents feel safe and sanitation is maintained in order to contain the spread of Covid-19.Kalia says there has not been a single day since March 24 when he has not stepped out to help his area residents, except from April 8 to 22 when he was instructed to be quarantined as he came in contact with Congress leader Deepak Sharma, son of first Covid victim Parveen Sharma. “But as soon as my reports came negative on April 19, I resumed my duty to assist my volunteers in the sanitisation work and distribute ration among the needy," he said.“Nearly 50 to 60 persons from my ward have volunteered to help me in this cause. There are 14 to 15 localities in the area. Seven to eight volunteers have been assigned one locality," said Kalia, adding that the contact numbers of his team as well his personal number had been given to every household in case of any help.He said one of the localities, Bhagat Singh Colony, had been sealed after the detection of one positive Covid case. "We are making sure the virus doesn’t spread to any other locality and residents of Bhagat Singh Colony too abide by law and stay indoors,” he said."If we get any call from surrounding areas for help, we get a personal assessment of the house done before extending any help. At least 1,000 ration kits from his own pocket have been distributed among the needy in my ward so far."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tough-times-fail-to-dampen-his-spirit-77892
29-04-2020||PM retweets song||‘Thuk Mat’ song trends again on social media||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, April 28The song ‘Thuk mat’ directed by Hoshiarpur-based filmmaker Manpreet Kaur and released in October 2019 has again gained the limelight and is viral on social media after Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his ‘Mann ki Baat’ address on Sunday urged people to understand the damage that can be caused by spitting in public places.The song, written by Ritu Malhotra and sung by Sky, directed and produced by Manpreet Kaur of Shutterhead Films, has over 19 million impressions and over two million reach on Twitter. The song was retweeted by Modi. Complementing the team of Shutterhead Films, he wrote: "Great Song, great effort and most importantly great message." Also, BJP state president Ashwani Sharma while supporting the Prime Minister''s message shared the song and asked citizens to eradicate the spitting habit.Talking to The Tribune, Manpreet said the aim of the song then produced was to promote the Swachhata campaign of PM Modi."In the two-minute video song, we tried to highlight the spitting menace and how people give two hoots to cleanliness and their personal hygiene by spitting on every nook and corner of roads, markets and streets."“In these times, the Covid has taught us how important cleanliness and hygiene are. If we start small practices of throwing garbage in dustbins, not spitting and maintaining cleanliness at homes and outside, we would win against many hazardous diseases,” Manpreet said, adding that she was also associated with a NGO that had been tirelessly working to promote cleanliness mission across the country and stand against social issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thuk-mat-song-trends-again-on-social-media-77891
29-04-2020||I am receiving umpteen number of calls on a daily basis from people of my constituency. They call me to inform that they don’t have enough ration or they need eatables. I make sure that I become a bridge between people who are in need and the Good Samaritans such as NRIs and others who want to help them. I have been approaching the NRIs to come forward to help the needy. To ensure that no cases surface in my constituency||‘Will ensure to provide essentials to all needy’||(As told to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-ensure-to-provide-essentials-to-all-needy-77889
29-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Khali believes in staying strong, positive to tackle bad phase||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 28Dalip Singh Rana, widely known as The Great Khali, believes that staying strong and positive are only ways to deal with the lockdown phase.Spending his lockdown days at his residence in Kangniwal village in Jalandhar, Khali said, "The self-isolation phase has given me a chance to explore new opportunities to make a balance between my personal and professional life."Motivating others to utilise the time in making personal bonds stronger, he said, "These days, I have been focusing on those things which were neglected in the past. Apart from doing household chores with my family members, I also spend time in gardening. The lockdown has brought focus on sustainable environment and its values."The first Indian World Champion in the WWE history, Khali also ensures that his physical activity does not hindered during the lockdown. In an enclosed health club at his resident, he works out on a regular basis. To motivate students of his wrestling academy, he conducts online sessions and asks them practise regularly.Khali, who has appeared in several movies and TV shows, is worried about the soaring number of domestic violence, depression and suicide cases during the lockdown."Keeping the social distancing on mind, people shouldn't lose hope. Tough days are dealt with patience and hope. Every individual should appreciate this time as it has given them an opportunity to improve their relations," he added.Helping stranded passengers and migrants, he has also distributed food among them. He urged the administration to take special care of labourers and underprivileged as they are the worst-hit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/khali-believes-in-staying-strong-positive-to-tackle-bad-phase-77888
29-04-2020||---||Covid awareness drive for farmers visiting mandis||Jalandhar, April 28To ensure that farmers, labourers and other workers follow all norms, including social distancing, washing hands frequently and wearing masks, which are necessary to contain the spread of Covid-19, the district administration on Tuesday installed the public address system at grain markets. Through audio messages, they will be apprised of ways to prevent Covid-19. DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said the public address system was one of effective measures to make sure that farmers and labourers are made aware of precautions needed to keep the coronavirus at bay.In a bid to decongest the grain markets for smooth procurement of wheat, the administration had earlier doubled the purchase centres in the district by setting up 78 additional procurement centres.The DC said audio clips have specially been recorded to explain the precautions required to keep the coronavirus at bay.District Mandi Officer Davinder Singh Kainth said officials have been directed to play audio clips continuously at the grain markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-awareness-drive-for-farmers-visiting-mandis-77883
29-04-2020||Jalandhar||PSPCL workers’ efforts appreciated||For the safety of PSPCL workers, who are still performing   duties despite the lockdown, Er Neeraj Piplani, senior substation engineer, PSPCL, Jalandhar, on Monday distributed masks and sanitisers among substation staff of 66 kv substations. Piplani said all substation workers need a round of applause and appreciation for their untiring efforts in ensuring proper maintenance of substations and performing their duties even in the present adverse conditions. An official source said a total of 84 workers of the PSPCL were currently working at various substations and control rooms of the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-workers-efforts-appreciated-77878
29-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||24 samples taken in Phagwara||Phagwara, April 28 After three local residents, who were returned from Hazoor Sahib, Nanded, tested positive on Monday, a team of the Health Department, headed by Senior Medical Officer Kamal Kishore today took samples of total 24 persons. The SMSenior Medical OfficerO said today that the samples of 10 persons at a vegetable market, eight at a grain market, three persons at Bhularai village, who were returned from Hazoor Sahib, and three other patients were taken for the Covid-19 test. He said the reports of the tests would arrive on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/24-samples-taken-in-phagwara-77877
29-04-2020||---||Nawanshahr District Hospital bags first prize for cleanliness||Nawanshahr, April 28 The Nawanshahr Civil Hospital has won the first prize under the Mission Kayakalp 2019-20 for maintaining high standards of cleanliness, sanitation and hygiene. Earlier also, the hospital had won the first prize in 2017-18. It  had achieved the fourth rank in 2016-17 and 2018-19. Civil Surgeon Rajinder Bhatia said the hospital competed with 18 district hospitals of the state. Nawanshahr was in close competition with Gurdaspur Civil Hospital. He said the initiative had encouraged the public healthcare facilities to achieve and maintain the standards of excellence. Shahkot CHC tops in dist, 6th in the state The Community Health Centre (CHC), Shahkot, has been top-ranked in the district and the sixth in the state in the results of Mission Kayakalp announced yesterday. Mission Kayakalp is a campaign of the Central and state governments to encourage CHCs and district hospitals to improve their outlook, services and behaviour of staff, besides carrying out innovative activities. Senior Medical Officer, CHC, Shahkot, Dr Amardeep Singh Duggal said, “This is a reward of collective efforts of all staff members.” The SMO said during the competition, CHCs carried out self-assessment in the first phase, followed by an inspection by an inter-district team. Later, an inspection was done by a state-level team. After the state-level results were declared, a national-level assessment was done. “The team looks at various measures being taken such as cleanliness, treatment of patients and infection control as per the standards set by the government. Apart from this, whether new plans and efforts are being made for the convenience of patients at the hospital,” the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-district-hospital-bags-first-prize-for-cleanliness-77876
29-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Migrant workers throng DAC||Jalandhar, April 28As many as 60 migrant labourers from the city who belong to different cities and villages of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have been visiting the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here for the past two days to request officials to make travel arrangements for them so that they may return to their respective home towns.They said they were running short of money as well as ration and all they want was to return home.“We do not know when this lockdown will end. We are daily wagers, our survival depends on daily income. We don’t have savings in our bank accounts to stay here,” said Dashrath, who works as a painter and is a native of Gazipur in UP.He said it was being two days that they were visiting the DC office in hope that the administration might listen to their pleas and would make some travel arrangement for them.“We will again be visiting the DAC tomorrow and will keep visiting till we get an appropriate answer from the authorities, “ he said.Dashrath said like him there were many daily wagers. Nearly 35 belong to UP, while 25 to 30 from Bihar, who are staying depressed in their rented accommodations, wanting to return home.“We were not able to meet the authorities concerned, but we met a few people at the DAC, who suggested us to apply for online passes. We are not educated, we hardly had any idea about what is online. How we would apply then,” said another migrant labour Kashi Ram.“It is disheartening that the government, which boast of being a ‘Gareebo ki sarkar’, has failed to take a call on travel arrangements of migrant labourers across the nation. We don’t want food or shelter, we just want to return home,” he added.Pramod Yadav, state president, Purvanchal Jan Kalyan Mahasabha, said there was a rumour in the city two days ago that a bus had been arranged to send back migrant workers to their homes. Thus, all migrant workers thought they missed the bus, hence, they started visiting the DC office.He said he recently had a meeting with the officials concerned and they had assured that a decision in this regard would be taken after May 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrant-workers-throng-dac-77875
29-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||2 students return Hoshiarpur from Kota||Two students of Hoshiarpur, who had gone to Kota to prepare for competitive examinations, returned home on Monday. After the lockdown, they were stuck in Kota and were waiting to return. They thanked the state government for bringing them back.   Mithilesh Kumar Gupta, one of the students, said, “I took admission to a coaching institute in Kota in May last year to prepare for the entrance exam of IIT. I had come to Hoshiarpur on January 8 and went back to Kota after a week. I got stuck there.”    He was in contact with the institute from where he came to know that the Punjab Government has arranged buses to bring students back.     Another student Preeti said she had gone to Kota in May last for coaching of medical exams. After the lockdown, her family was worried about her. The Punjab Government took a great initiative to make efforts to bring students back home.   DC Apneet Riyat said their health check-up was done at Civil Hospital. Later, they had been home quarantined. Buses had been sent to Hazur Sahib to bring back pilgrims as well. —  OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-students-return-hoshiarpur-from-kota-77874
29-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Govt facilitates travel of 567 residents of J&K||As many as 567 persons belonging to Jammu and Kashmir residing in Hoshiarpur district were sent to J&K by buses.  On the occasion of Ramadan, the state government decided to send these persons back home. On Tuesday, these persons were sent to J&K in 23 buses, including 197 persons from the Garhshankar subdivision were sent to J&K through eight buses, 143 persons from the Hoshiarpur sub-division in six buses, 148 persons from Dasuya sub-division in six buses and 79 persons from Mukerian subdivision in three buses.  Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said during the curfew, persons belonging to J&K were accommodated at different places in the district and appropriate arrangements were made for their stay here. While returning home, people praised the Punjab Government and thanked the administration for facilitating their stay here.  Ejaz Ahmad Shah said it was a magnificent gift given to them by the Punjab Government on Ramadan. He said he we would go home, keep Roza and pray for the prosperity of Punjab. Nazir Ahmed said it was the fourth day of the holy month of Ramadan and they used to pray every day to go back to their homes. He said he was feeling very happy, as he had a desire to meet his family, which would be fulfilled soon. Mohammad Shafi Bhatt and Mohammad Yusuf said they did not face any problem in Hoshiarpur district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-facilitates-travel-of-567-residents-of-jk-77873
29-04-2020||---||5 more positive in Jalandhar, count reaches 85||Chandigarh, April 28With 12 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported today, the state tally reached 342.According to a state media bulletin, seven cases were reported from Jalandhar, two each from SAS Nagar and Tarn Taran, and one from Hoshiarpur.Among the five patients from Jalandhar was a 46-year-old woman whose mother-in-law had tested positive a few days back in Jawala Nagar, Maqsudan. The total count in Jalandhar is now 85. Health officials said of the 2,674 samples, the reports of 566 were still awaited.Late in evening, two fresh cases were reported from Nawanshahr district. Both are contacts of a patient (truck driver) in Nawanshahr. They belong to Balachaur and have been shifted to Nawanshahr Civil Hospital. As per the information, tests of 51 close contacts of the truck driver were conducted, and his mother and helper were found suffering from the infection.Apart from Jalandhar and SBS Nagar, a 48-year-old driver from Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur has tested positive in Hoshiarpur district. Prior to this, there had been no Covid-19 positive case in the district for 28 days. The driver, who had been in Nanded for 38 days, reached Moranwali village on April 25 with 15 others in his Tempo Traveller. On the same day, he was admitted to the isolation ward at Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital.So far, samples of 17,021 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 13,966 samples tested negative and reports of 2,713 are awaited.After turning green zone, Nawanshahr sees fresh casesTwo fresh cases were reported from Nawanshahr district on Tuesday. Both are contacts of a patient (a truck driver) in Nawanshahr.They belong to Balachaur and have been shifted to Nawanshahr Civil Hospital. Tests of 51 close contacts of the truck driver were conducted.His mother and helper were found suffering from the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-more-positive-in-jalandhar-count-reaches-85-77687
29-04-2020||---||Labour crunch won't let us resume operations: Jalandhar industrialists||Jalandhar, April 28With Jalandhar being declared a hotspot in the state with highest number of Covid cases, industrialists who are running pipe fitting, valves and cocks, sports, nut and bolts, and rubber chappal manufacturing units are a harried lot.The aforementioned industries have a huge concentration here and they supply products across the length and breadth of the country.‘Wages being paid’About 95 per cent of the workforce is from UP and Bihar. We know the labourers will return home the moment the lockdown is lifted. This despite the fact that we’re paying them wages.—Charanjeet Singh Maingi, industrialistEvery industrialist fears that once the lockdown is lifted, more than 50 per cent of migrant labourers will rush to their native places, affecting the work badly. Besides this, the industrialists opine that restarting the operations isn’t going to be easy, as the prices of raw material will fluctuate sharply. “We know that the labourers will return homes the moment the lockdown is lifted. About 95 per cent of the workforce is from UP and Bihar. Despite the fact that we’re paying them their wages, we are aware that they will return immediately after the lockdown is lifted,” said Charanjeet Singh Maingi, an industrialist.Owners say that it won’t be easy to procure raw material such as pig iron, iron scrap, zinc, furnace oil, gun metal scrap, rubber and other chemicals ware as easily, as they were imported from Jharkhand and Mumbai, among other states.Maingi, who is also the general secretary of Jalandhar Chamber of Industries and Commerce, said it was not clear if they would be able to obtain raw material or not. “I think it will take us a month for our operations to gain some momentum,” he said.A trader from valves and cock industry opined the situation of the industrialists would remain critical in the coming days. “There are several things that are required to start the unit. From where will we get the raw material?” he asked. Ravinder Dhir, president, Traders Forum, who owns a sports manufacturing unit, said: “In our deliberations with the industrial groups, we concluded that a majority of labourers would return home. Sports manufacturing unit won’t be able to get pass the break-even point, as the manufacturing cost will go up.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labour-crunch-wont-let-us-resume-operations-jalandhar-industrialists-77667
