30-04-2020||DC Varinder Kumar Sharma||No relaxation in curfew||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-relaxation-in-curfew-78427
30-04-2020||SO far||‘To check crowding at mandi major challenge’||I along, with my aides, are trying to handle the situation deftly. Considering the minimum contact of people with outer space, we have issued helpline numbers for residents. Councillors have been looking into demands of residents so that there would not be any shortage of supplies of essentials. Everything has so far been taken care of telephonically and safety kits and sanitisers have been issued to waste collectors.I have also been in regular touch with councillors to make arrangements for supply of food free of cost for the underprivileged. Only those vegetable vendors who are carrying curfew passes are allowed to enter residential areas.My team is trying to provide essentials to residents on doorsteps for which we have urged them to dial helpline numbers. Besides, with the help of the police, curfew passes have also been given to parents who approached me for bringing back their children stranded in various states. I am regularly visiting all wards in my constituency and ration was also distributed today in the Kazi Mandi area that accomodates several slum dwellers.I start the day early with a walk and visit my office for two hours from 9.30 am-11.30 am. The major challenge is to restrain vendors and residents from crowding at Old Sabzi Mandi. The authorities need to work on the 'odd-even' formula for managing vendors' rush at the mandi.(as told to Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-check-crowding-at-mandi-major-challenge-78426
30-04-2020||Piara Lal Seth||‘Will turn challenges in shawl industry into opportunities’||How has the lockdown impacted the shawl industry?The current period is vital for the distribution of samples among all local and international distributors. They give orders only after selecting the samples. In the trade cycle of the year, the industry in the summer phase obtains orders from hill states such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir. Tourists flocking these states offer a good business to the shawl industry. But this time, it did not happen. Big firms such as Monte Carlo and Shoppers Stop also did not place any order this time. They saw samples, but did not place any order. So, the sale has totally been wiped out.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?The entire shawl industry is inter-linked and no business is possible in isolation. As long as curfew remains, I do not see bright business prospects. In 2019, about 100 shuttleless looms with electronic jacquard, procured from Europe and Turkey, were installed in the border district and we had expected further expansion this year. However, it is no longer tenable.How are you dealing with issue of paying salaries to workers?We have already paid salaries to employees for March. For April, we have given them ration and salaries in instalments. At my unit, we feel that we earn due to sincere efforts of our employees and workers. So, they all are being looked after well in this time of crisis. If the government does not come out with any financial aid, we will mutually accommodate them.What is the role of online in your business?The online trade does not exceed more than five per cent in the profession. Being a designer item, dealers want to minutely look at the shawl before purchasing it.Have any of your major investments been deferred due to the lockdown?We have planned expansion in manufacturing and compliance for the export purpose in the unit this year. Now, this is not possible due to the lockdown.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?This will prove to be a challenge and we will convert it into an opportunity after two years. We are in the middle of the second month of the curfew. Country's GDP is expected to remain about 1.60 per cent this fiscal so it will be reflected detrimentally on our trade as well.What are your expectations from the government?Crude price came down drastically in the international market, but its benefits are not being passed on to micro and small industrialists. Prices of manmade fibres and yarns, monopolised by a particular company in the country, have not come down in sync with global crude prices. As a majority of the shawl industries fall in the micro and small segments, the government must waive 50 per cent of the GST for the current financial year and income tax returns on MSME units. Auditing of income tax returns for the MSME units with turnover of Rs10 crore should be exempted. The norm of no cash transaction above Rs10,000 should be raised to Rs30,000 at least. The government must introduce a special incentive scheme for the shawl industries in the border district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-turn-challenges-in-shawl-industry-into-opportunities-78425
30-04-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Committed to welfare of animals in hour of crisis||Hoshiarpur, April 29It was not easy for Rana Preet Gill, a noted writer and veterinarian by profession, to convince her family to allow her to go out and join as frontline warrior when most people are confined indoors amid the outbreak of deadly Covid-19.She managed to allay their fears and continued to serve her patients in this hour of crisis. Having three books to her credit and several articles published in various newspapers and national-international journals, Rana Preet Gill says," It has been more than 30 days since the lockdown and I count myself among those fortunate who have got an opportunity to come forward and extend their services. Initially, my family was very apprehensive to let me go outside, but I managed to allay their fears."She said veterinary services were also among essential ones and all civil hospitals and dispensaries in the state were open. Giving details of precautionary measures being adopted, she says, “We have been provided masks and sanitisers by the Animal Husbandry Department. I and my staff follow social distancing norms even while treating the animals.”She says milk-yielding animals, especially cattle and buffaloes, played an important role in the economy of the agrarian state. "So it becomes essential to take care of them despite odd situations. I have been giving consultation to cattle owners even on the phone after duty hours,” she said, adding that recently, they vaccinated animals against the foot and mouth disease.“These are difficult times and I understand the fear and concern of people. I, as a veterinarian, am committed to safeguarding the health and welfare of animals," she concludes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/committed-to-welfare-of-animals-in-hour-of-crisis-78423
30-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||7 stray dogs found dead in 3 days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29With the city wearing a deserted look due to the Covid-19 pandemic, stray dogs are apparently roaming around in search of food and are dying of starvation. As many as seven dogs were found dead in various residential localities in the past three days and the number of deaths is going up.An animal rights activist said around three such cases were being reported on a daily basis. Many go unreported.Confined to their homes, residents are also finding it difficult to feed the stray dogs and the shortage of supplies was only making things worse. Besides people, coronavirus has also impacted stray animals hugely. The primary risk most animals face is starvation.Reporting about the death of three puppies in two days, Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Janta Colony, said: “The three-month old puppies initially showed symptoms of weakness for the past two days and when food was given, they barely moved their bodies and could not eat anything. Earlier too, three puppies died due to the same reason. Though we fed the puppies when we spot them but unavailability of food and water led to their death. Besides, none of the administration or municipal corporation worker visited the area during the lockdown to feed the stray dogs. Adult dogs had also started showing similar symptoms.”Yuvi Singh, who runs an NGO, Animal Protection Foundation, in the city, said they had been receiving several calls these days regarding illness and starvation among dogs. He, after burying a dog at a residential colony today, said it was unfortunate that stray animals were being dying of hunger.Another animal rights activist Prabhjot Kaur said recent dog death cases were reported from the Focal Point and Industrial Area. She urged residents to approach the administration or NGOs if they find any dog in such a situation. Besides, the canines were also reportedly found dying of ‘Parvo’, a viral disease among stray animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-stray-dogs-found-dead-in-3-days-78422
30-04-2020||Nakodar||Ensure wheat procurement, says Wadala||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from the Nakodar Assembly constituency Gurpartap Singh Wadala on Wednesday visited the Nurmahal grain market to know about problems faced by farmers and traders.A number of farmers and traders complained that the government procurement agencies were finding faults in their wheat and the lifting of the purchased wheat was too slow.Wadala summoned the staff of the market committee and representatives of the government procurement agencies on the spot and asked them to ensure the procurement of wheat.“The SAD will not tolerate exploitation of farmers,” he warned. Wadala alleged that the vows of the farmers had multiplied since the Congress government had come to power in the state. He alleged that Congress leaders were in the habit of making tall claims and not fulfilling them. Their attitude towards farmers was insensitive, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-wheat-procurement-says-wadala-78420
30-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers seek bonus, aid 
for workers||Nakodar, April 29The Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee on Wednesday organised protest demonstrations in villages against the Centre and the state government.In a press release, president of the committee Salwindar Singh Jania said during their protests, it was demanded that ration kits should be distributed without any discrimination and every family should get the same.He said every farmer should be given Rs 200 as bonus for wheat crop and all registered and unregistered workers should be given bonus, besides monthly financial help.The farmers should be given Rs 6,000 per acre for wheat and paddy stubble management. He said all former MLAs should claim only one pension. It was demanded that the Swaminathan report should be implemented at the earliest. A memorandum of demands was handed over to the authorities concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-seek-bonus-aid-for-workers-78419
30-04-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Hoist Tricolour on May 1 against Centre’s bias’||Hoshiarpur, April 29State Industries Minister and Hoshiarpur MLA Sunder Sham Arora has urged people to hoist the national flag on May 1 at 10 am from their homes/ rooftops to express solidarity and protest against the Centre’s “discrimination” against non-BJP-ruled states.He said: “We people of the state are also Indians, then why there was a discrimination by the Union Government against Punjab and its people. Through the event, we will also be commemorating May Day to mark solidarity with farmers, workers and all frontline Covid warriors, who are battling the crisis from the front.”He said the flags would be hoisted in all localities and residential areas and rooftops of houses. Flag poles will be bearing plates having written “We the people of Punjab too are Indians’ and the plate on the other side will have “Why there’s discrimination with us”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoist-tricolour-on-may-1-against-centres-bias-78418
30-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||ASHA worker faints while on Covid duty||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29A 55-year-old Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker fell unconscious at Basti Gujan here on Wednesday when she, along with her colleagues, visited the locality for contact tracing. As scared residents did not come forward for help, her colleagues took her to the local Community Health Centre.Thereafter, ASHA workers flayed the Health Department for ignoring their health and priorities.A day after three persons from the locality tested positive, the ASHA workers visited the area for contact tracing.Originally from Lamma Pind, Mamta Rani has been deputed at Basti Gujan amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Workers said they can’t travel long distances with such a meagre allowance since they are bearing petrol and travel expenses on their own.Paid Rs1,000 a month, the ASHA workers said they had been called all across from Lamma Pind by the department for duty.Namita, who accompanied Mamta, said, “It was a hot afternoon and we were tracing people door to door. My fellow worker was feeling uncomfortable and suddenly she fell unconscious. We quickly took off her PPE kit and soothed her. After a considerable time and getting some water, she regained her councious. None of the residents came to us. We sought help to take her to the hospital, but no one stepped forward. Eventually, I had to take her to hospital on my own Activa.”She said, “We had asked the Health Department to reconsider someone who hails from the area as we put up far away places. With Rs33 per day, how can we pay for petrol at a time when we have to travel a lot.”Amritpal Kaur, general secretary, ASHA Workers and Facilitators Union, said, “We work for hours and take huge risk by visiting sensitive areas. Out workers perform their duties in the hot sun without off and water. No one even offers them a cup of tea. We are not in a position to continue our work if our demand are not addressed. Our worker is still in a bad condition. None of the residents even bothered to take her to the hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asha-worker-faints-while-on-covid-duty-78417
30-04-2020||Phagwara||Man duped of Rs 2 lakh||On a complaint registered by Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Dhahan-Kaleran village, the city police have registered a case under Sections 420 of the IPC and 13 of the Punjab Travels Professionals Regulation Act against a woman travel agent, identified as Manpreet Kaur of Zadla village, for duping the complainant of Rs two lakh on the pretext of sending the complainant abroad.The victim, in his complaint, alleged that the accused could neither send him abroad nor returned his money. The police are investigating the matter.Proclaimed offender heldNakodar: The police on Tuesday arrested a proclaimed offender (PO), who was absconding for the past many years. The investigating officer, Avtar Singh, said the suspect had been identified as Amarbir Singh, a resident of Takhiya village in Kapurthala. The suspect was wanted in a case of drug peddling. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-duped-of-rs-2-lakh-78416
30-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Snatchers arrested for lawyer’s murder||Hoshiarpur, April 29  Three persons, who were arrested by the CIA staff of the Jalandhar police for snatching, turned out to be the murderers of elderly lawyer Malkit Singh who was killed three days ago. One of the accused is a neighbour of the deceased. The arrested persons were produced in the court of Duty Magistrate, who sent them to three-day police remand.  Giving information, DSP (R) Satinder Kumar Chaddha said after the expiry of police remand they would be brought to Hoshiarpur on production warrant. On April 26, the Bullowal police received information about the murder of elderly lawyer Malkit Singh in Hargarh village. He said the police reached the spot and during investigation found that the lawyer was murdered with the intention of robbery. Chaddha said on the complaint of victim’s family, the police had registered a case and started investigation. During investigation the police came to know that the CIA staff of the Jalandhar police had arrested three persons on the charges of snatching and cases were registered against them at the Adampur police station. The accused identified as Surhar, alias Sunny, a resident of Hargarh in Hoshiarpur district, Sandeep Singh of Rajowal in Hoshiarpur district and Gurjinder Singh, alias Gagi, a resident of Kathar in Jalandhar district.  The three during interrogation also told the police that they went to the lawyer’s house with the intention of robbing, but he identified them and due to which they murdered him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/snatchers-arrested-for-lawyers-murder-78415
30-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Writing, reading are his favourite pastime||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29Satnam Chana, a writer and a presenter, has been writing a book, which he wanted to pen down for long.Chana has presented several shows for Doordarshan and written books based on his research. Now amid the lockdown, Chana has got time to complete his unfinished book. “Now, I spend good amount of time in writing and I am feeling good,” Chana said, adding that he was also giving special attention to his health and making sure that he does exercise in the morning and evening.Chana, who is also a traveler, has written books after travelling to several places and non-descript villages of Punjab. He always researches intensively before penning anything.He said, “I had shut the studio even before the lockdown because I was aware of social distancing.”Chana, however, is concerned about the movies that were being made in the studio and those were to be completed in April.“Amid this time of crisis, we are concerned about other works as well. Like everyone else, I am waiting for this tough time to end,” Chana added.Chana had also produced and presented a special programme on Ghadari revolutionaries. He had also paid a visit to Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna's village and had spent a long time to gather information on his life. Thereafter, he shared information with others who wanted to write on Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna.Chana has been spending time with his family members. “I have been reading a lot these days. Since, I have always been into writing and researching, I like to read a lot. I always dig into history of the topic which I decide to write or make a film on it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/writing-reading-are-his-favourite-pastime-78414
30-04-2020||Varinder Kumar Sharma||3 new cases in Jalandhar district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-78413
30-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||No money to buy ration, street vendors hit hard||Jalandhar/Nawanshahr, April 29Jagtar Singh (66), who has been running a tea stall at Dana Mandi in Banga for more than 35 years, says this is for the first time in his life that he is finding it difficult to run his house.“I usually make some profit during this time as farmers in large numbers visit grain markets to sell their produce. But this time due to Covid-19 fear, nobody is buying tea or biscuits from me”, he said.He says everyday he puts himself and his family at risk and steps out of the house to open the tea stall with the hope that he may return having some money in his pocket.“Earlier, it would become difficult for me and my sons to manage rush during these days. We used to remain occupied taking orders and serving tea to one after the other customer. However, things are completely different this time. We have been rendered jobless and staring at a bleak future,” said Jagtar said.Like Jagtar, there are many small street vendors in the district who earn their living selling tea, coffee, ‘kulcha’, ‘panipuri’ etc and have been badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. There seems to be no sops for them from the government. They say they have been surviving by borrowing money on interest to buy grocery, as not all of them are eligible for financial assistance from the government. Neither they can avail loan nor they have the required documents.“I feel helpless as well ignored by the government as the ration they have been providing hardly lasts for 10 to 15 days”, said Kulvir, who sells burger near Urban Estate Phase II.He says he does not know how he will survive, pay house rent and feed his family of six as he has no source of income for over a month now.Another vendor, Raju, said his family was dependent on income from his ‘bhelpuri’ cart. “I have to pay my loans as well look after my kids and wife. How will the government reach him? Do the authorities concerned have any data on small business like his?” he asked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-money-to-buy-ration-street-vendors-hit-hard-78412
30-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Reports awaited, Jalandhar hospital discharges 2 patients||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29Jubilant at having been discharged from the Civil Hospital, a youth went around his neighbourhood on a bike, is greeted by friends and showered with flowers by neighbours, only to be called back to the hospital with the news that he was still positive.In a major faux pas, the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, on Tuesday evening discharged two patients with the declaration that they had recovered, even though they were still positive.‘BOTH CALLED BACK’The first negative test report of the two persons was erroneously believed to be the second due to which the situation arose. After the mistake was spotted, they were called back.TP Singh, nodal officer, JalandharReports of 10 persons, confirmed to have recovered of Covid-19 in the district, proved to be false after the department discovered that two of them had been discharged while they were still positive. As of now, a total of eight persons have recovered in the district, not 10.The only person to test negative for a second time – and get discharged on Tuesday – is a 19-year-old member of the Tablighi Jamaat.The two who had been erroneously declared recovered are 25-year-old Lal Bazaar resident who is a contact of Jalandhar’s first deceased and the 40-year-old Raja Garden journalist after whom a slew of media house cases came to the fore in the district. Luckily, despite being discharged, the Raja Garden journalist did not go back home as he wanted to stay with his daughter at the hospital, who is also receiving treatment. Late on Tuesday night, the duo received intimation that they hadn’t recovered. While the 25-year-old came back to the hospital late night, the policemen who had gone to the 40-year-old’s home to bring him back in the wee hours were told he was still at the hospital.Videos of the 25-year-old riding a bike in his neighbourhood and being greeted by friends with flowers are also being circulated on the social media. While the department is assessing the damage by his trip back home, sources said he was estimated to have met 22 people during that period.Nodal Officer for Covid Dr TP Singh said, “The first negative test report of the two persons was erroneously believed to be the second due to which the situation arose. After the mistake was spotted, they were called back. They both are under treatment and will be discharged after their second report comes out negative.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reports-awaited-jalandhar-hospital-discharges-2-patients-78188
30-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Rare birds now a common sight||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29On one hand, life has come to a standstill in the wake of lockdown and, on the other, residents are appreciating nature’s beautiful creatures. One reason for joy is that several exotic birds are being sighted frequently.What is catching the interest of residents are spring birds — coppersmith barbet, purple sunbird, brown-headed barbet, lesser goldenback woodpecker and grey hornbill — which are spotted in Jalandhar, Kapurthala and surrounding areas.Experts cite ample space as the reason for frequent visits by the birds, among many other species. Before lockdown, humans had encroached on the habitat of many species, but now, the latter can be seen reclaiming the streets.Reportedly, peacocks, koyals and lapwings were also spotted.Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, rivers, wetlands and water policy, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) India, said the birds were getting enough food and space, the two essentials for their survival, which was why they were often being seen around. “Copper smith barbet, brown headed barbet, hornbill, are fruit-eating birds and rarely feed on insects,” she said.Gitanjli said, “Post-lockdown, there is enough space, no traffic and no noise pollution, thus peafowls are flocking to the residential areas.”About goldenback woodpecker, she said the bird fed on trees and was an insect-eating specie.Jaswant Singh, Block Officer, Wildlife, from Jalandhar and Kapurthala, who clicked pictures of the birds at varied locations said the birds had moved away from cities because of unfavourable climatic conditions.Khushwinder Singh Gill, Divisional Forest Officer, Wildlife, Phillaur, said the return of birds was a testimony to clean and conducive climatic conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rare-birds-now-a-common-sight-78187
