02-11-2021||Amritsar||1 more tests  +ve for Covid in Amritsar||Ministerial staff on 3-day leaveAmritsar: With ministerial employees, including those from the Treasury Department, deciding to extend their pen-down strike, the government employees may not get their salaries by this Diwali. The ministerial staff on Monday held a demonstration outside the District Treasury Office and raised slogans against the state government seeking fulfilment of their demands. Manjinder Singh Sandhu, president of the union, said on the call given by the Ministerial Services’ Union, the ministerial staff went on three-day mass leave from Monday. He said the strike would continue till November 7. This has stopped all government work. The union has been on holding the pen-down strike since October 8. Jagdish Thakur, district general secretary, said the CM should hold a meeting with union members and fulfil their demands. He said the employees were demanding a 15 per cent increase under the 6th Pay Commission and implementation of the old pension scheme for the employees who were recruited after 2004. He said following a three-day mass leave, a protest would be held outside the mini-secretariat here. Around 25,000 employees from 300 government departments are on strike. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-more-tests-ve-for-covid-in-amritsar-333239
02-11-2021||---||Youth Akali Dal burns Jagdish Tytler’s effigy||Amritsar, November 1Members of Youth Akali Dal staged a protest and burnt the effigy of Jagdish Tytler at Kacheri Chowk on Monday.In line with YAD announcement to carry out protests against the Congress party’s decision to reward Tytler, who they said is one of the 1984 genocide perpetrator, with a top post, YAD members from urban and rural wing gathered at Kacheri Chowk and raised slogans against the Congress leadership. They also accused Congress’ Punjab leadership to be a party in this move to elevate Tytler to national politics again. They asked both Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Pradesh Congress president Navjot Sidhu to tell Punjabis as to why they had not registered their protest against the move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-akali-dal-burns-jagdish-tytlers-effigy-332997
02-11-2021||---||Farm unions’ ‘corporate-free India’ Diwali||Amritsar, November 1We’ve been hearing of pollution-free Diwali, but farm unions will celebrate ‘corporate-free’ Diwali this time.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee leaders on Monday said farmers will celebrate Diwali as ‘corporate-free India’ and dedicate it to the martyrs of Delhi and Lakhimpur Kheri. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab state core-committee meeting was held at Shaheed Angrej Singh Bakipur Memorial, where these decisions were taken unanimously. State office secretary Gurbachan Singh Chabba said just as Guru Hargobind had managed to release 52 kings from Gwalior Fort, following the footsteps of Guru Sahib, Diwali and Bandi Chhod Diwas would be celebrated with a pledge to liberate India from the corporates. When Lord Rama returned to Ayodhya, people lit lamps and rejoiced, but today’s Modi government wants to hand over the entire country to corporate houses, including the agriculture sector and peasants. The struggle is on against black laws. They sought compensation for paddy destroyed by heavy rain and hailstorm and compensation for cotton destroyed by the pink locust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-unions-corporate-free-india-diwali-332999
02-11-2021||---||Seizure of weapons: Rs 2L drug money, SUV recovered||Amritsar, November 1A day after the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) of the Punjab Police had nabbed two more persons in connection with the seizure of 48 pistols smuggled from Pakistan, the counter intelligence wing reportedly seized over Rs 2 lakh of drug proceeds, besides an SUV.Paramjit Singh Pamma of Sultanwind Road and Vikramjit Singh of Vallah were arrested by the SSOC when they were collecting drug money. With their arrest, the SSOC till now has nabbed 12 persons in the case.The State Special Operation Cell had confiscated 48 foreign-made pistols and arrested Jagjit Singh (25) on June 11. He was allegedly having links with banned terrorist organisations in the US, the UK, Canada and Pakistan.It was for the first time that seizure of such a huge quantity of automatic weapons along with magazines and ammunition was recovered in Punjab. Jagjit was working on the directions of the US-based gangster Darmanjot alias Darman Kahlon.The police had also arrested Lovedeep Singh alias Lala, Jaswinder Singh Jagga, Diljan Singh and Maan Singh Nihang.Sources in the State Special Operation Cell said along with the consignment of weapons, around 80 kg of heroin was also smuggled from across the border. Out of this, Pamma and Vikram got 5-kg heroin, which was sold in Amritsar and adjoining districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seizure-of-weapons-rs-2l-drug-money-suv-recovered-333001
02-11-2021||Neeraj Bagga||AmritsarL Hall Gate clock defunct, again!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 1What is Big Ben to London cannot be equated to the holy city’s wall clock on the Hall Gate, raised on a stretch leading to the Golden Temple.Big Ben has acquired an iconic status, but it seems the local clock does not find due importance in the eyes of the government. With the aim of making people’s visit a memorable one, no efforts are being made in this direction. Naresh Johar, a senior citizenThough tourists from around the world and across the country visit the holy Sikh shrine while passing through this stretch, they hardly notice the clock, which remains inoperative most of the time. Rishabh Kumar, a shopkeeper, says it has been lying obsolete for the past nearly a year. He recalled that over a year ago, it was repaired. He specifically mentioned that many tourists point out about the wrong time displayed by the clock.“Big Ben has acquired an iconic status, but it seems the local clock does not find due importance in the eyes of the government,” feels Naresh Johar, a senior citizen. With the objective of making people’s visit a memorable one, no efforts have been made in this direction. Instead, the entire focus and funds are devoted to repair it each time the clamour grows for its upkeep, he said.NS Gabarhia, who has been visiting the Golden Temple for six decades now, said the gate, named after the then deputy commissioner CH Hall, constructed in 1786, acquired a kind of heritage value. It features in movies and documentaries made for the city and Harmandir Sahib. However, its wall clock, along with a large alarm bell designed by then executive engineer John Gordon, fails to do so. He suggested that if its repairs were becoming too costly and artisans were unavailable, then it could be replaced with a new one with a ringing bell and chime features. This could be an added attraction. While the old one could be displayed at some museum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsarl-hall-gate-clock-defunct-again-333000
02-11-2021||---||Raising a pitch for green Diwali celebrations in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 1The district administration and people from diverse backgrounds raised a pitch for green Diwali to prevent adding pollution to the environment.The administration said only green firecrackers would be allowed during Diwali night and other festivals. Ruhi Dugg, additional district magistrate, said green crackers could be used this Diwali, on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, Christmas and New Year.Fireworks are a major source of pollution. Green crackers should be used this Diwali, on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, Christmas and New Year. There are free from barium salt, compounds of antimony, lithium, mercury, arsenic, lead, strontium and chromate. So, only those crackers that do not contain these elements will be sold during these festivals. Ruhi Dugg, Additional District MagistrateIssuing instructions, she said fireworks were being held as a major source of pollution. Elaborating the concept of green crackers, she said these were free from barium salt, compounds of antimony, lithium, mercury, arsenic, lead, strontium and chromate. So, only those crackers that do not contain these elements would be sold during these festivals.These instructions were issued following the directions of Principal Secretary, Department of Science, Technology and Environment. She said these guidelines were necessary in the light of the fact that people, especially children and the aged, do not face any breathing trouble during the winter season.“Only vendors appointed by the administration will be able to sell green crackers. In addition, the sale and storage of crackers will be prohibited. No licenced firecracker seller will be able to stock, display or sell green firecrackers such as series and other firecrackers containing the above mentioned chemicals,” the officer said. In addition, no e-commerce website or other online sites will be able to sell crackers, she said.The time for bursting green firecrackers has been fixed from 8 pm to 10 pm on Diwali. On the occasion of Gurpurb, the time has been fixed from 4 am to 5 pm and from 9 pm to 10 pm. Similarly, firecrackers will be allowed on Christmas from December 25 to 26 from 11:55 pm to midnight. Apart from this, on the occasion of New Year, on the night of December 31, 2021, and on the morning of January 1, 2022, firecrackers can be fired from 11:55 am to midnight.NCC cadets carry out awareness rallyAn awareness rally was conducted by the NCC cadets of Prem Ashram School on Monday. Commencing from the school, the rally passed through Beri Gate, Khazana Gate and concluded at the school. Its objective was to spread the message of celebrating pollution-free Diwali for environmental protection. Addressing the rally, school director Pradeep Sareen said the society should celebrate Diwali without using crackers, so that we can keep our environment clean. Our small effort could contribute in saving the fragile environment. Officiating Headmaster Vipan Kumar said it was the duty of all of us to save the environment. Celebrating smoke-free Diwali is an important step in this direction. NCC Officer Ajay Chauhan said children were the guardians of future and making them aware of pollution-free diwali would be the best step forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raising-a-pitch-for-green-diwali-celebrations-in-amritsar-333002
02-11-2021||---||Power cuts ahead of Diwali disrupt normal life in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 1Just days before Diwali, PSPCL enforced power cuts on Monday terming it necessary to undertake scheduled repair works.However, the move did not go down well with residents in the city. They said it was a new way to conceal power shortage. Power outages disrupted most of domestic and commercial activities throughout the day.As per PSPCL, the power cut was enforced in Hussainpura West, East, Shivala Road, Sharifpura, Rani Bazaar from 10 am to 2 pm due to repair work at 11 kV Hussainpura feeder.Similarly, the 11 kV feeder in Ranjit Avenue B-block did not supply electricity from 10 am to 4 pm and due to technical work at 11 kV feeder Attari, the supply remained discontinued from 10 am to 4 pm in the Bhai Manj Sahib area.Anil Vinayak, a resident of Ranjit Avenue, said these repair works have become a new normal these days. Considering the area under repair work, it shows that a major infrastructure of the power supplying utility require immediate upkeep. He said it disrupted power supply to domestic and commercial consumers. “Of late, it has become a regular practice to undertake scheduled repair works on every Monday throwing normal life out of gear. In the absence of power supply, PCPCL is bound to pay consumers if standard supply is disrupted beyond stipulated time fixed by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) as compensation due to deficient services to consumers. He demanded that the PSPCL must pay automatic compensation in bills to consumers as per the PSERC notification.Manjot Singh, a readymade garments’ trader, said power outage was a shocker to traders who were expecting a good business just before Diwali. He said it disrupted their momentum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/power-cuts-ahead-of-diwali-disrupt-normal-life-in-amritsar-333003
02-11-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar man loses Rs 5.5L to online fraudsters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 1Are bank websites safe? Well, the answer seems no. Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Loharka Road, learnt it the hard way. He lost Rs5.50 lakh of his hard-earned money to online fraudsters.Bhupinder Singh approached Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill for the registration of case and to seek justice.I had an FD worth Rs5 lakh at a private bank on the Mall Road. On October 18, I decided to start another FD worth Rs50,000. To know the current rate of interest, I called on a number given on the bank’s website. The person on the other side asked me to fill a form online. After completing half of the form, I got suspicious and immediately disconnected the call. After a few minutes, Rs5,000 got debited from my account. Soon my registered mobile number with the bank changed and a new number was added and net banking started on the said number without any verification. The fraudsters got the amount of my FD transferred on their account and from there it was transferred to another unknown account. Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Loharka RoadThe Police Commissioner has forwarded the complaint to the cyber crime cell for further investigations.The victim said he had a Fixed Deposit (FD) worth Rs5 lakh at a private bank on the Mall Road. He said on October 18, he decided to start another FD worth Rs50,000 in the bank. He said for knowing the current rate of interest on FDs, he called on a number given on the bank website. He said the person on the other side asked him to fill a form online.“After completing half of the form, I got suspicious and immediately disconnected the call,” he said, adding that the person called from another mobile and asked him to complete the form and threatened that the entire amount would be transferred to the government if he did not fill the form. He said he again refused and disconnected the phone.He said after a few minutes, Rs5,000 got debited from his account and he got a call saying that slowly, the entire would be transferred soon. He said soon his registered mobile number with the bank changed and a new number was added and net banking started on the said number without any verification. He said the fraudsters got the amount of his FD transferred on their account and from there it was transferred to another unknown account.He said as the process was on, he immediately rushed to the bank and requested the officials to freeze the amount.“At that time, my account still had Rs1.76 lakh. The bank took the complaint and the authorities said the process has been initiated and the account would be frozen. They assured him that the remaining amount would not be debited. But astonishingly, I also lost that amount and my account got nil,” he rued.Ironically, online frauds are on the rise and the police authorities remain limited only to registration of an FIR after months of probe.“The common man is no VVIP. It took just a couple of days for the Punjab Police to crack the case of Congress MP and former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s wife Parneet Kaur and nab the culprits,” said Sarabjit Singh, an advocate and senior activist of Punjab Human Rights Organisation. It is an irony that the Punjab Police had nothing to show in the name of arrests in online frauds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-man-loses-rs-5-5l-to-online-fraudsters-332998
