03-11-2021||Tarn Taran||Nagar kirtan from Gurdwara Data Band Chhor, Gwalior, to reach Akal Takht today||The nagar kirtan procession dedicated to the 400th anniversary of ‘Bandi Chhor Divas’ reached Kartarpur on Tuesday. The kirtan will stay here at Sri Guru Arjan Dev Senior Secondary School tonight and proceed to Akal Takhat, Amritsar, as its last destination on Wednesday.The nagar kirtan was started from Gurdwara Data Band Chhor, Gwalior on October 27 and reached to Fatehgarh Sahib on Monday. — TNSAlso read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranAmritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinction||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-from-gurdwara-data-band-chhor-gwalior-to-reach-akal-takht-today-333418
03-11-2021||Amritsar||March in memory of  ’84 riot victims||Calling it systematic state-sponsored mass killings of Sikhs, the Dal Khalsa on Tuesday sought intervention of the United Nations for international inquiry into the November 1984 pogrom.The call was made at the conclusion of Sikh Genocide Remembrance March held by the hardliner group to mark the 37 years of the Sikh massacre. Hundreds of activists carrying mashaals and placards marched from gurdwara to Jhaj Chowk in Gurdaspur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/march-in-memory-of-84-riot-victims-333419
03-11-2021||---||Ten fishermen from Pakistan repatriated||Amritsar, November 2As many as 10 fishermen from Pakistan were repatriated through the Attari-Wagah joint check post here on Tuesday. They had inadvertently crossed into the Indian territorial waters in Gujarat’s coast area around five years ago.Rustam Mohammad, a fisherman, said around 26 fishermen were arrested after they inadvertently crossed into the Indian territorial waters in Gujarat of which 10 were already released and 10 were released on Tuesday. They urged the Indian government to release the remaining six fishermen after waiving their imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ten-fishermen-from-pakistan-repatriated-333420
03-11-2021||Amritsar||1,500 take part in cross-country marathon||The Goodwill Athletics Club organised the 5th Open Cross-Country Marathon dedicated to Flying Sikh Milkha Singh here on Sunday. The marathon was flagged off by Om Prakash Soni, Deputy Chief Minister of Punjab.President of the club Rachpal Singh Kot Khalsa said about 1,500 children had participated in the marathon. The race began from the Guru Nanak Dev University and ended at the India Gate and Bypass. He said the race for men was held in 10 km, 6 km category for women and 8 km for boys in the Under 17 category. In this race, the winner in the category of men got Rs10,000, the second winner got Rs 7,000, the third winner won a cash prize of Rs 5,000 and the fourth place winner got Rs 3,000 and the fifth place winner got Rs 2,000 as cash prize.Speaking on the occasion, Soni said Flying Sikh Milkha Singh had not only brought glory to himself but also the entire country. He has played an important role in encouraging our young generation with sports. He said Flying Sikh Milkha Singh would live forever in our hearts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-500-take-part-in-cross-country-marathon-333421
03-11-2021||Tarn Taran||NCC cadets honoured||Expo showcases skills of studentsAmritsar: Guru Nanak Dev University’s Department of Lifelong Learning organised an exhibition ahead of Diwali. Various items, including hand-made pots, diyas, candles and lampsets, were showcased by the students. The event was inaugurated by Dr Hardeep Singh, Dean, Academic Affairs. He encouraged the students to take part in such creative events to enhance their skills. Prof Saroj Bala said there were various courses/diplomas to improve skills of the students. She said the students were guided under ‘Earn while learn’ concept. The students said they have become self-dependent.Students celebrate Punjab DayDAV Public School, Lawrence Road, celebrated Punjab Day with zeal and fervour. The students conducted a special assembly on the occasion and informed about the history of the state. Punjab in its present form came into existence on November 1, 1966. Students remembered freedom fighters through poetry. They took a pledge to work for the welfare and progress of people of Punjab. The students said Punjabi literature has so much to offer, guide and inspire the youths of today. Principal Anita Mehra asked the students to tread on the right path.Global football leagueTwo semifinals and final of Global Football League-2021 was played on the campus of GGI. The first semifinal was played between BTech mechanical engineering and BSC agriculture. The final was played between department of pharmacy and BSC agriculture and the former defeated the latter. Prof BD Sharma, director, Admissions, distributed cash prizes, medals and certificates to both the teams and gave trophy to the winner.IIM organises ‘Pariprekshya 21’Indian Institute of Management,Amritsar, conducted the fifth edition of annual Finance and Marketing Conclave ‘Pariprekshya 21’. Veterans from the industry interacted with budding managers on the recent trends and developments in the domain of finance and marketing. Discussing the various strategies post pandemic, the event saw students of IIM and industry experts, deliberate on different action plans, including embracing non-traditional M&As, adding new lenses to diligence and bringing expertise into the process early. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ncc-cadets-honoured-333425
03-11-2021||---||Shortage of  DAP worries wheat cultivators||Amritsar, November 2The shortage of DAP is troubling wheat cultivators as they are unable to sow the crop in absence of the fertiliser. The farmers are making frantic enquiries about the availability of the fertiliser and many even are ready to pay higher prices to get it.As per the recommendations of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, 55 kg DAP per acre should be used at the time of drilling of seed.Mandeep Singh, a farmer from Tarn Taran, said, “Locally, no fertiliser seller is having DAP. There have been rumours that it could be made available for Rs 1,800 per bag. But if you ask the same person to procure it even at the higher price it is not available.” He added now he is trying to procure the DAP from Gurdaspur as he has learnt that it is available there. The government notified price for DAP is Rs 1,200 per bag (50 kilo)While the shortage is being faced, farmers fearing that delaying the sowing would result in decrease in optimum moisture level in the soil which is required for germination of seeds and as a result they would have to irrigate the fields.Joginder Singh, a farmer, said, “After harvesting paddy, some fields have just the right amount of moisture in the soil. These fields are to be sown first before the moisture is lost.” He said if the fields have to be irrigated due to low soil moisture, it delays harvesting by 10 days as time is required for preparing the fields.An official of National Fertilizer Limited, a Government of India undertaking, on condition of anonymity said, “Due to lack of consensus on subsidy issue, the private companies had not placed tenders. Usually the process begins six months in advance but due to a delay there is a shortage of fertiliser this time.” He, however, added that farmers can use NPK instead of DAP as both have phosphorus, which is required for wheat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shortage-of-dap-worries-wheat-cultivators-333422
03-11-2021||---||Punjabi Saptah at GNDU: Trauma, suffering during Partition evoke emotions||Amritsar, November 2Former Dean Academic Affairs, GNDU, and director, Department of Architecture, Prof Sarabjot Singh Behl presented his poems at the session held at GNDU’s week-long Punjabi Saptah celebrations at the School of Punjabi Studies. Behal, who is a Punjabi poet as well, said Guru Nanak Dev University was committed to the development of Punjabi language.Rig Veda was the mirror of old Punjabi language and culture and the spread of any language cannot be confined to any geographical area. The ancient name of Punjab was Saptasindhu and its biggest base was Rig Veda and great scholars of Asia have proved that Rig Veda was written in old Punjabi language. As many as 24 languages have been recognised in the Indian Constitution of which, 18 languages are derived from Sanskrit. A new sensibility of scholars of the world towards Punjab has been created which Punjab should be proud of. Dr Harmohinder Singh Bedi, Chancellor of the Central University, Dharamsala The second day was dedicated to poets of Punjabi language. Eminent poets and students shared their poetry. Noted poet and IAS officer Bakhtawar Singh was among the first ones to recite his poems, presenting different themes of social realism and Sufism followed by eminent writer Nirmal Arpan. Kavi Darbar began with ghazals by Manish Kumar, a research student of the Department of Punjabi Studies. After this, eminent poet Malwinder Singh presented poems dedicated to the farmers’ struggle. Sarabjit Singh Sandhu, another poet, amazed the audience with his emotional and realistic poetry. Eminent Punjabi poet Artinder Sandhu presented a poem on the existence of women and drew the attention of research students to the new forms of Punjabi poetry being written. Punjabi poet Dev Darad recited lyrical poems in which he presented a picture of Punjabi culture.Poems full of mythological excerpts from Nirmal Arpan proved to be a poetic achievement. Sarabjot Singh Behl presented his poems based on the trauma and human suffering in context to Punjab’s history of Partition and other events.Meanwhile, on the first day, Chancellor of the Central University, Dharamsala, Dr Harmohinder Singh Bedi said Punjab, Punjabi and Panjabiyat was among the most significant study systems in Asia for the half a century. He was speaking as the keynote speaker at the inaugural function of the Punjabi Week (Punjabi Saptah) at Guru Nanak Dev University’s School of Punjabi Studies here on Monday. He said celebrating Punjabi Week meant that the rich traditions inherited by the Punjabis had not only uplifted the life of the Punjabi people but the entire world.GNDU is hosting a series of events dedicated to ‘Punjab Day’ that is celebrated on November 1 and the inaugural session of ‘Punjabi Saptah’ had academic talks and sessions by several eminent academicians. Registrar, GNDU, DR Karanjit Singh Kahlon, discussing the Punjabi language, said Punjabi language was a living language. Elaborating on the special role of Guru Nanak Dev University in the development of Punjabi language, literature and culture, he said the online courses launched by Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) for the development of Punjabi language have attracted more and more people besides Punjabis living abroad.Bedi acknowledged the Sanskrit tradition as the original source of three concepts of ‘Punjab, Punjabi and ‘Punjabiat’. Presenting Gremas’s Aktanshial model as the basis for the study of folk tales, former Professor of Punjabi Studies, Dr Joginder Singh Kairon said the major methods and windows of the Punjabi language needed to be looked at from new perspectives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabi-saptah-at-gndu-trauma-suffering-during-partition-evoke-emotions-333423
03-11-2021||---||1,400-room SGPC sarai to come up in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 2The SGPC laid the foundation stone of a 1,400-room sarai (inn) named Sri Guru Tegh Bahadar Ji Niwas in Amritsar on Tuesday.The sarai will be constructed at the site of old Hansli, near Ram Talai Chowk. It has been dedicated to the 400th Prakash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur, the ninth Guru.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the ‘kar sewa’ (voluntary service) of this sarai has been handed over to Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwale. The seven-storey sarai would be constructed as per modern facilities. It will have a parking for 300 cars at the ground floor. In addition, a canteen will be set up inside the sarai.The arrangements would be in place for providing shuttle service to the sangat between this upcoming sarai and the Golden Temple. “With this addition, the problem of accommodation of pilgrims would be solved to a large extent,” she said.Giani Gurminder Singh, granthi of Sri Harmandar Sahib, recited Sri Anand Sahib and Bhai Gurcharan Singh offered ardas (prayer) to start the kar sewa.Meanwhile, Bibi Jagir Kaur also honoured Baba Kashmir Singh and Baba Sukhwinder Singh Karseva Bhuriwale with siropaos (robe of honour).SGPC senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, general secretary advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka, members Bhai Manjit Singh, Bawa Singh Gumanpura, and Bhai Ram Singh, Dharam Prachar Committee member Bhai Ajaib Singh Abhayasi, SGPC additional secretaries, assistant secretaries and officials concerned were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-400-room-sgpc-sarai-to-come-up-in-amritsar-333424
03-11-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: Five test positive, no death in Amritsar district||Spl Operation Award to 3 copsAmritsar: Two DSP-rank officials, including Gurinderpal Singh Nagra and Harinderpal Singh, besides Inspector Inderdeep Singh, have been awarded Special Operation Award by the Union Home Ministry. Nagra was posted as DSP (D) in Amritsar (rural) police district before his transfer to Gurdaspur. Harinderpal was posted with the State Special Operation Cell of the Punjab Police before being transferred to Jalandhar. The Ministry of Home Affairs issued a list of 30 police personnel from Punjab who were awarded. Two ADGP-rank officers, including RN Dhoke and Amit Parsad, besides two SSP-rank officials Harmanbir Singh Gill and Opinderjit Singh Ghuman, and SP Rupinder Kaur Bhatti have also been awarded. TNSDay 26: Ministerial staff protest onTarn Taran: On the 26th day of the strike of the ministerial staff union, clerical staff of different state government departments staged a dharna in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here on Tuesday. They were pushing for fulfilment of their demands. Employees held the strike on the call of the Punjab State Ministerial Services’ Union. The strike affected the functioning in the various departments. Staff of the Revenue, Roadways, Irrigation, Horticulture, Finance, Agriculture and other departments participated in the strike. Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu and Angrej Singh, district president and general secretary, respectively, of the organisation, led the employees. The union leaders condemned the state government for its indifferent attitude towards the genuine demands of the employees. Their major demands included removal of all discrepancies in the Sixth Pay Commission report, restoration of the old pension scheme, releasing of DA instalments with arrears, regularising of the services of the outsourced and other employees working on a temporary basis and others. OCLahan seized from sarpanch’s homeAmritsar: The Excise Department along with the police have confiscated a huge quantity of illicit liquor and lahan from the residence of Randhawa Singh, who is associated with Congress and is sarpanch of Chogwan village. Cops nabbed his brother-in-law Ranjit Singh from the spot. “As many as 3,200 kg of lahan and 150 bottles of illicit liquor have been seized,” said Avtar Singh of the Excise Department. The lahan was stashed in five water tanks. Gurpreet Singh of Rajindra Wine said we had specific input that the accused was involved in bootlegging. Therefore, the information was passed on to the Excise Department. TNS2 nabbed with 155-gm heroinAmritsar: The CIA Staff on Tuesday arrested two alleged drug peddlers. The accused have been identified as Amarinder Singh alias Vijay, of Kale village, and Jaimal Singh of Chetuana village. Cops confiscated 155 gm of heroin and a motorcycle from their possession and two separate cases under the NDPS Act has been registered against them. According to police, 105-gm heroin was recovered from Amarinder, while 50 gm of heroin was recovered from Jaimal. The duo was produced before the court, which sent them to police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-five-test-positive-no-death-in-amritsar-district-333426
03-11-2021||---||Mental peace, consistency key to success, say Amritsar NEET toppers||Amritsar, November 2Tasting the sweet fruit of their hard labour, Anmol Singh Bajwa and Anmol Singh Sandhu, two of the three toppers of NEET from the city, said staying patient and consistent was their key to their success.Anmol Singh Bajwa scored 695/720 marks, scoring top position in the district. Karsh Verma came second with a score of 692/720 marks and an AIR 351. The third position was bagged by Anmol Singh Sandhu, who scored 691/720 marks and AIR 376.“The delays in NEET conduct were stressful of course, but one had to maintain mental peace and focus to perform well. I kept my cool, even while taking the exam, though this time the paper was bit tricky,” said Anmol Singh Bajwa, who has scored AIR 249 and has topped in the city. With an oncologist father and gynaecologist mother, Anmol shares that being a doctor was an obvious choice of profession for him.“My dream institute is Safdarjung, but I am not quite sure my AIR is enough for the admission. I would want to study in AIIMS or in Chandigarh in that case,” he shared.Anmol Singh Sandhu, who also comes from a family of doctors, said he wanted to continue in his parents’ profession always. “My parents have been my inspiration. I aspire to become a surgeon and want to study medicine at GMCH, Chandigarh. With my rank, I am hopeful to get admission though despite the pandemic-related stress, the competition was quite tough this year,” he said.His father Dr Kulwinder Singh Sandhu is an ENT specialist and his mother Dr Gagandeep Kaur is an anaesthesiologist.Anmol is happy that he managed to get a good rank in his first attempt. He shared that he never quite felt stressed and consistently continued to study himself.City toppers were seen in a jubilant mood as they shared their ranks and performances with their peers. Apart from merit holders, 12 students from Sidana International School cleared NEET with flying colours and made the management, teachers and parents proud of their performance. As many as 27 students from DAV School, Lawrence Road, also qualified the NEET. All top rank holders were honoured by their respective schools and institutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mental-peace-consistency-key-to-success-say-amritsar-neet-toppers-333427
03-11-2021||---||Amritsar: Elderly woman found murdered at Mahal||Amritsar, November 2An elderly woman was found murdered at Mahal village, which falls under the jurisdiction of Kamboh police station.The deceased has been identified as Shanti Devi (69). The incident came to light when her domestic help (Harpreet Kaur) came for work in the morning.As Harpreet failed to get any response following repeated knocks, she jumped over the gate and entered the house. The deceased was lying in the pool of blood.Shanti’s husband was admitted to the hospital as he was not well for the last few days while her three sons lived separately.Harsimrat Kaur, SHO, Kamboh police station, said CCTV cameras were being scrutinised to find clues. She said forensic teams were also summoned on the spot for finding some clues. The body was taken into custody and sent for the post-mortem. A murder case has been registered against unknown persons, said the SHO.Pawan Kumar, son the deceased, said his father Kishan Lal and mother Shanti Devi lived at their ancestral house in Mahal village while he and his two brothers lived separately. He said his father was admitted to the hospital. He said unknown persons killed his mother by slitting her throat.The police said they have got some clues and arrests would be made soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-elderly-woman-found-murdered-at-mahal-333428
03-11-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Earthen lamps that reflect age-old Punjabi culture||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 2The names of traditional clay or earthen lamps used during Diwali puja reflect age-old Punjabi culture.Hatri looks like a one-room house, in which one finds walls on three sides and one side is left open. On the top, lamps are visible on all its four corners and another in the middle, besides provision for three more lamps to place wicks around it are also made.Chandol on the other hand has four sides to place wicks and is bigger than the normal diva (earthen lamp).Another form of clay lamp is called Diwali, which is a tower kind of a structure. It has four places to light the wicks around it in the middle and another on its top.A female figurine called Pari with two wicks placing diyas on both palms is another kind of earthen lamp.Rajesh Kumar, a trader and potter, said a Diwali prayer remains incomplete without placing terracotta haathi, ghoda, idols of Ganesha and Lakshmi. He said being earthen, these were considered pure. After performing the prayer on Diwali night, all these need to be released in a running water stream.Deep Davinder, a Punjabi short storywriter, said different forms of clay lamps were specimen of ancient Punjabi culture, when lamps used to be the only source of light after sunset. He said expert artisans had displayed their skills and creativity by moulding different forms of lamps. A clay lamp with spaces for multiple wicks might be a symbol to show wealthy status in society. He said many of these words find mention in the pre-Partition Punjabi literature.Baljit Kaur Riar, Assistant Professor of Punjabi at the Guru Nanak Dev University, said in Punjabi culture, Chandol used to be a group of earthen lamps lit together on a frame and Hatri used to be a one-room like structure over which clay lamps used to be placed for proper lighting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/earthen-lamps-that-reflect-age-old-punjabi-culture-333429
03-11-2021||PK Jaiswar||Hawk-eyed vigil: Security enhanced to thwart untoward incident in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 2The Amritsar police have enhanced the security in the city and in rural areas of the district as heavy rush of devotees and shoppers can be witnessed in markets ahead of Diwali.The police personnel took out a flag march in the walled city and the Civil Lines. People have been urged to keep a close eye on their surroundings and inform the police about any suspicious element and abandoned items.With the recent spate of smuggling of firearms and explosives from across the International Border by Pakistan-based anti-national forces, the Punjab Police have been on high alert. There have been intelligence inputs that unscrupulous elements may try to disturb law and order during the festive season.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said adequate security arrangements have been made to thwart any untoward incident. He said cops have been deployed in main markets and at religious places.DCP (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal took the stock of security arrangements in the city. He said the strength of cops has been enhanced and patrolling has been increased inside and outside the walled city, which sees maximum rush during the festivities. He said PCR teams have been deputed in crowed areas.“Vehicles are being checked in order to thwart any untoward incident,” he said. He along with Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jugraj Singh visited different parts of the city. They took out a flag march in Ranjit Avenue.Similarly, a flag march was conducted by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harjit Singh Dhaliwal at Hall Gate, Katra Jaimal Singh and other parts of the walled city.Amritsar Senior Superintendent of Police (rural) Rakesh Kaushal said checkpoints have been set up at every sensitive point in rural areas.‘Rein in youth’Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said youngsters, especially in the age group of 18-25 carrying weapons without licence, will be taken to task. He urged people to avoid carrying weapons during Diwali. He pointed out that a minor altercation can turn ugly, which may create law and order problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hawk-eyed-vigil-security-enhanced-to-thwart-untoward-incident-in-amritsar-333430
