06-11-2021||Attaching Tarn Taran with the border police range Ferozepur had been questioned by many. Tarn Taran was the part of revenue Amritsar district after Independence. When it got revenue district status in 2006||Border range: Residents question authorities||MLA Agnihotri emerges as strongest leaderHaving managed to keep his competitors at bay within the party, Tarn Taran MLA Dr Dharambir Agnihotri has emerged to be the strongest leader in the constituency. Born in Sheron village in a well-established family, Dr Agnihotri started his political career as the sarpanch of the village. In 2017, he defeated SAD leader Harmit Singh Sandhu to get an entry to the Assembly. In the election of 2017, he faced challenge from many ticket aspirants within the party. Many leaders who had their solid influences in their pockets could not stand a chance in front of Dr Agnihotri because of his style of working. Cheema brothers with their influence in a number of border area villages had to leave Congress. The same is the fate of Harjinder Singh Alias Vicky Tharu, member, Zila Parishad. His younger brother Parminder Singh is the sarpanch of Tharu village. His father Ranjit Singh Sandhu is an established politician and well-settled businessman. MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar is a close relative of the family. Jatinder Sood, three-time president of Tarn Taran, MC, had been supporting Dr Agnihotri since years had been cornered. Many others established leaders of their respective area had been replaced with new leaders. Dr Agnihotri, with his political experience and team of loyalists such as Sandeep Agnihotri (his son), Sonu Dode, Kashmir Bhola etc., had been successful in eliminating the political existence of all those who were considered themselves as the established leaders in their respective sphere.Politician in service of humanityBhupinder Singh Bittu a well-known face in the political circles is whole-heartedly active in social activities since decades in Khadoor Sahib area on a very large scale. Recently, a free eye check-up camp in Khawaspur village was organised by him. As many as 10 persons had been operated upon free of cost. He had extended offer to the Class XII passed girls of the needy families of his all financial help up to MA standard through online education. He was extending help to as many as 160 girls this way. He often organises camps in different villages to help the poor. — Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/border-range-residents-question-authorities-334355
06-11-2021||Amritsar||SGPC wins Diwali Hockey Tourney||Seminar on gender disparityThe Post Graduate Department of Economics, DAV College, Amritsar, organised a one-day seminar on “Gender disparity in labour market in India”. The guest speaker was a renowned human rights lawyer and journalists Kamyani Bali Mahabal. Prinicipal, Dr Rajesh Kumar highlighted the importance of major issues related to gender inequality in India. He gave deep insights of wage disparities in various professions in India. Kamyani in her presentation highlighted the importance of uplifting the status of women through all means to make them economically independent, as economic conditions and violence against women are getting strongly correlated day by day. She further stressed on the fact that third world countries like Bangladesh have made impressive efforts to reduce gender equalities and are ranked far ahead India. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-wins-diwali-hockey-tourney-334356
06-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Land acquisition: Local farmers seek higher compensation||Tarn Taran, November 5Local farmers have raised their voice against the low compensation being given to them in the land acquisition process for the proposed Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway. They have rejected the compensation announced by the government and warned the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) against taking possession of their land. Kanwalpreet Singh Pannun and Harwinder Singh Verowal, president and general secretary, respectively of the Kisan Sangharash Committee, Punjab, said the state government had announced compensation of Rs 38 lakh per acre of the farmers land. The leaders said that nothing less than Rs 1 crore per acre was acceptable to the farmers and in case the government was not ready then the farmers would die to save their land. The leaders said the government had given the rate at many other village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/land-acquisition-local-farmers-seek-higher-compensation-334357
06-11-2021||---||‘Review Goa flight schedule’||Amritsar, November 5Local activists wrote to the airport authorities to change the arrival and departure schedule of the newly-introduced direct flight for Goa. The Indigo Airlines is going to start a daily direct non-stop flight from Amritsar to Goa from November 10.The flight would depart Amritsar at 10:30 pm and arrive at Goa Dabolim Airport past midnight at 1:35 am. The flight from Goa will be operated by a different aircraft, departing at midnight 12:05am and arriving in Amritsar early morning at 3:10am.Due to slot difficulties at Dabolim Airport in Goa during the day, the airline has chosen for red-eye (late night) operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/review-goa-flight-schedule-334358
06-11-2021||Tarn Taran||Gusto marks green Diwali celebrations at educational institutions||Different educational institutions organised functions on the eve of Diwali on Wednesday with religious fervour.Green Diwali was celebrated in the local Majha College for Women in which educational competitions were organised. Dr Hardeep Kaur, principal of the college, said the winners of the competitions were given prizes.Students of Guru Amar Das Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, decorated the school complex colourfully. Jatinderpal Singh Randhawa Director and Manisha Sood Principal of the school while addressing the student on the occasion apprised them that why Diwali is known as ‘Bandi Chhod Divas’ as sixth Sikh Guru Hargbind Sahib got released 52 Hindu emperors from Gwalior Jail from the custody of mughal emperor.The students of Government Middle School, Chutala, pledged to refrain from fire crackers and to observe green Diwali. Khushwinder Singh, Headmaster of the school while addressing the occasion called all sections of society to work for save environment. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gusto-marks-green-diwali-celebrations-at-educational-institutions-334359
06-11-2021||Amritsar||Rejoin protest after harvesting paddy, unions tell farmers||After the completion of paddy harvesting season, the farm unions have told protesting farmers to join the agitation at Singhu Border in Delhi. A large number of farmers returned to their villages for paddy harvesting last month. Observing the need of hour, farmer activist were not keen to send more groups of farmers at Delhi.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said, “Most of the farmers have ended with the paddy harvesting. The process of sowing the wheat crop is not much time consuming. Moreover, the weather conditions are now favourable to gether in the agitation. We gave the call to farmers to join the protest at Delhi borders.”The ongoing farmer’s agitation has completed 11 months. On November 26, one year would be completed. It would be a major event. However, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha did not make any announcement, but it is being expected that there would be a major event at Singhu Border to observe one year.“We flagged off several groups for Singhu today. More farmers will left for Delhi in coming days”, said Pandher. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rejoin-protest-after-harvesting-paddy-unions-tell-farmers-334360
06-11-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Clamour grows for holding AGA Heritage club’s elections||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 5Demand for convening general house meeting of the Amritsar Games Association (AGA) Heritage Club has once again grown with a section of its members writing to the district administration to conduct the election.The elections to the AGA Heritage Club, which upkeeps Gandhi Ground, besides a canteen and a bar for its members, were held around seven years ago. Rohit Lakhanpal, a member of the club, in a communiqué to Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, who is ex-officio chief of the club, said, “The club is in crisis and members are suffering. Employees are leaving jobs as salaries are not being paid on time. Dues are increasing. A bunch of members are playing dirty politics to delay the election.”He submitted a fresh election schedule to the Deputy Commissioner to conduct polls on December 4, however, it did not fructify. Lakhanpal had sent his resignation to the president around two months ago, but it was not accepted. He was told to submit the constitutional report on the election process, which he submitted to SDM-1 Arshdeep Singh Lubana, who forwarded the same to the Deputy Commissioner office with his recommendation to the election.“We have been struggling to restore a democratic atmosphere in the club. For this, it is imperative to hold general elections, which have been due for a long time.”He alleged that there were some members with vested interests who were trying to delay the process. This is earning a bad reputation for the club, said Lakhanpal and added that these members were passing false information to the president through their political connections.Some members have not cleared their outstanding dues, he said. DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the administration would certainly conduct the club’s election and added that he received the communiqué.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/clamour-grows-for-holding-aga-heritage-clubs-elections-334362
06-11-2021||---||IAFA restarts classes as pandemic subsides||Amritsar, November 5Resuming its art education programme, Indian Academy of Fine Arts (IAFA) has started art classes for general public post pandemic. The gallery runs two batch everyday for beginners and children in line with its other learning programmes for students of fine arts.The gallery used to run certificate and diploma courses for beginners and art enthusiasts before the pandemic. “These courses were dropped during the pandemic and lockdown as we deliberated on how the situation would unfold. We are starting these art classes and workshops again so as to provide an opportunity to people, who are interested in learning art techniques to turn their creative hats on. The IAFA had started the courses to promote art and hone budding artists. But now, we run these programs for people from all walks of life and age groups,” said Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, IAFA.Senior artist and one of the mentor at IAFA’s art learning programme, Narinder Singh said a lot of beginners take to basics in sculpture making and painting. “We hold annual sculpture and art demonstration workshops as well for beginners. The idea is to not just promote art but art appreciation and awareness among people regarding the creative process that goes behind creating elaborate pieces of art,” he said.IAFA is going to start this year’s annual workshop from November 16 onwards. “It will be dedicated to Children’s Day and will be open for kids from 5 to 16 years of age,” said Chamak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iafa-restarts-classes-as-pandemic-subsides-334363
06-11-2021||---||Punjab Dy CM Om Prakash Soni stresses upon social security cover for labourers||Amritsar, November 5The birth anniversary of Lord Vishwakarma was celebrated with devotion in the city on Friday. Most of the industries and businesses remained closed on the occasion.The Rashtriya Bihar Vikas Manch and Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad held a programme at the Focal Point Mehta Road. Om Prakash Soni, Deputy Chief Minister, was the chief guest on the occasion and he congratulated people on the occasion.Soni said the government was running many schemes for the welfare of the working class. He announced Rs 20 lakh to the National Bihar Vikas Manch for the construction of a shelter for the workers. He said the government opened Skill Development Centers to impart skills to the youth. He said the migrants had been a major contributor to the economic development of Punjab.On this day, people clean their industries; worship Lord Vishwakarma with great devotion for the growth of business. He said the government had waived all arrears of electricity up to 2 KW and also reduced the price of electricity by Rs 3 per unit. He said by doing this, Punjab had become the cheapest power producing state in the country.“The government doubled the amount of old age pension and the Ashirwad Scheme. On this occasion, Soni also donated crutches and tricycles to the physically-challenged with the help of Uttar Pradesh Welfare Council. MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, Sunil Dutti MLA North, Jugal Kishore Sharma, former MLA, also addressed the workers.Dr JP Singh, patron of the Focal Point Main Ground Council and Sugreev Singh, president of the council were also present on the occasion.The council sought minimum wages from the government and also requested them to look into the complaints of tax service rules, bonded labor, social harassment, economic exploitation, besides harassment by the state police and the Railway Police. They demanded social welfare facilities such as ESI and Provident Fund for all kinds of workers, including, construction workers. Unorganised workers, who neither work under the factory act or shop, should also get the social security benefits under the labour rules. They sought shifting of the labour office from New Amritsar to district administration complex. They wanted elevation of the local ESI Hospital to a model hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-dy-cm-om-prakash-soni-stresses-upon-social-security-cover-for-labourers-334365
06-11-2021||Neha Saini||Helping needy walk a mile by training them in shoe making||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 5Taking a leap forward in the sustainability goals and engaging the community development through skill development, FICCI FLO’s pilot project Sui Dhaga has been shortlisted for the Sustainable Development Goals Innovation Action Awards-2021 announced by the Punjab Planning Department with the support of UNDP’s Sustainable Development Goals Coordination Centre (SDGCC).The project was conceived and implemented by team of FLO members led by Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FICCI FLO chapter Amritsar, Sui Dhaga, undertook two initiatives for skill development, one with the women inmates of Guru Ram Dass Kusht Ashram and another with young girls from village Panjwar Kalan in Taran Tarn.“Sui Dhaga is an attempt to engage the local and the under-developed community in skill development exercise and creating an opportunity for generating employment and income for those involved. Our team members trained and provided resources for the completion of the initiatives, while keeping the dignity of labour in mind,” said Manjot Dhillon.The two initiatives under the Sui Dhaga were mentored by team members Geetu Khurana, Drishti Khurana, Samrina Dhillon Bajaj and Manjot Malhi.A step in the right directionTextile designer Samrina Dhillon Bajaj and Manjot Malhi, a teacher, took it upon themselves to train 15-20 young women from their native Panjwar Kalan village in the border district of Tarn Taran in making trendy, hand-painted footwear. Creating a range of colourfully-crafted canvas shoes using coloured dyes, Samrina and Manjot raised enough money for the women to change their lives for better.“As a creatively-inclined person, I would say that it was a creative catharsis for all of us involved as these girls between 12-18 years of age, were mostly struggling to get an education let alone dream of a livelihood. Panjwar Kalan is my native village and my family is always closely connected with the village development activities. So, when the opportunity came to actually do something meaningful and provide skill to the women folk, we could not say no,” shared Samrina. “There are a total of 800 women in the village, and the young girls mostly have no prospects beyond getting married at a young age. With our training workshops in hand painting shoes, we educated them about creative and marketing details while creating our products,” said Samrina. With skill, comes acknowledgement and dignity of labourThe second initiative under the Sui Dhaga was led by Drishti Khurana and Geetu Khurana, who created a range of décor products in Phulkari and traditional weaves with woman inmates of the Ksuht Ashram (a shelter home for patients of leprosy). Drishti shared that their initiative served two purposes; generating employment at the local level and providing a life of dignity to one of the most neglected community. “Usually, such shelter homes depend largely on donations. But we wanted to make these people self-reliant, by training them in different weaving and stitching techniques.” Geetu, who is a designer herself, trained the inmates in traditional weaves to promote the local artisan and weaver community as well.“We created products such as table mats, table covers, cushion covers and other décor items with zero wastage and using organically sourced raw material. Also, it was about providing them a skill set, a market to sell their products and ensure that they get financial empowerment,” said Geetu, whose family has been associated with providing aid to Kusht Ashram for the past 30 years. The proceeds from selling the products went to the inmates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/helping-needy-walk-a-mile-by-training-them-in-shoe-making-334364
06-11-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran ASI suffers heart attack, dies||Two nabbed with 950-gm heroinTarn Taran: The 103rd Battalion of the Border Security Force nabbed two persons with 950 grams of heroin on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Gurlal Singh and Lakhwinder Singh, both residents of Thathi Jaimal Singh village. The duo was harvesting their paddy when the BSF nabbed them. The BSF team led by Company Commandant Sanjay Kumar also seized their tractor-trailer, a combine harvester and two mobile phones. The accused have been booked under Sections 21-C, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OCNo new Covid case reported in distAmritsar: No new Covid-19 positive case was reported on Friday. The count of cases stood at 47,388. The health authorities reported recovery of four patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45,776. At present, the district has a total of 12 active cases. The toll stands at 1,598 in the district. Meanwhile, 147 people were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive today. The total count of people inoculated in the district has increased to 17,17,922. In Tarn Taran, one positive case was reported today. The district has seven active cases and the toll stands at 380. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said they collected 667 samples today. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-asi-suffers-heart-attack-dies-334521
06-11-2021||---||35-year-old woman raped, man booked in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 5The police have booked a person for allegedly raping and sexually harassing a woman. The FIR was registered with the Verka police in this regard on Thursday while a complaint was lodged with the police on September 1.The accused has been identified as Gulshan Sharma, who runs a clinic and is a resident of Indira Colony in Verka.The 35-year-old victim told the police that after divorce from her husband, she along with her 15-year-old daughter, lived in Verka. She said she was suffering from back pain and was getting treatment from the accused. She alleged on June 18, when she went to his clinic, the accused said the stock of medicine has ended and he took her to his house for taking medicine. She alleged the accused raped her.Four days later, the accused again took her to his house where two unknown persons were present and they also forcibly raped her and threatened her of dire consequences. She alleged on July 10, the accused came to her home and allegedly raped her again and also sexually harassed her daughter. She said she lodged a complaint with the police and following a preliminary probe a case under Section 376 of the IPC was registered against Gulshan. Efforts were on to arrest him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/35-year-old-woman-raped-man-booked-in-amritsar-334366
06-11-2021||---||Youth shot dead, 3 booked for murder in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 5A youth, identified as Amit Sharma, was allegedly shot at by three persons in the Lahori Gate area falling under Division D police station here on Monday.A case was registered only on Thursday after the victim died at a private hospital here on Wednesday. Those booked have been identified as Rajat, who lives near Medical Enclave area, Billa of Shekhan Wali Gali inside Lahori Gate and Gaurav Joshi.The police said investigation was under way and the accused have been absconding since the incident.A resident of Islamabad area, the victim’s mother Pinky told the police that the victim had gone to meet his friend Rajat. Amit told her that he was going to give scooter to him on November 1. However, he did not return till late evening. At around 1am, she got a call from Rajat that Amit had met with an accident and was admitted to a private hospital on GT Road.Pinky said she along with her husband and brother-in-law immediately rushed to hospital where they came to know that he had suffered a bullet injury in the neck.She called Rajat again who told that Billa and Joshi had shot Amit with a revolver and fled away.Sub-Inspector Baldev Singh, investigating officer in the case, said a case under Sections 302 and 34, IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59-A of the Arms Act was registered against the three suspects and a hunt was on to nab them. He said the exact cause of the incident would be ascertained only after the arrest of the accused. Apparently, they had a quarrel during a get-together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-dead-3-booked-for-murder-in-amritsar-334367
06-11-2021||---||Two shops destroyed in fire, 19 incidents reported in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 5At a time when residents were busy celebrating Diwali, two shops, including a readymade garment shop in Putlighar was gutted. Even an adjoining shop and goods worth lakhs were destroyed in the incident.The eyewitnesses immediately informed the Fire Department. Around 10 fire engines and 40 firefighters were pressed into service to douse the flames. It took around three hours to extinguish the flames.Cops also reached the spot and said the matter would be probed to ascertain the actual reason behind the incident.The eyewitnesses said the fire suddenly erupted at Sai Creations. Within no time, it engulfed the first floor and also spread to the adjoining shop. As shutters of the shops were down, the firefighters had to break it gain entry in the shops.Fire officials said due to the presence of garments, cardboards and polythene, the fire spread rapidly. The city witnessed 19 incidents of fire on the night of Diwali. No loss of life was reported.Assistant Divisional Fire Officer Lovepreet Singh said we received calls till 3 am in the morning. He said firefighters were on their toes throughout the night. In majority of the cases, crackers were the main reason behind the incidents.The fire incidents were reported from Jahajgarh, Tarn Taran Road, Chheharta, Khasa, Golden Avenue, Sultanwind Road, Vrindavan Garden, Kabir Park and several other areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-shops-destroyed-in-fire-19-incidents-reported-in-amritsar-334361
06-11-2021||---||Diwali fireworks push noise, air pollution to alarming levels in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 5The district administration’s order restricting bursting of firecrackers from 8 pm to 10 pm on Diwali went up in smoke as residents didn’t care two hoots about the guidelines. As a result, air and noise pollution remained very high.On normal days, the air quality index (AQI), which remains below 120 (moderate) was recorded at 303 on the night of Diwali. During the lockdown in 2020, the AQI reached 65. The data was recorded from residential, hospitals and educational institutes, besides industrial areas. The average AQI stayed over 300 micro gross per metre (ug/m cubic) on Diwali night.Particulate matter (PM) 10 was 342.69 and PM 2.5 stood at 208.80 on Diwali. Both PM10 and PM2.5 were found to be in the severe category. Ideally, PM10 should be around 100 and PM2.5 at 60.These particles cause health problems mostly in the respiratory tract as they are smaller than 2.5 micrometres (PM2.5), which carry toxic organic compounds and heavy metals.Amritpal Singh Chahal, SDO, Punjab Pollution Control Board, said, “Noise meters were installed on 100-feet road, Ranjit Avenue and Circular Road. The peak was witnessed at 10 pm. It was 84.5 Leq dB (A) in the residential area, 81.5 in the sensitive area and 82 in the commercial area. At the start of the reading at 6 am, it was 74.1, 78.3 and 73.2, respectively. At midnight, it was 70.4, 73.9 and 68.2.” The noise pollution was certainly high from the daily level, he said.Silver lining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/diwali-fireworks-push-noise-air-pollution-to-alarming-levels-in-amritsar-334352
