07-11-2021||---||Dy CM reviews dengue control measures in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni on Saturday stated that a total of 17,837 dengue cases had been reported in the state during the current season.Soni, who also holds the portfolio of health, stated that a maximum of 2,853 cases had been reported by Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar followed by Bathinda 2,299 cases, Hoshiarpur 1,590, Amritsar 1,609, Pathankot 1,574, Sri Muktsar Sahib 1,388 and Ludhiana 1,295 cases.The Deputy Chief Minister said the Health Department had appointed 700 breeding checkers, who inspected 1.5 million houses and 35 lakh containers out of which dengue larvae were detected in at least 30,000 containers.Soni stated that 12 apheresis machines were facilitating single donor platelet transfusion to critically ill patients in government hospitals. Additionally, blood component separators were available in 22 districts, he said.The Deputy Chief Minister said dengue and malaria were notified under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which required all the private hospitals in the state of Punjab to report dengue and malaria cases to the Department of Health and Family Welfare.He said free dengue testing was being done at 39 dengue testing labs of government hospitals. Apart from this, the rates for testing dengue in private labs had also been fixed by the government so that patients were not fleeced by private labs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dy-cm-reviews-dengue-control-measures-in-amritsar-335061
07-11-2021||---||Road accident snuffs out 2 lives in Tarn Taran village||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, November 6Two of the three youths riding a motorcycle were killed on the spot in a road accident on National Highway No.354 near Chhichhrewal village here on Saturday. Their companion was seriously injured in the accident. The deceased have been identified as Sonu (18) and Balraj Singh (17) of Kot Budha.The injured, Paramjit Singh of Barwala village, was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, whose condition was stated to be serious. The three were returning to their homes after paying obeisance at Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib, Thatha.Sub-Inspector Sone, deputed at Chabal police station, informed that when they reached near Chhichhrewal village, a tractor trolley going ahead of them suddenly took a right turn. The motorcycle collided with the tractor trolley and the three fell down on the road.The oncoming truck crushed two of them on the spot. Sub-Inspector Sone said the bodies had been sent to the Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran, for a postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-accident-snuffs-out-2-lives-in-tarn-taran-village-335062
07-11-2021||---||Border farmers to discuss issues with BSF||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6The Border Area Sangharsh Committee, an organisation of the farmers tilling their lands across the barbed fence alongside border with Pakistan, has announced to stage protests at the headquarters of all border districts of Punjab on November 11 to highlight the issues concerning the Border Security Force (BSF).Rattan Singh Randhawa, a senior leader of the Border Area Sangharsh Committee, said, “The BJP government is trying to use BSF as a tool to harass farmers, especially in Punjab.” Citing an example, he said even though there was no fog these days, the gates leading to farms beyond the fence were not opened before 11 am.“As the farmers have to sow wheat crop, they need more time in fields. When they urge BSF personnel to open the gates, the latter try to enter into a confrontation,” he said.Randhawa further said the monetary compensation for fields across the fence had not been paid for the last two years even as the state government had sent a demand in time. The farmers were paid Rs 10,000 per acre for the inconvenience and crop damaged by animals from the Pakistan side.The farmer leaders stated that their protest against the Centre extending the jurisdiction of the BSF to 50 km from the international border was not ill founded. “The BJP is trying to create an atmosphere of fear in Punjab as it is at the forefront of the farmers’ agitation,” said Randhawa, adding that the November 11 protests would also include submitting memorandums to senior officials||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/border-farmers-to-discuss-issues-with-bsf-335063
07-11-2021||---||Woman, daughter found murdered||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6A woman and her eight-year-old daughter were found murdered in a house at Baba Bakala town here on Friday night. The victims have been identified as Sarabjit Kaur (30), wife of Rajinder Singh, a resident of Nikka Raiya, and her daughter Rojleen Kaur (8).Husband had affair with another womanThe family members of Sarbjit Kaur alleged that her husband Rajinder Singh murdered both of them due to his illicit relationship with a woman. Prabhjit Singh, brother of the deceased, a resident of Shahpur, stated that his younger sister Sarabjit Kaur was married to Rajinder Singh of Nikka Raiya in 2010.Her daughter Rojleen Kaur was 8-year-old and son Abhjot Singh is 5 years old. Rajinder serves in the Army and a few years back, they constructed their home and lived at Baba Bakala.Prabhjit Singh alleged that Rajinder had an illicit affair with a woman of Cheema Bath village, which led to a dispute between husband and wife. Today, the bodies of Sarabjit and her daughter were lying in the kitchen of the house. It seems that their murder have been got done by Rajinder, alleged brother of the victim.Beas police have registered a case of murder. The bodies have been sent to the Baba Bakala Civil Hospital for a postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-daughter-found-murdered-335064
07-11-2021||---||Assembly poll: Congress may suffer due to pathetic condition of roads||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6Despite announcements of recarpeting of all major roads by spending Rs 46 crore, there is little hope that recarpeting work would start before the Assembly elections. The incumbent Congress government is already facing criticism over development and the party may suffer during elections in urban constituencies due to the pathetic road condition.Recarpeting project in a limboThe MC had spent Rs 11 crore on the recarpeting of some major roads in the city during 2020-21. The proposal of spending Rs 7 crore on a few roads did not get the approval of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC). More than 40 road stretches, identified by the MC, were supposed to be recarpeted at a cost of Rs 46 crore of MC funds.The MC had spent Rs 11 crore on the recarpeting of some major roads in the city during 2020-21. The proposal of spending Rs 7 crore on a few roads did not get the approval of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC). More than 40 road stretches, identified by the MC, were supposed to be recarpeted at a cost of Rs 46 crore of MC funds.The MC had initiated the e-tendering process in April. The technical bid of the tender was opened on August 24 and the tendering committee forwarded it to the Local Governments Department for vetting. Ironically, the vetting is still pending at Local Governments Department.The roads cannot be recarpeted during the upcoming winter season. Despite the local government department’s nod to the technical bid, the MC would not able to complete the process before the elections.Deepinder Sandhu, Executive Engineer, civil wing, MC, said, “We have sent the case to the local government department for approval. They have delayed it. The weather would not be favourable for recarpeting of roads.”The roads to be recarpeted are: New Kot Mit Singh Road, Temple Colony Road , Dairy Complex Road, Gobindgarh Fort Road, Civil Hospital Road, Guru Harkishan School Road, Janata Colony Road, Khazana Gate to Hakima, Bhagtawala to Gilwali, Gilwali to Chattiwind, Sultanwind to Hansli, Hansli to Ghee Mandi, Gilwali to Chattiwind, Bari Gate to Lahori Gate, Court Road , Kachari Chowk to Hartej Hospital, Gumtala Bypass, Race Course Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Guru Gobind Singh Chowk to Power Colony Majitha Road, SSSS Chowk to Hussain Pura, Maqbool Road, Rani Ka Bagh, Sadar Police Station, Bhandari Bridge to Kachari Chowk, Queens Road, Cooper Road, Joshi Colony Main Road, Jamun Wali Road, Basant Avenue Main Road, Madan Mohan Malviya Road, Lawrence Road, 88-feet Road, Bhagat Kabir Marg, Dasondha Singh Road, Old Jail Road, Albert Road, Taylor Road, Ranjit Avenue Main Road, Joda Phatak to GT Road, New Golden Avenue Road, Islam Ganj Road, Abadi Shivala Road, Main Shivala Road, Main Krishna Square, 100-feet Road and Guru Ravidas Marg, are proposed to recarpet by MCA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/assembly-poll-congress-may-suffer-due-to-pathetic-condition-of-roads-335065
07-11-2021||---||Intervention of environment panel members sought||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6In an attempt to find a solution to the stubble burning issue and improve air quality in the city, the district administration has sought the intervention of the members of the Amritsar Citizen Environment Committee. The committee was constituted by the DC almost a year ago and has 15 members from several NGOs and government agencies.Harpal Singh, nodal officer of the committee, said the decision would help in reaching out to farmers directly. “We have identified 45 villages that report maximum cases of stubble burning and are considered hotspots. We have asked for voluntary services of environment committee members in forming teams and visiting these villages to create awareness regarding alternate methods of disposing agricultural waste. Officials of the PPCB and the Agriculture Department were already working on ground to provide mechanized stubble disposal solutions. Since, most of the members of environment committee are already committed to environment NGOs, they can reach out to farmers and build a network of stakeholders who can contribute with resources and solutions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/intervention-of-environment-panel-members-sought-335066
07-11-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Residents at receiving end as hike in edible oil prices sets kitchens on fire||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6Sky rocketing price of mustard oil, the most preferred edible oil for the lower and middle class families, has baffled the residents who rued that the hike had burnt a hole in their pockets. With the daily kitchen ingredients as onion and tomato already ‘too costly’ for the common man, the prices of the edible oil has disturbed the kitchen budget of the common residents. The onions are priced around Rs 40 per kilo while tomato costs atleast Rs 60 per kilo.The packaged one liter (910 gm) bottle of mustard oil costs at least Rs 190 in the local retail market. The same quantity and brand of the edible oil cost Rs 160 earlier in May-June this year. A karyana shopkeeper Kewal Kumar said, “The cost of mustard oil last year hovered around Rs 70-80 last year. It took another jump before diwali as the demand increases.” Kumar said that large numbers of people use mustard oil for lighting diyas on festivals.The Union Government on Monday claimed that prices of edible oil except for mustard oil have dropped by Rs 5 to 20 per litre. However it would no respite to lower and middle class families which prefer mustard oil for cooking instead of the relatively costly palm oil and sunflower oil.A homemaker Sunita Devi said, “Every vegetable lying in the market is high priced these days as fresh produce from the local farms is yet to arrive.” She said that it has become difficult for the poor as the entire income is being consumed in keeping the kitchen running.The residents stated that high price of petrol which is required for two wheelers with the rising cost of kitchen items have troubled them. “A person having a low salary private job too requires a two wheeler to reach his place of work. A scooter or bike is not a luxury but a necessity,” said another resident Joginder Singh about the impact of high fuel prices on lower economic groups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-at-receiving-end-as-hike-in-edible-oil-prices-sets-kitchens-on-fire-335067
07-11-2021||---||From doctor to a beauty queen||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6Dr Chayanika Gupta, 31, an MBBS and a mother of a three year old, chased her dream of winning a beauty pageant as she was the second runners up at the Miss, Mr and Mrs India World pageant held in New Delhi recently.A pretty doctor, who competed in the Mrs India World category, shared that her lifelong dream came true, although, not without the support of her husband. The pageant was organised by Skywalk.“I always wanted to compete in a beauty pageant and even while studying medicine, I used to keep that passion alive. I got auditioned for this pageant last year, in the middle of pandemic through virtual mode. It is now a surreal feeling to get a podium finish from among so many contestants across the world,” she shared.Dr Chayanika was also working round the clock as a health care professional during pandemic. For her, the pageant came as a stress buster. “All through the pandemic, I and my husband, who is also a doctor, were on duty. The stress of dealing with the virus, physically and emotional was draining buit we were committed. Later, when I was selected for the final competition, I caught Covid during the second wave. Thankfully, the competition was delayed due to second wave and I could get a chance to compete,” she shared.Post the pageant, she said her priority would be completing her MD. “Being a doctor would always be my priority but I am open to an alternate career,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/from-doctor-to-a-beauty-queen-335068
07-11-2021||---||Siblings killed in road accident in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentTalwara (Hoshiarpur), November 6A Class XII student and her brother were killed in a road accident near Badla village on Friday.Kritika was a student of Class XII and her brother Karthik was a student of Class VIII at Sarvahitkari Vidya Mandir Sahoda-Dadiyal. The duo was residents of Ranak Mohalla Badla. They had gone to their farm and on their way back home they took a lift from a tractor driver identified as Rajesh Kumar.The tractor went out of control on the bridge near Maharaj Trilok Puri Ashram and fell into Kandi canal as there were no railings on both sides of the bridge. Both the siblings got stuck under the tractor and died on the spot. Rajesh also received serious injuries. It's pertinent to mention that father of both the children had died around 12 years ago and they lived with their mother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/siblings-killed-in-road-accident-in-hoshiarpur-335069
07-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Woman dies under mysterious circumstances||A married woman died under mysterious circumstances in Tahli village on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Harjinder Kaur. Parents of the deceased accused her in-laws of murder and blocked the highway. Shankar Singh, father of the deceased, and mother Kulwinder Kaur of Bahadar (Purana Shala) Gurdaspur, reached Tahli village along with their relatives who blocked the highway near Darapur bypass and demanded arrest of Harjinder’s in-laws. Amid the uproar, the Tanda police reached the spot and marked the probe. The protesters lifted the blockade after cops registered the case. The Tanda police have registered a case against her husband and her in laws. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-dies-under-mysterious-circumstances-335070
07-11-2021||---||Khalsa College, Amritsar, alumnae walks down memory lane||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6A former student of Khalsa College and country’s first female Army Officer to be a sharpshooter, Captain (Retd) Jasmeet Chauhan visited the college campus and revived her memories as a student by interacting with students.A resident of Amritsar, she has also been recently selected for Mrs India-2021 Competition held at Gurugram for women in the age group of 35 to 50 years after beating around 100 female contestants.She graduated from the college in 2001, said Principal Dr Mehal Singh, while introducing her to staff and students. Capt Jasmeet, who is currently the Additional Director of the Crime Investigation Bureau (NGO), Punjab was also NCC cadet in the College before she was commissioned in the Engineering Wing of the Indian Army.She represented the country as a sharpshooter for six years and now she is preparing for the upcoming World Beauty Contest to be held in 2022. Expressing her heartfelt love for her hometown Amritsar as well as Khalsa College, she said she was attached to the Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiat.In 2014, she joined the Army Wives Welfare Association and started coaching the financially unemployed youth, especially women, on free online/offline counseling. Sharing that she is an exponent of women rights, she said God had made women full of all virtues so one should believe in destiny which is created by good deeds. She said discipline was the most important for success in life as she encouraged the girls to aim high.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-amritsar-alumnae-walks-down-memory-lane-335071
07-11-2021||---||Comedy play has audience in splits||Amritsar, November 6‘Total Siyapa’, a situation comedy, and a social commentary on the concept of love and romance, was staged by the Young Malang Theatre group at the Punjab Naatshala.The humorous love story of three friends – a singer, an actor, and a writer, all three of whom are in love with same girl, see the friends compete with each other to get the girl’s attention. But the larger thought behind it is what makes it special from all other productions by the group.“It’s the message that enmity finds no place in an artiste’s heart. Despite their competition, all three protagonists end up prioritising their friendship and bonding above the enmity,” says Sajan Kapoor, one of the artists and actor from the Young Malang theatre group.The play was one of the few productions to complete a silver jubilees show at Punjab Natshala. Post pandemic, Natshala is making an attempt to get audience back to for live theatre productions, supporting the theatre artistes. ‘Total Siyappa’ will be staged on the weekend back to back as the play got a good response from the audience for its light-hearted narration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/comedy-play-has-audience-in-splits-335072
07-11-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||High diesel price hits paddy straw mgmt drive||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6The high diesel price has hit the state government’s drive to prevent stubble burning, as straw management has become a more costly affair for farmers.Gross violationAs per the official data, only 1,275 cases of stubble burning have been reported so far in the district. Last year, 2,039 cases were reported till the same time. However, the delay in harvesting due to unfavourable weather conditions is one of the major reasons behind the less number of fire incidents reported. Following the upcoming elections and the ongoing farm agitation, the government agencies are reportedly ignoring the violation by farmers. This year, FIRs have been registered against violators.However, the officials of the Department of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare claimed that more farmers were adopting zero-tillage techniques such as happy seeder and super seeder with the price hike of diesel.As per the official data, only 1,275 cases of stubble burning have been reported so far in the district. Last year, 2,039 cases were reported till the same time. However, the delay in harvesting due to unfavourable weather conditions is one of the major reasons behind the less number of fire incidents reported.Following the upcoming elections and the ongoing farm agitation, the government agencies are reportedly ignoring the violation by farmers. This year, FIRs have been registered against violators.While farmers claimed that with the hike in diesel price, several farmers who had adopted straw management techniques during last years, started burning stubble again. The straw management or formation of bales cost Rs3,000 per acre.“Farmers don’t have any viable option for straw management in fields. The price of diesel is also discouraging farmers. This year, wheat cultivation is getting delayed. Farmers don’t have time to manage the straw,” said Gurpreet Singh, a farmer from Khankot village.Jatinder Singh Gill, Chief Agriculture Officer, said: “We found that more farmers are adopting happy seeder and super seeder technology to sow wheat crop without tillage. They don’t burn paddy straw in fields and it reduces cost of cultivation too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/high-diesel-price-hits-paddy-straw-mgmt-drive-335073
07-11-2021||Tarn Taran||Tiny tot shines in International Shabad Recitation Competition||Swarleen Kaur, a student of Class I of the local Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School got prize in the International Shabad Recitation Competition organised recently online by Guru Gobind Singh Study Circle, Ludhiana.Ranjit Bhatia, principal of the school said the final round of the competition was held at Ludhiana in which Swarleen declared best of the 10 students. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tiny-tot-shines-in-international-shabad-recitation-competition-335074
07-11-2021||Amritsar||Punjab Yogasana Sports C’ship||DAV students visit FM radio stationWith a view to emphasising the importance of clear communication and enabling the students to understand the same, students of mass communication and video production of DAV College organised a visit to a FM radio station . Students of BAJMC visited the studios of FM 94.3 Mhz and learnt the basics of radio jockeying.Terming the visit to FM radio station as a unique experience for students, DAV College Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar said the visit enabled the students with a chance to learn the myriad ways in which clear communication can have an positive impact on the society. The students also got a chance to discover the evolution of the technology that governs the modern means of communication and how to use them effectively for the welfare of the masses. He added that the broadcast radio today reaches a staggering 99 per cent of the Indian population. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-yogasana-sports-cship-335075
07-11-2021||Amritsar||24-yr-old youth found dead||No Covid case reported in distAmritsar: The district has not reported any new positive case on the second consecutive day on Saturday. The Health Department had earlier not reported any case of Sunday. Ever since the beginning of Covid-19 in March last year, it is a rarity that no positive case is reported on any day. Meanwhile, with the recovery of four cases, the total recovery count has increased to 45,780. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/24-yr-old-youth-found-dead-335076
