08-11-2021||Tarn Taran||SPS Oberoi launches diagnostic lab in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, SSP Harvinder Singh Virk and other were among the other who attended the function organised on the occasion.Dr Oberoi, while addressing on the occasion, said, the trust had the proposal to establish 50 labs dedicated to the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev and out of these 45 labs had been establishes. These labs are to provide medical services on cheaper rates.He said in the coming days, six labs are to be established in Haryana. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sps-oberoi-launches-diagnostic-lab-in-tarn-taran-335540
08-11-2021||Amritsar||Punjab CM must address public issues: Laxmi Kanta Chawla||4th zonal youth fest commencesAmritsar: The fourth zonal youth festival ‘D’ zone of Guru Nanak Dev University commenced at Dashmesh Auditorium on Sunday. Students from affiliated colleges of Kapurthala and Nawanshahr will be participating in 35 items of music, theatre, dance, literary and fine arts. Professor TS Banipal, Dean College Development, Guru Nanak Dev University, inaugurated the event in the presence of Professor Anish Dua, Dean Students’ Welfare and advisor Baljit Singh Sekhon. Students particiapted in bhangra, group shabad, group song, classical instrumental (percussion), classical instrumental (non-percussion) classical vocal, poster-making, collage, clay modeling and on the spot photography contests. TNSTwo more test positive in distAmritsar: With two positive cases reported on Sunday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,390. The Health Department has also reported recovery of four patients with which the recovery count has reached 45,784. The district has a total of six active cases. Meanwhile, 391 people were inoculated during the drive on Sunday. Of these, 174 received their first dose of the vaccine, while 217 received their second jab. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-cm-must-address-public-issues-laxmi-kanta-chawla-335508
08-11-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Deceased youth’s family alleges police inaction||A day after a youth was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Dehriwal village in Tarsikka, family members of the deceased on Sunday held a demonstration on GT Road near Tangra and demanded registration of an FIR under murder charge.They accused the police of inaction and alleged Manpreet Singh (24) was killed under some conspiracy. The police had initiated inquest proceedings in the case.Family members and relatives kept the body on GT Road, and blocked the traffic over police inaction. The blockade was lifted after Tarsikka SHO assured them of appropriate action.Balbir Singh, brother of the deceased, said Manpreet used to work in Goa and had come to his village on October 25 to celebrate Diwali. On November 5, his friends called him. Later, both mobile phones of Manpreet came switched off. On November 6, they came to know that Manpreet’s body was lying in the fields.The police said statements of the deceased’s family were being recorded and investigation is under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-deceased-youths-family-alleges-police-inaction-335507
08-11-2021||---||Shwait Malik snubs Cong for its failure to fulfil promises||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 7MP Rajya Sabha Shwait Malik launched a scathing attack on PCC President Navjot Singh Sidhu for exposing Congress party of its ill-conceived policies and sops aimed at making political gains.Malik inaugurated an open gym at the Sunflower community park in North constituency out of his MPLAD funds today.Speaking on the occasion, he said unlike Congress, it was the BJP, which had spared a thought for the welfare of common people and launched several social welfare programmes. He said reducing the rate of excise duty on fuel and palm oil by the BJP-led Centre was the recent move.“Congress’ hollow claims were being revealed by none other than its own state chief Navjot Sidhu. He has been criticising the moves of CM Charanjit Singh Channi and his team. The Congress government failed to fulfill its promises of eradication of drugs and unemployment. Similarly, traders have been burdened and heavy taxes have broken their backbone,” he said.He said Sidhu’s betrayal attitude could be well gauged from the fact that earlier, he stabbed at the back of his mother party, the BJP. Later, he started describing Congress as his mother party and still his attitude remained the same.The former state BJP head said the Centre’s policies of making Indian citizen ‘aataminirbhar’ and ‘aapda ko avsar banana’ has brought positive change in the lives of the people in various fields. The health services were improved due to the Centre’s vision for development and liberal policies to raise infrastructure. “Covid-19 has affected globally. Today, India has outclassed European countries when it comes to Covid-19 vaccination. In mobile manufacturing, India has become the second largest in the world,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shwait-malik-snubs-cong-for-its-failure-to-fulfil-promises-335506
08-11-2021||Local authorities least concerned||Open House: What efforts are needed to tackle the current dengue situation in Amritsar district?||Rising cases of dengue in the state has caused financial troubles to residents. Due to these predicaments, people are no more excited about any festival as there are negative vibes everywhere. Even after surge in number of patients, the local authorities are not concerned about how to address the situation. The administration should start working before the situation get worse. The reason of behind spread of disease is low immunity of people due to adulterated food. The government should check on these practices so that plausible solutions can be taken to curb frequent diseases which make residents life more difficult.Sukhmeet KaurFocus on destroying dengue larvae Ensure fogging in all areas of cityTo handle the current situation is a great challenge for the administration. The foremost step the administration should take is to ensure fogging of spray in all areas of city every day. Secondly, awareness should be created amongst residents to leave no stone unturned for clearing of accumulated water. Thirdly, hospitals should be fully equipped to deal with any sort of emergencies. The strength of beds and doctors should be increased. In current scenario, we are safe from another health emergency but if situation is not controlled right now by effective measures it may lead to another health emergency.Sanjay ChawlaQUESTIONThe ETT-TET and BEd-TET qualified teachers are protesting against the state government for not keeping their promise of giving them jobs. The Congress came to power in 2017 with unemployment being one of the prime issues facing it. Do you think it’s high time for the government to address shortage of teachers in government schools and release appointment letters as demanded by protesting teachers?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 11)SGPC, NGOs should help patientsIt’s our traditions to invite professionals and businessmen from other states to settle in the city and make their contribution for its economic development. People from different states visit the holy city to avail medical facilities, especially in the fields of Orthopaedics and Ophthalmology. We should extend better medical facilities to the patients coming from other states so convert this crisis for promotion of medical tourism in the city. SGPC and other leading NGOs should come forward and take initiative to help dengue patients coming to the holy city from other states.Naresh JoharKeep surroundings clean to curb spreadDengue has become a serious epidemic in Amritsar thanks to chronic insanitary conditions prevailing in and around the walled city. It is a seasonal visitor that has struck this year with a vengeance. However, the point to remember is that dengue is seldom fatal. In fact, hospitalisation is needed only in extremely serious cases. I am of the view that widespread dengue (or Typhoid) is more a statement on the municipal services available to the residents than a commentary on our health care system. But this is not to deny the role of the residents, who share the blame too. I am reminded of protracted strike by sanitation staff the 1950s. Fed up with the filth, the residents themselves handled the problem. People stopped littering here and there and checked others too from being irresponsible. Do we need a similar strike again to learn the lesson? But then, the situation in other Punjab cities is also not much better as dengue is a tropical disease. Even Delhi is reeling under this seasonal problem. Fogging vans/scooters are seen occasionally and the officers and politicians are not serious against malaria and dengue. Fogging now is only a temporary measure which may contain the ailment in an enclosed space for some time. Stinking public latrines with pools of water stagnating around them are an open invitation to all diseases.MOHAN SINGHAddress elephant in the roomWith the increasing number of cases in the past few days, dengue has become very big issue in the state. The administration must act on a war-footing to stop the spread of the deadly disease. Public awareness must be done extensively by the authorities to inform people about the ways to stop the breeding of aedes mosquitoes. There might be a lot of garbage on the streets considering the festive season, which must be disposed off adequately by the MC. Dengue is a health emergency which must be eliminated by the efforts of both the authorities and citizens together.JATINDERPAL SINGH BATTHReview the availability of beds, medicinesDengue has no doubt taken a number of people not just in Punjab, but also in other states of the country as well in its spate and the reasons behind its spread is not a mystery to the masses. While the growing rush of patients in the hospitals in Amritsar, coupled with the influx of those from other districts of Punjab and other states of India points to the availability of excellent health facilities here, it’s definitely not a matter of pride in the present circumstances. Dengue can prove to be fatal for those suffering from it, if left untreated. The district administration should review the availability of beds and infrastructure in all big and small hospitals in the city to ensure that no dengue patient is deprived of required medical aid besides turning unused government buildings and acquiring vacant private properties to turn them into clinics and nursing homes till the situation turns better.Shaheen P ParshadSystematic, concerted strategy neededDengue situation in the country is depressing, deplorable, gloomy and appalling. That is why the Health Ministry has decided to depute teams of experts in high burden states, including Punjab. All public and private hospitals in the district are burdened with dengue patients. The outbreak of dengue has claimed many lives and tens of thousands of infections have been reported from across the state exerting tremendous pressure on the fragile health infrastructure. Judging from it, it will not be wrong at all to say that we are heading towards another health emergency. Hence, the administration should handle the current situation with all its might. Therefore on ground initiatives like hotspot identification, fogging and timely treatment is required on priority basis to curb the disease. Repurposing Covid beds to treat dengue cases should be considered without wasting much time. There should be harmony between the Centre and states regarding to tackle the problem. Besides public and private health sectors should work in tandem to effectively tackle this health nemesis. Due to underfunding and understaffing, there is also inadequate public health infrastructure. This deficiency should be overcome making all out efforts. To restrain dengue, drastic measures such as greater involvement in preparing diagnostic centres and medical supplies should be undertaken. In addition to that, prompt case detection and appropriate clinical management along with initiation of intravenous rehydration can help reduce the mortality from severe dengue. Effective vector control is the mainstay of dengue prevention. It should not be neglected. Surveillance and improved reporting of dengue cases is also essential to gauge the true situation prevailing in the district. Moreover, dengue prevention and control depends on effective vector control measures and a sustained community involvement can improve vector control measures substantially. Hence a holistic approach to address the root cause and to ensure long term solution is required. Above all, a systematic and concerted strategy is needed that would incorporate all four broad components of the health system, namely services provision, resource creation, financing and governance. Last but not the least; people should be made health conscious by periodically holding awareness camps.Tarsem S BumrahAware public of causes & symptomsThe administration needs to reveal the list of areas were fogging was carried out. Creating an atmosphere of awareness against the dengue is not sufficient until and unless intensive fogging is also carried out in the city. As last year it was Covid-19 pandemic which had created atmosphere of fear among the masses and fogging was being carried out in large number in every area. As in the private hospitals the number of patients is increasing it is high time for the administration to prepare a road map for fogging in the entire city. Political leaders should refrain from issuing statements on this sensitive issue, especially the social organisations should come forward for financial assistance to those dengue patients who are daily bread earners and are not in a position to meet up the medical bills in private super specialist hospitals. Cleanliness drive at vulnerable places should be carried out by the administration and the social organisations. Yes, we are heading towards another health emergency due to the spread of dengue. As the health services in all the other states are also available, the patients cannot be refused treatment here. It will be better that respective states should take preventive measures and arrange medical services for the dengue patients.Rajat Kumar MohindruAbstain from throwing garbage on roadsidesCleanliness is the important for leading a healthy life. The dengue cases are on surge as the city is in deplorable condition and Municipal Corporation does not pay heed to the problem. The aedes mosquito which spreads dengue often grows in the filthy areas. The disease is spreading fast during the festival season. People are responsible for spreading garbage in the city and they don’t even think this will make a huge complication for them and their family. People shouldn’t do this and don’t let anyone to make city murky. If they do so, dengue cases will automatically go down.Saahil HansDestroy mosquito breeding groundsAfter the Covid-19 pandemic, the state is now confronted with the dengue outbreak which has remained a potential challenge every year since 1990s, courtesy increased urbanisation, climate changes and apathetic and indifferent attitude of government agencies. With the rush of dengue patients from places across Punjab and other states, the district health infrastructure is over-burdened. If government hospitals lack adequate medicines, medical staff and other facilities, the private hospitals and laboratories are fleecing patients for the tests and blood units. There is not much hope from the civic authorities also. There is neither any proper sanitation drive nor timely spray of insecticides and larvicides to destroy the mosquito breeding grounds such as garbage dumps, stagnant water places and unwanted growth of grass, weeds and bushes. In the face of apathetic and nonchalant approach of the health and civic authorities, the onus to prevent and check the spread of dengue is basically on the people. The government should at least create awareness about the importance of hygiene through print and electronic media. People should properly sanitise their homes, dispose of solid waste, cover and clean water containers, flower pots, coolers etc after the rainy season.Tajpreet S KangHealth infrastructure need of the hourDengue fever spreads by the bite of mosquito Aedes aegypti. There is no doubt that our hospitals and health facilities are not up to the mark to handle such emergencies as also seen during the Covid-19 pandemic. The hospitals are overwhelmed with patients suffering from dengue. Both the government and the public are to be blamed for the sorry state of affairs. The government should have made a of anti-mosquitoes chemicals in the cities and rural areas before the onset of the disease to nip the evil in the bed. The people should be made aware of the dangers of stagnating water in the streets or homes like in coolers or other utensils. As dengue is an annual calamity, both the government and the public should have been aware of the coming disaster. But that was not to be. The government hospitals lack the equipment to separate the platelets from the blood which is needed for the dengue patients. The government doesn’t spend much on health and education which many countries in south and south East Asia have done. Our Government also needs to emulate these countries.JS Wadhwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-what-efforts-are-needed-to-tackle-the-current-dengue-situation-in-amritsar-district-335505
08-11-2021||---||Luring voters? Mixed reactions on VAT cut on petrol, diesel in Punjab||Amritsar November 7With the state government slashing petrol rates by Rs10 and diesel by Rs5, The Tribune sought the feedback of people on this much-needed relief. Though, the residents welcomed the move of slashing fuel prices but also criticised the decisions, which they say was mooted to lure the voters in upcoming assembly elections. The petrol pump dealers claimed that the move of the government led to their huge loss.Advocate MK Sharma said, “The festive slash in petrol and diesel excise duty and VAT is a welcome. The common man was expecting the 10% VAT slash on diesel too like petrol as our agriculture and inflation both are directly linked with the diesel pricing. Still something is better than nothing in the shadow of upcoming State elections.”GS Bedi, an industrialist, said, “It should be welcomed though they have reduced it because of elections and not for the betterment of the people. Both the governments (Centre and state) have made good profits from petrol and diesel during the Covid-19 outbreak, when people were under immense pressure of losing jobs and business during lockdown. Now-a-days, governments are made by the people, but not of the people and for the people.”Principal Kulwant Singh said, “This relief will benefit the whole society as inflation will be controlled, as inflation is directly related to transportation. Besides, it will be a respite to the common man’s Budget, also the peasants, businessmen, industrialists and transporters will be directly benefitted. Tourist industry of the holy City Àmritsar will get a new fillip, as the tourists are supposed to be encouraged to travel with slash in fuel prices. Business, trade and hotels see a ray of hope with this development. New employment opportunities in various sectors will also be created. Also, job losses will be contained.Jatinder Pal Singh, a student said, “This is a much-needed move by the Punjab Government as the common people were greatly affected by the rising fuel prices. It was a good move that the Central government reduced the excise duty in the first place which prompted the state governments to follow suit. Many people are dependent on fuel for their daily activities, so this decision will provide the much needed relief to them and help to manage their budgets adequately.”Jaskaran Singh, a petrol pump dealer said, “The government used to increase Rs 1 or 2 every time but slashed Rs 10. Now, I witnessed a loss of Rs 9 lakh as the fuel in my stock would get not today’s price after 12 midnight.”Gunbir Singh, an entrepreneur said, “Whereas the cascading increase in fuel energy costs have severely affected home economies across the board, as well as logistic cost of businesses, subsidising the same with tax cuts is indeed a relief. However, with a challenged financial situation, Punjab is bound to struggle with every electoral sop that dents its revenues.”Kuljit Singh a Farmer said, “The Centre and the state governments only think of their profit as these governments are no more the welfare states. The Prime Minister had claimed that nothing in his hand as fuel price is linked with the international market. As the elections are round-the-corner, the fuel prices reduced. It is unethical to make false statements.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/luring-voters-mixed-reactions-on-vat-cut-on-petrol-diesel-in-punjab-335504
08-11-2021||---||Robbery bid: Two booked for murder||Amritsar, November 7A week after a youth was shot at by two unknown persons in a robbery bid; the police have booked unidentified assailants on charges of murder bid.The victim has been identified as Ashish Kumar, who originally hailed from Ward No. 3 in the Khemkaran area in Tarn Taran. He had come from Chandigarh to meet his grandparents in the Bullewal village in Batala. He stated to the police that on October 29, he was to return to Chandigarh and therefore came to interstate bus terminus in Amritsar.He said he went to use washroom near the Sangam Cinema and on returning found two unknown persons on a bike asking him to handover whatever he was possessing. He said he tried to resist but entered into an argument with them. He said before he could comprehend, one of the assailants took out a pistol and fired at him which hit him near his stomach. He said during the treatment, doctors removed two bullets from his body.Following his statement, the police registered a case under Sections 307, 34 IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54, 59 Arms Act against unknown persons. The police said they were trying to analyse the CCTV cameras in the area to find some clues in the case. Further investigations were under progress.40-yr-old held for raping minorA 5-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man in Rorawala Kalan village.The accused has been identified as Ranjit Singh (40), a resident of Rorawala Kalan.The victim’s mother told the police that on November 5 her daughter had gone to the market for buying new clothes for her children. She said after returning from the market, her 5-year-old daughter started playing in the street.She said around 12:30 pm, a local came to them said the accused had forcibly taken their daughter to Jarnail Singh’s house. She said she along with her husband immediately rushed to the spot and saw that the accused was raping her. He was caught and handed over to the police.The police have registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Sub-Inspector Simranjit Kaur (investigating officer) said the accused had confessed his crime and was produced before the court. She said medical examination of the minor has also been conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbery-bid-two-booked-for-murder-335503
08-11-2021||---||Cong leader and Punsup ex-chairman Kuldeep Singh shot at in Patti||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, November 7Kuldeep Singh, a senior Congress leader and former chairman of Punsup, was shot at by three assailants on Sunday.Kuldeep, a resident of Pangota village, was attacked on Sarhali road. The victim has been admitted to the Patti Civil Hospital where his condition is stated to be stable.Patti Deputy Superintendent of Police Kuljinder Singh said Kuldeep was on his way to the grain market on his car when SUV-borne assailants stopped and opened fire on him.The miscreants fired three shots and one of the bullets brushed past his forehead.The Deputy Superintendent of Police said a case under Sections 307 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 the Arms Act has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-leader-and-punsup-ex-chairman-kuldeep-singh-shot-at-in-patti-335502
08-11-2021||---||Dog breeder (22) hit by stone in Amritsar village, dies||Amritsar, November 7A youngster was murdered by several persons over an old enmity in Naushehra Kalan village, which falls under the jurisdiction of Kamboh police station.The deceased has been identified as Rajinder Singh (22).Though the incident took palce on November 5, Rajinder succumbed to his injuries on November 6.Following preliminary probe, the Amritsar rural police have booked Simarjit Singh, Manga Singh, Sagar Singh, Deepak, Happy, Gurpreet Singh, Bagga Singh and Vishal Singh, all residents of same village. No arrest has been made till now as all the suspects were absconding.Gurpinder Singh, brother of the deceased, told the police that on November 5, he along his brother Rajinder and father Gurmej Singh and other relatives were standing near main gate of their house. He said Simarjit along with his accomplices reached there and started abusing. As they allegedly in drunken state, they started pelting stones and bricks on us, said Gurpinder.A brick hit Rajinder on his head, which left him profusely bleeding. Rajinder was immediately rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where he succumbed.Harsimrat Kaur, SHO, Kamboh police station, said the body was handed over to the family after autopsy and raids were on to nab the suspects. She said an old enmity was stated to be the reason behind the incident.According to information, Rajinder had ventured into dog breeding and became a competitor for the accused who were already in this trade. Earlier, too they had a quarrel. The police said they were still ascertaining the cause behind the incident.The police have registered a case under Sections 302, 452, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC against seven suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dog-breeder-22-hit-by-stone-in-amritsar-village-dies-335501
08-11-2021||Tarn Taran||Paddy lifting at a snail’s pace in Tarn Taran district||Kulwant Singh, DC, said the payment of Rs 1,577 cr had been released to the farmers against their procured paddy. The DC had instructed the officials to make early arrangement for the lifting of the procured paddy from the mandis.In the local grain market, there was no space to unload the paddy to the farmers who come with their crop. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paddy-lifting-at-a-snails-pace-in-tarn-taran-district-335500
08-11-2021||Manmeet Gill||10 panels to figure out record arrival of paddy in Amritsar district mandis||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 7Perplexed with record arrival of paddy in the district, the Deputy Commissioner has constituted 10 committees comprising officials from different departments to investigate the reason behind increase in crop arrival in the grain markets.The arrival of paddy this season has already crossed 4.74 lakh metric tonne (MT). In comparison, the district had recorded a procurement of 4.56 lakh MT during 2020-21. The crop arrival has been even higher than the procurement in 2019-20.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said officials from revenue, food supply, agriculture, mandi board, market committee and procurement agencies have been appointed in these committees. Each committee would investigate the increased crop arrival in the grain markets of Rajasansi, Harsha Chinna, Sudhar, Ajnala, Chamiari, Bacchiwind, Tahli Sahib, Chak Sikandar, Gagomahal and Bhagatawal.The investigators would talk to farmers to know if there’s increase in the crop yield. They would also try to understand if the area under paddy cultivation had increased, he said.“If the increase in arrival is not due to rise in area under paddy or crop yield, the administration will be able to zero in on other reasons (sale of paddy in mandis procured from outside Punjab),” said an official.During the paddy procurement season last year, farmers had caught trucks which were smuggling paddy from Uttar Pradesh (UP).Paddy procured at low prices from UP and other states (which do not offer MSP) was reportedly sold in the grain markets in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-panels-to-figure-out-record-arrival-of-paddy-in-amritsar-district-mandis-335499
08-11-2021||---||Amritsar: 15 shanties gutted in Mohkampura||Amritsar, November 7At least 15 shanties were gutted after fire broke out in New Preet Nagar area under Mohkampura police station on Sunday.Though no loss of life was reported, a cracker explosion led to the fire, which spread within seconds due to the presence of plastic waste collected by ragpickers living in the slums.Absence of roads and narrow lanes delayed the arrival of fire engine near the spot. Munna Ram, a local, said goods worth Rs 12 lakh were destroyed in the fire. He said around Rs 70,000 and his mobile phones also fell in flames as he along with other residents was trying to extinguish fire.“Fire engines reached very late due to which many shanties were gutted,” he said. Mandeep Singh, who was accompanying a fire engine, said due to low hanging wires and narrow lanes, it became very difficult for the fire engine to reach near the spot. He said the situation was under control now.Avtar Singh, SHO, Mohkampura police station, said as per preliminary probe, a firecracker led to the incident. Huge quantity of plastic collected by locals enabled fire to spread fast. He said the fire was brought under control and no life was lost in the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-15-shanties-gutted-in-mohkampura-335498
