09-11-2021||Amritsar||Minor raped, cook booked||Man booked for rape attemptTarn Taran: The police on Sunday booked a man for attempting to sexually assault a 7-year-old girl. The accused, a neighbour of the victim, has been identified as Gurlal Singh of Marhana village. In her complaint to the police, the victim’s grandmother stated that the accused entered their house when she was washing clothes at a nearby house and her granddaughter was alone in the house. The parents of the victim had gone to the grain market for work. As the victim raised the alarm to save her, her grandmother rushed to the house. Seeing her, the accused fled from the spot. The police recorded the statement of the victim’s grandmother. The accused has been booked under Sections 376, 511 and 354-B, IPC, and Section 12, POCSO Act, by Chohla Sahib police. The accused is absconding. OCAAP organises traders’ meetingTarn Taran: Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, former IG and senior leader of AAP, said the alleged wrong policies of the Union and the state government were responsible for the worst condition of the trade and Industry in the state. The AAP leader was addressing a meeting of shopkeepers, industrialists and owners of other commercial establishments in Tarn Taran on Monday. He said lack of wisdom and honesty among leaders was the main reason of the worse state of trade and Industry in the state and the country. Even electricity and LPG could be produced from garbage, but this had not even materialised till date, he added. OCFive covid cases reported in distAmritsar: With five positive cases reported on Monday, the total count from the district has increased to 47,395. The district Health Department has also reported recovery of three patients, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,787. The district at present has a total of eight active cases. Meanwhile, 5,604 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Monday. Of these 2,452 received first dose of the vaccine while 3,152 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-raped-cook-booked-335866
09-11-2021||Amritsar||4 ‘drug peddlers’ arrested with  150 gm of heroin||CIA staff nabbed four alleged drug peddlers and recovered 150 gm of heroin, besides a country-made weapon with five live cartridges from their possession. They were intercepted by a police party near Gumtala Chowk when they were travelling in car which was also impounded.Those arrested have been identified as Sagar, Suraj, Saurav Kumar, alias Bhatti, and Arshdeep Singh, alias Fauji, all residents of Gawal Mandi area which is infamous for drug abuse and peddling.ASI Jatinderpal Singh, investigating officer in the case, said the accused had several cases of quarrel and NDPS Act registered against them. They were produced in a court and brought on two-day police remand for further interrogation. He said their forward and backward links were being looked into and more recoveries and arrests were likely to be made during further course of investigation.He said a fresh case under Sections 21-B, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act, under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act added with sub-sections 6, 7 and 8 of the Arms Act was registered against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-drug-peddlers-arrested-with-150-gm-of-heroin-335860
09-11-2021||---||Police file case in youth’s mysterious death case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 8Following a protest by the family members of a deceased youth on the main GT Road at Tangra here on Sunday, the police have booked a youth on the charge of his murder at Dehriwal village in Tarsikka on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Manpreet Singh.Tarsikka police have booked Malkeet Singh of the same village for his murder on the statement of the victim’s brother Bikramjit Singh.He told the police that they had come to know that Malkeet Singh had given some contraband to him for consumption. He said he had taken an overdose of drug, which ultimately led to his death. Manpreet was an addict, he said.A day after a youth was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Dehriwal village in Tarsikka, the family members on Sunday held a demonstration on the main GT Road near Tangra and demanded the registration of a murder case against the accused.Sub-Inspector Balbir Singh, investigating officer in the case, said a case under Section 302 of the IPC had been registered for now and further investigation was under progress.Earlier, the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174, CrPC. He said efforts were on to nab the suspect who is absconding.While alleging bias, the family members and relatives kept the body on the main GT Road and blocked traffic in protest against the alleged police inaction.Manpreet Singh had been working in Goa for the last few years. He had reached Dehriwal village on October 25 to celebrate Diwali. Manpreet had told the family that after celebrating Diwali, he would return to his work in Goa on November 5. On Friday night, a friend called him and asked him to come out of the house. After this, both the mobiles of Manpreet remained switched off all night. The family members and relatives kept searching Manpreet Singh but in vain. On Saturday morning, they came to know that Manpreet’s body was lying in the fields near the government school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-file-case-in-youths-mysterious-death-case-335858
09-11-2021||---||GNDUTA members boycott official work, teaching for 3 hrs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 8On the call given by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO), members of the Guru Nanak Dev University Teachers’ Association (GNDUTA) held a 3-hour strike by boycotting official work in protest against the state government’s callous attitude towards their legitimate demands.The government teachers of five universities, 48 government colleges and 145 aided colleges were demanding the implementation of 7th CPC UGC pay scales retrospectively from January 2016.The GNDUTA members ceased official and teaching work from 10am to 1pm in the university’s main campus, regional campuses and constituent colleges on Monday.Prof Lakhwinder Singh, president of the association, said the University Grants Commission notified its regulation on August 2018 and were to be implemented from January 2016. These scales had been implemented throughout the country except in Punjab, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh.Saini said since the notification, the teachers were striving hard to get these scales implemented, but the callous attitude of the state government continued till now. He said earlier the teachers held a dharna at university campuses from time to time while a chain hunger strike was started in September this year that continued for 45 days.It was discontinued after Education Minister Pargat Singh agreed to take it up with the Chief Minister. Despite the Education Minister’s promise to implement the 7th UGC pay scales and non-delinking of teacher’s grades from UGC grades, no concrete steps were taken.The PFUCTO, therefore, decided to resume the stir from today and a series of protests were planned for the month. Saini said the agitation would be intensified by holding candle marches, starting gherao of ministers and courting arrest if the Punjab Government failed to fulfil their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gnduta-members-boycott-official-work-teaching-for-3-hrs-335857
09-11-2021||---||Book on ‘Coronavirus and Education’ released at Khalsa College of Education, Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 8Exploring educational issues during the Covid-19 epidemic, the new book on “Coronavirus and Education” was released at Khalsa College of Education (KCE) here today.The work highlights opportunities and challenges faced by teachers and students during the pandemic and how education milieu changed overnight due to lockdown?Blending of offline/online classes, teaching and digital divide, responsibilities of teachers during pandemic, minding the mind, future of education and e-learning in public schools are some of the major issues addressed in the book, which is readers’ delight as it sums up burning topics of education.Edited by Dr Hapreet Kaur, Principal, KCE, and Dr Maninder Kaur and Dr Deepika Kohli, both Assistant Professors, the book contains scholarly articles, which scrutinise the role of digital education, responsibilities of teacher, wellness and mental health of students, ecological learning and impact of the lockdown on reading habits.While releasing the book, Khalsa College Governing Council honorary secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina said, “Education was worst hit during Covid-19 pandemic. The book critically examines transformational changes in education throughout the world.”Dr Harpreet Kaur said while the traditional way of teaching was ‘chalk and talk’, the methodology was changed overnight to classes bringing drastic changes in dissemination of education world over. India coped up well and teachers and students switched over to the new methods of teaching, she added. “There is a dire need to re-imagine education, curriculum and pedagogy,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/book-on-coronavirus-and-education-released-at-khalsa-college-of-education-amritsar-335855
09-11-2021||---||Making Dy CM’s son-in-law AAG is betrayal with state: AAP's Raghav Chadha||Amritsar, November 8The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national spokesperson, Punjab affairs co-incharge and MLA from Delhi, Raghav Chadha, has questioned the appointment of Tarun Vir Singh Lehal as Additional Advocate General (AAG), who is Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s son-in-law.Addressing mediapersons here on Monday after paying obeisance at Bhagwan Valmiki in the Ram Tirath area Chadha said, Why Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who pretends to think about interest of the people of Punjab, did not remember lakhs of unemployed people of the state before giving this appointment to the Deputy CM’s son-in-law?Channi made it clear by his exploits that he too was following in the footsteps of former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Chadha added. The people of Punjab were well aware of the Congress betrayal and give the party a befitting reply in the forthcoming elections, said Chadha.The Ghar-Ghar Rozgar campaign of the Congress government could be false for three crore people of Punjab, but it was like an excellent opportunity for leaders of the ruling dispensation, Chadha added. Like the Captain government the Channi government too had started giving government appointments to son-in-laws, daughters and sons of its leaders, said Chadha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/making-dy-cms-son-in-law-aag-is-betrayal-with-state-aaps-raghav-chadha-335853
09-11-2021||---||Channi’s claim of lowest fuel  prices in region false: Bikram Majithia||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 8Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday accused Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi of lying and indulging in deceit by spending crores on false advertisements claiming petrol and diesel rates were the lowest in the region whereas the truth was that the rates were higher in Punjab than that in Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu.The senior SAD leader was addressing a press conference here during the course of which senior AAP leader and councillor Amarjit Bhatia joined the SAD along with his supporters.Majithia said even now when the Congress government was forced to reduce petrol and diesel prices, it was indulging in skullduggery by claiming that its rates were the lowest. “The diesel prices in the state were more than Rs 3 per litre than that in Chandigarh and Rs 3.25 per litre higher than that in Himachal and Jammu,” he said.Majithia said for the last few years, the rates of petrol and diesel were the highest in Punjab and Rajasthan, both states were ruled by Congress governments. He said the Punjab Government did not reduce the state VAT on petroleum products even when the Centre reduced excise duty by Rs 5 on both petrol and diesel.Majithia asserted that only the CM face had changed, but the loot of the state and its resources continued. He condemned the Congress government for making the ghar ghar naukari scheme applicable to only sons and relatives of Congress ministers and legislators.When questioned about the tirade of Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said, “Sidhu had rightly pointed out that Punjabis were being served lollipops at the fag end of the tenure of the Congress government which had done nothing for last nearly five years. He did not have faith in the CM and had virtually brought a motion of no-confidence against him,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/channis-claim-of-lowest-fuel-prices-in-region-false-bikram-majithia-335852
09-11-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Pantry service closed in Shatabdi yet packed eatables freely available||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 8Even as the Railways stopped the pantry service in Shatabdi as per the Covid-19 guidelines, eatables are freely available in these trains. Passengers rue that the character of the flagship train – Shatabdi – has changed by not serving meals onboard. They had to shell out more to buy eatables from vendors, who boarded trains.An IT professional Kuljot Singh Gabarhia, who frequently travels by Shatabdi, questions the logic behind the ban on serving meals in train compartments when these are freely available at a price.He frequently travels to the National Capital Region (NCR) due to professional requirement. The Railways had stopped onboard pantries to maintain distance among passengers due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said Gabarhia. However, people were coming with loads of water bottles, cartons of packets and other eatables to sell to passengers on board Shatabdi, Gabarhia added. “This practice equally contributes to congestion and brings people close enough to spread Covid infection if any,” said Gabarhia.He pointed out that the Railway was charging above Rs1,100 per passenger for travel between Amritsar and Delhi. Earlier, onboard meals were served to passengers in Shatabdi before the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, Gabarhia added.Satinder Singh, a senior citizen, said, “Railway discontinued concession to senior citizens in order to avoid congestion in trains in the wake of the pandemic. Now, the entire situation has turned normal. Even then, the Railway is reluctant to give concession to the aged and infirm passengers despite the fact that many people visit the National Capital for availing quality health services and other works.”Railway officials said the basic fare of both morning and evening Shatabdi was Rs720 for AC chair car. This fare was flexible and could be hiked depending upon the rule of demand and supply, officials added. Fare of a seat in the first AC or executive class was fixed at Rs1400, said officials.The cost of meal was not included in the ticket after the pantry on board Shatabdi was closed due to the Covid-19 protocol, officials added. Packed eatables were sold as cooking was prohibited due to new rules, said officials. The decision on changing rules was taken at the headquarter level, officials added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pantry-service-closed-in-shatabdi-yet-packed-eatables-freely-available-335849
09-11-2021||Amritsar||Delhi woman loses Rs 25,000 and mobile phone to snatchers||A woman tourist from Delhi has been robbed by snatchers. The victim woman, identified as Gurinder Kaur, along with her family and relatives, had reached near Gol Hatti Chowk in the walled city when two bike-borne persons snatched her purse.The incident occurred on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Manmeet Singh, a resident of Tilak Naar in New Delhi, stated to the police that he, along with his family members and mother-in-law Gurinder Kaur, had come to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and visit other places in the city.He said the victim was also staying with them at Grand Savera Hotel. At 12.40 am after having meal, they reached near Gol Hatti Chowk when two bike-borne persons snatched victim’s purse, he added. The purse contained Rs25,000 cash, an expensive mobile phone, an ATM and an identity card, he said. The police have registered a case.In the second incident, Kali Charan, a resident of the Court Road area, was looted by Rakesh Kumar, alias Kesha, a resident of Yasin Road, on Saturday night. The victim stated that Kesha met him at around 1 am. He asked victim to drop him at Ashoka Chowk. The vicitm said he took him to Bishap House Street where the accused snatched Rs14,000 cash from him after assaulting him.In third incident, Tandra Datta, a Kolkata resident, was robbed by snatchers around a week ago. She along with her family had come to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. The victim stated that after having dinner, when they reached near their hotel snatchers snatched her purse containing Rs20,000 cash besides a mobile and other documents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/delhi-woman-loses-rs-25-000-and-mobile-phone-to-snatchers-335847
09-11-2021||---||Two-month-old boy found abandoned in train rescued||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 8In a shocking incident, a two months old boy was found abandoned in the Jai Nagar-Amritsar Express train here on Monday. A safai karamchari found the child while cleaning the train.He immediately informed the Railway Protection Force (RPF), which handed over the child to Child Helpline. Naroon Stenly, a Child Helpline activist, said the minor boy would be produced before the Child Welfare Committee after medical examination.Stenly said they had also formally lodged a complaint with the Government Railway police for further investigation and identifying those, who left child in the train.“We got a call at 5.30 pm about a child abandoned in the train. Our team member Danish went to the RPF and took custody of the unknown child after completing the formalities,” Stenly said while adding that preliminary medical examination of the child was completed. The child was stable and healthy, Stenly said. The police have started investigation and analysing footage of the CCTV cameras installed at the railway station to identify those, who had left child in the train.‘Childline nal dosti’ programmeIndian Railway and District Child Helpline today organised “Childline nal dosti” programme at Saint Merry School in the Gumtala area. Chancellor of Jalandhar Diocese and Navjeevan Charitable Society’s director were the chief guest on the occasion. Sister Prakishta, Principal, Saint Merry School, Gumtala, and members of the Child Welfare Committee and District Child Welfare Society also took part in the programme. Participants were made aware about the Child Helpline number 1098 during the programme. Participants were encouraged to inform at this number when they found a child in distress and in some trouble. A drawing competition was also held on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-month-old-boy-found-abandoned-in-train-rescued-335844
09-11-2021||Amritsar||F&CC approves development works worth Rs 35 cr for Amritsar city||The Municipal Corporation’s Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) approved development works worth Rs35 crore at a meeting held here on Monday.The meeting held under the chairmanship of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu presented for consideration development works, which were unanimously approved. The meeting was held to expedite development works in the city.Besides, the F&CC approved third party audit of all development works already completed and to be undertaken in the near future. Works of roads, lanes, interlocking tiles, new road sweeping machines, reconstruction of parks, construction in various cemeteries, community halls and others were approved at the meeting.Mayor said crores were spent on development of the holy city. The Corporation was fully committed for overall development of the city, he added. There would be no shortage of funds for development works, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fcc-approves-development-works-worth-rs-35-cr-for-amritsar-city-335842
09-11-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar: Shortage of DAP forcing farmers to use costly NPK||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 8Amid the shortage of DAP (diammonium phosphate) for sowing wheat crop, farmers are being forced to use NPK (nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium). Though the agriculture experts are advising farmers to use NPK as a substitute, the farmers say that it will increase input cost.While the government had fixed the price of DAP at Rs1,200 per bag (50 kg), the market price of NPK is Rs1,450 per bag. The farmers in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts are facing acute shortage of the fertiliser (DAP), which is required at the time of sowing of wheat.A farmer, Gurnam Singh, said: “It is for the first time that we have heard that NPK could be used instead of DAP. It is hard for us to understand that it would do the same work as DAP.” He said the high price of NPK, too, is a trouble as they hope that they would get DAP at the government fixed rate of Rs1,200 per bag. As per the recommendations of Punjab Agriculture University, 55 kg of DAP is required at the time of sowing of wheat. While a few industrious farmers have already started buying NPK so as to sow the crop in time, many are still struggling to procure a bag of DAP.“Timing of sowing is an important factor in wheat crop. The delayed sowing results in loss of yield. If the sowing of crop got delayed due to shortage of fertiliser, the farmers would have to face losses,” said another farmer Jagtar Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-shortage-of-dap-forcing-farmers-to-use-costly-npk-335841
09-11-2021||---||Bogus billing: 2,600 MT produce shown purchased found missing in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 8The district administration has detected a scam involving bogus billing of paddy during the current procurement season in which approximately 2,600 metric tonnes of produce was allegedly shown purchased on paper only.District Foods and Civil Supplies Controller Rishi Raj Mehra first smelled the scam after noticing the unusually high figures of purchase from certain grain markets on November 2 and November 3.Interestingly, when the employees concerned were asked to send videos of the stock purchased, they furnished the same without hesitation. However, when the senior official went to the grain market for the physical verification of the stock, the employees could not provide any satisfactory answer.The matter was later reported to DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira who in turn informed the state authorities and subsequently an enquiry was entrusted to Vigilance Bureau.Sources in the administration stated that lifting of procured produce from the markets was halted for a day for the physical verification of the stock. VB sleuths have already scrutinised the records and started investigation.The sources said initially, the needle of suspicion pointed towards a few food inspectors. They also added that such a large scam involving around 70,000 bags could not be done without the involvement of employees of different departments who usually are deputed to keep a check on one another. “The entire staff involved in the purchase is under scanner,” said an official.When contacted, DFSC Rishi Raj Mehra said, “At present, the matter is being investigated by the Vigilance Bureau and so I cannot comment anything.” He, however, confirmed that 2600 MT of paddy was found missing.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira on Sunday had constituted 10 committees to probe reasons behind unusually high procurement in certain markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bogus-billing-2-600-mt-produce-shown-purchased-found-missing-in-amritsar-335840
