10-11-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar-based goldsmith ends life; MLA’s PA, ASI booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9While accusing a personal assistant of the ruling party’s MLA and an Assistant Sub- Inspector besides a neighbour for harassing him, Sukhwinder Singh, a goldsmith committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance here on Tuesday.The police recovered a suicide note from the spot on the basis of which the police have booked the PA, identified as Paramjit Singh, ASI Narinder Singh and the victim’s neighbour Harbhajan Singh for abetment to suicide.Relatives of the victim said Sukhwinder and Harbhajan, both goldsmiths, had a dispute over some monetary issue a few days ago. Following this, Harbhajan attacked his residence and assaulted the family members of Sukhwinder.In the suicide note, Sukhwinder Singh alleged that he had a monetary dispute with Harbhajan Singh. He said Harbhajan along with his son and several unidentified persons attacked his house and ransacked it, besides injuring him and his family members on October 25. They also damaged his car and a scooter during the assault.He alleged instead of taking action against him, Division-B police acted in a biased manner and registered a case against him after bribing ASI Narinder Singh. He said the day before yesterday, the PA invited both the parties for striking a compromise. However, he was humiliated and pressurised to cough out money for cancelling the FIR.He alleged the PA also demanded money for striking a compromise. He also alleged that the ASI threatened to arrest him and his family members, including women. The ASI said he would not let them out of the jail for six months, Sukhwinder alleged in the suicide note. He said Harbhajan also threatened to set their house on fire.Upset over all this, Sukhwinder said he could not fight them and face the harassment. Therefore, I am ending my life. He also urged senior police authorities for doing justice, besides praying his friends and relatives to stand by his family.Following the incident, SAD leaders led by Talbir Singh Gill, held a demonstration  outside the Division B police station here which was lifted after Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh assured them of registering an FIR and arresting the suspects in the case.SAD leader Talbir Singh Gill said there was nothing in the name of law and order. Innocent people were being implicated in false cases at the behest of Congress leaders. “We demand immediate arrest of the accused — ASI Narinder Singh and Harbhajan Singh,” he said.He said the police had assured them of arresting the PA and the ASI. Harbhajan Singh was nabbed by party workers and later handed over to the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-goldsmith-ends-life-mlas-pa-asi-booked-336343
10-11-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Vegetable growers burning costly diesel to irrigate fields||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9The vegetable growers are facing acute shortage of power as a result of which they are forced to use diesel-run generators to run their tubewells.The farmers say providing electricity to vegetable growers as per their needs is not on the priority list of the government and as their number is not much large. The Vegetable Growers Association has now asked the 32 farmer associations, which are part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, to take up the matter with the state government and press for six-hour a day electricity supply to the vegetable growers.Notably, the farmer associations from Punjab have decided to meet the Chief Minister to take up the issues concerning agriculture, which are in the domain of state government. The issues include compensation for loss of cotton, arrears of sugarcane, shortage of DAP and others.Association chief Lakhbir Singh Nizampura said: “As per an agreement with the power corporation, it had assured to provide five-hour power supply to vegetable belts.” He said for the purpose, vegetable belts were divided in two groups and first group was to be provided electricity for tubewells from 5 am to 10 am.“Presently the tubewells are getting power supply for one hour only. A farmer wakes up early in the morning, goes to his farm and switches the tubewell on. The tubewells runs for one hour and the electricity goes off. The farmer keeps on waiting hoping that the power supply would be resumed,” rued Lakhbir Singh.The vegetable growers stated that potato crops require one last irrigation before the crop is harvested. “We cannot afford to ignore irrigation of vegetable crops as these are not as hardy as other crops. A day’s delay in irrigation can result in saplings drying up,” said another farmer leader Bhupinder Singh Tirathpura.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vegetable-growers-burning-costly-diesel-to-irrigate-fields-336344
10-11-2021||---||Gamblers open fire in Amritsar Ghaah Mandi; 3 held for murder bid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9Panic gripped Ghaah Mandi area falling under the jurisdiction of Rambagh police station late night Monday after two groups fired at each other over gambling.Though no injuries were reported in the incident, an SUV and a scooter, was badly damaged during the quarrel.The police have registered a cross case against eight persons from both the groups and arrested three of them.Those arrested have been identified as Simranjit Singh alias Simran Kabaddi of Ranjit Avenue, Arun Manak alias Bhola of Sharifpura and Sahil Kumar alias Petha of Sultanwind Road.Those booked on charges of murder bid include Kunda of News Golden Avenue, Kashmiri of Gopal Mandir, Harpreet Singh, Dukki, Rakesh Bhaiya and an unknown person.As per information, both the groups had gathered in the area for gambling and a dispute occurred over money. Both the groups fired at each other indiscriminately. Fortunately, no one was hurt in the incident, said the police while adding that raids were on to nab the remaining suspects.A police official said the area was notorious for gambling and previously a couple of instances of looting by gangsters were also reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gamblers-open-fire-in-amritsar-ghaah-mandi-3-held-for-murder-bid-336345
10-11-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||As Assembly poll nears, posh areas get special treatment||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9In what could be termed as a preferential treatment ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, interlocking tiles have been relaid on the existing pavement, in Ranjit Avenue D-block.On the contrary, residents of many localities in the city have been waiting for their lanes to be paved. Certain areas, including Kot Khalsa, Haripura and Chehharta have been crying for attention. Numerous colonies, which have come up on the outskirts of the city, still have streets full of potholes.Sahibjeet Singh, a resident of Malawali village, said, “Our village was included in the Amritsar Municipal Corporation around two decades ago. Ever since then, civic body has not recarpeted the road even once.” He said the Mandi Board had carpeted their village road in 1998 before inclusion into the MC.Another resident Saurabh Sharma said, “Circular Road near Hall Bazaar is in very poor shape and two-wheelers often skid on pebbles. The authorities have moral, ethical and legal responsibility to ensure that all areas are developed at par.”Giving preferential treatment to markets in posh areas is not a new phenomenon as the traders’ bodies at these places are in better position to exert pressure on politicians than ordinary shopkeepers in other bazaars.Even during the SAD-BJP government, metalled parking surface of Nehru Shopping Complex, was covered with interlocking tiles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-assembly-poll-nears-posh-areas-get-special-treatment-336346
10-11-2021||---||Minor impact on transportation costs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9Recent reduction in fuel prices has negligible impact on shipment of goods as most transporters have not lowered freight charges.SK Wadhwa, a tweed and blanket manufacturer said, “Transporters have not passed on the benefit of fuel reduction to customers yet. There’s nearly 10 per cent rise in the freight cost during the last one month. One can imagine its impact on the highly competitive woollen industry.”Rajiv Sharma, who is associated with steel industry said, “There has been over 35 per cent hike in the freight charges since the implementation of the lockdown in the wake of the Covid.”He said any increase in the freight cost has maximum impact on industries situated in border areas. “The entire raw material comes all the way from eastern parts of the country to the holy city. Then finished goods, including nails, nuts & bolts and weighing scales, are sold throughout India. Industrialists have to shell out more on transport tariff, thus increasing the input cost,” said Sharma.Anandjit Singh, spokesperson, All India Motor Transport Congress, said following the reduction in diesel prices, transporters decided not to hike the freight cost, which was to be raised after Diwali. He said transporters had to incur huge losses on account of hike in diesel rates from around Rs61 in March 2020 to a high of Rs101 in early November.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-impact-on-transportation-costs-336347
10-11-2021||---||Book on Guru Tegh Bahadur released||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9Dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh Master Guru Tegh Bahadur, the book “Baani Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji — Punjabi Atte Angrezi Saralarth”, authored by a retired principal, presents the Guru’s hymns and shalok to contemporary generation in simple form.Dr Mehal Singh, Principal, Khalsa College, Amritsar, recently released the book authored by Kulwant Singh Ankhi, a college alumni and a retired school principal. In his address, Dr Mehal stated that the aim of the book was to deliver the message of the Guru to readers of the Punjabi and English languages in simple format.All 59 shabads (hymns) and 57 shaloks of Guru Teg Bahadur, which are inscribed in Guru Granth Sahib, are explained in simple Punjabi along with English version in the book. He elaborated that Guru Tegh Bahadur composed nine shabads in Gauri, one in Aasa, three in Devgandhari, one in Bihagra, 12 in Sorath, four in Dhanasari, three in Jaitsari, one in Todi, three in Tilang, three in Bilawal, three in Ramkali, three in Maru, five in Basant, four in Sarang and four in Jaijawanti musical measures.He said there was great significance of the book in contemporary society to acquaint youth and students with Gurmat philosophy. A large number of students after studying in English medium schools find it easy to grasp the meaning in English.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/book-on-guru-tegh-bahadur-released-336348
10-11-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Air quality mgmt projects  yet to see the light of day||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9With the residents facing poor air quality after Diwali, various projects of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs announced a year back for the improvement of air quality have still not implemented on the ground. The MC officials claimed that all air quality improvement projects are in the pipeline and would be implemented within the next few months.Based on the Air quality data, the city had listed in the non-attainment cities under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which means the holy city does not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS).Municipal Corporation (MC) had received Rs 19 crore to improve the air quality in the city under the NCAP in 2020.The city-specific action plans have been prepared, which includes maintenance of pothole-free roads, procurement of water sprinkling, mechanical sweeping machines, creation of green buffers along the roadside, making parks and open areas green, installation of water fountains at major chowks, paved roads, infrastructure for parking, CNG-based crematorium, installation of air purifiers and installation of gobar gas plant at gaushalas.As per the mandate of the NGT, the MC has to take measures for strengthening the monitoring network, reducing vehicular/industrial emissions and increasing public awareness to improve the air quality.Malwinder Singh Jaggi, Commissioner, MC, said: “All the projects of NCAP are under process. The tenders have been floated in most of the projects. We hope that residents would see the implementation of all projects within three-four months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/air-quality-mgmt-projects-yet-to-see-the-light-of-day-336349
10-11-2021||PK Jaiswar||Grass is always green here!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9Gill Green Garden is a sight for the sore eyes. Dr Amarjit Singh Gill, former Principal of Government Dental College, takes a great pride in nourishing a lawn which has been aesthetically done with highlighters, including beautiful pots. A green cover of ficus trees on the front boundary wall distinguishes his one kanal house from others in the Ranjit Avenue B-block.“Having greenery around us as possible in our lawn and we avoid completely pruning our plants. With this we feel more closure to nature,” said Dr Gill. He has bottle palms, umbrella palms, Cycas, Dracaena, Araucaria, Ficus, Aleefa, Hibiscus and Ferns besides several other permanent plants in the lawns.We have some seasonal flowering plants also but that is more for breaking the monotony. We have some seasonal flowering plants like Salvia, Antraman, Dahlia,Gladiolus Chrysanthemum, Patunia etc.Though we have a gardener Kalicharan for maintaining the green space, but I and my wife are the main gardener here. Majority of planning and execution is done by my wife Dr Harjot Gill, who is a former principal of Guru Nanak Government College, Kala Afghana and me respectively, he said proudly.In the after retirement life we spend our mornings and evenings at our lawn, though we avoiding it now a days as a precautionary measure when dengue has raised its ugly head in the region.“After having morning walk I used to have my tea while sitting in the lawn and reading newspaper. It is very relishing when we hear the sounds of different exotic birds visiting our lawn especially in the morning hours. It is marvellous experience and joy that we cannot describe in words. We plants in their natural splendour as it gives a feeling of closure to nature,” said Dr Gill.The grass is nicely manicured and green patches are made in the lawn in different shapes for adding aesthetics to it. Dr Harjot Gill added that as we are nature lovers, we prefer only vermi compost in our plants with absolutely no or minimum chemical fertilisers. Dr Gill also had a small garden on the first floor of terrace and different varieties of Bougainvillea on top terrace along with a gazebo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grass-is-always-green-here-336350
10-11-2021||---||Congress wants to hoodwink Punjabis: Bikram Majithia||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said Congress wanted to hoodwink Punjabis by passing meaningless resolutions that sans legal sanctity on sensitive issues, including the extension of central jurisdiction and the three agri laws.Majithia was talking to newsmen here after the party received a huge boost with SGPC member Balwinder Singh of Khadoor Sahib and a large section of the leadership which had earlier supported the Ranjit Singh Brahmpura group returned to the SAD fold. These included sarpanches and panchayats of several villages in Tarn Taran.Terming the holding of a special assembly session as a mere ‘jumla’, Majithia said that instead of indulging in this stage show, the Congress government should pass executive orders forbidding the BSF to indulge in any policing activity beyond 15 kilometres of the international border and make three farm laws null and void in Punjab.He said similarly the government could cancel its Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with private thermal plant managements instead of going through the bogus drama of passing a resolution on this issue.“The CM Channi met Home Minister Amit Shah on October 5 and while highlighting the issue of drones and increased drug smuggling demanded increased security arrangements. This is a matter of record and a fact which has been itself disclosed by the Punjab government. What has not been disclosed is that in this meeting CM Channi had surrendered the rights of the state simply because this government is engaged in turf wars only and has no inclination towards governance”.Asserting that mere resolutions would not have any bearing on the lives of Punjabis, Majithia said the state assembly had already passed a resolution against the three farm laws which was pending with the Governor.“What practical use can a new resolution be put to? Even on the issue of PPA cancellation, a central Tribunal had already stayed the PPA termination notices sent to the four private thermal plants”, he said.Majithia also nailed Home Minister’s lie that his son-in-law had been selected on merit as an Additional AG. He said the truth was that Randhawa’s son-in-law did not have the requisite sixteen year experience to become an Additional AG and that he had been given the unjust employment after leaving meritorious candidates by taking recluse to the ‘extraordinary circumstances’ clause.The Akali leader also pointed out that Randhawa had objected to grant of a police officer’s job to Congress legislator Fatehjang Bajwa’s son but had no qualms in making the ghar ghar naukari scheme into a Congress ghar naukari scheme himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-wants-to-hoodwink-punjabis-bikram-majithia-336352
10-11-2021||Amritsar||MC removes illegal banners||The advertisement wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation is working overtime to remove illegal banners and hoardings in the city. During festive season, a large number of hoardings, banners and signboards, were displayed by various stores and traders. Even politicians installed hoardings to congratulate residents during Diwali.Sushant Bhatia, incharge, Advertisement wing, said, “Massive defacement takes place during the festive season. Despite warnings, commercial units, stores and traders display their advertisements. Now, we are removing hoardings from markets and roadsides.”Separate teams have removed the hoardings from Mall Road, Circular Road, Majithia Road, GT Road and Bhandari Bridge today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-removes-illegal-banners-336353
10-11-2021||---||Ministerial services union calls off pen-down strike||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9After the government accepted some demands of clerical employees of different departments, the Punjab Ministerial Services Union (PMSU), called off its pen- down strike, which commenced on October 8. With employees rejoining their duties, stalled bills and salaries may get cleared at the earliest.Sukhwinder Singh Saini and Manjinder Singh Sandhu of the Punjab Ministerial Services Union said the state government has issued notifications on some of their demands, besides clearing salary and Diwali allowances of para-medical staff and Class IV employees. They said the strike has been postponed for a short time.The government decided to increase DA from 11 per cent to 28 per cent, employees recruited after January 1, 2016 will now also get the benefit of 15 per cent pay commission by merging 113 per cent DA in their basic pay, employees will also be given the option to take higher pay commission from the date of promotion.Pending demands include merging 125 per cent DA on the last basic salary and 20 per cent benefit on it. So far, 113 per cent DA has been merged and maximum benefit of 15 per cent has been given on the pattern of the Union Government. The old pension scheme of all the employees recruited after April 1, 2004 should be restored, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ministerial-services-union-calls-off-pen-down-strike-336354
10-11-2021||---||DLSA organises legal services camp||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9A legal services camp was organised by District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) at Bohru village here on Tuesday. Twenty departments of state government and Centre government participated in the camp and made general public aware about the schemes being run for the welfare of the public.Harpreet Kaur Randhawa, District and Sessions Judge visited each stall and interacted with the representatives of all the departments. During the camp a legal literacy seminar was also conducted.Kirpal Kaur, Advocate and Navdeep Kaur, mediator addressed the gathering and made them aware about various legal aid services being provided by the Punjab State Legal Services Authority, including ADR mechanism as Legal Aid, Lok Adalats, Mediation and Conciliation Centre, Victim Compensation Schemes, Para Legal Volunteer Services, Legal Aid Clinic and Legal Literacy Clubs in schools and colleges.The public was also made aware of the free legal aid provided by Punjab State Legal Services Authority. Further they were apprised that any inmate in the jail whether convicted or under trial is entitled to free legal aid under Legal Services Authority Act, 1987.The inmate can fill up a simple application and thereafter he is immediately provided a free legal aid counsel. Similarly in case a person is convicted by the court and intends to file appeal or revision against the order of conviction, he can also file an application in the office of District Legal Services Authority. It was further explained that all the expenses incurred during the case are borne by the District Legal Services Authority, Amritsar.Public were also made aware about the Toll Free Number 1968 where anyone can take legal assistance free of cost. During the event tri-cycle and sewing machines were distributed to the needy. People were also benefitted with the pension schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dlsa-organises-legal-services-camp-336355
10-11-2021||Amritsar||Zonal Youth Festival concludes||Webinar on biodiversity, ecosystemUnder star college scheme, DAV College organised an online webinar on biodiversity and ecosystem functioning of high altitude vegetation. Dr Amit Chawla, principal secretary, CSIR - Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology, Palampur, was the resource person. Dr chawla said the analysis of species distribution and functional diversity (FD) in natural gradients of aridity and temperature at high altitudes can provide us the indication of future changes in plant communities as both are responsive to environment and strongly influence ecosystem functioning and stability. He said they established eleven altitudinal transects in high altitude region of Western Himalaya. In each transect, vegetation was sampled randomly at every 200 m elevation to estimate species rarity, niche width and different indices. These indices indicate resource utilisation, competition for resources, optimal plant strategies, and presence of functionally specialist species. A total of 418 plant species have been found, most of which were having narrow niche and distribution.Security of Service of Employees ActPunjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) welcomed amendment in the Punjab Affiliated Colleges (Security of Service of Employees) Act, 1974. In a release issued here on Tuesday Dr Gurdas Singh Sekhon, district president and Dr BB Yadav, area secretary, GNDU, said PCCTU welcomed the decision of Punjab Cabinet taken on November 7 to allow appropriate amendment in the Punjab affiliated colleges (Security of Service of Employees) Act, 1974. The proposed amendment will restore the principal of natural justice in the case of unaided staff as enshrined in the Constitution of India. Present amendment in the Security of Service Act will give relief to thousands of teachers whose security of service have put in danger due to previous amendment made in 2007. They also reminded the government that implementation of the UGC Seventh Pay Scales to university and college teachers was still pending which have already been implemented in the country. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/zonal-youth-festival-concludes-336356
10-11-2021||Amritsar||Six covid cases surface in Amritsar||Atal Tinkering Lab openedTarn Taran: DC Kulwant Singh inaugurated Atal Tinkering Lab (ATL) at Mai Bhago International Public School, Usman, on Tuesday. While addressing on the occasion, the DC said the lab would be helpful for science students to get coaching for the PMT, PPMET, NEET, JEE, etc, exams. Kulwant Singh appreciated the efforts of the managing committee of the school for their efforts to provide better educational facilities to rural area students. OC50-year-old Pak intruder nabbedTarn Taran: A patrolling party of the 71st Battalion of the BSF nabbed one Pakistani intruder from Khalra sector on Tuesday. The intruder introduced himself as Fiaj (50), a resident of Bhagwanpur (Lahore) in Pakistan. The BSF said the patrolling party was on routine duty when the intruder was nabbed from Pillar No.133/10 near Dharma post in the Khalra sector. The BSF has initiated further interrogation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-covid-cases-surface-in-amritsar-336357
