11-11-2021||Tarn Taran||5 booked for abducting girl in Tarn Taran||One held with 120-gm heroinTarn Taran: Sarhali police arrested a person with 120 grams of heroin at Naushehra Pannuan village on Tuesday. ASI Devinder Singh, who was leading a police party, said the accused, identified as Ajaypal Singh of Sarhali, was stopped on the basis of suspicion. On checking, the contraband was recovered from his possession. A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused. OC‘Ashirvad Scheme’ beneficiariesTarn Taran: Beneficiaries of the ‘Ashirvad Scheme’ are going to get the benefits soon. There are a total of 1,550 beneficiaries of the scheme who had not been given the amount from this April to September. From July month, the amount of the scheme was raised from Rs21,000 to Rs51,000. The DC said the state government had sanctioned Rs2.04 crore to be distributed among 934 families and the proposal for Rs3.14 crore had also been sent for approval. OCNo new positive case in districtAmritsar: The district has reported no Covid-19 positive case on Wednesday. However, the health authorities have reported recovery of two patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45, 793. The district, at present has a total of eight active cases. Meanwhile 4612 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Wednesday. Of these 1799 received first dose of the vaccine while 2813 received second dose. tnsT20: Krishnam XI beat DCA MalwaAmritsar: Krishnam XI beat DCA Malwa by six wickets in the T-20 Sardar Sardev Singh memorial cricket tournament played here on Wednesday. After winning the toss DCA elected to bat first. Its players were all out at 119 runs. Chasing the target Krishnam XI scored 124 for four. In another match Amandeep Cricket Club defeated Roshan Rangers by five wickets. The losing team posted a target of 121 runs for nine wickets in 19.2 overs. In response the winning team scored 125 runs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-booked-for-abducting-girl-in-tarn-taran-336744
11-11-2021||Amritsar||Ranking for 13 GNDU scientists||Inspirational speech deliveredAn inspirational speech was delivered by Kamayani (From Samaritans Mumbai) to the students of Classes IX and X at Bhavan’s SL Public School here recently. She intimated the students about the functioning of the human body that depends on the brain. Through speeches and video clippings, students were made aware of mental health and were told that mental illness is such a disease that changes the thinking, feeling, mood, behaviour etc. of any person. Depression, suicide, stress, bipolar disorder are also a part of this mental illness. If such a situation persists for some time continuously, then it starts changing the daily routine of a person negatively. Mental illness is directly related to our mental health. Talking about mental health, it includes points like emotional, psychological and social well being. Not only this, it keeps us active on our likes and dislikes along with stress management. Do not think much about anything that dominates your mind and you are constantly upset because of it. Take your work seriously and try not to keep any kind of tension in your mind. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ranking-for-13-gndu-scientists-336743
11-11-2021||Lovers of Punjabi took a serious note of the step-motherly treatment with their mother tongue at a gathering in Tarn Taran. The occasion was the release of newly published book ‘Main Janian Dukh Mujh ko’ (I think sorrows are meant for me only)||Tarn Taran Diary: Jaswinder Singh Manochahal's book released||Gurdial Singh Dhillon was from Tarn TaranLate national leader Dr Gurdial Singh Dhillon (6.8.1915 to 23.3.1992), who remained Speaker of the Lok Sabha twice in the Indira Gandhi Government and once Union Minister in the Rajiv Gandhi Government was from of the Tarn Taran area. His birthplace Panjwar village is only 14 km away from Tarn Taran. He was elected MLA twice from Chabal and once from Tarn Taran Vidha Sabha constituency. In the first election after Independence in 1952 Dhillon (14,750) defeated well known freedom fighter Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna (12,914) with a margin of 1,836 votes.Bhakna was the CPI candidate. In the next 1957 election when there was an alliance between the Congress and the Akali Dal Dhillon fought from Tarn Taran (General seat) against CPI candidate Jagjit Singh Lailpuri and won with a margin of 17,646 votes. Once again in 1962 election, Dhillon defeated Sampooran Singh, an Independent candidate, with a margin of 19,276 votes in Tarn Taran constituency. Sampooran was backed by Sant Fateh Singh camp of the Shiromani Akali Dal. In the 1967 and 1972 elections Dhillon stood for the Lok Sabha election from Tarn Taran and won. He was nominated Speaker of the Lok Sabha in the Indira Gandhi-led government. In the 1977 election held after lifting of Emergency Dhillon was defeated by the SAD president, Jathedar Mohan Singh Tur, which was major setback to his political career. After the Lok Sabha defeat Dhillon again lost Vidhan Sabha election from Beas same year. The parental property of Dhillon’s family is still at Panjwar village.An officer different from othersAhead of Diwali festival most senior officers of different departments were present in their respective offices waiting for their subordinates to present them gifts. A top-ranked Powercom official was in his office when some of his subordinates came and presented him gifts, which he denied to accept. The officer went missing from his office just to avoid receiving gifts a day before Diwali. One of his subordinates, who waited near his office, said no one of the clerical staff from his office was ready to tell about his whereabouts. Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind, an employee leader, who always raised voice against alleged irregularities of higher officials, said during his 30-years service, he had never seen such an honest officer. Meanwhile, the officer requested that his name and designation should not to be disclosed.— Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-jaswinder-singh-manochahals-book-released-336742
11-11-2021||---||Amritsar dry fruit trader denies tax evasion||Amritsar, November 10Income Tax (I-T) sleuths, who detected unaccounted income running into crores during recent raids on traders engaged in dry fruits business, have become a talk of the town. A local trader, who imports dry fruit, is also under their lens.It was for the first time that Majith Mandi, a hub of dry fruit trade, saw I-T sleuths searching documents and balance sheets of a company for three days. Traders with decades of experience in the profession said they had not seen such a long-drawn search in their market. Situated in the walled city, the mandi has centuries old trade links with Afghanistan.The local trader, whose firm’s office was searched by I-T sleuths last month, said there was no scope of inflated cost being quoted as his firm imported dry fruits.“We import dry fruit from Afghanistan, Australia, the US and other countries. After duly paying customs duty, dry fruit reaches here. So, there is no question of tax evasion,” he added. The firm reportedly has an annual turnover of around Rs1,000 crore.Meanwhile, I-T officials stated that the department was scrutinising seized documents and the search would proceed in due course of time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-dry-fruit-trader-denies-tax-evasion-336741
11-11-2021||---||Nurses’ strike paralyses health services in Amritsar district||Amritsar, November 10The protest by nurses at Government Medical College entered its third day here on Wednesday. They are demanding the implementation of the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission report. The protest has crippled medical services with patients and poor people the worst sufferers.The nursing staff stated that instead of recognising the services rendered by them in the medical field, especially during the testing Covid times, the government move was aimed at decreasing their grade pay from at present Rs 4,600 to Rs 3,800.Lakhwinder Kaur Samra, vice-president of the nursing association, said, “In the present times, most of the nursing staff at government hospitals is either BSc or even MSc. Their higher qualification is an asset for the department, but instead of rewarding us, the government is planning to demote us.”The nursing staff at the government hospital always remained in close contact with the patient and attends to his immediate needs. The nursing staff members stated that negating a profession without any proper justification was wrong.They stated that nurses in many other states and under the Central Government got a special nursing allowance of Rs 7,000 per month as due to the nature of their duty, the family and personal life is affected regularly. “We are not getting any such allowance despite the fact that we are subjected to same kind of duty as are others in the country. By not giving us the allowance, the state government is already discriminating against us,” said association president Palwinder Kaur.The leaders of the nursing staff said the protest would continue till the state government accepts their demands and gives what is rightfully theirs. Another nursing leader Ajitpal Kaur said, “We were kept out of the pay commission benefits till 2016 even as other employees had started receiving the same in 2011. And after years of protests, the government functionaries had shifted the onus of mistake on a clerical mistake.”She said the employees’ demand was justified and they rued inconvenience caused to the poor patients. “But we have been pushed to the wall and forced to fight for our rights which we continue till our last breath,” she said.Dengue cases have decreased, but don’t lower your guard: expertsWith decrease in temperature due to the onset of winters, dengue cases have gone down in recent days. The total count of dengue patients stands at 1,660 in district. Health experts said dengue virus weakened in the cold weather. Such weather helped in countering the alarming situation, arisen due to outbreak of the mosquito-borne disease. Though officially the Health Department had not reported any death due to dengue, at least six people in the city had succumbed to disease with similar symptoms. As per the policy, the Health Department only considers those patients as dengue positive cases, who have tested positive on the MacElisa test. A Health Department official said, “For many people, who have fallen ill with symptoms similar to dengue, could have been infected by another virus. A number of steps to contain the spread of dengue have been taken, but lack of awareness on the part of the general public about causes and prevention of the viral disease has been a hindrance.” The Health Department has reported only 55 dengue cases in the last five days as compared to over 100 in the previous weeks. Health experts have warned that any laxity in taking precautions may prove lethal. “Winters decrease dengue spread, but don't lower your guard,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nurses-strike-paralyses-health-services-in-amritsar-district-336739
11-11-2021||Our Correspondent||One killed, another hurt in road accident||Tarn Taran, November 10One person was killed and another injured in a road accident on National Highway No.354, near Assal Uttar village, here on Monday.The deceased had been identified as Dilbag Singh (45), a resident of Aladinpur village. Harmanjit Singh, assistant of the deceased, injured in the accident, was admitted to a private hospital in Amritsar. His condition was stated to be stable.Burning of paddy straw, which led to formation of smog, was the reason behind accident. The administration has totally failed to check to burning of paddy straw in fields. Dilbag and Harmanjit were going to Khemkaran after loading fertiliser on their truck at the Tarn Taran railway station. Dilbag’s vehicle was hit by other truck due to low visibility caused by smog.Both Dilbag and Harmanjit Singh were injured seriously in the accident and admitted to a private hospital in Amritsar where the former succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday.The investigation officer, Sub-Inspector Sukhbir Kaur, said the truck, which allegedly caused accident was taken into custody by the Valtoha police. Further proceeding had been initiated in this connection, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-killed-another-hurt-in-road-accident-336738
11-11-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Ram Bagh Deodhi — a lost heritage of Amritsar city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 10The two-storied Ram Bagh Deodhi behind the Ram Bagh, presently known as the Company Bagh, was the main entrance gateway to the Summer Palace complex of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.The building stands tall with a beautiful and majestic baradari atop it. However, the hustle and bustle which it might have grown accustomed to the great Sikh Maharaja’s life is long lost. The young generation might not even be aware about its relevance and history.Ironically, what was once a main entrance to the Maharaja’s Ram Bagh is not a relic of the old times lying in the backward as the main entrance of Company Bagh has shifted towards the Mall Road.Before the haphazard construction of high-rise buildings, the Darbar Sahib could be seen from Deodhi. In fact, the Maharaja used to sit under Baradari on top of Deodhi and would look over the holy place. Almost square, the building is situated on the Southern side of garden and is orientated in North-South direction. Originally, the Deodhi consisted of central covered passage flanked by two storeyed wings for on guards on each side. Each of the wings consists of two rooms.Later, after the Anglo-Sikh war of 1841, the British had connected the two flank of the first floor by a wooden bridge. The other change made then was of including intersecting of stone arched frame in the southern.The terrace is surmounted by a square in plan and the turrets on four corners rising from the plink level are crowned by domed cupolas. The inner ones are square whereas the outer ones are hexagonal.The facade of the gateway contains beautiful projecting balconies. The exterior and interior of the building were decorated with floral and geometrical designs. Balconies and jarokhas are projected on the outer wall. The ‘jailis’ of the baradari atop the building are finest example of cut work, which the expert artisans has restored to its apt glory. The deodi was used as a museum till few years ago after it was declared a protected monument.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ram-bagh-deodhi-%E2%80%94-a-lost-heritage-of-amritsar-city-336737
11-11-2021||---||Youth killed with sword over wet matchbox as verbal duel turns ugly in Amritsar||Amritsar November 10A verbal duel between shopkeeper and customer over a wet matchbox turned ugly when the former, along with his kin, killed the youth with a sword here on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Bhai Manj Road. The accused shopkeeper has been identified as Sarbjit Singh, alias Shabba.Lovejit Singh, brother of the deceased, in his complaint to the police stated that Gurpreet had gone to Shabba’s shop in the neighboring street to buy a matchbox. After buying a matchbox he returned home, he added. When the victim opened matchbox packet he found that it was wet, he said. Gurpreet went back to the shop to change the matchbox, he said. But, shopkeeper Shabba started arguing and reportedly abused Gurpreet, he added. In a fit of rage, Gurpreet also abused Shabba, he said. The complainant claimed that Gurpreet returned home after the verbal spat.After some time Shabba, along with his family and four unknown youths, armed with sharp weapons, came to Gurpreet’s home. They threatened to kill Gurpreet. Somehow, Gurpreet’s family members managed to send them back.When Gurpreet came home, he got information that Shabba had visited his home and threatened to kill him. The complainant claimed that when Gurpreet went to Shabba’s house to ask him why they did not end the issue the accused and his family members killed him with sharp weapons.The police have registered a case against Sarbjit Singh, alias Shabba, and four unidentified persons. Sources in the Police Department claimed that Gurpreet was also facing several criminal cases. He had some old rivalry with the accused, the sources added. However, the police are also investigating the wet matchbox issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-killed-with-sword-over-wet-matchbox-as-verbal-duel-turns-ugly-in-amritsar-336736
11-11-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Navjot Singh Sidhu’s pet projects in Amritsar fail to see light of day||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 10With Navjot Singh Sidhu emerging stronger than ever in his political career when he can enforce his will upon the Punjab Chief Minister and the Congress high command, residents of the holy city expect that he would show determination to complete his pet projects.In the list of projects which failed to see the light of day is the 0.75-km-long stretch of the road from Naian Wala Morh to B-Block Railway Colony. Sidhu, an MP then, had laid the foundation stone of the Rs 87-lakh project on December 22, 2011.The road adjacent to the Army area had remained closed for almost two and a half decades before it was got opened by Sidhu. Even as the work had initially started, it came to a halt after a few days.Another ambitious project which failed to see the light of day is multipurpose sports stadium in E Block of Ranjit Avenue. The foundation stone of the stadium was laid in 2011. The proposed facility was to have a cricket ground, an athletics track and a football ground, besides lawn tennis courts.Shifting the Bhagtanwala garbage dump, which has been the core issue in almost every election, is also still unresolved. A memorial of Master Tara Singh, an iconic figure of Akali movement, and even action on report complied regarding anomalies in municipal corporations during his stint as a local bodies minister is still pending. His announcement made in 2018 regarding the beautification of Harike lake is still far from reality.In the past, Sidhu regarding his projects had alleged that SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal had scuttled his projects. With him as the PPCC president now and a most likely face for the Congress in the next Assembly elections, residents stated that he should fulfill all his promises.A resident of Nwa Kot area, Balwinder Kumar said, “Sidhu is seen as a strongest politician in the state at this time who can do anything he wants. If he chooses to construct the road from Naian Wala Morh to B Block, there is no person in the government to scuttle his projects now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-singh-sidhus-pet-projects-in-amritsar-fail-to-see-light-of-day-336735
11-11-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Encroachment on Lawrence Road property of Amritsar MC: Rintu, Jaggi not on same page||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 10The prime land of the Municipal Corporation on corner of Lawrance Road (Jamnuanwali Gali side) has become the talk of town as someone has constructed a wall alongside the property. The city Mayor, Karamjit Singh Rintu, and the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Malwinder Singh Jaggi, are contradicting each other on the demarcation of property.Jaggi claimed that chances of encroachment had ended with the construction of wall as it was feared that the owner of the property behind the MC plot would encroach government land.“It is positive development that someone, who may try to encroach our land, limits himself to his own plot. We can’t stop anyone from constructing wall on his property. We had erected a fence of tin sheets to protect our property. Now as the wall has been constructed there is no need of our fencing,” said Jaggi.However, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that the land mafia had encroached 100 sq yard land worth crores with connivance of Municipal Corporation (MC) officials.“I asked officials concerned of the estate wing to stop the construction of wall, but they didn’t take action. We got complaints regarding this property in the past too, but no efforts have been made to protect it. The abandoned structure of electricity board has been deliberately removed to give way to encroachers,” said Rintu.There is 100 sqyard prime land worth Rs5 crore, lying abandoned for the last several years. Once, the property was allotted to Punjab Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for installing transformers.Some MC officials claimed that on complainant of some residents the PSPCL shifted electricity poles to another plot of the MC on the same road a few years ago.The abandoned powercom complaint office building was there till last year, they said. The land mafia had an eye on the land and the MC had got some complaints in this regard too, they added.A tin fencing was erected by the civil wing of the MC on the plot, they said. A month ago, someone broke open tin fencing, but the MC didn’t take any action in this regard, they added. Later, a wall was constructed on the property, they said.“We will get the revenue record tomorrow and conduct an inquiry. We may call a house meeting to take action against officials, who allowed encroachment on the plot with the connivance of the land mafia. I will not allow encroachment on an inch of the land owned by the MC,” said Rintu. “No one can encroach an inch of the MC land till I am here,” said Jaggi.The bone of contentionThe wall is not on our land. No one can encroach on the MC land. The neighbouring property owner has constructed wall on his own land. We can’t stop him from doing so. He ended the issue of land demarcation by constructing this wall. — Malwinder Singh Jaggi, Commissioner, MCThe wall has been constructed on the MC land. The civic body property has been encroached in connivance with MC officials. We will demarcate land after obtaining records and also conduct an inquiry. — Karamjit Singh Rintu, Mayor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/encroachment-on-lawrence-road-property-of-amritsar-mc-rintu-jaggi-not-on-same-page-336734
