12-11-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Lack of fire safety equipment: Amritsar city hospitals may turn into death chambers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 11In the wake of 15 deaths, including four newborns at two different hospitals in Maharashtra and Bhopal due to fire, a reality check by The Tribune revealed that hospitals in the city – both government and private – are ill equipped to deal with an untoward situation.The hospitals, especially the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital and Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, have worn out fire safety equipment. The new blocks at both the hospitals were relatively better equipped. Even fire hydrants to which hoses of fire engines get attached for refilling were either defunct or missing, thus in case of any mishap, precious time gets lost. In some cases, water-carrying pipes attached to water source points were found missing. Even glass panels of safety equipment boxes and fire alarms were broken and non-functional.Due to presence of large numbers of highly-combustible substances, including chemicals and gases, hospitals always need better fire safety equipment to douse flames. Coupled with inability of patients to move on their own, chances of casualties always remain high.Most private hospitals and nursing homes, lack proper fire safety measures and use portable fire extinguishers. However, efficiency and training of the staff to use it during emergency can gauged from the fact that no fire safety training or mock drill has been conducted. As most nursing homes have been situated in narrow lanes, it becomes very difficult for the Fire Department to respond in time.Safety Norms||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lack-of-fire-safety-equipment-amritsar-city-hospitals-may-turn-into-death-chambers-337177
12-11-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC demolishes illegal wall||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 11A team of the municipal corporation (MC) led by Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi on early morning Thursday demolished a wall constructed by an individual (neighbour) at prime property of the civic body on Lawrence Road.The estate wing officials said after measurement, they found that the wall was in fact on the MC land.Malwinder Singh Jaggi, Commissioner, Amritsar Municipal Corporation, said, “I visited the site in morning along with Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh and Superintending Engineer (civil wing) Sandeep Singh. We got the area measured and found that the boundary wall constructed by the neighbour was not as per demarcation. The wall was demolished in my presence.”The Commissioner asked the Superintending Engineer to ensure that the neighbour does not deviate from actual measurements again.Meanwhile, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu asked why the MC officials did not stop construction of the wall, when he called them yesterday. “They were aware that the wall was being constructed on the MC land, but they did not act in order to favour the plot owner. How come the MC officials got enlightened overnight? However, it is good that the wall has been demolished. Now, we will get it demarcated from the Revenue Department so that nobody can encroach upon it in future.”Who is paying for this negligence?Civic body reportedly paid heavy amount to the PSPCL for shifting transformers in 2008 and also provided an alternative land. The MC also spent money on demolishing the old structure of the PSPCL a few months ago. Tin sheets installed by the MC have been damaged by encroachers. “Why the MC did not file a complaint against the person who removed tin sheets from the property? Why money of tax payers is being wasted? Something is fishy. The matter needs to be investigated,” said Advocate Kuljit Singh, who is also a social activist.Civic body’s ownership board missing on siteSeveral activists questioned that why the MC has abandoned the prime land. As per provision, the MC should demarcate the land and install an ownership board. A section of residents questioned the move of the MC after they demolished old structure of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) complaint centre. Even the Mayor had asked why the old structure was pulled down without any new proposal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-demolishes-illegal-wall-337176
12-11-2021||PK Jaiswar||Illegal dog fight club busted by Amritsar rural police||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 11With the arrest of four persons, the Amritsar rural police on Thursday busted an illegal dog fighting club. The police rescued six American pitbulls from Chhota Fatehabad village falling under the Ajnala subdivision here.This is perhaps the first-of-its-kind raid in the district, though earlier a similar illegal dog fighting tournament was busted in Tarn Taran two years ago. At that time, Tarn Taran police had rescued two dogs, including a pitbull and a Pakistani mastiff.Rakesh Kaushal, SSP, Amritsar rural police, said he got a call from Animal Rights activist, environmentalist and senior BJP leader Maneka Gandhi that an illegal dog fight was being organised in the Ajnala side and asked for immediate action.“Following this, the information was developed as we wanted to catch the offenders red-handed while organising the fights otherwise they would have taken different stances to save their skins,” informed Kaushal. Interestingly, they claimed to have taken the ‘requisite’ permission from the police department while no such permission was given.He said a raid was conducted at Chhota Fattewal village late on Wednesday night when the suspects were organising the fights. Those arrested from the spot included Captain Singh, Sarabjit Singh and Satnam Singh of Fattewal village, Amanpreet Singh of Dayalgarh village in Sadar Batala.“The accused released the canines in the open fields which were chased and rescued by cops,” said SSP, while adding that the raiding police party also recovered as many as 21 bikes, an SUV of those who had come to watch or participate in the dog fight and huge electricity wire for lighting search lights for the fight. They fled from the spot. They would be identified as nominated in the FIR.The fight was being held within a huge four-sided walled area on the outskirts of the village. During a preliminary probe, the police also booked former sarpanch Puran Singh of Fattewal village, Samra, Harry and Mantej of Ajnala who were allegedly organisers of the dog fight, which is completely banned in the country.Animal lovers state that these dogs are initially trained to kill rabbits and cats. They are kept hungry for a long time so that they become angry and become blood thirsty. “They were injected heavy doses of intoxicants or pain killers so that they become numb to injuries and rip out the flesh of other dogs,” they added.The accused also went live on internet channels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-dog-fight-club-busted-by-amritsar-rural-police-337175
12-11-2021||---||Covid test camp for Pak-bound pilgrims on November 14, 15||Amritsar, November 11The SGPC will organise a two-day Covid-19 testing camp on November 14 for Sikh pilgrims aspiring to visit Gurdwara Janam Asthan, Sri Nankana Sahib, Pakistan, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.The camp will be organised at Teja Singh Samundri Hall, the SGPC headquarters in Amritsar, in collaboration with the Health Department.The jatha of Sikh pilgrims will depart for Pakistan on the occasion of Prakash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) on November 17 and will return on November 26.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the birth anniversary of the first Guru would be celebrated on November 19 with pomp and show in the country and abroad.She said in addition to the Covid-19 vaccination, a 72-hour advance negative report of Covid-19 was mandatory for the pilgrims going to Pakistan.“Accordingly, the SGPC has arranged Covid-19 test for pilgrims. The camp would be conducted from 10am to 1pm on November 14 and 15 at the SGPC office in collaboration with the Health Department,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur.She said the pilgrims who had applied for visas to visit the shrines in Pakistan should come to this camp for the Covid-19 test. She said the pilgrims who wanted to undergo the test at their own level should bring a report issued 72 hours before their departure for Pakistan.No +ve case reported in Amritsar districtAmritsar: The district on Thursday reported no positive case of Covid-19 on the second consecutive day. The Health Department, however, reported the recovery of four patients, taking the tally of those recuperated to 45,797. At present, the district has a total of four active cases. Meanwhile, 7,873 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of these, 3,352 received the first dose of the vaccine and 4,521 second dose. TNS110 get second dose of vaccineTarn Taran: A team of the Health Department organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp at the local Majha College for Women here on Thursday. Around 110 persons were vaccinated the second doze. Dr Hardeep Kaur, principal of the college, said the teaching, non-teaching staff and students above the age of 18 were given jabs in the camp. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-test-camp-for-pak-bound-pilgrims-on-november-14-15-337174
12-11-2021||---||More Go First flights from Amritsar airport now||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 11Go First (formerly known as GoAir) has launched six new domestic flights from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport today. Out of these, two flights will be for Mumbai, one for Srinagar and three for New Delhi with convenient connections through its hubs in Mumbai and Delhi to/from Bengaluru, Jammu,Patna, Varanasi, Lucknow, Maldives, Goa, Ranchi, Cochin, Nagpur, Jaipur and Chennai.Speaking on the occasion, of the first 45-minute flight, G8 2403 that took off from Amritsar to Srinagar at 12.15 pm, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla said it would give an impetus to the economy of Amritsar. “Due to Covid, many national and international flights were cancelled, which was a major blow to the economy of Amritsar but now the resumption of these flights would boost the economy of the district,” he said.Aujla said Amritsar being a religious place attracts a large number of pilgrims, so the closed international flights would be resumed soon. “Go First owners Mohit Kumar and Sumit Kumar had assured that international flights would be started soon. He demanded that flights to UAE , Guwahati and Sri Nanded Sahib,” he said.Kaushik Khona, Chief Executive Officer, Go First, said: “The addition of these new stations will not only make our network robust but provides customers direct connectivity to metros and other important cities and beyond. We will continue to grow, while sustaining optimum level of customer service and efficiency.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/more-go-first-flights-from-amritsar-airport-now-337173
12-11-2021||Amritsar||LPG cylinder explodes in sweet shop in Amritsar; none hurt||Panic gripped Basant Avenue area after an LPG gas cylinder exploded following an eruption of fire in a sweet shop here on Thursday. Though no loss of life was reported, the shop and a scooter parked outside it destroyed in the fire.A short circuit is stated to the reason behind the incident. Team of Fire Brigade along with fire tenders reached the spot and doused the fire. They also pulled out two more LPG cylinders, averting a major incident.Deepak Ahuja, owner of the shop, told the police that a short circuit led to eruption of fire which later reached an LPG cylinder resulting in the blast. He said the fire caused extensive damage to the shop.2 arrested for ‘firing’The city police have booked seven persons for allegedly firing in Mohkampura area leading to panic in the area here on Wednesday.The police nabbed two of them and the rest fled the scene. Those arrested have been identified as Amritpal Singh, aka Karan, of Dashmesh Nagar and Sukhpal Singh of Gaggomahal village in Ajnala, now residing in Sundar Nagar locality in Mohkampura. Besides, the police have booked Rockey, Love, Sanjiv Kumar, alias Chira, Suri Bhaiya, Rahul Jatt, alias Kallu, and Amit Mehra, all residents of different localities in Mohkampura.Sham Singh, a resident of Krishna Nagar in Jaura Phatak area, told the police that the accused were allegedly involved in selling intoxicants in the area. He had stopped them and so, they fired in the air while threatening him with dire consequences. The police have registered a case. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lpg-cylinder-explodes-in-sweet-shop-in-amritsar-none-hurt-337172
12-11-2021||---||KMSC condemns attack on farmers in Ferozpur||Amritsar, November 11The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee condemned the attack on farmers in Ferozpur here on Thursday.Also read: Akali leader Noni Mann, driver booked for bid to ‘run over’ farmers in FerozepurThe meetings of the Ajnala, Gaggomahal and Guru Ka Bagh zones were held under the chairmanship of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab. Addressing today’s meeting, state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher and state office secretary Gurbachan Singh Chabba said convoys of thousands of farmers and labourers would march towards the Delhi morcha on November 24. He said the committee not only condemned the attack on farmers but also demanded action against the culprits. Farmer leader Gurlal Singh Mann, Kanwardlip Sadolehal said that BJP has lost the trust of people all over the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-condemns-attack-on-farmers-in-ferozpur-337171
12-11-2021||Amritsar||6 booked for killing youth||Minority panel member’s visitTarn Taran: Lal Hussain, a member of the Punjab State Minority Community Commission, on Thursday visited Dargapur Garbi village to have first-hand information regarding the alleged encroachment of the land of the village graveyard and disrespecting the sentiments of the Muslim community. The complaint in this regard was lodged with the commission by members of the Muslim community and Manjinder Singh, sarpanch of the village. The complainants alleged that the encroachers had not only encroached upon the land of the graveyard, but also hurt the religious sentiments of the Muslim community by disrespecting the graveyards of their forefathers and were disposing of their garbage on the land. The graveyard was spread in an area of four canals and nine marlas. Lal Hussain ordered the district administration to get the land vacated and submit the report within 10 days to the commission’s office. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-booked-for-killing-youth-337169
