14-05-2021||In the morning||A fighter till the very last||Two things were universally known about him — his joie de vivre and his never-say-die spirit. Like many others, his daughter Natasha had been incarcerated under various sections of the law, including the dreadful UAPA, for around a year now. Not once did he give up on her or on the struggle that ensued in the courts for justice. Never did he meet and greet all and sundry without a welcoming smile, even during this period of great stress and uncertainty, compounded by the surge of the dreaded virus. Conversations with him on the phone too were always full of the same spirit, the voice as strong and chirpy as ever. One called for an update, hoping to buttress his spirits, but all conversations ended as they began — on a positive note.‘Dissent is decent’ is what he said in an interview. The quip aptly characterises the essence of the democratic spirit that has to have space for all shades of opinion without fear of reprisal. Occasionally, if not often, I had serious differences of opinion with him. He always took it in his stride in a cool and composed manner, giving space to me and what I had to say. Never once did the exchange take an ugly turn. This, indeed, was the hallmark of a man deeply sensitive, caring and considerate towards the point of view of others. He put into practice what he said, never letting go of his decency, just as he never let go of his fighting spirit in the face of injustice.One knows not what dark thoughts might have clouded his mind in his battle for justice for Natasha, especially at times when he was with himself, alone. All his life he had aligned himself with social causes and with institutions engaged in the spread of the scientific temper. The confidence that comes from the combination of the deep well of ideas, working on the ground and unflinching faith in the march of enlightened, progressive thought perhaps acted as an anchor for him. That probably helped him stay the course even in the face of adversity. Grace under pressure is what characterises him for me.Adieu, friend — the one who effortlessly created a niche for himself in the hearts of many.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/a-fighter-till-the-very-last-252450
