19-05-2021||Disturbed! That’s the mood. That's the sentiment since this second wave of Covid took us by storm. Pain and agony||Life will go on, but won’t feel the same||Of late, my dreams have turned into nightmares, drawing from pictures that flood our lives - a stranger's face distorted by the grief of losing a dear one, the frantic screams of those queuing up outside hospitals and waiting to get in, burning pyres lighting up the night skies, bodies floating around in rivers and people falling to this pandemic. There is no dignity even in death.All this is heavy. Grief is heavy no matter who carries it. And, through such days, we are all trying to stay sane, to go through life like this will all blow over one day, just to stay alive.Between the nights of troubled sleep and days of despair, like lots of others, I am struggling, too. I am attempting to stay occupied with what I like most — cooking, photography and writing between intervals of work. When I call it a day, I almost like ending up exhausted, so exhausted that I sleep as soon as my head touches the pillow.Exhaustion, however, can't seem to numb this nagging guilt that keeps gnawing at me when I feel happy, every time I laugh loudly, each time I smile.I feel guilty because at that very moment, so many are struggling to take their last breath, children are becoming orphans, old parents are losing a child, somebody’s worrying about his next meal and the list is endless. I oscillate between this need for happiness and the guilt that weighs it down. I have no clue which way I want to swing. All I know is I want to survive.So, when the guilt gets the better of me and my thoughts become laden with despair, I put them down and lose myself to happy ways till sanity returns and I can muster the strength to weather more.My search for happiness, invariably, takes me to the rising sun, the azure skies, the chirping birds, the blooming flowers, and to food.As hope begins to work a feel-good moment, guilt strikes back. It underlines that we won’t ever go back to the normalcy we knew. When we step out, there will be smiles we will miss and people who would have become pictures, there will be forever a void and today’s scars will be a constant reminder of the helplessness we felt. This will be incurable.The cure will grow from this new normal — when, one day, an office-goer will again feel the Monday blues after a weekend and thread his way through traffic, a mother will struggle to wake up her child for school, the siren-shrieking ambulance will make way for the blaring horn of a school bus and the restlessness of a routine will replace this rancid smell of fear.Life won’t switch back to the pre-virus times, but it will go on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/life-will-go-on-but-wont-feel-the-same-255098
