20-05-2021||I often reminisce||Much to learn from a people’s job||It had placed the world before me, making me meet people — almost every hour, from various pockets of the globe. At 7 am, someone from Tokyo; at 7.10 am, someone from Sydney; around 8 am, someone from Chicago, and so on. The conversations were engrossing.There was always so much to learn from them, especially their beautiful perspectives towards life, and how travelling could make it richer.Hence, I didn’t mind extending my work hours, and occasionally even landed early. As I flagged my auf wiedersehen to my shift, I eagerly eyed the next one.Encountering a plethora of human behaviours, my colleagues and I also faced unpleasant scenes, for which we received regular training, aimed to rouse empathy in us. There were guests, who would throw the room key card at us, shouting, ‘It’s not working,’ or simply didn’t cooperate to obey the mandatory rules, such as submitting an ID during check-in.But a minute later, there was always someone to cheer us up. One time, as I apologised to an elderly American lady due to the long wait, she rolled out compassion, ‘It’s not your fault since I arrived during the rush hour. So why apologise?’Best was when German guests stood before me. I enjoyed talking to them in German, the language I picked up during my higher studies in Switzerland. ‘We didn’t expect a German welcome in Delhi!’ they echoed.I lounged on cloud nine also when celebrities would be expected. I met many of them. During morning meetings, we were oriented to their arrivals, and any additional roles we had to play.Of all my experiences, the most extraordinary was when I welcomed the famous writer Ruskin Bond, for a few nights’ stay, carrying out all the check-in formalities in his room. I was so thrilled that I soon announced this opportunity on Facebook, sharing my picture with him.‘I had never imagined that I would ever meet you and I can never forget your stories we had in our syllabus at school,’ I fumbled, while we were still in the elevator, adding that I also loved writing.A day later, I printed two of my pieces and took Bond’s appointment. He calmly scanned them, advising me nothing more than ‘read, read, read,’ and cheerfully began talking about the magic of writing. On his 87th birthday, I wish to convey not only my heartiest greetings, but also expect more books from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/much-to-learn-from-a-peoples-job-255512
