21-05-2021||I have seen the TV serial ‘The Good Doctor’. It is a noble profession and doctors are bound by the professional oath of honesty||Saving lives at the cost of their own||Even outside the pandemic, doctors go beyond their duty, facing tremendous challenges. I have witnessed, time and again, the extraordinary competence, commitment and courage of our doctors. Starting from Uganda in 1998, the numerous medical missions to over 20 countries in Africa and in India, they have worked against all odds. When our team of surgeons and volunteers arrived at Kampala, there were threats of bomb blasts. Yet two surgeons, Dr SPS Grewal and Dr Uma Pradhan, flew on a small plane to Gulu, the epicentre of insurgency. They performed cataract surgeries for five days, giving vision to over 250 people. We went to Nigeria in 2000. There were constant threats. There was so much need that we went there thrice. Kidnapping had become a norm. In Abuja, there was constant fear of Boko Haram. Our team was given security by the Nigerian government. Our doctors performed miracles, giving vision, mobility and life to many. I wish I could name all these heroes. However, some names deserve mentioning — Dr GS Kochhar, Dr RS Parmar, Dr PS Chari, Dr Rajiv Pradhan and Dr Madhav Borate. We have gone to over 25 countries in Africa and elsewhere. The fatal danger was also the exposure to HIV/AIDS. These doctors rose above their professional commitment and treated the needy, often using double gloves and other protection. In Lesotho, our surgeons Dr Parmar and Dr Taposhi Patnaik got needle pricks while operating upon an HIV/AIDS patient. They had to take antiretroviral therapy.Our medical missions within India started in 2006. The locations were determined on the basis of local needs. In 2007, the team went to Baripada, Odisha, an active centre of Maoists. Our team worked at Jagdalpur, Chhattisgarh, the home of Naxals. The doctors performed their tasks courageously and with commitment.In Dimapur, Nagaland, a critical surgery was being performed by their local surgeon. They requested our doctors’ assistance, but unfortunately, the patient died. Although the consent form was signed by the patient, the relatives created a ruckus and were prepared to kill them. Thankfully, the matter was resolved by the District Magistrate.For the doctors working in hospitals for Covid patients, the challenges are immense and life threatening. Yet, they are working against all odds for the sake of humanity. The great German medical missionary who worked in Africa, Dr Albert Schweitzer, had said, ‘I do not know what your destiny will be, but one thing I know: the only ones among you who will be really happy are those who will have sought and found how to serve.’ This is the spirit of our doctors. Let us bow to them and their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/saving-lives-at-the-cost-of-their-own-255994
