27-05-2021||After a three-week bout with Covid||Covid’s tryst with science||Illnesses happen and well-meaning friends and neighbours are always ready with advice on different therapies. They come forward with suggestions of alternative cures and magic potions. Herbal concoctions are proposed. Tiny homeopathic pills are sent over at the drop of a tincture. But this time around, there has been very little of that. It is as if the sheer magnitude of the malady has stunned everyone into silence. People quietly take what the doctor prescribes. For once, even the friendly, know-all neighbour has kept his peace.Early on, I was advised breathing exercises, particularly pranayama. I can understand the need to inhale-exhale more air continuously and strengthen the heart-lung muscles, but pranayama has foxed me. This involves holding the breath inside while doing different mudras. When we inhale oxygen, it immediately does its blood-cleansing job and gets converted into carbon dioxide, which is a body waste. How is, in lay terms, holding it inside good for the system, I asked my friend. He said he would get back to me.In every stratum of society, most people avoided recourse to unverified mumbo-jumbo. For once, no one wanted to take any chances. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat did say that Ganga jal will cure the virus, but he kept his mouth shut after that. His immediate predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat has now ventured an opinion on social media that the ‘virus too has a right to live’. At a certain philosophical level, he may have a point, but under the circumstances, he should have kept to himself.‘Life is never going to be the same’ is one of the most used adages today. There will be changes — some reversed in due course, but some will become immutable. Even the mindset of people will undergo a change. What will definitely take a hit is blind faith in therapies not verified by proper scientific investigation. By and large, there were no takers for ‘alternative’ healers — from peddlers of placebo drugs to vendors of ‘magic remedies’. Most folks went by what medical science told them, even as it acknowledged that it still has to learn much about the disease. A little more trust in science could be one positive outcome of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/covids-tryst-with-science-258952
