28-05-2021||Surinderjit Singh Sandhu||The lasting appeal of nambardari||In 1997, land revenue (mamla) and water rate (abiana) were abolished, and the issue of abolishing the post of nambardar remained a hot topic. It was considered that since other types of recovery of government dues will continue, and identification of people for various purposes will be needed, the post of nambardar should continue. The remuneration of a nambardar used to be pachotra, i.e. 1/5 of the land revenue of a revenue estate. This was replaced by a fixed monthly honorarium. In both cases, the amount paid to a nambardar is a pittance. But the clamour for the post and its glamour never waned.At a divisional headquarter, a CM was discussing some issues with the Divisional Commissioner. ‘Ministers of your area and almost all the MLAs are not happy with you, they say that you never pick up their phones,’ he said. The commissioner replied, ‘They are right, sir, they interfere in my court work, mostly so in nambardari cases and that I cannot allow.’The CM remarked, ‘They don’t even spare your court! Don’t worry.’The family of a senior high court lawyer, who also worked as Additional Advocate-General, owned the maximum land in his village. His father had retired as a senior civil servant and his uncle was the nambardar of the village. Nambardari had remained in the family for close to 100 years. So, when the nambardar died, everyone felt that nambardari should remain in the family. When the proclamation was made in the village to fill the vacant post, family conferences were held to discuss who should apply for the post. It was decided that the advocate should apply. Initially, he was reluctant as his name had been recommended for the post of a high court judge. However, family sentiments prevailed and he went to the tehsil office and applied for the post. Two other candidates jumped in the fray. After about 10 adjournments in six months, the tehsildar recommended his name to the SDM. The SDM took another two months to endorse the recommendation to the Collector.By then, scores of complaints had flown around, alleging that the family was like the dacoits of Chambal, sycophants of the British, traitors, and what not.The advocate perceived that even the Chief Justice had started suspecting his credentials. All this was happening because the other two candidates were mischievous and aligned to a powerful political leader of the area. The advocate was worried as he was not finding a way to wriggle out of this ticklish situation. After hearing the arguments in the case, the DC fixed the date for the pronouncement of the judgment. It fell like a bombshell when the advocate’s name was rejected, as he was not residing in the village. The family persisted to file appeal in the court of the commissioner, but the will of the advocate prevailed. He convinced everyone by asking, ‘Do you want me to become a judge or a nambardar?’He became not only an HC judge, but also its Chief Justice in due course.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/the-lasting-appeal-of-nambardari-259592
