12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers to block Delhi-Jaipur highway||More farmers were streaming towards the national capital on Friday in response to the call from protesting unions to intensify the on-going agitation against the three agricultural marketing reform laws by blocking the Delhi-Jaipur highway, and picketing toll plazas on Saturday. Police personnel have been deployed to deal with the situation and provide alternate routes for commuters. For the last two weeks, tens of thousands of farmers have gathered at several points on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. They are demanding a full repeal of the three contentious laws passed by Parliament in September. “More farmers have now joined the dharna sites at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Palwal,” said a statement from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. “Farmers from Tamil Nadu have arrived and groups of farmers from almost all States of India shall be arriving to join the Delhi protest soon,” it added. Tractor march In Amritsar, thousands of farmers and farm labourers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Samiti started a tractor-trolley ‘march’ for Delhi on Friday to ensure the ongoing agitation doesn’t lose steam. The Samiti is the only Punjab outfit which is still continuing with the ‘rail roko’ agitation, preventing the movement of passenger trains in Amritsar. “We started our march to Delhi after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Thousands of farmers and labourers from Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Ferozpur, Fazilka, Jalandhar and Moga districts are on the move. We are carrying all essentials, including food and medical supplies, on our tractor-trolleys and vans. We will stop at Shahbad in Haryana tonight and on Saturday will head towards Delhi,” Sarvan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the Punjab unit of the Samiti, told The Hindu . “Our aim is to not let the agitation on Delhi border lose momentum. The Centre will have to bow to our demands and repeal farm laws,” he said. The new laws are meant to benefit private players and end government procurement, resulting in elimination of the mechanism of minimum support price (MSP), he added. The Centre has maintained that the MSP will not be affected by the new laws, which it claims will help increase farm income. The Congress also plans to hold demonstrations at the ‘Shambu border’ on December 14 in support of the farmers, said the party’s State chief Sunil Jakhar. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Agra Highway have been blocked at Palwal by farmers from Madhya Pradesh for a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-to-block-delhi-jaipur-highway-picket-toll-plazas/article33311781.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Quash defamation case, Kanimozhi urges HC||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader M.K. Kanimozhi on Friday took strong exception to a criminal defamation case booked against her for allegedly accusing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of encouraging corruption, and urged the Madras High Court to quash the case. Appearing before Justice N. Sathish Kumar, senior counsel P. Wilson said the defamation case had been filed by a public prosecutor, at the instance of the State government, for a public speech delivered by Ms. Kanimozhi in Tindivanam on September 18, 2018. Role as watchdog Stating that the role of the Opposition was that of a watchdog in a democracy, the counsel wondered how criminal defamation cases could be slapped against Opposition leaders for having discharged their duties as elected representatives of the people. He said slapping of such cases amounted to stifling the right to freedom of speech and expression. Attacking the prosecution on technical grounds too, he said Ms. Kanimozhi had only used the word “Edappadi” in her speech, though the name of the Chief Minister was K. Palaniswami. “Edappadi is actually the name of a place. It need not necessarily refer to the Chief Minister. Even a government order issued for launching the prosecution does not mention the name of the Chief Minister. It only says honourable Chief Minister,” the counsel pointed out. On the other hand, State public prosecutor (SPP) A. Natarajan asked whether the use of the term “Kalaignar” would refer to former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi or not. “Similarly, even a small child in the State will know that Edappadi refers only to the honourable Chief Minister,” he said. The SPP also said the petitioner had accused the incumbent AIADMK government of being corrupt and stated that the Chief Minister could be given the title of “corruption king”. This squarely falls within the domain of criminal defamation, he said, opposing the quash petition. After hearing both, the judge directed the High Court Registry to list the case on December 18 for submitting Supreme Court rulings on the issue.  The counsel wondered how criminal defamation cases could be slapped against Opposition leaders for having discharged their duties as elected representatives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quash-defamation-case-kanimozhi-urges-hc/article33311930.ece
12 December 2020||Kolkata,||Nadda attack: MHA summons top West Bengal officials||The row over Thursday’s attack on the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda in West Bengal’s Diamond Harbour escalated on Friday, with the Union Home Ministry summoning the West Bengal Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police to attend a meeting on December 14 to discuss the “law and order situation in the State, including the incident regarding certain Z category protectees”. State Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhay, however, urged Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla in a letter, to “kindly dispense with the presence of the State officials” at the meeting, saying that the State government “is already addressing this issue with utmost seriousness”. In the attack on Mr. Nadda’s convoy, several vehicles were damaged and party leaders, including national general secretary Kaliash Vijayvargiya, injured. In a strong response to the attack, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said, “What happened yesterday was an unfortunate slur on democracy,” adding that he had sent a report to the Centre on the incident. In his letter Mr. Bandyopadhay said three cases, two for vandalism at Usthi and Falta police stations under the Diamond Harbour Police district, had been registered and seven persons arrested in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mha-summons-top-bengal-officials-over-attack-on-nadda/article33311783.ece
12 December 2020||Mangaluru,||Alliance Air starts Mangaluru-Mysuru services||As the Alliance Air Flight AI 9532 from Mysuru landed at Mangaluru International Airport on its maiden flight on Friday forenoon, it heralded a new era of connectivity between the tier-2 cities known for tourism and commercial activities. The inaugural flight of Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, arrived with 25 passengers and left with 41 passengers. The inaugural flight was welcomed with a zestful water cannon salute by MIA authorities. Aboard the flight, India Post released a special cover to mark the inaugural flight. The aircraft has a capacity to seat 70 passengers. Fares between Mangaluru and Mysuru start from Rs. 2,531, inclusive of taxes. The non-UDAN flight by Alliance Air AI 9532 operates four days a week [Wednesday, Friday Saturday and Sunday] leaving Mysuru at at 11.20 a.m. to reach Mangaluru at 12.30 p.m. In the return direction, Alliance Air flight AI 9533 departs Mangaluru at 12.55 p.m. to land at Mysuru at 1.55 p.m. While the road travel takes about seven hours between the two cities famous for tourism and commercial activities and the train connectivity was very limited, the one-hour duration air service would be significant for both the cities. The road stretch passes through the hilly terrain of Western Ghats spread over Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu districts making the journey tedious. Nearly 70,000 people from the coast were settled in Mysuru besides good number of entrepreneurs having business interests were spread across the two regions. Alliance Air CEO Harpreet A. De Singh who was present for the inaugural flight at Mysuru said there was tremendous demand for the flight from the people of both Mysuru and Mangaluru. “Though we were cautious about introducing a non-UDAN flight, we went by the feedback from various trade bodies,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alliance-air-starts-mangaluru-mysuru-services/article33312291.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Strike by transport corporation employees to continue today||A sudden strike call by thousands of personnel from road transportation corporations on Friday morning, which caught the government off guard and left commuters stranded across the city and other parts of Karnataka, will continue on Saturday. Drivers, conductors and other personnel, who have been demanding that they be considered government employees with all the benefits, condemned the apathy and ‘ill-treatment’ on the part of the authorities during the protest at Freedom Park on December 10. They refused appeals by both Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi to call off the strike and report to duty. Commuters, especially those who arrived in the city on Friday morning from other districts, only to remain stranded at bus stops, criticised the government for failing to provide alternative means of transport. Mr. Savadi held a meeting with H.V. Anantha Subba Rao, president of the KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation, and senior officials. However, it is alleged that union leaders who called for the strike or the leaders who supported them were not invited for the meeting. Chandrashekar R., president of Sarige Noukararu Sarakari Noukararaguva Horatada Okkuta, the union that called for an indefinite strike, said they were ready to talk with government representatives but were not approached. “No one approached us or our leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar, who is supporting our cause.” He warned that the strike will continue on Saturday. “The State government held a meeting with union leaders who were not part of the strike. Our primary demand is to be considered government employees. We demand that the State government adopt the measures taken by the Andhra Pradesh government,” he said. The call for strike has exposed the lack consensus among different unions. Mr. Subbarao said that there was a “positive response” from the State government and stressed on the need to ensure a conducive atmosphere during talks. “We did not attend the meeting with the intention to see the strike call given by others fail. We are with the employee. The State government has been also asked to convene a meeting with the people who have called for strike,” he said. He added that they have asked the State government to study the measures taken by the Andhra Pradesh government in a time-bound manner and take further measures. Mr. Savadi later announced that a meeting will be convened with union leaders and the CM at the earliest to discuss their employee status. He promised that within 15 days, compensation of Rs. 30 lakh will be released to the families of employees who died of COVID-19 while on duty and that action would be taken against officials harassing employees. This was one of the demands of protesters. On allegations that the government ignored them during the Freedom Park protest, he said: “Due to the legislature session, I could not meet employees protesting at Freedom Park on Thursday.” KSRTC managing director Shivyogi C. Kalasad said, “The State government has already said that it is ready to discuss the issues raised by employees. We have requested them to report back to duty. Bus services have been declared as essential and disruptions will cause a lot of inconvenience to the general public. We are hoping better sense will prevail and they will report back to duty.” He added that as per the existing rules striking personnel will have to forgo their pay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/strike-by-employees-of-transport-corporations-to-continue-today/article33311804.ece
12 December 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru-Mangaluru flight inaugurated; will enhance region’s connectivity with coast||The long-awaited Mysuru-Mangaluru flight service was inaugurated here on Friday, enhancing the region’s connectivity with the coastal area of the State. It is a non-UDAN flight by Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, and is expected to boost tourism, apart from giving an impetus to investment. Alliance Air flight AI 9532 will operate four times a week — on Wednesday, Friday Saturday, and Sunday. It will depart from Mysuru at 11.20 a.m. and reach Mangaluru at 12.30 p.m. In the return direction, Alliance Air flight AI 9533 will depart from Mangaluru at 12.55 p.m. and land in Mysuru at 1.55 p.m. The Alliance Air will operate ATR-72 type of aircraft with a seating capacity of about 72 passengers given the short runway of Mysuru airport. There were 23 outbound passengers from Mysuru for the inaugural flight and 33 passengers for the return flight. The flight connectivity is significant as Mysuru is home to nearly 65,000 people or around 12,000 families from the coastal belt, apart from a significant number of entrepreneurs who have business interests across the regions. The new flight has been welcomed by the stakeholders from the tourism and hospitality sector and various trade bodies as it reduces the travel time between the two cities. The journey by road is tedious, taking almost eight hours, and also the route passing through the hilly terrain in Kodagu tends to be blocked for weeks during the monsoon, thus disconnecting the two regions. Alliance Air CEO Harpreet A. De Singh, who was present for the inaugural flight, said there was tremendous demand for the flight in both Mysuru and Mangaluru. “Though we were cautious about introducing a non-UDAN flight, we went by the feedback received from various trade bodies,” said Ms. Singh, expressing confidence that the originating passenger air traffic from both the cities would increase in the days ahead. Pratap Simha, Mysuru MP, said lack of regular flight connectivity from the region was a major hindrance for attracting investors and such flights would help drive more investment to Mysuru, besides giving an impetus to tourism development. Sudhakar Shetty of the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry said the coastal belt was an educational hub with students from Mysuru studying in Mangaluru-Udupi-Manipal belt and the flight service would benefit them. It would also open up places of tourist interest in the coastal belt for people of Mysuru and vice versa, he added. The Department of Posts brought out a special cover to mark the inaugural flight. Stakeholders of the region, including members of the airport advisory committee, suggested that the timings of the flight services be tweaked to provide connecting flights from Mangaluru to Mumbai or other destinations as it would obviate the need to travel to Bengaluru airport which would take not less than four hours from the city. Mysuru Airport Director R. Manjunath was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-mangaluru-flight-inaugurated-will-enhance-regions-connectivity-with-coast/article33312093.ece
12 December 2020||CHITTOOR,||Five injured as TDP, YSRCP workers clash in Chittoor district||Five persons were injured and a couple of cars were damaged in a clash between workers of the ruling YSR Congress Party and Telugu Desam Party at Angallu village of Kurabalakota mandal of Tamballapalle Assembly constituency, 130 km from here, on Friday. The police rushed to the spot with heavy forces and took both sides into preventive custody, and cleared the traffic on the busy Kadiri road. According to information, former MLAs Dommalapati Ramesh (Madanapalle) and Shankar Yadav (Tamballapalle) and TDP Piler in-charge Nallari Kishore Kumar Reddy and their followers were on their way to Angallu and B. Kothakota mandal headquarters to call on the families of party workers, who had died in recent months due to various reasons. When the TDP leaders arrived at Angallu, about 100 YSRCP workers squatted on the road and raised slogans demanding that they go back. The TDP cadres accompanying the leaders in about a dozen vehicles resorted to counter-protest, insisting that they should proceed with their schedule. This led to a clash between the two groups in which five persons were injured and some cars damaged. Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari told The Hindu that the police rushed to the spot after both sides staged protests and counter-protests, blocking the Madanapalle-Kadiri road. “In order to prevent law and order problem, we took both sides into preventive custody and shifted them to area police stations under Madanapalle rural, and were later let them off on bail,” he said. Condemning their arrest, the TDP leaders alleged that the YSRCP was following vindictive politics, targeting the Opposition party cadres with “unlawful arrests and intimidation” by manipulating the police. Mr. Kishore Kumar Reddy said the matter would be taken to the notice of the TDP high command and that agitations would be intensified all over the State to expose “criminal politics” of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-injured-as-tdp-ysrcp-workers-clash/article33311686.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIP stays in positive territory for second month at 3.6%||India’s industrial output grew at the fastest pace in eight months in October 2020 at 3.6%, with consumer durables production surpassing levels last seen prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, as per quick estimates from the National Statistical Office (NSO) released on Friday. This was the second month in a row that industrial output recorded positive growth, but economists were cautious about calling it a ‘turnaround’ as October’s numbers were bolstered by pent-up and festive demand and helped by a low base as the index of industrial production had shrunk 6.6% in October 2019. The NSO also revised upwards its estimates for September’s industrial output growth from 0.2% to 0.5%, in light of updated data. Total industrial output so far in 2020-21 is now 17.5% lower than the April 2019-October 2019 period. Electricity generation grew 11.2% in October compared to a 12.2% decline a year ago, while manufacturing activity grew 3.5% in contrast to a 5.7% contraction in October 2019. Mining shrank 1.5%.  “The broad-based growth in manufacturing is significant. Machinery growth has turned positive, which is reflected in capital goods even though there was a very strong base effect,” said CARE Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis. “It needs to be seen if this positive growth can be sustained for another two months before we can conclude that there is a turnaround,” he added. Capital goods recorded positive growth for the first time in 21 months in October. But primary goods continued to record negative growth (-3.3%) while intermediate goods recorded a tepid 0.8% growth, which suggests that the recovery is dissipated and uneven. “The underlying strength of demand remains mixed, and is still tentative in some sectors,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA, who said October’s growth is ‘feebler than expected’ and November 2020 may record slower IIP growth or even a slide back into contraction mode. “A variety of available indicators such as output of coal, electricity, non-oil exports and GST e-way bills have revealed that the pace of growth flagged in November 2020, on account of a combination of an unfavourable base effect, fewer working days related to the shift in the festive calendar, as well as some slack after the satiation of pent-up demand,” she explained. India Ratings principal economist Sunil Kumar Sinha agreed, stressing that while two consecutive months of positive IIP growth is a good sign, one must wait for few more months to believe that the economy is firmly in recovery mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iip-stays-in-positive-territory-for-second-month-at-36/article33311785.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel probing ISRO case set to begin work||A three-member Committee chaired by former Supreme Court judge D.K. Jain is scheduled to begin work on unravelling the rogue officials responsible for the infamous ISRO “frame-up” case of 1994, which destroyed the life and reputation of Nambi Narayanan, one of the country’s prominent space scientists. The Justice Jain committee is expected to sit at Thiruvananthapuram on December 14 and 15. “I have received a call from Justice Jain’s office to come before the committee. I will help with whatever information I can give them about what happened,” Mr. Narayanan toldThe Hinduon Friday. The panel is having its first sitting two years after the Supreme Court constituted it in September 2018 to find “ways and means to take appropriate steps against the erring officials”. It could either opt to function from New Delhi or hold meetings at an appropriate place in Kerala. At the time of his arrest on November 30, 1994, Mr. Narayanan was working on cryogenic engine technology at the premier Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). The police investigators had accused him of passing on documents and drawings of ISRO relating to Viking/Vikas engine technology, cryogenic engine technology and PSLV flight data/drawings to Pakistan. ‘Career smothered’ But the Supreme Court dismissed the case in 2018 as a criminal frame-up based on “some kind fancy or notion”. It said Mr. Narayanan’s career was “smothered.” The scientist himself had said that the prosecution launched by the Kerala police had a “catastrophic effect” on his career and personal life, besides setting back the technological advancement in space research. The CBI, which took over the probe from the Kerala Police, had promptly filed a closure report in 1996. But Mr. Narayanan fought on to bring his accusers to justice. The apex court, in its 2018 judgment, had called the treatment meted out to the scientist while he was in custody “psycho-pathological”. The court ordered the Kerala government to pay Mr. Narayanan Rs. 50 lakh in compensation, though it said mere money was not enough to make up for the torture the scientist had endured for 24 years. An enquiry was called for to look into the circumstances behind the “frame-up.” Mr. Narayanan, in his petition before the Supreme Court, had arraigned former Kerala DGP Siby Mathews, K.K. Joshwa and S. Vijayan (the latter two had retired in senior positions in the police), as responsible. The court had allowed the Centre and the State government to nominate one officer each to the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-probing-isro-case-set-to-begin-work/article33312000.ece
12 December 2020||Guwahati,||NE students observe ‘black day’ against CAA||Students’ organisations across the eight northeastern States relaunched their movement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) by observing a black day on Friday, marking the passage of the law in the Rajya Sabha in 2019. The North East Students’ Organisation (NESO), the apex body of the States and tribe-based student bodies in the region, said they will continue to protest and observe December 11 as a black day until the citizenship law is scrapped. The NESO is comprised of the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU), All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union, Khasi Students’ Union, Mizo Zirlai Pawl, Garo Students’ Union, Naga Students’ Federation, Twipra Students’ Federation and All Manipur Students’ Union. “Members of our constituent organisations displayed black flags and banners at all the important locations across the region. We want the Centre to know we have not forgotten the snub to our opposition to the disastrous Act,” NESO chairman Samuel B. Jyrwa said. ‘Will never accept CAA’ AASU advisor Samujjal Bhattacharyya said the indigenous people of the northeast will never accept CAA. “But we will ensure our protests are peaceful,” he added. The NESO had called a region-wide shutdown on December 10, 2019, after the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill was passed in the Lok Sabha. The protests turned violent the following day, leading to the death of five people, three of them in police firing. The AASU, Krishak Muti Sangram Samiti and other organisations will relaunch the Assam-specific movement against the CAA on Saturday.  We want the Centre to know we have not forgotten the snub to our opposition to the disastrous Act Samuel B. Jyrwa NESO chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ne-students-observe-black-day-against-caa/article33312003.ece
12 December 2020||RAMESWARAM,||9 kg of gold smuggled from Sri Lanka seized from boat||In a major catch, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) personnel intercepted a country boat near Mandapam coast in the wee hours of Friday and found about nine kilograms of gold bars, valued at Rs. 4.50 crore, kept in a cloth bag and concealed in the engine bay. According to the officials, a specific input was received by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials in Thoothukudi on Thursday, and they shared it with other agencies and monitored the sea route along the International Maritime Boundary Line. After about 12 hours of surveillance, the ICG personnel intercepted a country boat near Mandapam and found one Ameen of Maraikayarpattinam in possession of about nine kg of gold bars in the boat. He confessed to the officials that the gold was being smuggled from Sri Lanka and he received it off the Gulf of Mannar. Four others, who were with him in the boat, were also interrogated by the DRI officials. The boat has been impounded. The ICG, in a press release, said it had been maintaining enhanced surveillance in the region and a number of successful anti-smuggling operations had been undertaken in the recent past in close coordination with other agencies. In March, the ICG personnel in Mandapam had in a similar operation seized 15 kg of gold, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9-kg-of-gold-smuggled-from-sri-lanka-seized-from-boat/article33311958.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,||A virtual wedding complete with a feast at home||A lineup of sumptuous food and lip-smacking desserts in the kalyana virundhu or saappadu (feast) and a tambulam pai (betel leaf bag) while leaving the wedding hall — these are things that are a big draw at weddings, apart from love and family ties. However, during COVID-19, many friends and relatives were forced to just bless the couple from their homes as most weddings were live streamed due to restrictions on the number of people allowed to attend the occasion. Sharing a good meal and enjoying the spread on a plantain leaf became a distant memory. But one family in the city wanted things to be different for their son’s wedding. Expressing his wish to remain anonymous despite the invite going viral, the father of the bridegroom told The Hindu how he not only live-streamed the wedding and got blessings from near and dear ones but also decided to go the whole hog by delivering hot kalayna saapadu at their doorsteps with the help of a Chennai-based technology enabled logistics firm called Unanu Technologies, run by Srinivasan Sundararajan, a friend of the host. The wedding was held on December 10 and streamed live for friends and relatives. What surprised many were the words at the end of the invitation: “We request you to honour us by accepting the kalyana saappadu that we will deliver to your home on December 10.” Many were surprised when they got the food on time. Each family got the food prepared by Arusuvai Arasu Caterers, in four well-woven koodais (baskets). There were two big casserole lunch boxes and two small ones — with varieties of food ranging fromsambhar,rasamandpuli sadhamtopaayasam. There were smaller boxes with sweets,beedaand other food items. It had a plantain leaf and tambulam bag too. “We just had to deliver the bags, it was a return gift for the recipients,” said Mr. Sundararajan. He said this was the first time he had tried this. “There were a lot of challenges, but it was a learning experience. As the size of each package was different and huge, it was impossible to deliver it on bikes using food delivery agents and that personal touch would have been lost if it was done through them,” he said. He said 700 packages were delivered to 250 invitees. “We delivered to houses in Tambaram and on the other side of the city in Ayanavaram. We ensured food delivery was on time as we were told there were many elderly guests. We tracked the movement of vehicles and the delivery status online. This is a new vertical business for us,” he added.  New normal  Many caterers, who have taken up wedding assignments, have started delivering the food to guests at home. “We have done it for close to 10 weddings and for each one, we delivered food to 60 guests. We delivered them on our own vehicles. The pandemic has taught people to adapt,” said Bharath Varadarajan, owner of ArrVee caterers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-virtual-wedding-complete-with-a-feast-delivered-at-home/article33311954.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Committee probing ISRO case set to begin work||A three-member Committee chaired by former Supreme Court judge D.K. Jain is scheduled to begin work on unravelling the rogue officials responsible for the infamous ISRO “frame-up” case of 1994, which destroyed the life and reputation of Nambi Narayanan, one of the country’s prominent space scientists. The Justice Jain committee is expected to sit at Thiruvananthapuram on December 14 and 15. “I have received a call from Justice Jain’s office to come before the committee. I will help with whatever information I can give them about what happened,” Mr. Narayanan told The Hindu on Friday. The panel is having its first sitting two years after the Supreme Court constituted it in September 2018 to find “ways and means to take appropriate steps against the erring officials.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/committee-probing-isro-case-set-to-begin-work/article33312360.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Secondary runway in Chennai airport to be resurfaced||The secondary runway of Chennai airport will be resurfaced and the work is expected to start in a few weeks. This move comes in the wake of an audit done by the Directorate of Civil Aviation (DGCA) a few months back. Sources in the airport said, after a detailed inspection of the airport, the DGCA had found wear and tear in the runway pavement and submitted a report. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said it was a routine inspection and corrective action had been taken immediately. “This resurfacing has been in the works for a while. It will be done in three phases. While the first two may be completed in about three or four months, the third phase is likely to be finished in six or seven months. We hope to finish the resurfacing work within a year,” an official said. The secondary runway, whose length is nearly 2,800 m, will go through resurfacing work everyday between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. “On Tuesday and Saturday, when the main runway will be closed for maintenance, the secondary runway’s work will be stopped and be used for handling aircraft operations,” he added. Officials said they had done a bhoomi puja recently and wanted to commence work but the monsoon began, and they decided to put it off for a while till it subsides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/secondary-runway-in-chennai-airport-to-be-resurfaced/article33311971.ece
12 December 2020||MANGALURU,||India Post releases special cover||To mark the maiden flight of Alliance Air between Mysuru and Mangaluru, India Post on Friday released flight special covers. While one special cover was brought from Mysuru to Mangaluru, another cover was taken in the return flight. The front of the special cover from Mysuru to Mangaluru had the pictures of Mahishasura and of Yakshagana artiste. This cover was addressed to Senior Post Master, Mangaluru Head Office. The front cover of the special cover in the return flight had pictures of “Muttale” – the traditional headgear prepared out of arecanut leaves – and of “Mysuru Peta”. This cover was addressed to Senior Post Master, Mysuru HO, from his counterpart in Mangaluru.  In a press release, Senior Post Master, Mangaluru Circle, Shriharsha, said flight special covers are released as part of promotion of philately activity.  Each of the special covers released on Friday costs Rs. 100. Limited quantity of these covers are available for sale at the Philately Bureau of the Mangaluru Head Post Office (0824-2441447), the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-post-releases-special-cover/article33312293.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUCHI,||3 held in T.N. for forcing Dalit boys to remove excreta||Tension gripped Sirukudal village in Perambalur district of Tamil Nadu on Friday after three minor boys belonging to the Scheduled Castes were forced to remove their excreta from an open ground allegedly by some caste Hindus. Three of the six accused were arrested. In the morning, five Dalit boys, aged 13-15, defecated in an open site, being used as a playground by some caste Hindu youth and which belongs to a temple nearby, the police said. The youth allegedly asked them to remove the excreta, giving them gunny sacks and a spade. As news spread, a group of Dalits blocked the village road. On information, a police team rushed to the spot. Protesters continued their demonstration for over half-an-hour, demanding stringent action against the accused. They withdrew the protest on getting assurance that action would be taken, police sources said. The Maruvathur police registered a case under the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015, against the six accused on a complaint from the mother of one of the boys. Charged with rioting Later, the police arrested R. Abinesh, 20, N. Silambarasan, 24, and S. Selvakumar, 23, and were on the look-out for the others. The men were charged with rioting, uttering obscene words in a public place, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation. They were also charged with using filthy language against the Dalit boys and calling them by their caste name. The case would be investigated by an officer of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police. Perambalur Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban toldThe Hinduin the evening that the situation was under control and a police team had been deployed at Sirukudal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-held-in-tn-for-forcing-dalit-boys-to-remove-excreta/article33312001.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Legislative Council to meet on Tuesday||Hours after a BJP delegation met Governor Vajubhai Vala, the Department of Parliamentary Affairs directed the Legislative Council Secretary to convene a session of the Council on Tuesday. This could pave the way to moving a no-confidence motion against its Chairman K. Pratapchandra Shetty and discuss other government business. Secretary, Department of Parliamentary Affairs, K. Dwarakanth Babu directed the Council Secretary to convene the session on Tuesday at 11 a.m. Adjourned Mr. Shetty had adjourned the session sine die on Thursday without the consent of the the Business Advisory Committee of the House, said the communique. Earlier in the day, the BJP delegation, led by the Leader of the Upper House Kota Srinivas Poojari, who is also a Minister, called on the Governor and urged him to direct the Chairman of the Council to convene the session on Tuesday. Controversial Bill The BJP is likely to introduce the anti-cow slaughter Bill in the Council after passing the no-confidence motion against the Chairman, sources said. The Bill had not been taken up for discussion before the Council was adjourned sine die .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/legislative-council-to-meet-on-tuesday/article33311801.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Slot booking for registration of non-agri properties launched||Slot booking for taking up registration, mutation and other land transactions pertaining to non-agricultural properties started on Friday with the government allotting 24 slots each in the sub-registrars’ offices spread across the State. The online system involves booking a slot with the SRO office concerned entering the details of the property. The system would immediately generate the details of the registration charges, stamp duty and other charges based on which payment could be made for booking the slots. The government has set up a separate mechanism for registering documents of those who did not submit their Aadhar details, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said. The Chief Secretary who formally launched the slot booking process in the BRKR Bhavan on Friday afternoon said the new mechanism has been introduced to ensure hassle-free transactions through online system. The development follows direction from the High Court that the government could go ahead with registration process through the old systems. Those interested could book their slots throughwww.registration.telangana .gov.inby paying the requisite charges through net banking. Entering the Property Tax Identification Number is mandatory for slot booking. Those without PTIN number should apply to their nearest local body offices and the same would be generated and communicated to the applicants within two days. The parties could subsequently visit the SRO office on the date and time allotted to them to carry out the transaction and the entire system had been designed in such a way that there was no scope for discretion at any level. He said more than 95 % of the services relating to registration has been made available. Currently, transactions like sale, mortgage with and without possession, deposit of title deed, gift deeds, development agreement, sale agreement without possession and others are available at present. At the same time, steps have been initiated to ensure that necessary security measures were put in place for data systems. A call centre with number 18005994788 would be functioning round the clock and the teams of Information Technology department have been deployed to address grievances, if any, related to online services. Steps have been taken to cater to the needs of real estate dealers and an e-passbook would be generated immediately on registering the property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/slot-booking-to-register-non-agri-properties/article33312149.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chennithala seeks probe against Speaker||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has requested Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to investigate Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan on the twin charges of corruption and extravagance. In a letter to Mr. Khan on Thursday, Mr. Chennithala accused the Speaker of splurging an estimated Rs. 100 crore or more on quixotic projects and meaningless events that had more to do with corruption than public good or legislative business during the time of dire economic hardship. In stark contrast to the Speaker’s unbridled spending, the modern Assembly complex had cost the public exchequer only Rs. 76 crore. Sabha TV He said wasteful expenditure and nepotism marked the launch of Sabha TV when the floods had cratered the State’s finances. The Legislative Secretariat had hired private consultants at high salaries and accommodated them in expensive apartments for the project. He said Sabha TV, envisaged to telecast legislative proceedings, had overstepped its mandate and forayed into fancy programming. The irregularities in the Sabha TV project warranted an anti-corruption inquiry. So far, the legislature has paid more than Rs. 21 lakh to the consultants. Mr. Chennithala said the Speaker had contracted the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) to execute the e-niyamasabha project. He had overlooked the expertise of agencies such as the National Informatics Centre (NIC). He hired the ULCCS, which had questionable proficiency and scant expertise in undertaking such IT-related works. Moreover, the Speaker accorded Rs. 13.59 crore, an estimated 30% of the total project cost, as mobilisation advance to the ULCCS. Mr. Chennithala alleged that ULCCS had made up for its lack of expertise by deviously outsourcing the work to another company. He said the refurbished Assembly lounge was another classic example of overspending at a time of economic hardship. Mr. Chennithala urged Mr. Khan to order a free and fair investigation into the “murky and wasteful” deals struck by Mr. Sreeramakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennithala-seeks-probe-against-speaker/article33312166.ece
12 December 2020||T. Appala Naidu,||Vedanta moots oil, gas exploration in KG basin||Environmental experts and academics are up in arms against the onshore oil and gas development and production proposed by Vedanta Limited (Cairn Oil & Gas Division) at 35 locations in the Kaza block in Krishna district in the Krishna-Godavari basin (KG Basin). Vedanta group has proposed to drill 35 hydrocarbon wells to produce 30,000 barrels of oil per day and 30 million metric standard cubic feet of natural gas in the Kaza block (KG/ONDSF/KAZA/2018 Block) in the KG Basin, with an investment of Rs. 650 crore. According to an official document of the MOEFCC, the exploration will be done up to 10 years in a phased manner beginning from 2021 in a 114.93-sq. km block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vedanta-moots-oil-gas-exploration-in-kg-basin/article33312474.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||High-level panel to probe mysterious illness in West Godavari district||The State government has constituted a 21-member high level multi-disciplinary committee to investigate the mysterious disease that affected hundreds of people in West Godavari district. More than 600 people had taken ill in Eluru and neighbouring villages with symptoms of neurotoxicity, and are undergoing treatment in Eluru Government General Hospital (GGH) and other hospitals. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney will head the committee and Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Anil Kumar Singhal will be the member-convener. Experts from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi and Mangalagiri, World Health Organisation, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, National Institute of Nutrition, National Centre for Disease Control and Indian Council for Medical Research, who camped at Eluru and were investigating the outbreak of the disease, and officers of various State government departments are members of the committee. The committee has been asked to investigate the source of the infection and suggest remedial measures to prevent such incidents in future. The committee has been directed to submit its report to the government as early as possible. Interaction “The committee has started its investigation. We are visiting the affected areas, interacting with the patients, their families and the local residents. We will visit the GGH and hold discussions with the doctors,” said a committee member. Th experts visited Dakshina Veedhi, Kothapeta, Toorpu Veedhi and other affected areas and interacted with the residents. The specialists enquired whether the affected people were consuming drinking water from taps, borewells, tanks or packaged water (purified water), the symptoms they suffered when they fell sick, whether they had epileptic attacks earlier, if they had seizures for the second time after getting discharged from the hospital, if any other family members was suffering from neurotoxicity symptoms. Meanwhile, the medical camps set up in the colonies were continuing in Eluru town and the ward secretaries and volunteers were conducting house-to-house survey on the health situation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/21-member-panel-to-probe-mysterious-illness-in-ap/article33311692.ece
12 December 2020||Kolkata,||BSF, BGB discuss ways to curb trans-border crimes||A three-day border coordination conference between the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) concluded in Kolkata on Friday where the two forces agreed on strengthening the coordinated border management plan (CBMP). “The objective of this conference was to improve cooperation and understanding between the border guarding forces of India and Bangladesh for better management and to resolve various issues in the mutual interest of both the countries,” a BSF press release said. The statement emphasised on simultaneous coordinated patrolling. “Both sides appreciated activities being conducted under the CBMP which include simultaneous coordinated patrols, sharing of intelligence, identification of vulnerable areas, and increased frequency of meetings at all levels,” the statement added. Ashwini Kumar Singh, Inspector General, South Bengal Frontier, said that during the meeting, the two forces decided to take certain measures to reduce firing along the border. Mr. Singh said that the aim was to identify vulnerable patches along the border for curbing trans-border crimes. An agreement on a crackdown on narcotics smuggling was reached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsf-bgb-discuss-ways-to-curb-trans-border-crimes/article33312217.ece
12 December 2020||Pune,||Cases outpace recoveries; death toll crosses 48,000||After recoveries outweighed cases for nearly a fortnight, just 2,774 patients were discharged across Maharashtra on Friday while 4,268 new COVID-19 cases were reported. The number of active cases has risen to 73,315 while the total case tally touches 18,72,440. The cumulative recoveries stand at 17,49,973. The State’s recovery rate declined incrementally to 93.46%. As many as 87 deaths were reported, taking the fatality toll beyond the 48,000-mark to reach 48,059. “Of a total 1,15,70,137 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,72,440 (case positivity rate of 16.18%) have returned positive with nearly 68,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate marginally decreased to 2.57%. Pune district reported nearly 650 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,60,921 while 12 deaths saw its fatality toll touch 7,608. Mumbai city recorded 654 new cases to take its total tally to 2,89,350 of whom 12,423 are active. As many as 13 fatalities saw the city’s death toll climb to 10,955. Nagpur district reported 380 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-outpace-recoveries-death-toll-crosses-48000/article33312319.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||No break for her||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-break-for-her/article33312092.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||No revision, only repeal, say leaders||The protesting farmers groups have not formally responded to the Centre’s proposal on amendments to the three farm sector laws, three days after it was delivered to them. Instead, they said the same amendments had already been rejected.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-revision-only-repeal-say-leaders/article33311787.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Bid to slash agri income to Bihar level’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the Centre of trying to bring down the income of farmers across the country to the level of Bihar, a State where,as per a survey, an agricultural household has the least annual income.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bid-to-slash-agri-income-to-bihar-level/article33311788.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||BKU faction moves SC against laws||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) on Friday moved the Supreme Court highlighting the ‘inconclusive’ talks with the Centre over the farm laws, which it said would lead to an exploitative regime. The farmers’ body wants the court to direct the government to strengthen the existing APMC system for sale of farm produce at a good bargain.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bku-faction-moves-sc-against-laws/article33311786.ece
12 December 2020||Kolkata,||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s health condition improves||The health condition of former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee on Friday showed signs of improvement as he was taken off a mechanical ventilator and placed on a non-invasive ventilator. “We successfully extubated him at 11.30 a.m.. We observed and waited for his body’s acceptance of this process of weaning off the mechanical ventilation, back to his lungs working on its own, and the tolerance back to non-invasive ventilation,” a statement issued by the Woodlands Hospital said. The hospital authorities also added that the veteran Communist leader met his wife and daughter and communicated with them satisfactorily. Vital health parameters such as blood pressure, pulse and oxygen saturation are stable, and Mr. Bhattacharjee has shown signs of improvement in almost all clinical aspects. The 76-year-old leader was admitted to the private hospital on December 8 with acute breathing distress and in an unconscious state. He is a patient of advanced COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buddhadeb-bhattacharjees-health-condition-improves/article33312218.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Collector inspects Veda Nilayam||Following the relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions, officials have resumed work on converting Veda Nilayam in Poes Garden, which served as the residence of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, into a memorial. Chennai Collector R. Seethalakshmi visited Veda Nilayam with a team of officials on Friday. As per provisions of Section 19(1) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013 and Rule 16 of the government rules, the Collector had issued a declaration that the acquisition was done to convert the residence into a government memorial. The property was purchased by Jayalalithaa and her mother in 1967 at a cost of Rs. 1.32 lakh. The announcement to turn the property into a memorial was made in August 2017 by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/collector-inspects-veda-nilayam/article33311909.ece
12 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Non-agri slot booking begins||Slot booking for taking up registration, mutation and other land transactions pertaining to non-agricultural properties started on Friday with the govt. allotting 24 slots each in the sub-registrars’ offices spread across the State. The online system involves booking a slot with the SRO office concerned entering the details of the property. The system would immediately generate details of registration charges, stamp duty and other charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/non-agri-slot-booking-begins/article33312118.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,||No celebrations at public places on December 31||Celebrations that draw crowds and revellers on main roads and to public places, especially at party hubs such as Brigade Road, M.G. Road, Commercial Street, and surrounding areas on New Year’s Eve, will not be allowed this year, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said on Friday. After participating in the State’s COVID-19 Task Force meeting, the Minister said this would be enforced under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-celebrations-at-public-places-on-december-31/article33311803.ece
12 December 2020||new delhi,||Delhi records 2,385 new COVID-19 cases||Delhi recorded 2,385 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday with over 71,000 tests being conducted, even as the positivity rate stood at 3.33%, authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-2385-new-covid-19-cases/article33311998.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC stays CIC order on PM’s foreign visits||The Delhi High Court on Friday stayed a Central Information Commission direction to the IAF to provide an RTI activist information regarding each foreign visit of PM Narendra Modi undertaken on IAF aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-cic-order-on-pms-foreign-visits/article33311999.ece
12 December 2020||Mangaluru,||Majority of OPDs in pvt. hospitals remain shut||While a majority of the out-patient departments (OPD) of private hospitals in Mangaluru and Udupi remained closed on Friday, OPDs in government hospitals and KMC Hospitals in Mangaluru, Kateel, and Manipal functioned normally. The private hospitals had closed the OPDs in response to a national protest called by the Indian Medical Association against the Centre’s decision to allow Ayurvedic practitioners to perform surgeries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/majority-of-opds-in-pvt-hospitals-remain-shut/article33312295.ece
12 December 2020||Mumbai,||First Mumbai nearby||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court said “all systems” are not sensitive to the problems farmers are facing in the country while dismissing a plea by the owners of a transport company accused of duping farmers of Rs. 2.8 crore. A Division Bench of Justices T.V. Nalawade and M.G. Sewlikar was hearing the criminal application filed by the accused seeking quashing of an FIR registered against them in Jalgaon. The accused had been booked on charges of cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property. Saniya Kadri, a broker in agricultural produce, registered the complaint against the owners of Khandelwal Transporters on July 28, 2017. Ms. Kadri said she had signed an agreement with the accused after they approached her to hand over the banana produce collected from farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-mumbai-nearby/article33312317.ece
12 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||Second Mumbai nearby||A spell of unseasonal rain in parts of a dozen districts in Gujarat has damaged standing crops, delivering a blow to the farmers. Under the influence of multiple weather systems acting in tandem, untimely rain has occurred in several parts of the State, causing damage to the standing crops as well as the harvested produce with Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees. The State emergency centre report says the rain occurred in more than 75 taluks since Thursday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-mumbai-nearby/article33312318.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Doctors protest against ‘mixopathy’||Members of the Indian Medical Association and several doctors across India on Friday staged protests against the government decision to allow post-graduate Ayurveda doctors to perform select medical procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-protest-against-mixopathy/article33312356.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC stays CIC order on PM’s foreign visits||The Delhi High Court on Friday stayed a Central Information Commission direction to the Indian Air Force to provide an RTI activist information regarding each foreign visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh undertaken on IAF aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-cic-order-on-pms-foreign-visits/article33312357.ece
12 December 2020||Jaipur,||Miffed BTP threatens to cut ties with Congress||Upset with the Congress zila parishad members joining hands with the BJP to defeat its zila pramukh candidate in Dungarpur, the Bharatiya Tribal Party on Friday threatened to sever its alliance with the ruling party in Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/miffed-btp-threatens-to-cut-ties-with-congress/article33312359.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||To end graft, mindset must change: judge||There would be no end to corruption unless people changed their way of thinking, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul stated in the Supreme Court on Friday and dismissed as withdrawn a plea seeking stringent punishment for corruption and money laundering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/to-end-graft-mindset-must-change-judge/article33312358.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Registry to ensure govt. staff stay at workplace||With government employees found missing during working hours, the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms has introduced a movement registry to ensure that employees are present in office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/registry-to-ensure-govt-staff-stay-at-workplace/article33312094.ece
12 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Cong., AAP protest in Punjab on Dec. 14||To express solidarity with farmers agitating against the newly enacted farm laws, the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab will hold separate State-level protests on December 14. Both the parties said they stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the protesting farmers and will leave no stone unturned in getting their voices heard. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said on Friday that his party will hold a large demonstration at Shambu (inter-State) border on December 14 in support of the farmers. Talking to reporters here on the sidelines of a meeting with the Cabinet Ministers and party MLAs here, he said the Congress party will also participate in the district-level protest called by the farmers on the same day. He said the demonstration will be organised so that the “insensitive and adamant” Central government can hear the voice of the farmers. Mr. Jakhar said the protests would be staged from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. “The Central government must leave its arrogant behaviour and accept the demands of the farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should immediately listen to the farmers and respect their demands and repeal the three black laws,” he added. AAP State unit president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann also announced his party’s whole-hearted support to the call given by the protesting farmers to intensify their agitation and escalate it to a nationwide protest on December 14. He said the party will hold protests at district headquarters across Punjab on December 14 against the new farm laws.State Congress chief Mr. Jakhar said his party will soon hold a big rally on the farmers’ issue. “Had the Centre consulted farmers before framing these laws, no one would have had to go through this. Neither the farmers would have been forced to sit and protest far away from their homes in cold weather nor the common people would have faced inconvenience,” Mr. Jakhar said. He said the Punjab government has strongly presented the real picture of the Centre’s “black laws” before the people of the State. “These black farm laws would prove just as detrimental for the country’s economy as demonetisation,” Mr. Jakhar claimed. Echoing a similar sentiment, AAP leader Mann said the farmers have been forced to take to streets to protest against the contentious agriculture laws pushed by the Modi government to “give a free run to its favourite corporate houses”. He claimed that the Centre was adopting repressive measures to crush the farmers’ agitation instead of acceding to their demands. “The Aam Aadmi Party has been opposing the black laws since the day the ordinances were issued and will stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers till these were revoked,” he said. ‘AAP helping farmers’ Mr. Mann said the Arvind Kejriwal government in the national capital had fielded its Ministers, MLAs and volunteers to help the farmers protesting on the Delhi borders in every possible way. Farmer unions, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say that the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the MSP system under which government agencies buy their crop at an assured price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-aap-to-hold-protests-in-punjab-on-dec-14/article33312006.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Not all Indian droughts are caused by El Nino||Droughts in India have historically been associated with El Nino, an anomalous warming of the equatorial Pacific, but scientists from Bengaluru suggest other culprits too. The study that appears in journal Science says that nearly six out of 10 droughts, in non-El Nino years, that occurred during the Indian summer-monsoon season in the past century may have been driven by atmospheric disturbances from the North Atlantic region. The study was led by researchers at the Centre for Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences (CAOS), Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru. In an El Niño year, abnormally warm equatorial Pacific waters pull moisture-laden clouds away from the subcontinent, but the IISc study shows that in non-El Nino years, these droughts are a consequence of a sudden and steep drop in rainfall in late August. “As early as the 1980s, people have looked at these droughts individually. But they have not collated and pooled them together, and deduced that these droughts may all have a different type of evolution than El Niño droughts,” V. Venugopal, Associate Professor at CAOS, says in a statement by the IISc. Decline in rainfall In an El Nino year, the rainfall deficit departure from a long-term average will set in early around mid-June and progressively worsen. However, a non-El Nino-year drought will see rainfall and will similarly weaken in mid-June. But from mid-July to mid-August, usually the rainiest period of the monsoon, the monsoon will appear to recover. However, around August third week, there was a sudden steep decline in rainfall, resulting in drought conditions. “We tried to see if we could trace this [August] drought back to a forcing agent or system that influences the behaviour over India. We looked at the winds that were prevalent in these non-El Niño drought years.” Rossby wave It seems, the researchers note, that winds in the upper atmosphere are interacting with a deep cyclonic circulation above the abnormally cold North Atlantic waters. The resulting wave of air currents, called a Rossby wave, curved down from the North Atlantic squeezed in by the Tibetan plateau and hit the subcontinent around mid-August, suppressing rainfall and throwing off the monsoon that was trying to recover from the June slump. The wave’s usual course is to go from west to east, but not towards the equator, explains Jai Sukhatme, Associate Professor at CAOS and co-author. Thus beyond looking at the Pacific Ocean it is important to consider other influences on the Indian monsoon from outside the tropics. “The Indian Ocean and Pacific Ocean seem to be at the forefront of all discussions surrounding Indian monsoon droughts,” says Mr. Venugopal. “It is perhaps time to focus just as much on midlatitude influences, which might aid in getting a better handle on enhanced predictability of monsoon variability.” Independent scientists say that while the link in the research paper is “novel” it is yet early days to be able to predict an impending drought in India from this paper alone. The Indian Ocean, says Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, too plays an important role in determining the monsoon’s performance and several other factors will have to be considered to develop a reliable model to forecast a potential shortfall in the absence of El Nino. In 2014, India saw a 14% rainfall deficit — or a drought — that wasn't linked to El Nino and before that in 1986 and 1985. “The sheer size of the Pacific means that it influences global climate much more than the Atlantic or other oceans. Therefore, the latter links aren’t easily discoverable. But this study shows that we do need to look at such links closely,” Mr. Koll told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-all-indian-droughts-are-caused-by-el-nino/article33311702.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers stick to stand, but Minister is hopeful||The protesting farmers groups have not formally responded to the Centre’s proposal on amendments to the three farm sector laws, three days after it was delivered to them. Instead, they said the same amendments had already been rejected when they were put forth by the government during the last round of talks on December 5. On Friday, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre was yet to receive a response to its proposal from the farmers, delivered on Tuesday afternoon. However, he expressed the hope that the stalemate could be ended soon. “I think we will find a solution. I am hopeful. I would like to urge the farmer unions that they should break the deadlock. Government has sent them a proposal. If there is an objection over the provisions of an Act, the discussion is held over it,” he told news agency ANI. Farmers’ groups said there was no need to send any written response, as they had already rejected the proposal. “No, we have not sent any letter. These proposals were rejected by us in the December 5 meeting itself, when we said we will not discuss any amendments, but asked for a simple yes or no answer on whether the government is willing to repeal the laws,” said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal. He added that talks could resume on the condition that the Centre put up a proposal to repeal the laws. The All India Kisan Sabha, affiliated to the Left parties, said Mr. Tomar should take responsibility for the disruption in talks. “The Agriculture Minister has to explain why Home Minister Amit Shah interrupted the discussion process and brought again the proposal of amendments, which was categorically rejected by the Kisan delegation on December 5,” it said. Fictitious claims: group On Thursday, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry issued a comprehensive 106-page document, laying out the Centre’s rationale for the three contentious farm laws, refuting ‘myths’ surrounding the laws, and defending its record on farmers’ welfare. Some of the major points included, “MSP will not go away; APMC mandis will not be closed, farmers land will not be taken away and buyers cannot make changes to the land.” The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said it would rebut the booklet on Saturday, saying it carried “fictitious claims”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-amendments-only-repeal-insist-leaders/article33311708.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘India is on track to reduce emissions’||Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said that India was the only major G20 country that was on track towards keeping to its nationally determined commitments to halt runaway global warming. It had achieved 21% of its emissions intensity reduction target as a proportion of its GDP in line with its pledge to a 33-35% reduction by 2030, he said. Mr. Javadekar was addressing a media briefing ahead of the international Climate Ambition Summit to be jointly hosted on Saturday by the United Nations, the United Kingdom and France, in partnership with Chile and Italy to mark the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Paris Agreement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is among the 78 leaders expected to address the summit. Attending heads of states are expected to, but not obliged, to declare enhanced commitments to prevent global temperature increase going beyond 1.5°C. Voluntary pledge In 2015, ahead of the United Nations’ significant climate conference in Paris, India announced three major voluntary commitments called the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC): improving the emissions intensity of its GDP by 33–35% by 2030 over 2005 levels; increasing the share of non-fossil fuels-based electricity to 40% by 2030, and enhancing its forest cover, thereby absorbing 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide. “We have already achieved 21% of our emissions intensity target, the share of renewables in our energy mix is 37.9% and our tree cover has increased by 15,000 sq.km. in six years,” said Mr. Javadekar. “Several assessments by independent agencies have said that we are the only major G20 country compatible with a less than 2°C world.” Chinese President Xi Jingping is also expected to address the summit. According to the International Institute of Sustainable Development, the summit is positioned as a “sprint to Glasgow”, where the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 26) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) is scheduled to take place from November 1–12, 2021. High polluters On Saturday, some of the world’s top 10 emitters will be present: China, the European Union, India, Japan and Canada. Notable absentee big polluters are Australia, Brazil, Indonesia and Mexico. Two senior U.S. Governors are expected to attend. The Paris Agreement, adopted at COP 21 in Paris, on December 12, 2015, constitutes a landmark agreement on climate change that seeks to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and endeavour to limit the increase to 1.5°C. The agreement, which came into force on November 4, 2016, currently has 188 parties. All parties to it are expected to undertake ambitious efforts to support the agreement’s goals and communicate their related intentions every five years in the form of NDCs. In the first round, 186 parties submitted their first NDC and two have since submitted a second one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-is-on-track-to-reduce-emissions/article33311719.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Droughts influenced by North Atlantic air currents’||The Indian monsoon is a phenomenon that has inspired great interest among scientists, authors and others over generations. To a large number of Indians, the rainfall between June and September is a matter of life and death. The monsoon’s failure heralds drought, which is often blamed on El Niño, a recurring climate event during which abnormally warm equatorial Pacific waters pull moisture-laden clouds away from the Indian subcontinent. But 10 out of 23 droughts that India faced in the past century have occurred during years when El Niño was absent. A new study by researchers at the Centre for Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences (CAOS), Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) has found that nearly half of the droughts that occurred during the Indian summer-monsoon season in the past century may have been driven by atmospheric disturbances in the North Atlantic region. The study has been published in ‘Science’. The study shows that droughts, which were a consequence of a sudden and steep drop in rainfall in late August, were linked to an atmospheric disturbance in the mid-latitude region over the North Atlantic Ocean, creating a pattern of atmospheric currents that “swoop in over the subcontinent and derail the monsoon”. “As early as the 1980s, people have looked at these droughts individually. But they have not collated and pooled them together, and deduced that these droughts may all have a different type of evolution than El Niño droughts, as well as a common cause, which is this mid-latitude influence,” V. Venugopal, Associate Professor at CAOS and one of the senior authors of the paper, was quoted as saying in an IISc. release. The research team looked closely at daily rainfall during both El Niño and non-El Niño drought years and noticed stark differences in their patterns between June and September. The droughts that happen during an El Niño year follow a standard pattern. The rainfall deficit — departure from a long-term average — sets in early around mid-June and becomes progressively worse. By mid-August, the deficit spreads across the country and thereis no going back from a drought, said the release. “Surprisingly, the droughts during the non-El Niño years, when analysed together, also seemed to follow a common pattern. First, there was a moderate slump in June. Then, during mid-July to mid-August — the peak of the season — the monsoon showed signs of recovery and rainfall increased. However, around the third week of August, there was a sudden steep decline in rainfall, which resulted in drought conditions,” the release explained. The team began to question why the break occurred this late in August and tried to see if they could trace it back to a forcing agent or system that influences the behaviour over India, looking at the winds that were prevalent in the non-El Niño drought years. That was when they noticed an unusual atmospheric disturbance in the mid-latitudes. It emerged from winds in the upper atmosphere interacting with a deep cyclonic circulation above abnormally cold North Atlantic waters. The resulting wave of air currents, called a Rossbywave, curved down from the North Atlantic — squeezed in by the Tibetan plateau — and hit the Indian subcontinent around mid-August, suppressing rainfall and throwing off the monsoon that was trying to recover from the June slump. The wave’s usual course is to go from west to east, but not towards the equator, explained Jai Sukhatme, Associate Professor at CAOSand another author. The IISc. release said these findings underscore the importance of also considering influences on the Indian monsoon from outside the tropics, which current forecast models focus heavily on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/droughts-influenced-by-north-atlantic-air-currents/article33311807.ece
12 December 2020||Kanidajan,||‘They cut apple trees, ousted us’||With prediction of fresh snowfall in upper reaches of the Kashmir Valley, members of around 30 families are running from pillar to post to know the reason for the felling of tens of thousands of apple trees and a sudden eviction of nomadic population of Gujjars near the forest area in Budgam’seh Pakherpora Block in central Kashmir. In his 70s, Sharief Bajjad is the head of a family of eight members in Kanidajan village and homeless now. “Forest officials came this week to my Kotha [huntment] with orders to evict us. In this weather, where will we go? We have shifted to a nearby village. We tend cattle up in the forest area. What will happen to our means of earning now?” he said. The Forest department has started a drive against “illegal encroachers” of forest land in the Valley. It also felled apple trees planted on what the department described as “forest land”. “I fail to understand the reason behind cutting the apple trees. Many were 30-year-old trees. This area sees a stunted growth of trees due to poor water levels. Many were planted by my grandfather. We are living here for more than six decades and my great grandfathers lived earlier up in the forest area. I fail to understand what is our sin,” Mr. Bajjad said. Sabeer Ahmad Wagay alleged that the Forest Department within two days of the eviction notice started felling apple trees spread over 13 kannals (1.62 acre). “We were not even heard. The land is with us for many generations. It takes a lot of efforts to tend an apple tree and see it attain the age of 20 years. Our earnings depended on it”, Mr. Wagay, with 13 family members in the house, said. However, his house was spared from being dismantled. Raja Muzaffar Bhat, a Right to Information (RTI) activist from Budgam, said the Forest Department’s move was against the essence of the Forest Rights Act 2006 in J&K. Forest Department officials declined to comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/they-cut-apple-trees-ousted-us/article33311728.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Friendship blooms across barricades here||Across the barricades at Delhi-Haryana’s Singhu border, police officials and protesting farmers seem to share a unique relationship. They are warm and ‘like family’ thought pitched on the opposite sides in different gears. The policemen with their riot gear and the farmers with their flags. While smoking his hookah, Balwan (65), a resident of Sonipat, said the police officers are like their own children and are only doing their duty. “They haven’t done anything bad to us and we haven’t either. Some of them even eat at our langars and we welcome them with open arms,” he said. Mutual trust Sitting next to him, Dalbir Singh, another resident, said he has friends and relatives in the paramilitary forces and they understand the situation. “They also want it to end at the earliest,” he said. Making a rather hard-hitting point, Jai Kishan Sharma said: “ Kisan aur jawan ek hi chulhe ki roti khaate hain… gaon ke gharon main ek bachha agar kisan hota hai toh doosra jawan hota hai [Farmer and soldier eat from the same plate… In houses in the village, if one child is a farmer, another is a soldier]”. Both of us doing our respective jobs for our livelihood, the farmers said. Though hesitant to talk about which side the heart lies in, officers including seniors shared how the protesters have treated them in the last 15 days. “They force us to have water and tea, even if we say that we don’t need it. While serving anything at the langar , they always come and ask us,” said a constable-rank personnel, whose father is a farmer in Haryana, and who has been on border duty since November 26. Brothers in arms Another officer said that they have all been ordered not to say anything to the protesters and be cordial with them. “They are doing what they think is right and we are here to protect them,” he said. The officers who usually stand on the outside facing the protesters shared how the farmers make videos and call the officers their brothers. “It feels good,” the officer smiled. Welcome change The “good” behaviour is not limited to lower-ranked personnel. Senior police officers have also experienced the warmth. “On Friday morning itself, an old uncle wearing a turban approached us and said, ‘ Aap nahin aate hain is side isliye hum aaye hain [You don’t come to our side, that’s why we’ve come]’ and handed us a fistful of almonds,” he said. The officer said that they’re used to listening to ‘Delhi Police Haye Haye’ at protests, therefore, this comes as a welcome change. “However, there are some protesters who are not farmers but use foul words against us but thankfully, they don’t find resonance in the real protesting crowd,” he said. Another senior officer shared how a farmer once approached him and told him that their fight is with those in power and not with the police. He even invited him to eat at the langar . Even the barricades were there to restrict movement, a police officer said. And not a symbol of distrust. Despite the protests gathering steam, both sides are hopeful that their relationship stays the same till the end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/friendship-blooms-across-barricades-here/article33311704.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Gym ka langar’ springs up for protesting sportsmen||A ‘gym ka langar’ has come up on the Singhu border for all the sportspersons who have joined the farmers in solidarity and anyone who wishes to work out. This open gymnasium is equipped with dumbbells, weight plates, a bench, a rod and two holders. The bench and holding rods were made from scratch here in Delhi, the sportspersons who are managing the gym said. The men behind the gym are Mangat Singh alias Mangi Bagga, former captain of the Indian kabaddi team, and Aman Hothy, a powerlifter. Mr. Hothy, who has to take part in a powerlifting competition in Tamil Nadu in February, has joined the protest and is now practising here. “I am a farmer first and then a powerlifter. We’ll all stay here till our problem is resolved,” he said. Back in Jalandhar, Mr. Hothy says, he works out early in the morning, after which he would go to the fields. The powerlifter said he spent two hours working out in the morning and two hours in the evening. He and his peers spend the rest of the time managing the stage and activities around it. “This gym is for anyone and everyone who wants to work out. There are so many langars around here… one can call this ‘gym ka langar’,” he said. “We’ve been fighting for our rights and nothing else. We are not asking for any favours,” he said. Mr. Mangi said he and other kabaddi and hockey players and athletes who had joined the protest managed the stage security, langars, and whatever other activities were required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gym-ka-langar-comes-up-at-singhu-protest-site/article33311706.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||An all-rounder warrior hits a century||Col. Prithipal Singh Gill (retd.), the only officer to have served in all the three Services — the Army, Navy and the Air Force — turned 100 on Friday. He joined the Royal Indian Air Force in 1942, served with the Royal Indian Navy during the Second World War and fought in the 1965 war with Pakistan with the Indian Army. Col. Gill was born in 1920 in Patiala and studied in the Government College, Lahore. He got married to Preminder Kaur in 1950. He and Ms. Kaur, 93, presently reside in Chandigarh with their children and grandchildren and are looking to celebrate their 70th anniversary on December 24. Col. Gill joined the Royal Indian Air Force in 1942 without his family’s consent. He was commissioned as a Pilot Officer and stationed at Karachi, flying Howard aircraft. “Flying was then considered unsafe and his family did not want him to be a pilot. Gen. Savoy, known to the Gill family, was able to have Pilot Officer Singh transferred to the Navy,” an Army officer said. In the Navy, he served on a mine-sweeping ship and later on INS Teer, an escort vessel for cargo ships, during the Second World War. Sub. Lt. Singh was detailed to attend the Long Gunnery Staff Course at the School of Artillery, Devlali, and he qualified as an instructor in Gunnery. “He then sought a transfer to the Army, which was approved, and he was posted to the Gwalior Mountain Battery, equipped with 5.4 inch Howitzers,” the officer said. He served with the 34 Medium Regiment and later raised and commanded the 71 Medium Regiment. During the 1965 war, when four guns of his regiment were cut off by enemy action, Lt. Col. Gill personally led a successful mission to retrieve them. On promotion to the rank of Colonel, he commanded an Assam Rifles sector in Ukhrul, Manipur. He took premature retirement in 1970 and went to farm the family lands at his native village Pakhi in Faridkot district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/an-all-rounder-warrior-hits-century/article33311717.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUCHI,||Three held in Perambalur for forcing Dalit boys to remove excreta||Tension gripped Sirukudal village in Perambalur district on Friday after three minor boys belonging to the Scheduled Castes were forced to remove their excreta from an open ground allegedly by some caste Hindus. Three of the six accused were arrested. In the morning, five Dalit boys, aged 13-15, defecated in an open site, being used as a playground by some caste Hindu youth and which belongs to a temple nearby, the police said. The youth allegedly asked them to remove the excreta, giving them gunny sacks and a spade. As news spread, a group of Dalits blocked the village road. On information, a police team rushed to the spot. Protesters continued their demonstration for over half-an-hour, demanding stringent action against the accused. They withdrew the protest on getting assurance that action would be taken, police sources said. The Maruvathur police registered a case under the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015, against the six accused on a complaint from the mother of one of the boys. Later, the police arrested R. Abinesh, 20, N. Silambarasan, 24, and S. Selvakumar, 23, and were on the lookout for the others. The youths were charged with rioting, uttering obscene words in a public place, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation. They were also charged with using filthy language against the Dalit boys and calling them by their caste name. The case would be investigated by an officer of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police. Perambalur Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban told The Hindu in the evening that the situation was under control and a police team had been deployed at Sirukudal. Later, the police arrested R. Abinesh, 20, N. Silambarasan, 24, and S. Selvakumar, 23, and were on the look-out for the others. The youths were charged with rioting, uttering obscene words in a public place, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation. They were also charged with using filthy language against the Dalit boys and calling them by their caste name. The case would be investigated by an officer of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police. Perambalur Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban told The Hindu in the evening that the situation was under control and a police team had been deployed at Sirukudal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-held-in-perambalur-for-forcing-dalit-boys-to-remove-excreta-from-ground/article33311808.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘China must match words with actions’||India on Friday said it expected China to “match its words with actions” on abiding by agreements on the border, a day after Beijing said the responsibility lay entirely with India for the current crisis on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “The situation that we have seen since the last six months has been a result of the actions of the Chinese side which has sought to effect a unilateral change in status along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh. These actions are in violation of the bilateral agreements and protocol on ensuring peace and tranquility along the LAC in the India-China border areas,” Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. He added that a “core issue” was that “both sides need to strictly follow the various bilateral agreements and protocols in their entirety” which require there “should not be amassing of troops”. “We have taken note of the Chinese side’s statement that it observes ‘strictly the agreements between the two sides and is committed to resolving the border issue through dialogue and safeguarding peace and tranquility’ in the border areas. We expect that the Chinese side will match its words with actions,” he said. China on Thursday had said “the responsibility totally lies with the Indian side” for the LAC situation, with the Foreign Ministry in Beijing responding to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s statement during an interaction with a think-tank that China had violated border agreements by deploying a large number of soldiers along the border. Mr. Srivastava also disputed China’s statements this week about the cancellation of issuing commemorative stamps to mark the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations this year. China’s State Post Bureau said this week it had cancelled the commemorative stamps, and the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said the reason was the “Indian side had not given feedback before launch time agreed by both sides”. Mr. Srivastava said this was “factually incorrect”. The release of the stamps was one of the activities agreed to mark the anniversary, but “there had been no discussion on any launch date with any Chinese authorities for this activity”. “It may also be noted that the launch of the celebrations itself has not taken place yet, and therefore, the issue of going ahead with joint activities under its ambit does not arise,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-must-match-words-with-actions/article33311775.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Plan for ordinance on cow slaughter ban||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on Friday that the State government would promulgate an Ordinance banning cow slaughter. This will, however, depend on what happens in the Legislative Council session, which has been reconvened for a day on Tuesday. The Council may take up the matter. The decision to this effect was taken late on Friday evening. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, was passed in the Assembly on Wednesday. Though the Bill was listed in the Legislative Council’s agenda on Thursday, the ruling BJP did not introduce it before the House was adjourned sine die by Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty. Delegation meets Vala Earlier on Friday, a BJP delegation led by House leader and Minister for Muzrai and Fisheries Kota Srinivas Poojary called on Governor Vajubhai R. Vala and urged him to direct the Council Chairman to convene the session either on Tuesday or Wednesday to enable the government to pass the anti-cow slaughter Bill. The day saw the Chief Minister performing gau pooja at his residence ‘Cauvery’ and told presspersons that an Ordinance would be promulgated banning cow slaughter. He said, “We have petitioned the Governor. The Council Chairman has no right to abruptly adjourn the House sine die the way he did. The Council Chairman was there when it was decided in the Business Advisory Committee to conduct the session till Tuesday or Wednesday,” the Chief Minister contended. “The whole world knows that cows are revered in the Hindu dharma. In India, which is agrarian, animal husbandry is a source of livelihood for farmers and cattle are used in farming activities. In this backdrop, cows are considered as an asset in the Indian culture,” he said. He claimed that “90% of the people are happy with the Bill” and that it was a promise made in the BJP manifesto. As per the Bill, cow slaughter will attract imprisonment of up to seven years and a fine of up to Rs. 10 lakh. “There is a provision to set up special courts, protection for those who protect cows, and there is a ban on inter-State movement of cows,” he said.  The Council Chairman has no right to abruptly adjourn the Housesine diethe way he did. B.S. Yediyurappa,Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plan-for-ordinance-on-cow-slaughter-ban/article33311682.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel probing ISRO ‘frame up’ case to begin work in two days||A three-member Committee chaired by former Supreme Court judge D.K. Jain is scheduled to begin work on unravelling the rogue officials responsible for the infamous ISRO “frame-up” case of 1994, which destroyed the life and reputation of Nambi Narayanan, one of the country’s prominent space scientists. The Justice Jain committee is expected to sit at Thiruvananthapuram on December 14 and 15. “I have received a call from Justice Jain’s office to come before the committee. I will help with whatever information I can give them about what happened,” Mr. Narayanan told The Hindu on Friday. The panel is having its first sitting two years after the Supreme Court constituted it in September 2018 to find “ways and means to take appropriate steps against the erring officials”. It could either opt to function from New Delhi or hold meetings at an appropriate place in Kerala. At the time of his arrest on November 30, 1994, Mr. Narayanan was working on cryogenic engine technology at the premier Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). The police investigators had accused him of passing on documents and drawings of ISRO relating to Viking/Vikas engine technology, cryogenic engine technology and PSLV flight data/drawings to Pakistan. But the Supreme Court dismissed the case in 2018 as a criminal frame-up based on “some kind fancy or notion”. It said Mr. Narayanan’s career was “smothered.” The scientist himself had said that the prosecution launched by the Kerala police had a “catastrophic effect” on his career and personal life, besides setting back the technological advancement in space research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-probing-isro-frame-up-case-to-begin-work-in-two-days/article33311763.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Doctors stage protests against ‘mixopathy’ across country||Members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and several doctors across India on Friday staged protests against the government decision to allow post-graduate Ayurveda doctors to perform select medical procedures. R V Asokan, hony. secretary general, IMA, said: “The IMA appeals to the Central Government to desist from proceeding with mixopathy as the option for Universal Health Coverage. Withdrawal of the notification and dissolution of NITI Aayog committees of integration will be the steps in the right direction. IMA’s concerns are the concerns of the patients. IMA has no option but to intensify the agitation if the Government persists with mixopathy.’’ A gazette notification, issued issued last month by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a statutory body under the AYUSH Ministry, listed 39 general surgery procedures and 19 other procedures, involving the eye, ear, nose and throat, by amending the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016. These surgeries include general surgery, orthopaedic, ophthalmology, ENT and dental surgeries. The IMA termed it ‘mixopathy’. It had threatened to withdraw all non-essential, non-COVID-19 services between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. on Friday to protest against the notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctors-stage-protests-against-mixopathy-across-country/article33311725.ece
12 December 2020||Chennai,||New cross-sector initiative for universal health coverage||The Lancet Citizens’ Commission on Reimagining India’s Health System, a cross-sector initiative to develop a citizens’ roadmap to achieving universal health coverage (UHC) in India over a period of ten years, was launched online on Friday. The commission’s co-chairs announced at the event on Friday evening that it was a first-of-its-kind participatory, countrywide initiative, in collaboration with world’s leading health journal The Lancet and the Lakshmi Mittal and Family South Asia Institute, Harvard University. The COVID-19 pandemic had exposed many schisms in society, impacted India’s public health system, and showed the importance of accessibility to quality healthcare and UHC, said Tarun Khanna, director of the Institute. Key mission The mission of the Commission is to lay out the path to achieving UHC in India in the coming decade, working with all stakeholders. “We expect that the Commission will formulate a roadmap for realising a resilient health system that offers comprehensive, accountable, accessible, inclusive, and affordable quality health care to all citizens in India. Although we recognise the important role that social determinants have in influencing health, the focus of the Commission will be on the architecture of India’s health system,” an article in The Lancet listed out. “Despite considerable progress across health indicators such as maternal and infant mortality, disease burden in India is disproportionately high,” the article added. The situation is exacerbated by structural inequities of caste, class, gender, geography, and community in India that translate into health inequalities and are amplified by the state of the health system. The Commission will be guided by four principles: first, UHC covers all health concerns; secondly, prevention and long-term care are key. Thirdly, the concern is financial protection for all health costs, and finally, aspiring for a health system that can be accessed by all who enjoy the same quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-cross-sector-initiative-for-universal-health-coverage/article33311729.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Pranab’s memoir says Cong. ‘lost focus’ after his elevation||The late former President of India Pranab Mukherjee, in the final volume of his yet to be released memoir, The Presidential Years , noted that the Congress had lost focus after his elevation as the President of India, and Sonia Gandhi was unable to control the affairs of the party. An excerpt of his memoir, scheduled to be released in January 2021, was released by Mr. Mukherjee’s publishers, Rupa, on Friday. Talking about the Congress’ dismal performance in the 2014 election, according to the publishers, Mr. Mukherjee wrote, “Some members of the Congress have theorised that, had I become the PM in 2004, the party might have averted the 2014 Lok Sabha drubbing. Though I don’t subscribe to this view, I do believe that the party’s leadership lost political focus after my elevation as President.” “While Sonia Gandhi was unable to handle the affairs of the party, Dr. Singh’s prolonged absence from the House put an end to any personal contact with other MPs,” he added. The excerpt also has a section on the late President’s assessment of the two Prime Ministers, Narendra Modi and Dr. Manmohan Singh. “I believe that the moral authority to govern vests with the PM. The overall state of the nation is reflective of the functioning of the PM and his administration. While Dr. Singh was preoccupied with saving the coalition, which took a toll on governance, Modi seemed to have employed a rather autocratic style of governance during his first term, as seen by the bitter relationship among the government, the legislature and the judiciary. Only time will tell if there is a better understanding on such matters in the second term of this government,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pranabs-memoir-says-cong-lost-focus-after-his-elevation/article33311773.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||BKU faction moves SC against new laws||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) on Friday moved the Supreme Court highlighting the “inconclusive” talks with the Centre over the repeal of the three controversial farm laws, which it said would lead to the cartelisation of agricultural produce and usher in an exploitative regime. The farmers’ body said the court should direct the government to strengthen the existing Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) system for sale of farm produce at a good bargain. The Union said, rather than expecting a poor and illiterate farmer to strike a hard bargain and sell his produce to a multinational, the government should infuse more funds into the APMC system and effectively manage the minimum support price for the welfare of the agriculture sector. The petition, filed through advocate A.P. Singh, suggested the Constitution of a ‘Farmers Commission’ to fix the prices of crops. The farmers’ body recommended the waiver of agriculture loans to help farmers find their feet during the pandemic. It said farmers have taken their own lives unable to bear the burden of their debts.  Road to ruin “If these [laws] are allowed, we are going to completely ruin our country as the corporates can, in one stroke, export our agriculture produce without any regulation. This may even result in famines,” the petition said. The petition said the three laws were passed hastily, with hardly any discussion. “In their current form, they will spell disaster for the farming community by opening a parallel market which is unregulated and gives enough place for exploitation of farmers... Farmers will become vulnerable to corporate greed of multinational companies,” the petition said.  The Acts will spell disaster for the farmers... They will become vulnerable to corporate greed Bharatiya Kisan Union||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bku-faction-moves-sc-against-new-laws/article33311714.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Inquiry into Swapna’s allegation expanded||The Prisons and Correctional Services Department has expanded its internal inquiry into the politically stormy allegation that certain persons had threatened gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh, a COFEPOSA detainee, against cooperating with the Customs Department or implicating higher-ups in the State government in the racket. Swapna had told the Economic Offences Court in Kochi recently that certain persons she could identify visually and possessed the mien of police or prison officials had pressured her at the Attakulangara Women’s Prison to stonewall the Customs inquiry. She told the court that she feared for her life and the safety of her family. Various agencies had interviewed Swapna in prison, including the Crime Branch and Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB). Director General, Prisons, Rishiraj Singh, said the inquiry would now cover Swapna’s sojourn in Ernakulam and Kannur prisons too. He would report the findings to the government. The probe has gained moment amidst reports that the Customs Department would seek a criminal investigation into Swapna’s averment in court. Identity parade A police investigation could entail an identity parade. The episode had ostensibly prompted the Enforcement Directorate to seek the permission of the court to question the accused in the gold smuggling case in the absence of jail officials in the future. Swapna’s complaint had put the Prisons Department in a spot. It had prompted the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to accuse the Home Department headed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of obstructing justice. Both parties said Swapna’s statement assumed seriousness when viewed against the framework of the attempts by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to politically target Central agencies pursuing different aspects of the international racket.Earlier, the Customs had demanded a police inquiry into an audio clip, purportedly by Swapna, that the Customs had forced her to implicate Mr. Vijayan in the case. Nevertheless, the Crime Branch inquiry had reportedly reached a dead end after investigators failed to recover the original device used to capture the contentious conversation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inquiry-into-swapnas-allegation-expanded/article33311690.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘China rise has attracted a great deal of attention’||In the midst of conflicts in the last three decades, global financial crisis and mushrooming of many multilateral organisations, China’s rise has been one of the most defining moments of the 21st century, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat stated on Friday. “In recent years, China’s economic and military rise, coupled with competition to increase influence in the region, has attracted a great deal of attention. At present, there are over 120 warships of extra-regional forces deployed in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) in support of various missions. For now, by and large, the region has remained peaceful, albeit under contestation,” he said, virtually addressing the Global Dialogue Security Summit on developments in the Indo-Pacific. New phase of nationalism On the post-COVID situation, Gen. Rawat pointed out that the world was entering a new geopolitical phase, likely to be based on nationalism, protectionism, and strategic realignments. “We are, and we will, continue to witness rise of nationalism, economic patriotism, shift towards buying local brands, need to take back supply chains and shifting of strategic industries within the country’s boundaries even at the cost of increased production costs,” he observed. The world was moving away from globalisation to deglobalisation regionalism to what was perhaps glocalisation, he said. Ensuring border safety Gen. Rawat also underscored that for a country like India, security of land borders remained the primary concern and, therefore, there was need to develop integrated structures to ensure that modernisation programmes undertaken by the armed forces were based on careful assessment of threats and challenges. “Today, we are facing increasing security challenges and the best guarantee for peace and stability is to have dissuasive deterrence,” he said. Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell, asserted that like India, Australia also took a keen interest in the Indo-Pacific region and it was increasingly concerned about security in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-rise-has-attracted-a-great-deal-of-attention/article33311713.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||PM, Uzbek President discuss Afghan projects||India and Uzbekistan plan to cooperate on connectivity projects in Afghanistan and will participate in a trilateral dialogue with Iran, said the two sides after talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uzbekistan President Shavkat Mirziyoyev during a virtual summit on Friday. Both addressed the need to fight terrorism and shared the “same vision” on the future of the Afghanistan peace process, officials said. “We have similar concerns about extremism, fundamentalism and separatism. We both stand firmly together against terrorism. We also have a similar approach on regional security issues,” Mr. Modi said in his opening statement welcoming President Mirziyoyev to their first virtual summit. Military exercise “Our security partnership is becoming a strong pillar of bilateral relations. Last year, the first joint military exercise between our armed forces took place. Our joint efforts are also increasing in the areas of space and atomic energy,” Mr. Modi added. India also confirmed the approval of a $448- million Line of Credit for four developmental projects in Uzbekistan in the areas of “road construction, sewerage treatment and information technology” and specific projects under the Line of Credit were being identified at present, officials said. Energy pact The two sides signed a Dollar Credit Line Agreement between the Export-Import Bank of India and the Uzbekistan Government and several Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) including in the areas of renewable energy and information technology on the sidelines of the meeting. “The leaders instructed their officials to fast-track the conclusion of the ongoing Joint Feasibility Study that will pave the way for commencement of negotiations on a Preferential Trade Agreement,” MEA joint secretary Adarsh Swaika said, adding that the two leaders acknowledged that the current bilateral trade level of about US $285 million (2018) was far below the potential. “The [leaders] shared the same vision of a united, [sovereign] democratic Islamic republic of Afghanistan, that it should be an Afghan led, owned and controlled peace process. It is also vitally important to preserve the gains made by Afghanistan in the last two decades including for minorities, women and children,” Mr. Swaika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-uzbek-president-discuss-afghan-projects/article33311731.ece
12 December 2020||Kanidajan,||Apple trees cut in J&K anti-encroachment drive||With prediction of fresh snowfall in upper reaches of the Kashmir Valley, members of around 30 families are running from pillar to post to know the reason for the felling of tens of thousands of apple trees and a sudden eviction of nomadic population of Gujjars near the forest area in Budgam’seh Pakherpora Block in central Kashmir. In his 70s, Sharief Bajjad is the head of a family of eight members in Kanidajan village and homeless now. “Forest officials came this week to my Kotha [huntment] with orders to evict us. In this weather, where will we go? We have shifted to a nearby village. We tend cattle up in the forest area. What will happen to our means of earning now?” he said. The Forest department has started a drive against “illegal encroachers” of forest land in the Valley. It also felled apple trees planted on what the department described as “forest land”. “I fail to understand the reason behind cutting the apple trees. Many were 30-year-old trees. This area sees a stunted growth of trees due to poor water levels. Many were planted by my grandfather. We are living here for more than six decades and my great grandfathers lived earlier up in the forest area. I fail to understand what is our sin,” Mr. Bajjad said. Sabeer Ahmad Wagay alleged that the Forest Department within two days of the eviction notice started felling apple trees spread over 13 kannals (1.62 acre). “We were not even heard. The land is with us for many generations”, Mr. Wagay, with 13 family members in the house, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/apple-trees-cut-in-jk-anti-encroachment-drive/article33312004.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Delimitation should be based on 2031 Census’||A paper released by the Pranab Mukherjee Foundation (PMF) on the eve of the late President’s birth anniversary on Friday suggested that the next delimitation exercise should be a two-step process: first a Delimitation Commission should be set up to redraw boundaries of constituencies on the basis of the 2031 Census and then a State Reorganisation Act be passed to split States into smaller ones. The paper on the topic of delimitation released on Thursday said the 84th Amendment to the Constitution in 2002 had put a freeze on the delimitation of Lok Sabha and State Assembly constituencies till the first Census after 2026. While the current boundaries were drawn on the basis of the 2001 Census, the number of Lok Sabha seats and State Assembly seats remained frozen on the basis of the 1971 Census. “The population according to the last census preceding the freeze was 50 crore, which in 50 years has grown to 130 crore. This has caused a massive asymmetry in the political representation in the country,” the paper said.  Population criteria It added that a Delimitation Commission be set up to draw the boundaries as per the 2031 Census and recommend the reorganisation of States based on population. Then, it said, a State Reorganisation Act should be brought to give effect to the Delimitation Commissions’ recommendations “by splitting States into smaller ones”. The managing editor and director of the foundation, Omita Paul, wrote that the topic of delimitation was “very close” to the former President, who passed away in August while the paper was being written.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delimitation-should-be-based-on-2031-census/article33312044.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Man on death row gets life sentence||He quietly returned to Warangal. When her relatives asked the woman’s whereabouts, Sanjay feigned innocence. Suspecting foul play by him, they threatened to approach police. “In fact, Sanjay committed the nine murders to cover-up that woman’s killing. His sexual assault of the girl came to light when investigators examined her,” Mr. Satyanarayana explained. Since the teenager was sick then, police sent her to medical examination only to be confirmed by doctors that she was pregnant. The minor then revealed to police that Sanjay repeatedly violated her. In addition to the nine murders, a separate FIR was issued against Sanjay for raping and impregnating the girl. “With the consent of her blood relatives, the minor’s pregnancy was aborted. Samples of foetus were sent for DNA fingerprinting. Reports confirmed that Sanjay impregnated her. Meanwhile, the court held him guilty of the nine murders and awarded capital punishment. Trial of the rape case was on when the court pronounced death penalty for the convict on October 28. “Victim’s statement, medical reports and the video clips recorded by Sanjay while assaulting the victim helped in securing conviction,” the PP said. The judge held Sanjay guilty under IPC sections of 376 (N) and 376 (3). He was also convicted under section six of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). In each of these three counts, Sanjay was awarded life imprisonment till death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-on-death-row-gets-life-sentence/article33312420.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Panel probing ISRO case set to begin work||It could either opt to function from Delhi or hold meetings at an appropriate place in Kerala. At the time of his arrest on November 30, 1994, Mr. Narayanan was working on cryogenic engine technology at the premier Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). The police investigators had accused him of passing on documents and drawings of ISRO relating to Viking/Vikas engine technology, cryogenic engine technology and PSLV flight data/drawings to Pakistan. But the Supreme Court dismissed the case in 2018 as a criminal frame-up based on “some kind fancy or notion.” It said Mr. Narayanan’s career was “smothered.” The scientist himself had said the prosecution launched by the Kerala Police had a “catastrophic effect” on his career and personal life, besides setting back the technological advancement in space research. The CBI, which took over the probe from the Kerala Police, had promptly filed a closure report in 1996. But Mr. Narayanan fought on to bring his accusers to justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-probing-isro-case-set-to-begin-work/article33311698.ece
12 December 2020||Guwahati,||NE students observe ‘Black Day’ against CAA||Students’ organisations across the eight northeastern States relaunched their movement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) by observing a black day on Friday, marking the passage of the law in the Rajya Sabha in 2019. The North East Students’ Organisation (NESO), the apex body of the States and tribe-based student bodies in the region, said they will continue to protest and observe December 11 as a black day until the citizenship law is scrapped. The NESO is comprised of the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU), All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union, Khasi Students’ Union, Mizo Zirlai Pawl, Garo Students’ Union, Naga Students’ Federation, Twipra Students’ Federation and All Manipur Students’ Union. “Members of our constituent organisations displayed black flags and banners at all the important locations across the region. We want the Centre to know we have not forgotten the snub to our opposition to the disastrous Act,” NESO chairman Samuel B. Jyrwa said. Peaceful demonstration AASU advisor Samujjal Bhattacharyya said the indigenous people of the northeast will never accept CAA. “But we will ensure our protests are peaceful,” he added. The NESO had called a region-wide shutdown on December 10, 2019, after the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill was passed in the Lok Sabha. The protests turned violent the following day, leading to the death of five people, three of them in police firing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ne-students-observe-black-day-against-caa/article33311720.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Governor returns file on Chennithala||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has reportedly returned a government file seeking an anti-corruption inquiry against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and two other Congress leaders. Officials privy to the move said Raj Bhavan seemed acutely aware of the political implications of the election-era request and wanted to insulate the gubernatorial office from accusations of political partisanship. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) had reportedly presented a report of the confidential inquiry into the allegation that the Kerala Bar Hotel Association (KBHA) had bribed Mr. Chennithala and two Congress Ministers in the previous Oommen Chandy government into rolling back a proposed bar licence fee hike in 2013. The inquiry had also targeted former Excise Minister K. Babu and former Health Minister V.S. Sivakumar. However, Mr. Khan appeared unconvinced and has sought more clarification from the agency, an official said. The Congress slammed the government’s move to a slap an inquiry on its leaders as an election stunt. The attempt leaned heavily on a set of allegations raised by former KBHA working president Biju Ramesh in November. Mr. Ramesh had alleged that the KBHA had collected money from members under the head of an account cryptically named “legal fund” to salvage the liquor business from a crippling hike in the permit fee. He alleged that Mr. Babu had sounded that the government would hike the annual bar licence fee at a “pre-Budget” meeting with hoteliers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governor-returns-file-on-chennithala/article33312192.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers set to block Delhi-Jaipur highway||In Uttar Pradesh, the Tikait faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union is making plans to besiege toll barriers. “We will picket the toll plazas, so that the cess cannot be collected tomorrow. We will not block the road, but we will allow commuters to go through for free for one day,” said Dharmendra Malik, spokesperson of BKU (Tikait). More than 5,000 police personnel have been deployed at several intersections and toll barriers in Haryana districts bordering Delhi. Two thousand police personnel have been deployed at five strategic points, including at the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal intersection near Panchgaon, to prevent the agitating farmers from blocking the Delhi-Jaipur Highway, said Astha Modi, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Headquarters, Gurugram. The police are also ready with a diversion plan to avoid any inconvenience to commuters, she added. Additional police forces were also deployed at the Kherki Daula toll plaza, one of the busiest in the country. Farmer unions are seeking support from local farmers in Sohna and Rewari to set up blockades, said Ms. Modi. The Faridabad Police have deployed 3,500 police personnel equipped with riot equipment to deal with any situation, said Arpit Jain, DCP, Headquarters. Reserve Police Force personnel have also been deployed at five tolls in the city at the Badarpur border, Gurugram-Faridabad border, KGP toll plaza, Pali Crusher Zone and Dhoj. The police said drones would also be used to keep a watch on anti-social elements and identify them. In Amritsar, thousands of farmers and farm labourers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Samiti started a tractor-trolley ‘march’ for Delhi on Friday to ensure the ongoing agitation doesn’t lose steam. “Thousands of farmers and labourers from Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Ferozpur, Fazilka, Jalandhar and Moga districts are on the move,” Sarvan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the Punjab unit of the Samiti, told The Hindu . The Congress also plans to hold demonstrations at the ‘Shambu border’ on December 14 in support of the farmers, said the party’s State chief Sunil Jakhar.  (With inputs from Vikas Vasudeva in Chandigarh, Ashok Kumar in Gurugram and Priscilla Jebaraj in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-set-to-block-delhi-jaipur-highway/article33311693.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bid to slash agri income to Bihar level: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the Centre of trying to bring down the income of farmers across the country to the level of Bihar, a State where, according to a survey, an agricultural household has the least annual income. Mr. Gandhi, on his Twitter handle, tagged a media report that said that an agricultural household in Punjab earned the highest in a year (Rs. 2,16,708) while Bihar earned the least (Rs. 42,684). “The farmer wants his income to be as much as that of farmers of Punjab.” In another tweet, he quoted Subramania Bharathiar’s praise of farmers and said withdrawing the three anti-farmers’ laws would be a fitting tribute to the great Tamil poet on his 139th birth anniversary. Bihar had abolished the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act way back in 2006. Abolishing the APMCs and minimum support price would make the farmers more vulnerable, the Congress says. The data cited by Mr. Gandhi is from the Situation Survey of Agricultural Household undertaken in 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bid-to-slash-agri-income-to-bihar-level-rahul/article33311709.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||India does not practise disinformation: MEA||India on Friday responded to EU DisinfoLab’s discovery of an anti-Pakistan disinformation campaign, saying that it is not India but a country “next door” which shelters terrorists and uses such campaigns. The comment from the Official Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs takes on the report of the EU DisinfoLab which uncovered a 15-year operation focusing on EU and UN with fake local media and NGOs but stopped short of blaming the Indian government directly for it. “Disinformation is practised particularly by those who have records to hide such as sheltering international wanted terrorists including Osama bin Laden. And seek unsuccessfully to cover up their own tracks such as on the 26/11 Mumbai attack,” said Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs. “As a responsible democracy, India does not practice disinformation campaigns. In fact, if you are looking at disinformation, the best example is the country next door which is circulating fictional and fabricated dossiers,” said Mr. Srivastava. The EU DisinfoLab’s report revealed a large scale 15-year-long operation which targeted EU and United Nations with approximately 750 local media and 10 NGOs.   The best example is the country next door which is circulating fictional dossiers  Anurag Srivastava  MEA spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-does-not-practise-disinformation-mea/article33311771.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC stays CIC order on PM’s foreign visits||The Delhi High Court on Friday stayed a Central Information Commission (CIC) direction to the Indian Air Force (IAF) to provide an RTI activist information regarding each foreign visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh undertaken on IAF aircraft. Justice Navin Chawla also sought a response from the RTI activist, Commodore Lokesh K. Batra (retired), who had requested certified copies of Special Flight Returns Part-I and Part-II relating to foreign visits of Mr. Modi and Dr. Singh. The IAF had moved the High Court challenging the July 8, 2020, order of the CIC, saying that the information sought was “extremely sensitive in nature” as it related to details of the Prime Minister’s security apparatus. “The information so sought includes details related to the entire entourage, names of Special Protection Group (SPG) personnel accompanying the Prime Minister of India on foreign tours for his personal safety, and the same, if disclosed, can potentially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India,” the IAF said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-stays-cic-order-on-pms-foreign-visits/article33311734.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||IIP stays in positive territory for second month||The NSO also revised upwards its estimates for September’s industrial output growth from 0.2% to 0.5%, in light of updated data. Total industrial output so far in 2020-21 is now 17.5% lower than the April 2019-October 2019 period. Electricity generation grew 11.2% in October compared to a 12.2% decline a year ago, while manufacturing activity grew 3.5% in contrast to a 5.7% contraction in October 2019. Mining shrank 1.5%. “The broad-based growth in manufacturing is significant. Machinery growth has turned positive, which is reflected in capital goods even though there was a very strong base effect,” said CARE Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis. “It needs to be seen if this positive growth can be sustained for another two months before we can conclude that there is a turnaround,” he added. Capital goods recorded positive growth for the first time in 21 months in October. But primary goods continued to record negative growth (-3.3%) while intermediate goods recorded a tepid 0.8% growth, which suggests that the recovery is dissipated and uneven. “The underlying strength of demand remains mixed, and is still tentative in some sectors,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA, who said October’s growth is ‘feebler than expected’ and November 2020 may record slower IIP growth or even a slide back into contraction mode. “A variety of available indicators such as output of coal, electricity, non-oil exports and GST e-way bills have revealed that the pace of growth flagged in November 2020, on account of a combination of an unfavourable base effect, fewer working days related to the shift in the festive calendar, as well as some slack after the satiation of pent-up demand,” she explained. India Ratings principal economist Sunil Kumar Sinha agreed, stressing that while two consecutive months of positive IIP growth is a good sign, one must wait for few more months to believe that the economy is firmly in recovery mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iip-stays-in-positive-territory-for-second-month/article33311695.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Farmers’ forums in Kerala go on strike from today||Expressing solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitations in Delhi, farmers’ organisations in Kerala are launching an indefinite stir from Saturday demanding the immediate withdrawal of the contentious farm laws introduced by the Centre. The stir will begin at 10 a.m. at the Martyrs’ Column at Palayam on Saturday, Joint Farmers’ Committee president Sathyan Mokeri and secretary K.N. Balagopal said. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member and All India Kisan Sabha vice president S. Ramachandran Pillai will inaugurate the stir. The agitation will be held every day from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. by observing the COVID-19 protocol. Demonstrations On December 14, demonstrations will be staged at all district headquarters. The joint committee finalised the decision to hold the agitation at a meeting on Friday. Farmers across the country are going ahead with their agitations until the Centre scraps the contentious laws. Farmers’ concern The new laws will leave rural livelihoods in utter disarray and relegate farmers to the position of slaves, the committee said. By denying a fair price to agricultural produce, the government is encouraging corporate interests. The amendment to the Essential Commodities Act and the move to permit contract farming will enslave farmers to corporates, the committee said. The forum urged the farming community in the State to join the struggle and called upon society in general to make it a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-forums-in-state-go-on-strike-from-today/article33312191.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||MHA summons top Bengal officials over attack on Nadda||“The West Bengal Police had provided a bullet proof car and a pilot to Shri J.P. Nadda, which was in addition to the escort (vehicle by the State manned by the CRPF) and PSO CRPF. He is entitled as Z-category protectee,” Mr. Bandypadhyay said. The letter added that the “DIG ( Police) of the range was stationed in the area to personally supervise the police arrangements, while four additional SPs, eight DYSPs, 14 Inspectors, 70 SIs/AS1s, 40 RAF personnel and 259 constable and 350 members of auxiliary forces were deployed on route and at the venue at Diamond Harbour.” Meanwhile, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) held a press conference questioning the Centre’s summons to senior officials of the State government. “Centre has no jurisdiction to issue summons to Chief Secretary and Director General of Police. Law and order under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution is a State subject. So, if there are any issues regarding that, the State is answerable,” TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee said. In response, BJP leader Mukul Roy said the Centre could summon officials of the State as “there is no rule of law in West Bengal”. Mr. Roy also termed the State government’s claims that enough security was provided to Mr. Nadda as a complete lie. “A bullet proof car was provided to Mr. Nadda; we did not see any policeman on the road. I have never seen a government that can lie so much,” Mr. Roy said. ‘Slur on democracy’ Mr. Dhankar described the attack as “unfortunate” and a “slur on democracy.” “I take a very serious note of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee remarks... I request her to withdraw her comments,” Mr Dhankhar said addressing a press conference at Raj Bhawan. “Administration does not allow any activity. How can that happen,” he said. Mr. Dhankhar said that he has sent a report to the Centre on the Thursday’s developments. Following the presser, the TMC leadership said the Governor’s threats could not intimidate the party. “He sends such reports daily. By sending such reports and remarks, he cannot threaten Mamata Banerjee. The people of the State are with us,” senior TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-summons-top-bengal-officials-over-attack-on-nadda/article33311694.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Surprise showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/surprise-showers/article33311723.ece
12 December 2020||KALPETTA,||111 kg of ganja seized from truck, two youths held||Excise officials seized 111 kg of ganja from a truck and arrested two youths at Kallur on the Kerala-Karnataka border on Thursday night. The excise team arrested Swalih, 25, of Koodaranhi in Kozhikode and Abid, 23, of Mudakkalil in Malappuram following a tip-off. The truck was also seized. The contraband was kept in 50 bags hidden in the truck that was transporting spare parts from Bengaluru to Ernakulam, said J. Thajudheen Kutty, Excise Deputy Commissioner, Wayanad. The accused revealed during interrogation that they had procured the contraband from Andhra Pradesh. The spare parts were later loaded from Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/111-kg-of-ganja-seized-from-truck-two-youths-held/article33312194.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Man on death row gets life sentence||A local court in Warangal on Friday handed down life imprisonment to Sanjay Kumar Yadav, who was awarded death penalty a few weeks ago in ‘Geesukonda mass murders’ case, for sexually assaulting a minor and impregnating her. Pronouncing the verdict, First Additional District and Special Judge K. Jaya Kumar directed the State government to pay the 15-year-old victim Rs. 4 lakh as compensation. Sanajy Kumar allegedly killed the minor’s mother on March 6 this year. Kumar had an illegal affair with the woman and cast his eyes on her teenaged daughter, Public Prosecutor M. Satyanarayana Goud said. A mother of three (teenaged daughter and two minor boys), the woman was deserted by her husband who stays in West Bengal. Sanjay hatched a plot to eliminate the woman as she mounted pressure on him to marry her. Telling her that he had to introduce her to his parents, he set out on a train journey with her. Sanjay pushed her from the running train, after administering sleeping pills, near Tadepallygudem in A.P. He quietly returned to Warangal. When her relatives asked the woman’s whereabouts, Sanjay feigned innocence. Suspecting foul play by him, they threatened to approach police. “In fact, Sanjay committed the nine murders to cover-up that woman’s killing. His sexual assault of the girl came to light when investigators examined her,” Mr. Satyanarayana explained. Since the teenager was sick then, police sent her to medical examination only to be confirmed by doctors that she was pregnant. The minor then revealed to police that Sanjay repeatedly violated her. In addition to the nine murders, a separate FIR was issued against Sanjay for raping and impregnating the girl. “With the consent of her father and other blood relatives, the minor’s pregnancy was aborted. Samples of foetus were sent for DNA fingerprinting. Reports confirmed that Sanjay impregnated her. Meanwhile, the court held him guilty of the nine murders and awarded capital punishment. Trial of the rape case was on when the court pronounced death penalty for the convict on October 28. “Victim’s statement, medical reports and the video clips recorded by Sanjay while assaulting the victim helped in securing conviction to the accused in the rape case,” the PP said. The judge held Sanjay guilty under IPC sections of 376 (N) and 376 (3). He was also convicted under section six of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). In each of these three counts, Sanjay was awarded life imprisonment till death, the PP said. “It is rare that the court has directed the government to pay Rs. 4 lakh compensation to the victim as she has become orphan with her mother’s death and there is no one to look after her,” Mr. Satyanarayana said. The minor and two younger brothers live at the State Home presently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-on-death-row-awarded-life-sentence/article33312117.ece
12 December 2020||SURYAPET,||Couple found hanging from a tree||A young man and a minor girl were found hanging from a tree on the outskirts of Moddula Cheruvu of Munagala mandal on Friday. Local police, who were alerted by passers by, arrived at the scene and identified the victims as 21-year-old Orsu Naresh and a minor girl, both residents of B. Chandupatla village of the neighbouring Chivvemla mandal. Mungala police said it appeared that the couple had travelled from their village, parked their motorcycle at the site and used a saree to hang themselves. It is suspected that the couple had been seeing each other for some time. An investigation was opened.  Someone is always there to listen at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni: 040-66202000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/couple-found-hanging-from-a-tree/article33312160.ece
12 December 2020||Patna,||Bihar govt. raises paddy offtake limit||Amid the protests in Delhi over the new farm legislations, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has increased the paddy procurement limit from 200 quintals to 250 quintals for land-owning farmers. It has also ensured that farmers registered with the Agriculture Department are automatically deemed eligible for paddy procurement by the Primary Agriculture Credit Society (PACS) at the minimum support price (MSP). This was decided at a high-level meeting chaired by Mr. Kumar on Thursday to review status of paddy procurement during 2020-21. As regards marginal farmers, the State government has decided to increase the limit of paddy procurement from 75 quintals to 100 quintals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-govt-raises-paddy-offtake-limit/article33311710.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||To end graft, mindset must change: judge||There would be no end to corruption unless people changed their way of thinking, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul stated in the Supreme Court on Friday and dismissed as withdrawn a plea seeking stringent punishment for corruption and money laundering. “Personally, I feel we in society should change our thinking... For every person taking money, there is a person distributing money,” Justice Kaul, heading a three-judge Bench, said. His oral comments came while hearing a petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan. ‘Suggestion is utopian’ Mr. Upadhyay, a frequent public interest litigation (PIL) petitioner in the court, said the government should confiscate the ill-gotten wealth — black money, benami and disproportionate assets — of the corrupt and the criminals and throw the offenders in jail for lifetime. Justice Kaul said Mr. Upadhyay’s suggestion was utopian. The petitioner cannot expect to remedy all the wrongs in society through the judicial process. “There is the process of the legislature and the executive...” Justice Kaul said, allowing Mr. Upadhyay to withdraw and knock the doors of the Law Commission of India with his suggestions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/to-end-graft-mindset-must-change-judge/article33311711.ece
12 December 2020||Badaun (U.P.),||Sound system falls on children, 2 killed in U.P.||Two children were killed and two others injured when a sound system installed on a tractor trolley fell on them in Basai village here, police said. The incident took place on Thursday night when a ‘shobha yatra’ was being taken out during which the tractor trolley rammed a raised structure ouse and the box fell on the children dancing before it, police said on Friday. Four children were hurt and rushed to a hospital where two of them died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sound-system-falls-on-children-2-killed-in-up/article33312220.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Two Delhi-based firms booked for fraud||The CBI has booked two Delhi-based firms and their top functionaries in cases involving bank loans of over Rs. 50 crore. In the first case registered on a complaint from the State Bank of India (SBI), the agency has named Gee Cee Corporation Private Limited. The second FIR is against Marketing Times Automobile Private Limited. They have been accused of cheating the Central Bank of India of Rs. 31.60 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-delhi-based-firms-booked-for-fraud/article33311726.ece
12 December 2020||Mumbai,||MVA govt. likely to extend industry status to film and entertainment sector||A week after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with film studio owners, producers and actors in Mumbai for his planned film city in Noida, the Maharashtra government has moved to sanction industry status to the film and entertainment sector. Amit Deshmukh, the State’s Cultural Affairs Minister, said the proposal would be discussed in a Cabinet meeting. “The film and entertainment sector is rapidly growing in Maharashtra. It helps in employment generation as well as a number of self-employment opportunities. We will soon be bringing a proposal to extend industry status to this sector in the State Cabinet meeting,” Mr. Deshmukh said. The State government is also in the process of framing a policy for films, serials, OTT platforms as well as for the stage, documentaries, advertisements and traditional arts. Manisha Verma, managing director, Maharashtra Film, Stage and Cultural Development Corporation, said, “There is a need to create a positive eco- system for the film and entertainment sector. It has tremendous scope for revenue and employment generation besides being an instrument of wielding India’s soft power and projecting our rich culture.” She said a three-day webinar was held in November to seek inputs from stakeholders, industry experts and government departments on framing the policy. “On the basis of these deliberations and looking at best global practices and State policies, we have presented a policy framework to the minister and it will soon be presented to the government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mva-govt-likely-to-extend-industry-status-to-film-and-entertainment-sector/article33311721.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||MIG-29K pilot Cdr Nishant Singh laid to rest with military honours||Commander Nishant Singh, 34, the Navy’s fighter pilot who lost his life in the recent MIG-29K jet crash, was laid to rest with full military honours at Goa on Friday. “His wife, Nayaab Randhawa, received the tricolour and her husband’s uniform from the Commanding Officer of the squadron,” the Navy said. The jet crashed in the sea off Goa on November 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mig-29k-pilot-cdr-nishant-singh-laid-to-rest-with-military-honours/article33311770.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||MHA notifies rules for Indian courts to serve summons to accused in the Maldives||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Friday notified rules for Indian courts to send summons or search warrants to accused persons in the Maldives and wanted in India, as per an agreement signed between the two countries. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval was in Sri Lanka on November 28 to attend the 4th NSA-level Maritime Security Cooperation meeting with Sri Lanka and the Maldives. The arrangement on court summons between the two countries is understood to have been reached in Colombo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-notifies-rules-for-indian-courts-to-serve-summons-to-accused-in-the-maldives/article33311733.ece
12 December 2020||Bodi,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK blamed for making farmers poor||Launching a scathing attack against Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam for his failure to protect the farmers in the district, DMK MP and senior leader Tiruchi Siva said that the beginning of the end had come for the ruling party in Tamil Nadu. Speaking at a farmers' meeting organised by the DMK here on Friday, he said that the way the farmers handed over petitions in large numbers reflected the plight of the common man. Assuring the farmers to remain calm as the days of the present government were numbered, he said that the State was waiting to see M. K. Stalin take over the reins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-blamed-for-making-farmers-poor/article33312062.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 drains to be built to mitigate flooding in southern suburbs||The Greater Chennai Corporation and other agencies will build five perpendicular drains to reduce flooding in the southern parts of the city. In north Chennai, the Corporation will begin work on an integrated storm-water drain project in 10 days. Both works are expected to make the city flood-resilient in the immediate future. Speaking to journalists on Friday, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the project to build the five drains, estimated at Rs. 400 crore, was proposed to prevent flooding of the Pallikaranai marshland during the rain. “At least 24 km of the new drains will be developed through the cut- and-cover method. The Corporation will build three drains. One will take storm water from Pallikaranai along the radial road to Buckingham Canal. The second will be developed from Perumbakkam to Buckingham Canal. The third will be from Nookampalayam to Buckingham Canal. Two drains will be built by the Public Works Department. One of them will take water from Thalambur and the other from Navalur. We will finalise the design in 20 days,” he said. Pointing to the data on heavy rainfall in suburban areas, he said, “Tambaram received 32 cm of rainfall [so far this monsoon]. The storm water from areas like Tambaram reaches the southern parts of the city, taking a circuitous route through Buckingham Canal and Muttukadu, before reaching the sea. Water from many suburban parts reaches the Pallikaranai marshland in the Chennai Corporation limits, flooding many neighbourhoods. Areas such as Velachery, Perungudi and Pallikaranai have been flooded this monsoon.” In north Chennai, the Corporation will launch the integrated storm-water drain project in the Kosasthalaiyar basin in areas such as Tiruvottiyur, Manali and Madhavaram in 10 days. “We have received funding from the Asian Development Bank. All parts of Chennai will be flood-resilient in two-and-a-half years after the construction of the drains,” Mr. Prakash said. Stressing the need for ecorestoration of tanks and rivers, Mr. Prakash said the civic body had saved 1 tmc ft of water after the eco-restoration of many of the 210 tanks in the city. “The Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust has received an allocation of Rs. 5,000 crore. We will build modular treatment plants to prevent pollution of rivers. The added areas of the city will get sewer networks shortly.” “At least 125 acres of the Pallikaranai marshland will be eco-restored. Biomining of 225 acres of the dumpyard will be carried out at an estimated cost of Rs. 400 crore. This is the largest biomining project in India. The Corporation will retain 100 acres of land and give 125 acres back to the marshland [under the Forest Department],” Mr. Prakash said. The Corporation would also develop drains at 23 locations, like Baba Nagar in Villivakkam, to prevent water stagnation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-drains-to-be-built-to-mitigate-flooding-in-southern-suburbs/article33311905.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Zero tolerance traffic junctions’ introduced in city from today||For effective implementation of traffic rules, the police have introduced ‘zero tolerance traffic junctions’ from Saturday, where erring motorists will face more police personnel and stringent action for not following the rules. Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, accompanied by Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, N. Kannan, inspected the new arrangement for free flow of traffic around Thiruvanmiyur bus terminus. All encroachments on the arterial junction were removed and street vendors were pushed into the market premises. Vehicles parked on the road blocking normal flow of traffic were also removed. “Zero tolerance junctions, where additional police personnel will be deployed, are going to be declared from Saturday. Motorists should follow all traffic rule such as adhering to signals, wearing helmets compulsorily and using seat belts. They should not use mobile phones while driving. They should not violate the stop line. In the first phase, we have selected four areas — Spencer’s junction, Anna Arch, Madhavaram roundtana and Thiruvanmiyur bus terminus.” “For the first week, we will advise the public, instead of booking cases or issuing challans to the violators straight away, and ask them to follow all road rules. After this, we will start enforcing rules,” he said. “Only after perfect implementation of zero tolerance, will we extend the programme to other areas. Each and every resident of the city should follow the rules to ensure safety to everyone and create a sense of safeness among the community,” Mr. Aggarwal said, appealing to the public to cooperate with the traffic police for successful implementation. “The impression on any city will be formed depending on the traffic movement. In a few cities of the country, people follow traffic rules and regulations properly. Such cities always have a special image,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zero-tolerance-traffic-junctions-introduced-in-city-from-today/article33311914.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. plans to restore tanks in Chennai’s western suburbs||As part of the measures to tackle floods and droughts affecting Chennai, the Water Resources Department (WRD) proposes to restore a cascade of tanks in the western suburbs and convert them into sources of drinking water. The project, proposed under the Chennai City Partnership Programme, is under scrutiny, and awaits funds from the World Bank. The network of 10 urban tanks is spread from Thirunindravur to Retteri. Surplus water from each of these tanks drains into the subsequent one and reach Retteri. The tanks include those at Thandurai, Sekkadu, Vilinjiyampakkam, Paruthipattu, Ayapakkam, Arabath eri, Ambattur and Korattur. Metrowater has already been developing the waterbody at Retteri as a source of drinking water. WRD officials said many tanks in the Kosasthalaiyar sub-basin were neglected. As the areas around them were urbanised, links between the tanks went missing, with portions of the surplus channels having disappeared over the years. This often led to flooding of the surrounding localities and wastage of rainwater that would have drained into these tanks. Through this Rs. 26 crore restoration project, the WRD expects to mitigate floods in the vulnerable areas and augment storage for drinking purposes. Capacity to be increased The original capacity of the tanks is 965.50 million cubic feet (mcft), and the project will help to increase their capacity to 1,351.70 mcft and to recharge the groundwater table in neighbouring areas. Once the project is completed, the tanks together would have more storage than the new reservoir at Thervoy Kandigai Kannankottai, which can store 500 mcft. The WRD plans to raise the full tank level of these waterbodies. Besides providing shutters and rebuilding weirs, which allow surplus water to flow out, the bunds would be fortified and foreshore bunds formed. “We are also planning to construct an off-take channel from the stretch of the Cooum river near the Korattur check-dam. Once the check-dam is reconstructed, the stored water will be conveyed to the Thirunindravur tank,” an official said. Measures will be taken to construct channels to bridge the gaps, especially near Thirunindravur and between Paruthipattu and Ayapakkam. However, sewage release into the tanks from Sekkadu to Retteri is a major challenge. The surplus channel from Ayapakkam to Korattur, too, carries rainwater mixed with sewage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-plans-to-restore-tanks-in-chennais-western-suburbs/article33311993.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders CB-CID probe into missing gold seized by CBI||The Madras High Court on Friday ordered a Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) probe into the missing 103.864 kg out of 400.47 kg of gold seized by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from an importer in 2012. Justice P.N. Prakash rejected CBI Special Public Prosecutor K. Srinivasan’s argument that the prestige of the Central agency would come down if the case related to the missing gold was handed over to the State police. “This court cannot subscribe to this view because the law does not sanction such an inference. All police personnel have to be trusted,” the judge said. The judge said the CBI had booked a case against officials of the Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation (MMTC) and Surana Corporation, a Chennai-based bullion importer, on June 13, 2012. The allegation was that the MMTC officials had shown undue favour to Surana Corporation. CBI sleuths searched Surana’s office on NSC Bose Road here, seized 400.47 kg of gold bars and jewels, and kept them in the vaults of the company under lock and seal. According to the CBI, its officials had handed over the keys of the lockers to a special court for CBI cases. Subsequently, the CBI found that the seized gold was not required in the 2012 case. However, it registered another FIR in 2013 against the partners of Surana Corporation for allegedly importing the gold in violation of the Foreign Trade Policy, and transferred the gold from the 2012 case to the 2013 case. After completing the investigation in the 2013 case, the CBI filed a closure report stating that no offence had been made out. The special court accepted the report in February 2015 and directed the CBI to hand over the seized gold to the Directorate General of Foreign Trade. The gold was transferred only on paper and no inventory was taken. Surana Corporation objected to this transfer and sought possession of the gold. Since the company had taken loans from several banks, the State Bank of India (SBI), the lead bank, sought possession. “The SBI and Surana filed a compromise memo to hand over the gold, weighing 400.47 kg, to the SBI for settlement of dues,” the judge said. The special court accepted the compromise memo and passed an order on December 12, 2017, to hand over the gold to the SBI. Meanwhile, the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry, too, staked claim over the gold. However, the National Company Law Tribunal, on December 27, 2019, rejected the Ministry’s request and ordered that the gold be handed over to liquidator C. Ramasubramaniam. Accordingly, the CBI took inventory of the gold in February this year and found only 296.606 kg of the gold. Mr. Ramasubramaniam approached the High Court seeking a direction to the CBI to return the missing 103.864 kg of gold, but the CBI claimed that the discrepancy in the quantum might have been caused due to mistakes that might have arisen in weighing the gold. The judge directed the liquidator to lodge a complaint with the CB-CID, Metro Wing, Chennai. He also ordered that the investigation should be completed within six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-cb-cid-probe-into-missing-gold/article33311964.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,235 fresh infections||Tamil Nadu’s case tally touched 7,96,475, with 1,235 more persons testing positive on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Chennai’s accounted for 307, followed by Coimbatore with 115. The State recorded 17 more deaths, taking its toll to 11,870. The number of active cases stood at 10,299, as another 1,311 persons were discharged from hospitals after treatment. The new cases took Chennai’s tally to 2,19,168, while Coimbatore’s reached 50,196. There were 73 cases in Salem, 70 in Tiruvallur and 69 in Chengalpattu. Madurai recorded 50 cases, while Tiruppur saw 48. While Perambalur had no new case, nine districts recorded under 10 each. Chennai recorded six of the 17 fatalities, while Coimbatore, Thanjavur and Theni recorded two each. All of the deceased had co-morbidities. Among the deceased was a 39-year-old man from Dindigul who had diabetes.  Chennai’s toll stood at 3,904, followed by Chengalpattu (730), Tiruvallur (664) and Coimbatore (628). As many as 70,436 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,28,14,915.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1235-fresh-infections/article33311941.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After a decade, Baby Canal will feed Cholavaram lake||After nearly a decade, the Water Resources Department has revived and started using Baby Canal, a channel that carries surplus water from the Poondi reservoir to the waterbody in Cholavaram, which is a buffer source for the city’s drinking water supply. With a significant drop in inflow and dry weather predicted for a few more days, the shutters of the Chembarambakkam reservoir were closed on Thursday and about 100 cusecs (cubic feet per second) was being drawn for drinking water needs. Similarly, sluice gates of the Red Hills reservoir were closed earlier this week, and storage is being maintained at 3,072 million cubic feet (mcft) against a total capacity of 3,300 mcft. However, about 2,000 cusecs of water are being let out from Poondi reservoir as it continues to receive inflow from catchment areas and Kosasthalaiyar river. It also received Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh. Water released from Poondi reservoir reaches Cholavaram in two ways — through Kosasthalaiyar river and through Baby Canal, which was built during the British period. It is linked to the upper supply channel near the Tamaraipakkam anaicut, which carries water to Cholavaram. The 15.6 km-long canal will be used to carry water when the discharge from the reservoir is less. An official said, “We improved the earthen canal that has a capacity of 100 cusecs at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh to ensure free flow of water. It was not used for many years as there was no necessity. We have released 45 cusecs into Baby Canal as the reservoir is set to get inflow for 10 more days.” Baby Canal can now be used to build storage in Cholavaram reservoir even if the water discharge through the river is stopped, and the reservoir continues to get some inflow. “We will be able to maintain the level at 34.33 ft at Poondi and also boost storage at Cholavaram, which still has capacity for 340 mcft,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-a-decade-baby-canal-will-feed-cholavaram-lake/article33311899.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VHS installs state of the art CT scanner||The Voluntary Health Services (VHS) has installed a state of the art CT scanner at its facility in Taramani. The CT scanner would help in medical management and surgeries, officials at the hospital said, adding that it would also enable better diagnosis and treatment. The CT scanner would also reduce the need for exploratory surgeries, the officials added. Equipment donated The equipment, which cost Rs. 1.62 crore, has been donated by the Sanmar Group through its CSR trust. The Madhuram and K.S. Narayanan Department of Imaging is named after the parents of the Sanmar Group’s chairman N. Sankar and vice-chairman N. Kumar. Mr. Kumar commissioned the department on Friday. The donors have committed to establish a full-fledged department, including donating equipment such as a MRI scanner in due course. The Sanmar CSR Trust is a charitable outreach of the group. They have been supporting education, healthcare, sports and social welfare activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vhs-installs-state-of-the-art-ct-scanner/article33311912.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s positivity rate down to 1.77%, says Health Minister||Tamil Nadu’s positivity rate dipped to 1.77% in November and December (so far), Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Friday. “At a time when countries are facing a second wave of COVID-19 infections, Tamil Nadu continues to perform an average of 70,000 RT-PCR tests in a day, even though cases are on the decline. The positivity rate has fallen under 2% during November and December. The Centre had fixed a target of of keeping positivity rate under 5%, for all States. We have already achieved more than the fixed target, due to RT-PCR tests,” he told reporters. He was speaking after inaugurating a 16-slice CT Scan and mammogram at the ESIC Hospital in Ayanavaram, Chennai. Despite cyclones, rain and the festive season, cases have dipped in the State, including in Chennai, he added. The ESIC Hospital has, so far, treated nearly 3,500 persons. It accounts for a recovery rate of 98.4% — higher than the State’s recovery rate of 97.2%, he added. Mini clinics “The Chief Minister will launch 2,000 mini clinics in Chennai on December 14. Works to recruit 835 doctors through the Medical Services Recruitment Board for the mini clinics are under way. Nurses and workers will also be recruited,” the Minister said. “All required equipment, such as pulse oximeter and BP apparatus, are being procured through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, on a war-footing,” he said. The Director of Medical and Rural Health Services (ESI), Ashok Kumar, and medical superintendent of ESIC Hospital, Ayanavaram, Madhuprasad, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-positivity-rate-down-to-177-says-health-minister/article33311946.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘While competing, avoid common songs’||An average musician will easily know around 500-600 songs at a time. This is a small number when one takes into consideration the number of compositions created by vagyeyakaras over the centuries. “When preparing for a competition, one must avoid both common and at the same time very rare songs. There would a maximum of 30-odd songs like that. There is such a large number of songs one can choose from. The more the number of songs you know, the more you will be able to delineate the ragas in a better manner,” said renowned vocalist Nithyashree Mahadevan, who has watched hundreds of contestants perform in various competitions. Apart from the trinity, krithis in varied tempos of composers like Swathi Thirunal, Nandanar, Papanasam Sivan, Annamacharya, and Purandaradasar can also be chosen, she added. Those sending in their 5-minute-long entries for The Hindu Margazhi Classical Music Competition, too, could choose something different and not oft-repeated songs. The entries must be sent using Google Drive or Dropbox links. Details must include the contestant’s name, age, complete postal address, e-mail address, contact number, name of guru and the number of years of training, and the category under which the entry is being sent. Ensure that the access rights to the videos are kept open to all so that the panel of judges can access them. The last date for sending in the entries is December 12, 2020. Entries can be sent to thmargazhi@thehindu.co.in  The more the number of songs you know, the more you will be able to delineate the ragas in a better manner Nithyashree Mahadevan Vocalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-competing-avoid-common-compositions/article33311923.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ilaiyaraaja moves HC seeking access to recording theatre||Music composer Ilaiyaraaja has moved the Madras High Court to injunct the owners of Prasad Digital Film Laboratories at Saligramam here from disturbing his possession of a sound recording theatre, where he had been composing and recording music for more than 35 years. The composer has also sought compensation of Rs. 50 lakh from Sai Prasad and A. Ramesh for the mental agony caused to him due to forcible eviction from the recording theatre. The civil suit was listed before Justice N. Sathish Kumar on Friday, and the judge ordered notices. Senior counsel P.S. Raman said it was unfair on the part of the studio owners to unceremoniously evict an ace musician, who had been occupying the premises for over three decades on the basis of an oral understanding between him and L.V. Prasad, founder of the film laboratory. The counsel said the plaintiff was not even permitted to take back his belongings, including the pen with which he writes musical notes and several international and national awards won by him. Mr. Raman said the musician must at least be permitted to enter the theatre for one day, meditate over there since he had spent almost all his life over there composing his music, and take his belongings. After hearing him, the judge asked Mr. Ilaiyaraaja’s counsel on record K.V. Sanjeev Kumar to put the other side on notice and serve them papers so that they could also be heard on December 17 before passing orders in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ilaiyaraaja-moves-hc-seeking-access-to-recording-theatre/article33311916.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two monuments declared protected sites||The State government on Friday announced two monuments in the State as protected sites. They are Ammakulam at Keezhravanthavadi village in Tiruvannamalai district and an elephant statue at Azhagarmalai village in Ariyalur district. A press release from the Department of Tamil Culture and Archaeology said Ammakulam might date back to the 16th century during the reign of the Nayakkar kings. “During that period, they seem to have had the practice of inscribing symbols around their ponds.” “Many of these symbols around the pond have references to the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, scenes from Periyapuranam and war scenes. Also, on the four corners of the pond, there are Nandi statues,” the release said.  Similar pond According to the release, a similar pond is found at Chinnayampettai in Chengam circle. Chinnamanayakkar, who had constructed the pond there, could have set up the Ammakulam pond as well, it said. The elephant statue at Azhagarmalai, spanning a height of 81 ft, length of 41 ft, and width of 12 ft likely dates back to 16th-17th century. “Azhagarmalai was a part of the first Rajendra Chola empire when Gangaikonda Cholapuram was its capital. The place was an important centre for the subsequent empires of the Vijayanagar and Nayakkar kingdoms,” the department said. Bell designs The elephant statue’s neck and body are seen to be adorned with designs of bells; under the belly there are statues that seem to be clapping, while there is a statue of a soldier under the elephant’s trunk that is rested on the soldier’s head, the press release from the department said.   Many of the symbols around the pond have references to the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, scenes from Periyapuranam   Azhagarmalai was a part of the first Rajendra Chola empire when Gangaikonda Cholapuram was its capital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-monuments-declared-protected-sites-in-state/article33311967.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Music Academy to hold digital music festival for eight days||Though the pandemic posed a challenge to the December music festival, information technology has come in handy for the sabhas to uphold a century-old tradition that put Chennai on the UNESCO Creative Cities Network. The 94th annual concerts of the Music Academy, the prestigious sabha in the city, will be digital and available online for eight days from December 24. “We have an unbroken tradition of having an annual festival ever since it was started in 1929. The first one was launched by the Academy, which has grown into one of the largest music festivals in the world, conducted not just by us, but by various organisations featuring hundreds of artistes over 1,500 concerts,” N. Murali, president of the Academy, said. This year, however, instead of a full festival it would be a much shorter version, consisting of fewer concerts and without the awards, morning lecture demonstrations, concerts from the morning and the dance festival. There will be three categories of performers — junior, sub-senior and senior. Only the concerts of the seniors will be charged, as is always the practice, and others are free. The concert tickets are available online: https://musicacademymadras2020. eventvirtually.com There will be 15 concerts by seniors — two on all days and just one on the final day. “For the first time, we have an opportunity to reach out to the audience outside the four walls of the auditorium. Depending on the response, it could open up possibilities for a hybrid version consisting of both physical and online concerts,” Mr. Murali said. The Academy took the decision in August itself when the pandemic was raging. “We do not want to expose the musicians, elderly members of the Academy and the audience to the virus in an enclosed air-conditioned auditorium. We have installed the UV land-based system for disinfection,” he said. Recordings are being done on the stage of the Academy. The concert duration is shorter than usual. Seniors, who normally perform in the prime slot, confine their concerts to one-and-a-half hours. The concerts by juniors and sub-juniors will be for one hour. As a value addition, the Academy has produced a 15-minute audio-visual capsule showcasing its heritage, history, Sangita Kalanidhi and other awardees, academic activities, advanced school of music, publications and infrastructure development. “They will be featured between the concerts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/music-academy-to-hold-online-festival/article33311918.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. inspired by Bharati’s vision of empowered women’||The BJP government at the Centre is inspired by Mahakavi Subramania Bharati’s vision of independent and empowered women, and it is working to ensure women-led empowerment, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. During his virtual address at the International Bharati Festival 2020, organised by Vanavil Cultural Centre, he said women in India did not have to face problems any more. “They can walk with their head held high and look everyone in the eye, as Mahakavi Bharati imagined. This is the era of New India’s Nari Shakti. They are breaking barriers and making an impact. This is New India’s tribute to Subramania Bharati,” he said. Mr. Modi said that in every sphere of the government, importance was being given to the dignity of women. The Prime Minister said Mahakavi Bharati understood that a divided society would not be able to succeed. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said Bharatiyar was a multi-faceted personality, who achieved a place of distinction in the international literary arena. His works had various facets of human emotions, such as nationalism, spirituality, love, intelligence, affection, revolution and mercy, he said. “He was an advocate of social justice and women’s rights and equality,” he said. Mr. Modi and Mr. Palaniswami congratulated Seeni Viswanathan, 86, on being honoured with the Bharati Award for dedicating his entire life to research on the poet’s works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-inspired-by-bharatis-vision-of-empowered-women/article33311932.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. gets the lion’s share of foodgrains from the Centre||Tamil Nadu has bagged nearly one-third of foodgrains supplied by the Centre to southern States under various schemes to tackle the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, marking the highest allocation in the region. Out of about 157 lakh tonnes of rice and wheat given to the south between March 25 and November 30, Tamil Nadu’s share accounted for 49.5 lakh tonnes, according to data compiled by the Food Corporation of India (FCI). Of this quantity, rice was 46.77 lakh tonnes and wheat, 2.75 lakh tonnes. Apart from 22.97 lakh tonnes of rice through regular allocation under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), the State was provided with an additional allocation of 13.89 lakh tonnes free of cost under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) and 1.99 lakh tonnes for non-NFSA cardholders at the rate of Rs. 22 per kg. Under the Open Market Sales Scheme (OMSS) under which rice is being sold by the FCI at Rs. 22.5 per kg, the State got 6.79 lakh tonnes. As regards stranded migrants, the quantity was 36,000 tonnes. In respect of wheat, the State got 2.75 lakh tonnes, of which 1.99 lakh tonnes was meant for NFSA beneficiaries and 39,000 tonnes under the PMGKAY. As regards the supply of food grains to other southern States, Karnataka was given 36.41 lakh tonnes; Andhra Pradesh - 30.49 lakh tonnes: Telangana - 22.04 lakh tonnes and Kerala - 18.15 lakh tonnes, apart from Puducherry – 28,000 tonnes. In view of rice being part of the main staple of food in other southern States too, the region including Tamil Nadu’s share was supplied with 148.6 lakh tonnes of rice during March 25-November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-gets-the-lions-share-of-foodgrains-from-the-centre/article33311949.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC discharges Karti Chidambaram, wife from prosecution||The Madras High Court on Friday discharged Sivaganga Member of Parliament Karti P. Chidambaram and his wife Srinidhi Karti Chidambaram from prosecution launched against them by the Income Tax Department for alleged evasion of capital gains tax. Justice N. Satish Kumar held that the prosecution was not maintainable in law since it had not been launched by a competent official. Justice Kumar said the prosecution ought to have been launched by the Assessing Officer and not a Deputy Director. The judge allowed individual criminal revision petitions filed by the couple against the refusal of a special court for cases against Members of Parliament as well as the Legislative Assembly to discharge them from prosecution. He agreed with senior counsel Kapil Sibal, P.S. Raman and N.R. Elango, representing the couple, that the prosecution had been launched purely based on an adverse opinion formed by the Deputy Director of Income Tax. He, however, observed in his judgment that “if the Assessing Officer comes to a conclusion (of alleged evasion of tax) in proceedings under Section 153 of the Income Tax Act, it is open to the department to initiate penal action as per law.” The prosecution’s case was that Mr. Karti Chidambaram had sold 5.11 acres of land at Muttukadu near here for Rs. 21.71 crore, of which Rs. 15.33 crore was obtained through cheque and the rest as cash. It was alleged that the cash portion was not disclosed in the I-T returns for 2014-15. Similarly, the department had accused Ms. Srinidhi Karti Chidambaram of selling 1.18 acres of land for Rs. 5.01 crore, of which only Rs. 3.65 crore was received by cheque. The cash component of Rs. 1.36 crore was not disclosed in her I-T returns for 2015-16, it was alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-discharges-karti-chidambaram-wife-from-prosecution-by-i-t-dept/article33311956.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK protests against toll gates within city limits||The DMK on Friday held a demonstration against the presence of toll gates in the Greater Chennai Corporation limits. “They were set up before these areas became part of the Corporation. Even nine years after their annexure, the toll gates are continuing,” said Saidapet MLA Ma. Subramanian, who led the demonstration. He said the issue was brought to the notice of Union Minister Nitin Gadkari by South Chennai DMK Lok Sabha member Tamizhachi Thangapandian, and he had advised her to take it up with the State government. Central Chennai MP Dayanidhi Maran also wrote to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “But there is no response so far,” Mr. Subramanian said. DMK president M.K. Stalin said the protest manifested people’s anger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-protests-against-toll-gates-within-city-limits/article33311900.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Healthcare staff will be vaccinated first’||The Greater Chennai Corporation has generated a list of over 50,000 healthcare workers, who will receive priority in COVID-19 vaccination, said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, he said the healthcare workers, including doctors and paramedical staff, would be the first to receive vaccination after the government made a decision. “Civic frontline workers will get vaccinated in the next phase. Elderly persons will get priority after that. We have generated the list of elderly persons in each of the 200 wards of the city,” Mr. Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-staff-will-be-vaccinated-first/article33311902.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor killed self over quarrel with husband, says police||The police on Friday interrogated Hemanth, the husband of TV actor Chitra who died on Wednesday in Nazarathpet, for the third day in a row. Deputy Commissioner, Ambattur, Deepa Sathyan and other officers interrogated Mr. Hemanth, the hotel staff, television serial production staff and family members. The couple had registered their marriage two months ago. They planned to hold a traditional wedding and a reception in January. The actor had been staying at a hotel near her shooting spot in Nazarathpet for a couple of days to avoid travelling. Her family and friends alleged that she could not have ended her life and demanded a thorough investigation. Her body was discovered with injury marks on her cheeks. A senior police officer said the couple had frequent quarrels. On the day of the incident, Mr. Hemanth had come to the shooting spot and was seen having an argument with her. “Investigation is on,” the officer said. The preliminary autopsy suggested that it was a case of suicide. The scars on her cheeks, which many had pointed out, were caused by her fingernails when she scratched her face, the officer added.  Those in need of counselling may contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.   The scars on her cheeks were caused by her fingernails when she scratched her face Senior Police Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-killed-self-over-quarrel-with-husband-says-police/article33311910.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC discharges Karti Chidambaram, wife from case filed by I-T Dept.||The Madras High Court on Friday discharged Sivaganga MP Karti P. Chidambaram and his wife Srinidhi Karti Chidambaram from prosecution launched against them by the IT department for alleged evasion of capital gains tax. Justice N. Satish Kumar held that the prosecution ought to have been launched by the Assessing Officer and not a Deputy Director. The prosecution’s case was that Mr. Karti Chidambaram had sold 5.110 acres of land at Muttukadu for Rs. 21.71 crore, of which Rs. 6.38 crore was not disclosed in his 2014-15 I-T returns. Similarly, the department had accused Ms. Srinidhi Karti Chidambaram of selling 1.18 acres of land for Rs. 5.01 crore, of which Rs. 1.36 crore was not disclosed in her 2015-16 I-T returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-discharges-karti-chidambaram-wife-from-case-filed-by-i-t-dept/article33312464.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Defamation cases against Subramanian Swamy quashed||The Madras High Court on Friday quashed four criminal defamation cases preferred at the instance of the State government against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Subramanian Swamy for having criticised former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in 2015. Justice N. Satish Kumar allowed all four quash petitions pending since 2016 and held that he did not find any reason to force the petitioner to undergo the ordeal of trial when there did not appear to be any substance for the launch of prosecution by the Stated government. The judge agreed with Mr. Swamy’s counsel Ravi Ramaswamy that the criticisms were made against Jayalalithaa in her personal capacity and hence it was completely unacceptable on the part of the State government to have granted sanction for prosecution. The counsel brought it to the notice of the court that one of the defamation cases had been filed because Mr. Swamy had claimed that Jayalalithaa was sick and that she may depart to The Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, in the U.S., any moment for a liver transplantation. The other case had been filed because he claimed that handing over governance in the hands of Jayalalithaa was akin to handing over a garland in the hands of a monkey. The third instance related to criticism of permission granted for a memorial event to remember LTTE leader Thileepan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-defamation-cases-against-subramanian-swamy/article33311947.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online coding courses from Guvi||Guvi, an integrated education technology platform in regional languages, has started offering coding courses. Called ‘Zen classes’, they are conducted physically from IIT Madras Research Park. They have so far trained nearly 1,000 students and placed them in over 200 product-based companies and start-ups. Guvi, an Indian Institute of Technology Madras-incubated company, provides technical training on placement-oriented full-stack coding development courses. A full-stack web developer can develop client and server software. S.P. Balamurugan, co-founder and chief executive officer of Guvi, said the aim was to develop a smart skilling path. “We help the learners to do that from home and get the job from home.” Guvi has so far upskilled 4.7 lakh engineers in latest technology skills such as Python, Java and Machine Learning to enable aspirants be placed in IT firms. Arun Prakash, co-founder and chief technical officer, said interested trainees are screened and assessed in a pre-boot camp session. This helps students to better analyse their current level of learning. They also get one-on-one mentoring, clarify doubts, besides recorded video sessions and personalised training. The courses are of three and six month duration. Guvi’s websitehttps://www.guvi.in/zenhas the details. You may also write tofullstack@guvi.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-coding-courses-from-guvi/article33312469.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only 10% of 2,213 new buses will be low-floored, govt. tells Madras HC||The State government on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that 10% of the 2,213 city buses to be purchased for use in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai would be low-floor ones, which could be accessed easily by the differently-abled. Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha, Advocate-General Vijay Narayan said the government had inked a pact with German development bank KfW for purchasing new buses. The bank had agreed to finance a project for climate-friendly modernisation of bus service in major cities to improve the performance and restructuring of the ailing State Transport Undertakings. Stating that the government had not been able to add more buses to the fleet due to financial constraints, the A-G said the revenue through the Transport Department in 2019-20 was only Rs. 10,366 crore, while the expenditure stood at Rs. 14,800 crore. “In such circumstances, conversion of all buses into low-floor buses will not be viable since the expenses incurred are higher than the collected revenue,” he said.  The Division Bench said practical or financial difficulties could not be cited as a reason by the State for non-implementation of Section 41 (access to transport) of the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act of 2016. As long as statutory provisions were in force, they must be complied with, the judges said. They said the High Court itself had been passing a series of orders since 2016 for introduction of buses that could be accessed by the differently-abled. Failure to implement the directions would amount to contempt of court, the Bench said and recorded the submission of the A-G that he would hold deliberations with Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. The judges directed the A-G to disclose the outcome of the deliberations on February 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-10-of-2213-new-buses-will-be-low-floored-govt-tells-madras-hc/article33311994.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for kidnapping||The Chitlapakkam police on Friday arrested two accused — a history-sheeter and a murder accused — for allegedly kidnapping a businessman. They said complainant K. Saravanan, 42, had alleged that unidentified persons kidnapped him at gunpoint on November 19. They released him after he paid them Rs. 10 lakh. The police began investigations and arrested Raja alias ‘Seesingh’ Raja and his associate M. Jayaraman. A gun, seven knives, two cars and Rs. 42,000 were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-kidnapping/article33311903.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four held for hunting in Tiruvallur||The Tiruvallur police have nabbed four persons for reportedly hunting down a deer using a licensed gun in Minjur on Thursday night. They have been handed over to the Forest Department for investigation. According to the police, constable Mohammed Asik and home guard Jeevanandham were conducting vehicle checks around 4 a.m. on Friday at Koranji Reddy Palayam, under the the Minjur police station limits. During the check, they intercepted a vehicle in which they found the carcass of a deer. Investigations revealed that the four had hunted it near Mouthambakkam lake in Minjur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-hunting-in-tiruvallur/article33311921.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMH doctors get trained in new therapy||A year after purchasing a rTMS (Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation) machine, the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) is all set to put it to use after a group of postgraduates and faculty members received hands-on training in the therapy. K. Muralidharan, medical superintendent and professor of psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, provided hands-on training for postgraduates and faculty members over two days. “rTMS is one of the therapies for persons with medication-resistant hallucinations, schizophrenia, depression and nicotine-dependence,” P. Poorna Chandrika, IMH Director, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imh-doctors-get-trained-in-new-therapy/article33311924.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin unwell, treated||DMK president M.K. Stalin felt unwell while distributing assistance to people in his Kolathur constituency. “I felt uneasy and giddy and consulted the doctors. My blood pressure was high and I was asked to rest. I became normal after some time,” Mr. Stalin said. He later went to the Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research and consulted a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-unwell-treated/article33311948.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. takes over 27 colleges||The Department of Higher Education has ordered the takeover of 27 university constituent colleges in Tamil Nadu. They will now be known as Government Arts and Science Colleges, according to the order signed by Apoorva, Secretary, Higher Education. According to the estimates provided by the Director of College Education (DCE), the financial requirements to run the colleges as government colleges amount to Rs. 143,74,53,540. The DCE has requested the government to allocate this sum. But the government has said the respective universities will bear the financial cost of the employees and the teaching and non-teaching staff of these institutions for the current academic year. In the first phase in 2018-19, after an announcement by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the government took over 14 constituent colleges, established from 1996-97 to 2010-11, and allocated funds for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-issued-for-takeover-of-27-constituent-colleges/article33311970.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM lays stone for projects||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday laid the foundation stones for various projects to be constructed for the Revenue and Disaster Management, Information Technology (IT) and Arts and Culture Departments. He also flagged off eight deep-sea fishing boats via videoconferencing and presented registration certificates for seven deep-sea fishing boats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-lays-foundation-for-projects/article33311962.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Defamation cases quashed||The Madras High Court on Friday quashed four different criminal defamation cases preferred at the instance of the State government against BJP leader Subramanian Swamy for criticising former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in 2015. Justice N. Satish Kumar allowed the quash petitions pending since 2016 and held that he did not find any reason to force the petitioner to undergo trial when there did not appear to be any substance for the launch of prosecution. The judge agreed with Mr. Swamy’s counsel Ravi Ramaswamy that the criticisms were made against Jayalalithaa in her personal capacity and hence it was completely unacceptable on the part of the government to have granted sanction for prosecution. The counsel brought it to the notice of the court that one of the defamation cases had been filed because Mr. Swamy had claimed that Jayalalithaa was sick and that she might depart to John Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, USA, any moment for a liver transplantation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-defamation-cases-against-swamy/article33312279.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMA members protest move to introduce ‘mixopathy’||In response to the nationwide protests against the introduction of “mixopathy” called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), its members in Tamil Nadu boycotted non-essential services such as outpatient departments and elective surgeries on Friday while government doctors wore black badges to work. IMA Tamil Nadu State Branch president C.N. Raja said the call for withdrawal of non-essential services from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. in private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics received an overwhelming response across the State. “We stayed away from outpatient departments and elective surgeries, and attended only emergency and COVID-19 services in continuation of our protest held on December 8 against mixopathy and notification of the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM),” he said. IMA has been demanding withdrawal of the CCIM notification that would allow Ayurveda doctors to perform certain surgeries and also demanded dissolution of NITI Aayog committees for integration of the systems of medicine in medical education, practice, public health and administration. With out-patient services affected in private hospitals, he said many patients flocked to government hospitals, resulting in extra work for government doctors. He said the central council meeting of IMA would be held in Chennai on December 28 when further course of action would be discussed. “We are looking at legal modalities to object this move,” he said. The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA), which supported the IMA’s protest, asked its members to stay away from private practice.  If the Centre is interested in developing the Indian system of medicine, it should promote and fund research K. Senthil President, TNGDA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ima-members-protest-move-to-introduce-mixopathy/article33311928.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online classes till April 2021: Anna varsity||Anna University has advised colleges to continue holding classes, in the online mode, until April 2021. In a circular issued on Friday by the Centre for Academic Courses, the university said as a one-time measure due to COVID-19, classes for higher semesters, from January 2021 to April 2021, and for the ongoing UG/PG I semester programmes would be held online. But classes for UG/PG final-year students would be conducted in the offline mode. The university has further instructed that contact classes must be limited to five periods, and the rest of the three contact periods should be held through external learning. Teachers have been advised to record lectures and prepare material for the external learning mode. Affiliated and autonomous colleges have been asked to conduct practical exams for the upcoming end-semester exams in the online mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-classes-till-april-2021-anna-varsity/article33311936.ece
12 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CM lays foundation for IT building in Coimbatore||The Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (Elcot) will construct an Information Technology building here on 2.42 acre in a Special Economic Zone area. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid foundation for the project virtually on Friday. According to an official source, the building will be ready for occupancy in 18 months. With a total built up area of 2.66 lakh sq.ft., it will have different modules of space to be rented out to IT companies in the small and medium-scale sector. The Rs. 114.16-crore project executed by the Public Works Department targets small-scale companies that will get the SEZ benefit by taking space on rent at the building. The Elcot will rent out warm shells, providing basic facilities. It will take care of the building maintenance. “There is enquiry from small IT companies and we want to encourage them,” the source said. Minister for Municipal Administration SP Velumani told presspersons here that the IT building would generate jobs for 20,000 youngsters directly. It would have facilities for two-wheeler and four-wheeler parking and a food court too. Elcot has established an IT SEZ at Vilankurichi here on 61.59 acre and has two IT facilities currently operational at the SEZ, one of which is the Tidel Park. The Tidel Park, with a total built up area of 17 lakh sq.ft., has nearly 70 IT companies as occupants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-lays-foundation-for-it-building-in-coimbatore/article33312083.ece
12 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU convocation on Dec. 17||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University(TNAU) will hold its 41st annual convocation on December 17 at 4 p.m. A release from the University said that the convocation ceremony would be held at the playground on the premises by adopting the COVID-19 safety protocol. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu would be the chief guest and deliver the convocation address. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit would preside over the function. Higher Education and Agriculture Minister K.P. Anbalagan would also be present, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-convocation-on-dec-17/article33311982.ece
12 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mobile application to promote organic farming in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya on Friday launched a mobile application developed by the Department of Horticulture to promote organic farming in the district. Named ‘Organic Nilgiris’, the mobile application will provide online support to farmers willing to adopt organic farming, she told mediapersons at the Ooty Botanical Garden. Noting that this was part of the efforts by the District Administration to convert the Nilgiris into a complete organic farming district, Ms. Divya said that the farmers would be covered sector-wise such as tea, vegetable and spices for adoption of organic farming. All the farmers in the district will be brought into the fold of organic farming “within the next two years,” she said. A press release said that the mobile application would enable farmers to “get access to organic production of hilly vegetables, preparation of various bio-inputs at farm level, organic certification procedures and many more.” It will also allow the farmers to clear their queries through the ‘Chat with Expert’ option. Available as a free application for Android phones, ‘Organic Nilgiris’ is available in English at present and the Tamil version “will be updated soon,” according to the release. Ms. Divya also said that to mark the International Mountain Day, the Department of Horticulture and a non-profit organisation named Abishaikh Gender and Development Association (AGADA) started the planting of 3,000 saplings across the villages of the district on Friday. The Collector also issued cash awards and certificates to the ‘Best Farmer’ and the ‘Best Farming Team’ for the year 2019-20 as adjudged by the Department of Horticulture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-application-to-promote-organic-farming-in-the-nilgiris/article33311978.ece
12 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi repeats what I-PAC, party workers tell her: Velumani||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam women’s wing secretary M.K. Kanimozhi has repeated whatever the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) and party workers told her, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani told journalists at a press meet he held after reviewing COVID-19 strategy meeting at the Collectorate here on Friday. “She [Ms. Kanimozhi] has no idea of the development that Coimbatore has witnessed in the last five years. Under Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Coimbatore had seen such development that was not witnessed in the last 50 years,” he said. The AIADMK government had widened major roads in Coimbatore to ease traffic congestion, taken up construction of flyovers, executing at fast pace the Athikadavu-Avinashi groundwater recharge scheme and established five government arts and science colleges in the district. The government also earnestly pursued the defence equipment manufacturing park and other similar projects for employment generation. Coimbatore, the Minister said, would soon have metro rail service as preliminary work was under way. Therefore, be it the Kongu region or Delta region, the ground reality was that the Chief Minister’s support base was increasing and popularity growing, he added. A release from the district administration said that Mr. Velumani asked officials to expedite projects so that they completed those ahead of schedule. And, even as they go about completing the project, heads of departments should submit a monthly progress report to the District Collector. The release further said that the Minister, while highlighting the projects undertaken in the recent past, said that the Highways Department would soon start the western bypass project. He then spoke about the various flyovers and elevated corridor projects under progress in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-repeats-what-i-pac-party-workers-tell-her-velumani/article33311984.ece
12 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Gear man’ of Coimbatore no more||P. Subramanian, known as “the gear man of Coimbatore”, died on Friday. He was 79. Subramanian was known for his contributions to the gear industry as well his philanthropy. He worked for a short period as an instructor at the PSG College of Technology and then ventured into the gear industry in the 1970s. He founded Shanthi Gears in the 1970s and it was acquired by Tube Investments of India of the Murugappa Group in 2012. “He [Subramanian] was the first man to develop gears in Coimbatore, and he supplied them to even high-precision industries across the country,” said C.R. Swaminathan, former chief executive of PSG Institutions. “He designed and developed some of the machinery to make gears too,” said Iakoka Subramaniam, an industrialist who worked with Shanthi for a few years. Shanthi Social Services was started in 1996 and it runs canteens and healthcare facilities, and does other outreach activities. He is survived by three daughters. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami expressed condolences to the family of Subramanian, and remembered his philanthropic work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gear-man-of-coimbatore-passes-away/article33311938.ece
12 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NCC cadets participate in plogging||About 200 National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets from Coimbatore participated in a plogging event on Race Course Road on Friday as part of the ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ campaign. Plogging involves jogging and collecting plastic waste to raise awareness on cleanliness. A release said that the cadets studying in various schools and colleges were from two NCC units namely 5 (Tamil Nadu) Girls Battalion and 6 (Tamil Nadu) Medical Company. The cadets also raised slogans and distributed pamphlets to the public on the importance of cleanliness. Coimbatore NCC Group Commander Col. L.C.S. Naidu witnessed the event, while Commanding Officer of the two units Col. B.R. Satish led the cadets. Associate NCC Officers from the respective educational institutions and the NCC Unit Army Staff members also participated. About 50 kg plastic waste was collected at the end of the event, according to the release. ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ is a fortnight campaign by the NCC from December 1 to 15 aimed at raising awareness about “Clean and Green India,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncc-cadets-participate-in-plogging/article33311975.ece
12 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Doctors protest against ‘mixopathy’||Thousands of doctors and hundreds of private hospitals participated in a 12-hour strike across Coimbatore district on Friday, in response to the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) call for protest against ‘mixopathy’. The IMA had called for the withdrawal of non-essential and non-COVID-19 services from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday. While in-patient services such as intensive care units and critical care units functioned, out-patient services were affected. According to the State secretary of IMA Tamil Nadu branch A.K. Ravikumar, about 350 private hospitals, 2,500 clinics were closed for 12 hours in the city as around 4,000 doctors participated in the strike. Some of the doctors also staged a demonstration outside the IMA Coimbatore Branch office on Syrian Church Road at 10 a.m., he said. Members of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association (TNGDA) wore black badges on Friday condemning the ‘mixopathy’. TNGDA State secretary and Coimbatore district president N. Ravishankar said around 380 doctors at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and 200 doctors at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital wore black badges throughout the day. However, no services were withdrawn in government hospitals. “We are supporting the cause of the IMA,” Dr. Ravishankar said. The agitations condemned the proposal by the NITI Aayog to integrate all systems of medicine such as AYUSH and modern medicine, which is termed as ‘mixopathy’. The IMA also demanded that the Central government withdraw the notification that could allow Ayurveda graduates to perform 58 kinds of surgeries. Secretary of IMA Tiruppur Zone Rajkumar Nallathambi said that about 120 private hospitals and several clinics were closed as part of the 12-hour strike in the Zone, which comprises Tiruppur, Palladam, Avinashi, Kunnathur and Uthukuli. A total of 650 doctors participated in the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-protest-against-mixopathy/article33311987.ece
12 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special camps to make changes in voters’ list||The district administration would hold special camps at all polling booths on December 12 and 13 to add, delete names in voters’ list or make changes to the details therein, said a release. Eligible persons whose names were not in the draft list released on November 16 or those who had attained 18 years of age as on January 1, 2021 should use Form 6 to add names. Those who want names deleted should use Form 7 and those desiring changes in details entered against their names should use Form 8, the release said and added that those who migrated from the address mentioned in the voters’ list to another location within the same Assembly constituency should use Form 8A to have the address changed. And, those who have shifted from the address in the list to an address in another Assembly constituency should use Form 6, the release said. Website Those seeking inclusion or changes could avail of the services online by visitingwww.nsvp.inor the voters’ helpline app(mobile application), the release added. The district administration would release the final voters’ list on January 20, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-to-make-changes-in-voters-list/article33311983.ece
12 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bharathi remembered||Bharathiar University on Friday celebrated the birth anniversary of Bharathiar by releasing three books. A release said the books were on the poet but out of print. On the occasion, it held poetry and essay writing competitions for its students and those from affiliated colleges and gave away 18 prizes. Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj said the University proposed to construct an advanced research centre on Bharathiar on five acre and the work would start this year as it was his birth centenary year. Bharathi Pasarai trustee Ramani Sankar and director Bharathi Krishnakumar took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathi-remembered/article33311990.ece
12 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Gear man’ of Coimbatore no more||P. Subramanian, known as the ‘gear man of Coimbatore’, died on Friday. He was 79. Subramanian was a man known for both his contributions to the gear industry and for philanthropy. He had worked for a short period as an instructor at PSG College of Technology and then ventured into the gear industry in the 1970s, when there were only two dominant players in the country in that sector, and none from Coimbatore. He founded Shanthi Gears in the 1970s and it was acquired by Tube Investments of India of the Murugappa Group in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gear-man-of-coimbatore-no-more/article33312456.ece
12 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Emu scam: two get 10 years imprisonment||A special court in Coimbatore on Friday sentenced two directors of a private firm to undergo 10 years of imprisonment for cheating depositors of Rs. 2.4 crore in an emu contract farming scam. P. Mohanasundaram (48) and R. Kannusamy (45), directors of R.K. Emu Farms and Poultry, which was functioning at Pattakaranpalayam village in Perundurai, Erode district, allegedly cheated 110 depositors in 2012, court sources said. The firm had advertised schemes that required the investors to pay Rs. 1.5 lakh for rearing the birds. The Economic Offences Wing in Erode registered a case against the accused in November 2012 and arrested both of them subsequently. The two have been out on bail since, the sources said. On Friday, Judge of the Special Court for Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors Act cases A.S. Ravi awarded the imprisonment and levied a total fine of Rs. 1.21 crore. The court ordered that out of the fine amount, Rs. 1.2 crore must be paid towards the compensation for the investors. As neither of the accused appeared before the special court on Friday, a non-bailable warrant was issued against Mohanasundaram and Kannusamy, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-years-imprisonment-for-two-in-emu-farming-scam/article33311976.ece
12 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pugazhendhi questions DMK on Jayalalithaa case||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam spokesperson V. Pugazhendhi on Friday demanded that the DMK must provide an explanation for “withdrawing” the London hotel case against the former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa when the party was in power. Addressing mediapersons in Coimbatore, he alleged that the case was withdrawn in 2009 during the DMK regime, but its leaders continued to accuse her of corruption, in a reference to the Nilgiris MP and the DMK’s A. Raja’s recent press conference. AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran, who was acquitted in the London hotel case, “escaped” from the case, Mr. Pugazhendhi alleged. Jayalalithaa’s confidante V.K. Sasikala, who is serving a four-year prison sentence in Bengaluru in a disproportionate assets case, would not join the AMMK upon her release, he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pugazhendhi-questions-dmk-on-jayalalithaa-case/article33312089.ece
12 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||PFI condemns Enforcement Directorate||The Popular Front of India (PFI) and other organisations staged a demonstration condemning the Enforcement Directorate (ED) at Aathupalam in Coimbatore on Thursday. Over 100 protesters from PFI and organisations such as Social Democratic Party of India, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi participated, a spokesperson said. The demonstration condemned the recent nationwide raids at the premises linked to PFI and accused the ED of “functioning as a puppet of the RSS,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pfi-condemns-enforcement-directorate/article33311980.ece
12 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||One more arrested in meth case||The Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) of the police on Friday arrested one more accused in connection with the attempt to smuggle 1.2 kg methamphetamine to Sharjah through the Coimbatore International Airport on December 5. Nabbed at Pudukkottai Police sources said that a team led by M. Manoharan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, NIB-CID, Salem, (in-charge of Coimbatore) arrested Alibhai (40) from Pudukkottai on Friday morning. He was produced before a special court in Coimbatore and was remanded in judicial custody. On Thursday, the NIB-CID arrested Arul (53) from Thavakudi in Tiruchi in this case. Investigations are on to ascertain how the accused obtained the methamphetamine, the police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-arrested-in-meth-case/article33311979.ece
12 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest||About 50 farmers owing allegiance to the Cauvery Delta Farmers Federation on Friday staged a novel protest against the farm laws. The Federation despatched a parcel containing ‘loin cloths’ through regular post from the Kattumannarkovil post office to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office to register their protest against the laws and demanded that the government repeal them. According to K.V. Elangeeran, president of the Federation, “This was a symbolic protest against the farm laws. If the laws are enforced even loin cloths would not be left for farmers. Hence, the laws should be repealed in the interests of farmers.” Farmers should be protected so that the food security would be ensured, he added. The police were caught unawares by the sudden protest and the postal authorities were also not aware of what was being despatched by the outfit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest/article33312397.ece
12 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. removes encroachments on Perumpallam Canal||Corporation officials demolished five houses that were constructed by encroaching Perumpallam Canal at Marapalam here on Friday. The civic body had identified over 1,700 unauthorised structures constructed along the canal and also encroaching the canal at many places in the city. Over 1,100 houses were demolished and the occupants were allotted houses in the tenements constructed by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board. Under the Smart City Mission, the civic body had proposed to develop the 12.15 km canal at a total cost of Rs. 183.63 crore and work had commenced in December last year. Recently, 120 houses near Periyar Nagar arch were demolished and other encroaches were asked to vacate their houses. There are 48 houses at Marapalam and officials demolished five houses using an excavator on Friday. However, other residents requested the civic body to give more time for them to vacate. But, officials said that adequate time had been given for them to vacate the houses and finally gave them one week time. Later, the officials left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-removes-encroachments-on-perumpallam-canal/article33312074.ece
12 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||2.8 lakh people tested in Erode||With the total COVID-19 cases nearing 13,000 in the district, the health department had, so far, lifted swab samples from 2.80 lakh people. As on Thursday, a total of 12,926 positive cases were reported, with 391 persons continuing to be under treatment at the government and private hospitals. A total of 142 deaths due to COVID-19 had been reported in the district. Health officials said that on an average swab samples were lifted from 2,000 persons in the district, including the corporation limits. So far, 2,80,411 people were tested, they added. In the corporation limits, swab samples were lifted from the five urban primary health centres located at Karungalpalayam, Gandhiji Road, Surampatti Valasu and B.P. Agraharam. Also, samples were lifted from the centre at the district headquarters hospital and sent for Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-lakh-people-tested-in-erode/article33312077.ece
12 December 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Patient dies as ambulance overturns||A patient was killed and three others were injured when an ambulance transporting him to a hospital overturned at Elavasanurkottai, near Ulundurpet, on Friday. The deceased was identified as Baskaran, 58, of Thiagadurgam. Police said Baskaran was being shifted in an ambulance of a private hospital to the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH). When the vehicle reached Elavasanurkottai, ambulance driver Fakrudeen, applied the brakes to avoid hitting a motorist. The vehicle overturned on the highway, killing Baskaran on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-dies-as-ambulance-overturns/article33312400.ece
12 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals, clinics remain closed in Madurai||Over 2,200 big private hospitals and clinics in Madurai district and affiliated to Indian Medical Association (IMA) remained closed on Friday, in response to a general strike call given by the IMA to protest against the Centre’s move to allow Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries. The hospitals suspended outpatient services between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. “The strike was successful with total cooperation from our members,” said president of Madurai branch V.N. Alagavenkatesan. He said the mixopathy concept would affect the healthcare delivery to the poor. “Ignorant of the qualifications of the doctors, they might suffer under untrained hands,” he said. The next course of action would be decided at the national level based on the response of the Centre to the protest, he said. Virudhunagar In Virudhunagar district, over 750 members kept their clinics and hospitals closed from dawn to dusk. IMA district branch secretary D. Aram said realising the gravity of the issue, the members took part in the strike in totality. Except for emergency cases and attending to COVID-19 and maternity cases, the doctors did not took up regular outpatient treatment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-clinics-remain-closed-in-madurai/article33312281.ece
12 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court sets aside order against advocate||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has set aside the order of the Thoothukudi Principal District and Sessions Judge who had referred the incident involving an advocate using cuss words during a virtual court hearing to the bar council, and imposed a fine on the advocate. The court was hearing the petition filed by advocate G. Samwell Rajendran who sought to set aside the order of the PDJ. A show cause notice was issued against the advocate for interrupting the court proceedings during the virtual court hearing. It was said that the advocate was representing another advocate in a bail petition through a WhatsApp video call. Due to network connectivity issues, he was conducting the case from inside his car parked near the court. He said that he was not well-versed with technology. After completing his arguments, he failed to disconnect the video call and it was at this time a vehicle drove past him in a rash and negligent manner inflicting scratches to the advocate’s car. On the spur of the moment, he verbally abused the driver. This was witnessed by the Public Prosecutor, the Stenographer, the Protocol Officer and the System Analyst. The PDJ issued a show cause notice. Not satisfied with the reply of the advocate, the PDJ passed the order. The advocate with 30 years of law practice said that there was no intention to insult or interrupt the court proceedings and he had only verbally abused the driver for driving the vehicle in a rash manner. Unfortunately, the call was not disconnected, he said. He said that he had sent an apology to the PDJ, but in the reply statement instead of ‘this will not happen in future’ the words ‘this will not happen in due course’ were typed wrongly giving an impression that it meant ‘this might not have happened in an open court.’ The advocate said that he was not given a reasonable opportunity to give an explanation. He said that he had to pay the fine the same day as he had no other option. If he had failed to pay the fine, he might have been remanded to undergo default sentence, he said. Justice R. Tharani took into account the fact that the advocate had extended his apology to the court. Without praying for suspension of sentence, he paid the fine. The advocate could not now question the order of the PDJ as a matter of right. But considering the nature of the occurrence, the introduction of virtual court functioning and the fact that the advocate had tendered an apology, some leniency had to be shown. Hence accepting the apology, the order was set aside and the fine directed to be refunded, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-sets-aside-order-against-advocate/article33312283.ece
12 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases up as mercury goes down||The number of COVID-19 patients in the district has suddenly increased to 50 on a single day from an average of 25 to 30, according to the State Medical Bulletin released on Friday. The total number of active cases has gone up from 223 to 243 on a single day. The virus had claimed 443 lives. The virus infection has affected 20,047 in the district so far, and 19,361 patients have been discharged from hospitals. Speaking to The Hindu , a doctor with the Government Rajaji Hospital said there was no need for panic. Due to continuous rain and change in weather conditions, more number of fever cases were being reported in hospitals and clinics. Dean J. Sangumani said that COVID-19 was well under control and it was on the decline. However, people should not be complacent and wear face mask without fail. City Health Officer Kumaraguruparan said the Corporation authorities had stepped up swab tests. On an average, 2,500 tests were being taken now, he said. Expressing serious concern over a majority of people not using face masks, doctors said people should not lower their guard when going out of home and continue to follow the safety norms. Elders must stay indoors, especially in these cold conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-up-as-mercury-goes-down/article33312289.ece
12 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Students look to athai for better futures||It is not uncommon to see children from Gomespalayam, a slum in Madurai, sitting on a narrow lane, studying during the mornings and evenings. They sometimes study inside a community hall in the area, and at other times, inside the cramped house of their 38-year-old teacher, R. Sankareswari. Ms. Sankareswari, fondly addressed as aunt — chithi , periamma or athai — by the children, has been holding free tuition classes for them for nine years. Ms. Sankareswari, who has completed Class 12, says her aim is to ensure that every child in the area graduates and takes up works other than that of their parents. “Everyone from our community works either as a conservancy worker with the Madurai Corporation or as a manual scavenger. I want to ensure that no child is forced to be a conservancy worker, a job associated with our community,” she said. While her father was a septic tank cleaner, her mother was a conservancy worker. “Although I could not graduate due to financial constraints, I made sure that I did not take up conservancy work. I want to help others cross this boundary too,” she added. Classes at the Dr. Ambedkar Free Evening Children’s Tuition Centre starts at 5 p.m. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, classes are being held every morning from 10 a.m. “There has been a fall in the number of students attending the classes due to the pandemic. Currently, students who do not have smartphones, use mine to attend online classes,” she said. While Ms. Sankareswari holds classes, members of the Dalit Resource Centre, of the Tamil Nadu Theological Seminary in Madurai, have been teaching the students Maths and English, two days a week. R. Nanda Kumar, a first-year law student who studied at the tuition centre, said: “Due to financial constraints and dysfunctional families, substance abuse is rampant among adolescent boys in our area. Going to the tuition centre has helped me stay away from these habits,” he said. Many parents in Gomespalayam arrange marriages for their daughters once they complete schooling, said A. Akshaya Shree, a Class 11 student. “But athai [Ms. Sankareswari] explains the importance of education to our parents,” she said. Ms. Sankareswari used to work as a helper in a school van, picking and dropping children from their residences, for a monthly income of Rs. 3,000. She used to also take up election-related work at times. “I have had no work since the outbreak of COVID-19. I do not collect any amount as that should not become a reason for parents to stop sending their children to the classes,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-look-to-athai-for-better-futures/article33311944.ece
12 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Response in Hindi sent inadvertently: Centre||The Centre informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday that the reply in Hindi by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai to a query raised by Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan was unintentional and the English version of the communication was not sent inadvertently. The court was also informed that the same mistake was repeated again. It was submitted that the MP received an invite in Hindi to the foundation laying ceremony for the new Parliament building. It was only after Mr. Venkatesan raised objection again, a communication was sent in English, after two days. Taking cognisance of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that this had become a perennial problem. Though it had been submitted that it happened inadvertently, it should not be repeated again, the judges said and directed the Centre to file a further counter affidavit on December 18. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court was hearing a Public Interest Litigation petition filed by Mr. Venkatesan of CPI(M). Upset over a reply that he received in Hindi to a query on why there were no examination centres in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for recruitment of CRPF Para Medical Staff, he sought the communication in English. Mr. Venkatesan had pointed out that as per Section 3 of the Official Languages Act, 1963, English language should be used in communications between the Union and the State that has not adopted Hindi. He said since Tamil Nadu followed a two-language policy- Tamil and English, English should be the link language between the Centre and the State. Apart from seeking an English version of the communication, he sought a direction to restrain the Centre from addressing any communication between the Centre and the State in Hindi. Mr. Venkatesan pointed out that the Centre was following a practice of sending replies only in Hindi to MPs from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/response-in-hindi-sent-inadvertently-centre/article33311988.ece
12 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea for setting up fire station near temple||The State government informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday that the renovation work of Veera Vasantha Rayar Mandapam in Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple had been approved and granite stones from Namakkal would be sent for the restoration work. The mandapam was heavily damaged in the 2018 temple fire. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by N. Abdul Rahman Jalal of Madurai who sought a direction to the State to construct a permanent building to house a fire station in the vicinity of the temple and to renovate the Veera Vasantha Rayar Mandapam. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi was informed by the State that Rs. 1.17 crore was allotted for a fire station. The building identified for the station was occupied by the Agriculture Department which will soon be moved to a building in Nagamalai Pudukottai. The case was adjourned till December 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-for-setting-up-fire-station-near-temple/article33312282.ece
12 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders status quo on G.O.||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday ordered status quo on the operation of a Government Order to engage the services of a private man power agency to fill the vacancies of Indian medical practitioners. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered status quo on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate G.V. Vairam Santhosh who complained that recruitment was to take place without a selection process by engaging the agency. He pointed out that the Director of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy had engaged Fire Star Man Power and Infra Services, a consultant, for recruiting doctors. A manpower agency could be engaged for recruitment of unskilled labourers and not professionals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-status-quo-on-go/article33312284.ece
12 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Construction of fishing harbour inaugurated||Handlooms Minister O.S.Manian inaugurated construction of a mini fishing harbour at a cost of Rs. 34.30 crore under the self-sufficiency scheme at Nambiar Nagar here on Friday. Bhoomi pooja was performed last year but there was delay in construction. The project has reached the execution stage despite legal hurdles, he said. Nambiar Nagar, with a population of about 4,400, is situated about two km away from Nagapattinam town. Fishers own 96 mechanised boats and 256 fibre boats. While fibre boats docked on the seashore, mechanised boats have to be docked at Nagapattinam harbour. A majority of fibre boats were damaged during cyclone Gaja. The mini harbour has been sanctioned to reduce congestion at Nagapattinam harbour and provide better amenities for fishermen of Nambiar Nagar. Villagers are contributing Rs. 11.43 crore for the project and the rest was provided by the government. The harbour will include a boat landing stage of 100 metres in length and 12 metres in width. He also inaugurated construction of a groin and dredging of the river mouth at Pattinacherry. The groin to be built on the north bank of the Vettar at Nagore Pattinacherry has been sanctioned at a cost of Rs. 19.87 crore. The groin would prevent frequent silting up of the river mouth impeding the movement of boats. The groin would be built for a distance of about 360 metres. Already a groin was built on the opposite side – on the south bank of the Vettar. A fish landing centre was built in 2014. The river mouth would also be dredged and deepened as part of the project. Once the works were completed, boats can set sail smoothly into the sea from the coast, Mr.Manian said. Collector Praveen B. Nair was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-fishing-harbour-inaugurated/article33312053.ece
12 December 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Minister, officials discuss issues with sago manufacturers||Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani and senior officials held a meeting with sago manufacturers and tapioca farmers here on Thursday and discussed various issues pertaining to sago production. District Collector K. Megraj, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan, Designated Officer for Food Safety K.C. Arun and other officials took part in the meeting. Representatives of Sagoserve also took part in the meeting. Mr. Thangamani advised the sago producers to take necessary measures to ensure better price to tapioca farmers here. The sago manufacturers were advised to install CCTV cameras at their units to check adulteration. They were also advised to adhere to food safety norms. They were told not to use whiteners during manufacture. Sago representatives also raised their grievances during the meeting. The manufacturers told presspersons that all measures would be taken to prevent adulteration during manufacturing and would ensure better price for tapioca farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-officials-discuss-issues-with-sago-manufacturers/article33312078.ece
12 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Work to upgrade ITI begins||Work to upgrade the Government Industrial Training Institute at Mettupalayam into a model ITI commenced on Friday. Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy participated in a ground breaking ceremony for construction work as part of the upgradation. Local legislator N.S.J. Jayabal, Labour Secretary E. Vallavan and chairman of the Committee of Industrialists and Officials, which manages the ITI, M. Nandakumar were present at the event. The ITI, situated on a sprawling 12.5 plot acre of land inside the Mettupalayam Industrial Estate, was selected by the Union Government for upgradation as a model ITI. The plan was to upgrade the infrastructure and improve the courses to suit skill development on the needs of the industry, a release from the Institute said. The modernisation has been planned at acost of Rs. 5 crore. It would be met by the Centre and the Puducherry government. While the Centre would incur 70% of the cost, the territorial administration would bear the rest. Following the Union Government’s decision, a tripartite agreement was signed between the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Government of Puducherry, and chairman, Institute Management Committee, Government ITI, to carry out the modernisation work. The Institute plans to introduce more courses in the automobile sector, especially in the field of auto-body repair and auto-body painting. There would be added importance to the ever-green electrician courses. The new courses are likely to be introduced in July next year, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-to-upgrade-iti-begins/article33312395.ece
12 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Legislator afraid of raid’||Chief of Pradesh Congress Committee A.V. Subramanian on Friday said the party was aware of the moves made recently by its party legislator A. John Kumar trying to switch sides to the BJP due to the “fear of getting raided by the Income Tax Department”. “We are aware that he was meeting BJP leaders and he met a BJP leader in Bengaluru six months ago. The PCC will abide by whatever decision the AICC takes on Mr. Kumar. The party is aware of the weakness and strength of Mr. Kumar,” Mr. Subramanian said in a release. His reaction came after a photograph appeared in social media about the legislator’s meeting with BJP in-charge for Union Territory Nirmal Kumar Surana two days ago, while he was proceeding to Chennai by road. The photograph showed Mr. Kumar, an industrialist who joined the Congress before the last Assembly polls, greeting Mr. Surana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legislator-afraid-of-raid/article33312082.ece
12 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Toll in U.T. touches 619 with two more deaths||Puducherry registered two more COVID-19 deaths to take the toll to 619 while 43 new cases were added to the overall tally on Friday. The deaths were reported in Puducherry and Karaikal. The toll in Puducherry stands at 506, Karakal 60, Yanam 45 and Mahe eight. Mahe reported the highest number of new infections in the last 24 hours, logging 23 cases, followed by Karaikal (12), Puducherry (seven) and Yanam (one). With 48 patients getting discharged on recovery, the number of active cases in the Union Territory aggregated to 367. There are 204 patients in hospital and 163 in home isolation. The cumulative total of patients stood at 37,406 cases, and the total recoveries 36,420. The test positivity rate registered an increase, touching 2.93% while the case fatality rate was 1.65% and recovery rate 97.36. The Health Department has to date tested an estimated 4.3 lakh samples, of which 3.88 lakh came back negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-in-ut-touches-619-with-two-more-deaths/article33312399.ece
12 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||SVEEP focus on student voter enrolment||District Election Officer Purva Garg on Friday instructed college principals to encourage enrolment of new voters among the student fraternity. Addressing a virtual meeting with principals of about 70 colleges in the region, Ms. Garg said the institutions need to propagate online registration modes available on voter portal details, such as nvsp.in and voterportal.eci.gov.in, among the student community. The meeting was hosted as part of the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation initiative. College principals have also been urged to organise outreach programmes through college ambassadors, parents and teachers for roping in more students and young voters, meeting the age requirement of 18 years, in the electoral rolls so that they would be able to exercise their franchise in the Assembly election due next year. Details are also available on the toll free number 1950.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-student-voter-enrolment-deo-talks-to-college-heads/article33312398.ece
12 December 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Doctors’ strike total||Medical professionals are not opposing Ayurveda practitioners or treatment given by them, but only objecting to the Union government's latest announcement that they (Ayurveda practitioners) could perform surgeries, said Indian Medical Association (Ramanathapuram Chapter) president Dr .Aravindraj here on Friday. As part of the nationwide strike from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. to draw the attention of the Central government to immediately withdraw its order, the doctors had gone on a day-long strike. As many as 150 hospitals and another 500 clinics were closed. Virudhunagar In Virudhunagar district, over 750 members kept their clinics and hospitals closed from dawn to dusk. IMA district branch secretary D. Aram said realising the gravity of the issue, the members took part in the strike in totality. Theni In Theni district, over 400 hospitals remained closed. As many as 545 doctors affiliated to the IMA participated in the demonstration from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Dindigul Leading the demonstration, the TN Government Doctors Association state secretary Srinivasan, Dindigul district vice president Senthil Kumaran, joint secretary Karthikeyan and a large number of members and para medical teams participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-strike-total/article33312063.ece
12 December 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||9 kg of gold seized off the Mandapam coast||The Coast Guard on Friday intercepted a country boat near the Mandapam coast and found gold bars weighing about 9 kg, valued at around Rs. 4.5 crore, in the engine bay in a cloth bag. According to officials, inputs were received by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in Thoothukudi on Thursday, following which surveillance was increased in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9-kg-of-gold-seized-off-the-mandapam-coast/article33312401.ece
12 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Take steps to lay proper road to village, residents tell officials||Residents of Bethal Colony, near Kadayampatti, here protested on Friday in front of the Collectorate demanding a road to their village. The residents along with Communist Party of India (Marxist) members protested with household articles and demanded necessary measures to construct a proper road to the village. They charged that though a 20-ft mud road was sanctioned, it has been encroached upon by land owners for agriculture and other purposes. The protesters said that nearly 40 families were provided free house site pattas at the site in 1978 and a 1-km road connecting the village with Danishpet main road was okayed by the then government. However, over the years, the road was encroached upon on both sides and only a walkers path remains at the moment, they said. B. Udhayakumar, a resident, alleged that they were not able to carry bodies to crematorium or rush patients to hospitals. He added that though they have petitioned with officials several times, no action has been taken till date. They urged the authorities to take necessary action at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-lay-proper-road-to-village-residents-tell-officials/article33312080.ece
12 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘No proposal for daily chartered NMR trains’||The Salem Division of Southern Railways clarified that the railways did not have any proposal at the moment to operate chartered daily trips of the Nilgiris Mountain Railway (NMR) from next year. The Railways has been on the receiving end following allegations that it has ‘privatised’ operations in the historic NMR line. Denies reports On Friday, the Salem Division, in a release, denied reports on certain section of media that its mulling to operate daily charter services from January 2021. Officials from the Salem Railway Division said, “there have been reports in a section of the media that a firm will be running daily chartered special trains from Mettupalayam to Udagamandalam and back from January 2021. It is clarified that there is no proposal, as of now, for running chartered trips on daily basis as stated in those reports.”  Criticism People from various walks of life earlier criticised the operation of special charter train services by a private party for tourists in the heritage line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-proposal-for-daily-chartered-nmr-trains/article33312084.ece
12 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Manibaskaran is Sivaganga district panchayat chairman||AIADMK candidate Pon. Manibaskaran was elected as the district panchayat chairman and A. Saraswathi, also of the party, was elected as the vice-chairperson by draw of lots here on Friday. The election of 16 councillors was held in December 2019. The AIADMK and the DMK (including its allies Congress and Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi) had won eight seats each. Hence, officials planned to draw lots to select the chairman and the vice-chairman. They scheduled the election of chairman for January 11, January 30 and March 4. But it had to be postponed for various reasons, including the lack of quorum on account of the absence of AIADMK councillors. Suspecting foul play, the DMK members wrote to the State Election Commissioner about the “undue” delay. Curbs due to COVID-19 The officials then said the election would be held on December 4 and clarified that it could not be held since March because of the restrictions imposed to curb COVID-19. Again, as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s visit to the district was announced on December 4, the officials notified a new date — December 11 — for the election. In the presence of District Returning Officer and Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy and the councillors, the election was held by draw of lots. In the evening, Mr. Pon. Manibaskaran and Ms. Saraswathi were sworn in by the Collector, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manibaskaran-is-sivaganga-district-panchayat-chairman/article33311934.ece
12 December 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Tenkasi Collectorate to come up on GH campus||The 33rd district of Tamil Nadu will have its collectorate on the Government Hospital campus near the new bus-stand on Madurai Road as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the campus on Friday from Chennai through video conferencing. The six-storey building with a plinth area of 28,995 square meters will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 119 crore on 11.11 acres of land on the government hospital within 18 months. The edifice will house departments of revenue, small savings, district treasury, ‘mahalir thittam’, Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu, survey, disaster management, District Employment Office, District Rural Development Agency, backward class welfare, cooperation, registration, agriculture, animal husbandry, public health, forest, offices of Chief Educational Officer, District Educational Officer, Tamil development, Adi Dravida welfare etc. While the District Police Office will also come up on this premise, bungalows of the Collector, Superintendent of Police, Armed Reserve Police camp etc. will be built in some other place to be identified later. Ministers R. B. Udhayakumar, V. M. Rajalakshmi, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Secretary of Disaster Management Atulya Misra, Commissioner for Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy and others participated remotely. In the simple ‘bhumi puja’ held here, Collector G. S. Sameeran, Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh, MLAs Selvamohandas Pandian of Tenkasi and A. Manoharan of Vasudevanallur Assembly segments participated. Accessibility factor After the district was bifurcated from the sprawling Tirunelveli district on November 22 last year, rumours were doing rounds that the Collectorate complex would come-up on a remote wetland meant for the seed farm of Department of Agriculture near Aayiraperi village on the Tenkasi – Old Courtallam Road. Citing inaccessibility, people from various walks of life including the public, traders and political parties submitted petitions against the move, which was even challenged in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, which advised the government to identify an easily accessible land for the Collectorate. Even as the decision on identifying a suitable land for the Collectorate was getting delayed due to these impediments, the then Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan had even started scouting for an accessible land situated on the highway. Speaking on the establishment of the Collectorate, Alangulam MLA Poongothai Aladi Aruna of DMK accused that she and Kadayanallur MLA Mohamed Abubucker of Indian Union Muslim League were not formally invited for the foundation stone laying ceremony. But officials could not be reached for their comments.  The edifice  The six-storey building will come up in a plinth area of 28,995 square meters  It will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 119 crore on 11.11 acres of land The collectorate building is to be constructed within 18 months||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenkasi-collectorate-to-come-up-on-gh-campus/article33312459.ece
12 December 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Leopardess found dead||A one-year-old female leopard was found dead in Megamalai reserve forest, Chinnamanur Range. All body parts like skin, nails, teeth were intact and prima facie there was no evidence of poaching, said forest officials. As per inspection, the death occurred due to a road accident. The carcass was burnt after post mortem as per National Tiger Conservation Authority Standard Operating Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopardess-found-dead/article33312066.ece
12 December 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||‘Theni has become an education hub’||From being described as a backward district, Theni has transformed into a developed district over the last four to five years, said Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam here on Friday. Speaking at the ‘bhoomi puja’ ceremony to mark the construction of a new Veterinary College and Research Institute on a sprawling 250 acre campus at a cost of Rs. 265 crore at Thappukundu near Veerapandi here, in the presence of Animal Husbandry Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan and others, he said that the district would soon become a hub for education in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. He said that the AIADMK government had sanctioned construction of new buildings for medical college at Rs. 40 crore, nursing college at Rs. 12 crore, engineering college at Rs. 54.08 crore, polytechnic college at Rs. 25.39 crore, arts and science college at Rs. 7.25 crore and law college at Rs. 89.01 crore. The student community need not migrate outside the district anymore. Rather, students from other cities may look towards Theni for higher education, Mr. Panneerselvam said and added that once the Veterinary College and Research Institute starts functioning it would give a new meaning to agro-based and veterinary sciences both for entrepreneurs and for research fellows. The officials, who were in attendance, at the ceremony said that there was no dearth for funds. Many of the buildings were progressing as per the timetable and soon, the law students can move to their own buildings, they added. Theni MP O. P. Raveendranath Kumar, Cumbum MLA S. T. K. Jakkayan, District Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, University Vice-Chancellor Prof. C. Balachandran and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-has-become-an-education-hub-says-panneerselvam/article33312068.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||TNPCB official arrested||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption arrested V. Dhanraj, 56, District Environmental Engineer, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board of Nagapattinam and in charge of Tiruvarur district while obtaining a bribe on Thursday. He had demanded Rs. 40,000 from Duraisamy, a rice mill owner of Tiruvarur, to issue an order for his rice mill. But Duraisamy preferred a complaint with the DVAC. A trap was laid and he was arrested. The room where he stayed at Nagapattinam was searched and Rs. 3 lakh was seized. His house at Urappakam near Chennai was searched where officials seized Rs. 57 lakh. The official was remanded in judicial custody and Thiruthuraipoondi sub jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnpcb-official-arrested/article33311960.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors skip OP services||Doctors of the Tiruchi Branch of the Indian Medical Association on Friday closed down outpatient services and abstained from elective surgeries from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. in protest against the recent government notification allowing Ayurvedic doctors to take up certain surgeries. While they claim that the move is regressive, the protest is to also meant to create awareness among the public, who will be directly affected by it, they said. The government notification issued on November 20 stated that postgraduate Ayurveda medical students must be “practically trained to acquaint with, as well as independently perform” a list of 58 surgeries, including general surgery, orthopaedic, dental surgeries and ENT surgery. The IMA opposed the move, questioning their competence to do so. The government is creating a dangerous lateral entry, said R. Gunasekaran, president, Tiruchi IMA. The notification, the doctors believe, was to increase the number of practising doctors, especially in rural areas, and in states with a shortage, such as Maharashtra and Bihar. M.S. Ashraf, former national vice-president, IMA, said that any surgery required team work, taking calculated risks and quick decisions which comes from experience. ‘An anaesthetist, a surgeon and a nurse are all important in this process. There needs to be pre-operative care, regular consultations, post-operative care and infection control," he said. The doctors questioned the nature of drugs which may be put to use, whether it would be Ayurvedic, and if it was allopathic, would the Ayurvedic doctors understand the combination of medicines. The doctors recommended increasing of medical infrastructure and creating centres of excellence instead of these ‘short-cut methods’ to increase the number of doctors. The government must increase the number of postgraduate seats in medical colleges, they said. Besides, ‘mixopathy’ could kill practices like Ayurveda and Siddha, they added. ‘If an Ayurvedic doctor wants to become a surgeon, let them create a quota within NEET allowing their entry,' Dr. Gunasekaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-skip-op-services/article33312049.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Signboards installed to guide pilgrims||The State Highways Department has installed 35 boards with photographs of important temples and their names to inform pilgrims about the shrines. The boards have been installed at 28 locations in Lalgudi sub-division. They have been installed at Kollidam Tollgate, Gunaseelam, Manachanallur Bye Pass, Siruganur, Lalgudi, Oothathur, Anbil, Thinniyam, among others. The boards have been kept on either side of the highways. The board at Kollidam Tollgate is embossed with photograph of Uthamarkoil along Tiruchi - Salem main road while the boards at Gunaseelam and Lalgudi contain the name and photograph of Sri Prasanna Venkatachalapathy Temple and Sri Saptharisheewarar Temple respectively. The reflective boards look bright during night hours when headlight of vehicles hits them clearly indicating the presence of the temple a few metres away. In Tiruchi, a couple of boards have been installed near the Cauvery bridge indicating the direction of Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple and the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple. The department had planned to install more such boards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/signboards-installed-to-guide-pilgrims/article33312060.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Make online bookings to visit temple’||Devotees visiting the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple during the Vaikunda Ekadasi festival, to be held from December 14 to January 4, would have to make advance bookings online. The important event of opening of Paramapadavasal will be held on December 25. Online bookings have to be made both for free and paid darshan (Rs. 250 per head) at the temple from December 15 to January 4 through the website,www.srirangam.org The announcement comes in the wake of the decisions taken at a recent consultative meeting held under the chairmanship of Collector S.Sivarasu to discuss the arrangements to be made for the festival, especially in view of the pandemic situation, a press release said. Devotees have to arrive half an hour prior to the reserved scheduled time of darshan . The devotees should strictly maintain physical distance and wear masks. Public darshan would not be allowed during Namperumal purappadu , Arayar seva and Ekanda Veena on the festival days and Vedupari scheduled on January 1 and Nammazhvar Moksham on January 4. The events would be telecast through the YouTube channel, Srirangam Temple, and local TV networks. Food packets would be distributed during the annadhanam programme at the temple. A fire tender would be stationed inside the temple. Temporary as well as a few mobile toilets would be set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-online-bookings-to-visit-srirangam-temple/article33311969.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||99 new cases and two deaths in central region||The central region on Friday recorded 99 new cases of COVID-19. Two deaths were reported in Thanjavur. A 56-year-old man with a history of diabetes and hypertension and a 67-year-old man who had been suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, both hailing from Thanjavur, died of the viral infection, says the Health Department bulletin. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported a slight spike in cases with 28 patients testing positive for the infection. Among them were primary contacts and asymptomatic patients traced through fever camps. Four patients, who had been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for treatment, were discharged on Friday. Thanjavur too reported a slight increase in the number of cases reported with 25 patients testing positive. A total of 43 patients, who were undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Friday. All other districts in the region reported less than 20 fresh cases. In Nagapattinam, 17 patients reported positive while in Pudukottai, a sharp decline, with 10 fresh cases, was reported. Patients in both districts were people with a history of respiratory illnesses, primary and secondary contacts, and local index cases. Tiruvarur recorded nine fresh cases for the viral infection while Karur recorded eight new patients. The cases were primary contacts of patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Karur, the patients who tested positive were residents of Gandhigramam and Maravapalayam among other localities. In Ariyalur, two patients tested positive while Perambalur recorded no new cases. Meanwhile, 423 fresh throat swabs were lifted from contacts and patients showing symptoms in Perambalur and sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/99-new-cases-and-two-deaths-in-central-region/article33312051.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Towel atop statue||A small piece of a cloth, resembling the Congress party colours, placed on top of the statue of late Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran near the Combined Court complex in the city caused a flutter on Friday. A group of AIADMK cadre rushed to the spot and removed the cloth from the statue. Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan came to the spot and cleaned the statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/towel-atop-statue/article33311989.ece
12 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Remembering Subramania Bharathi||Even as usual garlanding of the statue of poet Subramania Bharathi marked his 134th birth anniversary at various parts of the city on Friday, the AIADMK celebrated the occasion in a highly commendable fashion by distributing poems and biography of the legendary poet to students of Tamil literature. Whenever the birth anniversary of Bharathi is observed, political parties and a few organisations would garland the life-size statue of the national poet at Tirunelveli Junction and administer pledge to the students at MDT Higher Secondary School where he studied. Deviating from the usual route, the AIADMK celebrated the occasion in a laudable manner by distributing the books containing his stimulating poems and his biography. After garlanding the bust of Bharathi on the premises of Rani Anna Government College for Women at Gandhi Nagar, AIADMK district secretary and chairman of Tirunelveli District Central Cooperative Bank N. Ganesa Raja gifted books to 100 Tamil literature students of the college in the presence of writers P. Rajendran and Krishi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remembering-subramania-bharathi/article33312461.ece
12 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Elephant electrocuted close to KMTR||The illegal electrification of fence erected around a farm has killed an elephant in a paddy field close to Kalakkad–Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) in the district. Sources in the KMTR’s Ambasamudram Division said the 40-year-old female elephant that came down to the foothills in search of food in the small hours of Friday tried to enter the fenced farm of Chellakutti, 75, of Arunachalapuram in the foothills where he had raised paddy. As the wire fence had been electrified with illegally drawn power to check intrusion of wild animals that used to damage standing crops, the 9-foot-tall animal got electrocuted. It died on the spot. On coming to know of it, KMTR officials rushed to the spot and picked up Mr. Chellakutti for interrogation and are on the lookout for his son, who has reportedly electrified the fence by drawing electricity from the motor room having free power connection. After the autopsy, the carcass was buried there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-electrocuted-close-to-kmtr/article33311959.ece
12 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Life term for trio||A court here has awarded life imprisonment to three persons for murdering a man in 2010. According to prosecution, Ramakrishnan, 52, of Devipattinam under Sivagiri police station limits bought mutton from butcher Udaiyaar of the same area for Deepavali celebrations in 2010. As Ramakrishnan did not give money for the mutton, Udaiyaar filed a complaint at Sivagiri police station. When Udaiyaar went to the police station C. Murugan, 38, of Devitpattinam accompanied him. There, Ramakrishnan was asked to give Rs. 800 to Udaiyaar. Ramakrishnan’s sons Sakthivel, 25, and Dharmar, 31 and a relative A. Antonysamy, 46, stabbed Murugan, his relatives J. Isravel, 35, and S. Kaliyaan on November 18, 2010.Isravel succumbed to his injuries the next day. Sivagiri police arrested Antonysamy, Ramakrishnan, Sakthivel and Dharmar. Even as the trial was going on, Ramakrishnan died. First Additional Sessions Judge Kokila awarded triple life imprisonment to Antonysamy and double life term to Sakthivel and Dharmar on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-term-for-trio/article33312462.ece
12 December 2020||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||20 cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,739 with 20 new cases reported on December 11. While a total of 19,056 have been discharged, the tally of active cases stands at 345. The district's death toll is 338. In Ranipet district, 12 cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,733. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,334 with 5 new cases on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-cases-reported-in-vellore/article33312468.ece
12 December 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Let Rajini first float a political party’||Law Minister C. Ve. Shanmugam on Friday said that nothing could be said about actor Rajinikanth until he floated a political party. When his attention was drawn to Mr. Rajinikanth making moves to form a political party, the Minister said the actor had not yet started a party. “Let him first float the outfit and announce his party’s plans. What he would do for the people should also be clarified. We will then see what decision the people will take,” he said. Earlier, Mr. Shanmugam laid the foundation stone for a new taluk office at Thiruvennainallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nothing-can-be-said-about-rajinikanth-till-he-floats-party/article33311950.ece
12 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Govt. Medical College construction work to be over by February-end||The Virudhunagar Government Medical College construction work is likely to be completed by February-end and efforts are being taken to admit students during the next academic year, said Director of Medical Education, R. Narayana Babu. Dr. Babu who was here to inspect the progress in construction of various blocks of the medical college, said that 65% of the construction work has been completed. “We have planned to complete the works by February-end. We are awaiting inspection by National Medical Commission team. After its approval, admission of students will be taken up in the next academic year,” he told The Hindu . Stating that all buildings were coming up as per the NMC norms, he said an academic block, administrative block, men’s and ladies hostels and clinical buildings were coming up. Dr. Babu said that 150 students would be admitted to the first year M.B.B.S. Course. “Once the first batch of students completes the under-graduation course, post-graduate clinical courses would come up in the new medical college,” he said. “The additional feature of the medical college is that a dental college would also come up adjacent to it”, he added. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, said that works were also going on at a fast pace on the Virudhunagar District Master Plan Complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-medical-college-construction-work-to-be-over-by-february-end/article33312070.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gas pipeline issue: MP inspects farmlands||Su. Venkatesan, Madurai MP, inspected farmlands at various villages near Kottampatti on Friday, where a section of farmers were opposing the laying of an underground gas pipeline by Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL). The MP visited the villages based on petitions filed by the villagers against the gas pipeline. The project envisages laying of an underground pipeline to supply Liquefied Natural Gas from IOCL's terminal at Ennore to Bengaluru; and also to Thoothukudi via Madurai. In Madurai, the pipeline will be laid for 56 km across 26 villages in Melur and Madurai East blocks. The IOCL has already laid a 680-km-long pipeline from Manali to Kappalur in Madurai. The officials have obtained Right of Use for these lands by paying compensation in 2005 and are planning to lay the new underground gas pipeline next to the existing pipeline. The farmers complained to the MP that brokers and middlemen were involved while paying compensation to the farmers for laying the underground gas pipeline. Any final decision regarding the issue must be taken only at gram sabha meetings, the farmers said. Mr. Venkatesan said steps will be taken to ensure that proper compensation was given to all farmers. He said that he received complaints from farmers that there were irregularities in paying compensation to the farmers. The MP also questioned the officials regarding the measures taken to create awareness among the farmers regarding the safety of laying the underground gas pipeline. He said that he would talk to the district authorities and IOCL officials to fiind a solution to the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gas-pipeline-issue-mp-inspects-farmlands/article33312286.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||73 new cases reported in Salem district||As many as 73 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Salem district on Friday. According to health officials, 71 cases were indigenous including 31 in Salem Corporation limits. Two patients had returned from Erode and Hosur. Erode district reported 44 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 12,968. While 67 persons were discharged, 366 persons continued to be under treatment. Coimbatore district reported two COVID-19 deaths and 115 new cases, which took the overall tally to 50,196 cases. An 88-year-old woman and a 59-year-old man died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, taking the district’s toll to 628, the Health Department said. Of the 50,196 cases, 48,592 have recovered and 976 were active. On Friday, 92 patients from the district were discharged upon recovery from the disease. Tiruppur district reported 48 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 16,074 cases. No deaths were reported on Friday, according to the Health Department. A total of 15,332 have recovered and 531 patients were active cases. The district has so far reported 211 deaths. Fifty-six patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres on Friday. Namakkal district reported 23 cases, all indigenous.  The Nilgiris district saw 19 new cases. Of the 7,647 cases, 7,409 have recovered and 196 were active. The district has so far reported 42 deaths and 17 patients were discharged on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/115-cases-two-deaths-in-coimbatore/article33311985.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Outpatient services at private hospitals hit in districts||Protesting against the Centre’s decision to allow post-graduate Ayurvedic doctors to conduct surgeries, private hospitals in Erode suspended outpatient services from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. while members of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) wore black badge while on duty on Friday. On November 20, the Central Council of Indian Medicine issued a gazette notification amending the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016, that allows PG Ayurveda students to undergo training for 58 surgical procedures in general surgery, ENT, ophthalmology and dentistry. The Indian Medical Association said that the move clubbing Ayurveda with allopathy, ‘mixopathy’ is against the basic ethics of modern medicine and had called for nationwide strike on Friday. About, 2,800 doctors in 280 private hospitals abstained from duty affecting the out-patient services in the district. However, emergency services and in-service patients were attended to by the doctors, who wanted the gazette notification to be withdrawn. On December 8, members of IMA and TNDGA staged demonstrations across the district against the notification. Doctors under the Indian Medical Association and Federation of Government Doctors Association took part in the protests in Salem and Namakkal districts. The protesters said that the move would affect the public and would lead to promotion of fake medical practitioners. In Salem, over 2,500 private practitioners, including dentists, boycotted outpatient services at over 300 hospitals. In Namakkal, about 600 private doctors boycotted services at over 275 private hospitals and nursing homes. Close to 500 government doctors, including those at primary health centres, expressed solidarity to the protests by wearing black badges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outpatient-services-at-private-hospitals-hit-in-districts/article33312076.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police constable recruitment exam on Sunday||The written examination for the recruitment of Grade-II police constables, Grade-II jail warders and firemen will be conducted at six locations in Coimbatore district on Sunday. A press release said that 10,207 candidates from the district will write the examination. The examination centres are Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Science College (1,000 candidates), Dr. N.G.P. Arts and Science College (2,100 candidates), Kongunadu Arts and Science College (1,600 candidates), P.S.G. College of Arts and Science (2,300 candidates), Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science (1,766 candidates) and Kathir College of Arts and Science (1,442 women and third gender candidates). All candidates must wear masks and will be allowed at the examination centres only between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. On the hall ticket, if the candidate's photograph is either not available or unclear, they must attach a fresh photo and get the sign of a gazetted officer (Group A or B) prior to the examination, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-constable-recruitment-exam-on-sunday/article33312086.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A super read||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-super-read/article33311992.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||With hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-hope/article33312088.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Star power||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/star-power/article33311920.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Interesting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interesting/article33312458.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dalit boys forced to remove their excreta; 3 held||The Maruvathur police registered a case under the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015, against the six accused on a complaint from the mother of one of the boys. Later, the police arrested R. Abinesh, 20, N. Silambarasan, 24, and S. Selvakumar, 23. The police are on the look-out for the others. The youths were charged with rioting, uttering obscene words in a public place, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation. They were also charged with using filthy language against the Dalit boys and calling them by their caste name. Further investigation The case would be investigated by an officer of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP). Perambalur Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban told The Hindu in the evening that the situation was under control and a police team had been deployed at Sirukudal.  They were also charged with using filthy language against the Dalit boys||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-forcing-dalit-boys-to-remove-excreta/article33311935.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE TODAY||PSG Hospitals: Virtual summit on ‘Research and Innovation in Cardiovascular Science’, 10 a.m.  Institution of Valuers: 51st Indian Valuers Congress, Jenneys Residency, Avanashi Road, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33311981.ece
12 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||LS bypoll: ‘Reports on my name being finalised false’||Satish Jarkiholi, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president, suspects that some vested interests are trying to spread rumours about him contesting the Lok Sabha bypolls from Belagavi. “I belong to Belagavi district. I have served as a legislator for over two decades. I have spent a long time in the Congress and I am currently handling serious responsibilities in the KPCC. It is natural that my name is considered among the many that the party has shortlisted. However, it is not true that my name has been finalised for the party ticket. I suspect that some mischief-mongers are spreading some rumours,” he told journalists in Belagavi on Friday. “The candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls will be decided in Belagavi and not in Bengaluru. The party has constituted a committee under the chairmanship of M.B. Patil for the purpose and a meeting has been conducted already. Another meeting will be held soon and the candidate will be finalised,” he said. He said the next meeting would be conducted in Belagavi. He said he was not interested in the Lok Sabha bypolls as there was a lot of work to be done in State politics. “However, if the party decides that I should contest, I will obey the orders,” he said. He asked the government to resolve issues plaguing transport workers. “The demand that they should be treated like department employees is pending. It should be met immediately,” he said. Any delay in resolving it will damage the corporations and cause inconvenience to the public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ls-bypoll-reports-on-my-name-being-finalised-false/article33312103.ece
12 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Anti-cow slaughter Bill: Bajrang Dal, VHP activists celebrate in Belagavi||The passage of the anti-cow slaughter Bill in the Legislative Assembly received mixed responses from some organisations in Belagavi on Friday. Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishat members organised a celebration in the city. Activists gathered at the Samyukta Maharashtra Chowk in the old city and burst crackers and distributed sweets to celebrate, what they called, the victory to their decades-long efforts. Bajrang Dal leader Basavaraj Bhagoji said that this was a gift by the State government to several anti-cow slaughter activists who had laid down their life for the cause. However, Sri Ram Sena Hindustan has expressed dissatisfaction with the Bill. Ramakant Konduskar, founder-president SRSH, said he was unhappy with the Bill. “While we welcome the government’s intention, we are upset with some negative provisions in the Bill that have the potential to legalise cow slaughter,” he said. “The Bill allows the slaughter of sick and old cattle. It enables people to slaughter cow, bulls, and buffaloes that are older than 13 years. It also allows a person to to slaughter cattle if he obtains a certificate from a veterinary doctor that the cow is suffering from disease. We are sure that these provisions will be misused. Miscreants may fudge documents to smuggle or slaughter milch cattle and young cattle. Anyone can get a duplicate certificate of sickness and old age and transport and slaughter them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-cow-slaughter-bill-bajrang-dal-vhp-activists-celebrate-in-belagavi/article33312104.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Passengers stranded at bus stops across the city||Bus services in Bengaluru and across Karnataka were crippled after thousands of drivers and conductors of State-run road transport corporations decided to go on a strike demanding that they be made government employees with all benefits. The strike caught transport corporations off guard. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) officials told The Hindu only 128 of the 5,000 buses scheduled on Friday morning were operated. With no alternative plan in place, commuters were stranded at Majestic, Shivajinagar, Yeshwantpur, Shantinagar and other hubs. Intra-city bus services Officials with the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) said that 70% of its fleet remained off the road, as a result of which services to Bengaluru from Hassan, Mysuru and other districts were badly hit. and passengers were forced to rely on personal vehicles. NWKRTC personnel also struck work and held protests in most districts in north Karnataka. In Belagavi, drivers, conductors and supervisors gathered at the bus stand and depot, but did not report for duty and instead shouted slogans against the government. The number of trips from Mysuru to Bengaluru was cut by almost half. A senior KSRTC official in Mysuru told The Hindu that over 50% of drivers and conductors attached to the Mysuru Rural division did not report for work The lack of services caused great inconvenience to people commuting to work, those who arrived in Bengaluru in the morning unaware of the strike and college students. People who arrived in Bengaluru from other cities in the morning were forced to shell out huge amounts to autos and private buses. In Hoskote, crew were seen allowing passengers to sit on top of the bus putting their lives at risk. Muniyamma, who had reached the KSRTC bus stand in the morning after travelling from Yadgir, said, “Around 7 a.m., I reached the bus stop with my three children. I was looking for a bus to Gollarahatti on Magadi Road, but none were available. Hotels inside the bus stop were closed due to the strike,” she said. “I don’t know what to do. Had I known that the protest would impact services, I would not have come.” Instances of violence Protesting employees stopped KSRTC buses at Mysuru Satellite bus stand, Kengeri, Nelamangala and other areas. KSRTC officials said that 32 cases of buses being damaged were reported on Friday at Kengeri, Bangarpet, on the Mysuru-Bengaluru road and other areas. Metro services The BMRCL will operate all 50 trains and increase the frequency of operations on Saturday, in view of the bus strike.  I arrived in Bengaluru around 7 a.m. from Yadgir with my three children. I was looking for a bus to Gollarahatti on Magadi Road, but none were available. Hotels inside the bus stop were closed due to the strike. I don’t know what to do. Had I known that the protest would impact services, I would not have come Muniyamma, passenger from Yadgir||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passengers-stranded-at-bus-stops-across-the-city/article33311828.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No celebrations on roads, at public places this New Year||Celebrations that draw crowds and revellers on main roads and public places in cities on New Year’s Eve will not be allowed this year, Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Friday said. This rule will be applicable to all cities in Karnataka where public celebrations are the norm. Addressing presspersons after participating in the State’s COVID-19 Task Force meeting, the Minister said this would be enforced under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has agreed to this and a Government Order on the guidelines will be issued in one or two days, he said. However, parties in hotels, resorts and other places will be allowed after issuing directives to hotel managements to ensure adherence of COVID-19 norms. All hotels hosting parties, pubs, bars and restaurants will be permitted to accommodate only 50% of their capacity. They must abide by the guidelines that will be released by the Disaster Management Cell soon, Mr. Ashok said. “We are also planning to have passes issued to customers at hotels to avoid large gatherings for New Year parties,” he said. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said these restrictions will not be just for Bengaluru but across the State. “With huge crowds likely to gather in public places on New Year’s Eve, it will be difficult for revellers to adhere to COVID-19 norms. Ensuring wearing of masks and social distancing in such large gatherings will be tough. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has given us a recommendation that not more than 200 people should be allowed to congregate from December 20 to January 2 and we will enforce this,” he said. Second wave Pointing out that the State is gearing up for a possible second wave, the Health Minister said the Task Force had given its nod for procuring the required testing kits, oxygen generators and other equipment. While Rs. 37.72 crore has been approved for procuring oxygen generators and other equipment in ten district and 30 taluk hospitals, Rs. 11.32 crore has been set aside for purchasing 10 lakh rapid antigen kits and Rs. 22.50 crore for medicine purchase for next 90 days, he said. Responding to complaints that some private hospitals are overcharging patients for Remdesivir, he said: “The government rate for this injection is Rs. 1,800. Action will be taken against hospitals under the KPME Act if they overcharge.” Testing targets The Minister, who reviewed COVID-19 management in 10 districts where testing was not up to the mark, said, “We have now fixed targets for these districts - Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Yadgir, Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi, Bidar, Haveri and Udupi - and have been directed to ensure that the targets are met.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-celebrations-on-roads-at-public-places-this-new-year/article33312112.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Movement registry to ensure govt. staff stay at workplace||Attendance and availability of employees in government offices has for long been a topic of discussion. The introduction of biometric attendance was deemed to be the answer to part of the problem. However, with employees found missing during working hours, the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) has introduced a movement registry to ensure that employees are present in office. Munish Moudgil, Secretary, DPAR, sent out an official memo earlier this week instructing officials of the department to start entering details of when and why they have to step out of office during working hours. The memo mentions that the officer found employees missing in the afternoon when he visited a section. Mr. Moudgil told The Hindu that it has become common for employees to come and leave as and when they please. “When biometric was not there, we found people coming in at 12.30 p.m. and leaving at 4 p.m. Biometric was reintroduced on November 17,” he said. Biometric attendance was suspended in March in the backdrop of the COVID-19 outbreak as a safety measure. The movement registry was necessitated when even biometrics failed to ensure that employees stayed in office. “Employees would be putting the biometric in the morning and evening, but in between vanishing from their seats. When we checked, they would say they had gone to so-and-so location. We wanted a record on that,” he explained. Employees will now have to make an entry in the registry as to when and why they are going out. The administrative department concerned will be given flexibility on the finer details, but this is the broader procedure to be followed,Mr. Moudgil said. Asked if is this would be applicable to all government departments, he said, “I have issued this for the Secretariat. But ideally, in letter and spirit others should also follow. For example, I can’t issue these directions for another department. But the spirit of this can be followed by everyone and the letter suitably issued by the departments concerned.” L. Byrappa, president of the Retired State Government Employees’ Association, said the movement registry existed before as well, but was not used once biometric attendance kicked in. “How it is implemented depends on the higher officers. If they are in office and keep a watch, employees will fall in line. It is a good move and not restrictive,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/movement-registry-to-ensure-govt-staff-stay-at-workplace/article33311854.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Anti-cow slaughter Bill will hurt farmers, render many jobless’||The Opposition Congress on Friday said the BJP government’s decision to amend the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Prevention of Animals Act, 1964, will increase farmers’ hardship owing to increasing breeding cost and shortage of fodder. It would cause job loss to lakhs of people who are dependent on the leather industry, the party said. The Congress, which boycotted the Legislative Assembly session on Thursday, said through the Bill, the government’s intention was whipping up peoples’ sentiment and disturbing communal peace in society. Instead of addressing the misery caused to farmers by floods and droughts, the government has been driving farmers into debt trap by increasing the burden, said Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. Import of fodder Addressing mediapersons on the anti-cow slaughter Bill, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the State imports nearly 40% of the fodder from other States and it was extremely difficult for farmers to feed unproductive cows and bulls during drought. He said the Bill hurts the interests of farmers and accused the BJP of trying to polarise communities by targeting beef and its consumers. The State government introduced and passed the Bill in the Assembly without conducting any studies to find out its adverse social and economic implications on farmers and other sections of people, the Congress leader claimed. Nearly six crore cows stop giving milk in the country every year. Farmers incur expenditure of Rs. 100 a day on breeding cattle, he said. Giving national statistics, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the country was the third largest exporter of beef and second largest exporter of leather products in the world. Lakhs of people belonging to the SC, ST, and OBC communities depend on the leather industry and the anti-cow slaughter Bill would render them jobless, he said. State’s cattle population In Karnataka alone, 38 lakh families domesticate cows and buffaloes, according to the 19th livestock census. According to 20th census, the State has 84.69 lakh cows, including local breeds, and 29.84 lakh buffaloes. About 23 lakh tonnes of fodder was required per month to feed these domestic animals in the State and farmers have been facing severe shortage of fodder during drought years. The State witnessed 15 years of drought during the last 20 years, the Congress leader said, and demanded that the government withdraw the Bill in the interest of farmers and other sections of people. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar asked the government to purchase unproductive and aged cows from farmers by fixing a price. “Let the BJP leaders purchase cows from farmers and feed them in their houses or on their land,” he said. Awareness campaign The party would launch awareness campaigns on the Bill at the taluk-level across the State after elections to gram panchayats. The Congress would shelve “all the anti-farmer laws” soon after it returns to power, Mr. Shivakumar said. An amendment to the 1964 law was passed during B.S. Yediyurappa’s earlier stint as the Chief Minister. However, it was shelved in 2013 by the Siddaramaiah government after the Bill failed to get the Governor’s assent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-cow-slaughter-bill-will-hurt-farmers-render-many-jobless/article33311847.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dropping Law Minister from panel on BMIC raises eyebrows||The State Cabinet’s decision to drop Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy from a sub-committee formed in February 2020 to resolve legal disputes related to land acquisition for the Bangalore-Mysore Infrastructure Corridor (BMIC) project has drawn the ire of activists fighting for farmers in the case. Mr. Madhuswamy had reportedly taken a strong stand that all excess land notified for the project must be returned. The Cabinet sub-committee is tasked with implementing the recent Supreme Court order that said the project should be implemented strictly according to the Framework Agreement (FWA). The agenda of the first meeting of the sub-committee included release of excess land from preliminary notification and revision of the outline development plan as per the FWA, sources said. The sub-committee is also looking into acquisition of 4.5 acres of land from Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprises (NICE) by Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. that has hit a roadblock as the ownership of the land parcel is disputed between NICE and the State government. Sources said those “unhappy with the direction it was taking”, both in the government and outside, had been intensely lobbying for the sub-committee to be reconstituted by dropping certain Ministers. Mr. Madhuswamy being one of the early petitioners against NICE in the Supreme Court in 2004 made it inappropriate for him to be on the sub-committee, it was argued, sources said. A decision to this effect was taken at a recent Cabinet meeting. Three Ministers dropped The sub-committee formed in February had six Ministers. Chaired by Public Works Minister Govind Karjol, it had Revenue Minister R. Ashok, Mr. Madhuswamy, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar as members. The notification on the reconstituted sub-committee, issued on December 4 (a copy of which is available with The Hindu ), states that three Ministers — Mr. Madhuswamy, Dr. Ashwath Narayan and Mr. Bommai — have been dropped and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar has been added as a member instead. “It is understandable that other Ministers are dropped and the Industries Minister has been made a member since the issue pertains to KIADB, which acquired land for the BMIC project. But how can the Law Minister be dropped from a sub-committee looking into legal disputes, while the CooperationMinister is retained?” asked a senior BJP leader who wished to remain anonymous. Mr. Madhuswamy, reportedly upset over the development, refused to comment on the issue. “The way the Cabinet sub-committee has been reconstituted without the Law Minister, who has been legally fighting the alleged deviationsin the project, is a troubling sign as to what might lie ahead,” said Vinay Sreenivasa, an advocate associated with farmers’ struggle against the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dropping-law-minister-from-panel-on-bmic-raises-eyebrows/article33311838.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctors protest against ‘mixopathy’; patient services not affected||Supporting the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) strike call in protest of the Centre’s decision to allow post-graduate Ayurveda doctors to perform select medical procedures, doctors and hospitals across the State shut their out-patient departments from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday. However, as all emergencies and COVID-19 cases were attended to, the strike did not create any major disruption in patient services. While doctor appointments were not given for Friday and elective surgeries were postponed in private hospitals, doctors said they did not refuse treatment to walk-in patients. Moreover, government hospitals functioned normally as the Health Department had directed them to ensure patient services would not be hit. “As most hospitals have an appointment-based patient service, appointments were not given for Friday. While elective surgeries were also postponed, we did not refuse treatment to walk-in patients and those who required emergency surgeries. As a mark of protest, we worked wearing black badges,” said R. Ravindra, former president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA). M. Venkatachalapathy, president, IMA State unit, said the IMA’s appeal to the Union government was to desist from proceeding with ‘mixopathy’ as the option for Universal Health Coverage. “Although we shut our OPDs today, we ensured that all emergencies and COVID-19 cases were attended to,” he said. “We demand the withdrawal of the Centre’s notification and the NITI Aayog committee for integration [of all medicine systems]. We urge the government to take into account the grievances of doctors against this ‘mixopathy’. The IMA will continue its agitation till our demands are met,” he said.  Gazette notification A gazette notification, issued last month by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a statutory body under the AYUSH Ministry, listed 39 general surgery procedures and 19 other procedures, involving the eye, ear, nose and throat, by amending the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016. These surgeries include general surgery, orthopaedic, ophthalmology, ENT and dental surgeries. Representatives of some corporate hospitals in the city said that patients who were evaluated for surgeries and given dates prior to the announcement of the strike call were attended to. Most hospitals that are already seeing less patients in the OPD due to COVID-19 hardly had any walk-ins as many patients did not visit hospitals as a result of the transport strike. Free consultation Countering the IMA’s protest, AYUSH practitioners in the city offered free consultation and treatment to patients. The National Integrated Medical Association had given a call to AYUSH practitioners to counter the IMA protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-protest-against-mixopathy-patient-services-not-affected/article33311824.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Year of mourning’||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who reiterated that Ugadi is the new year as per the Indian calendar, said this has been ‘a year of mourning’ and there is little to celebrate. “We have lost our near and dear ones to COVID-19. Scores of people have lost livelihood this year due to the pandemic. There is nothing to celebrate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/year-of-mourning/article33312113.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Throwball coach arrested for theft||The Rajgopal Nagar police on Friday arrested a 23-year-old man, employed as a coach in a private school, for allegedly stealing valuables from his friend’s house. The accused, Manoj, lives in Peenya II stage. He is a throwball coach at a private school. “He claimed to have stolen from his friend to repay a loan as he wasn’t getting his salary,” said a senior police officer. The police recovered a gold chain, weighing 45 gm and worth Rs. 2.15 lakh, from him. “He had recently visited his friend Krishna’s house. While he was there, Manoj saw his friend keep a gold chain in a drawer. On November 25, when he knew that Krishna was not a home, he sneaked into the house and stole the chain,” said a police officer. He sold the chain at a pawn shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coach-held-for-theft/article33311829.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will look into lecturer appointments’||Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan has directed senior officials of the department to immediately submit the proposal with regard to the appointment of 350 lecturers at aided degree colleges. This issue has been on the back burner even after getting approval from the Finance Department. The Finance Department had approved the appointment of 907 lecturers at aided colleges. Of these, the appointment orders for 369 posts were issued and these lecturers are already working in the colleges. This process has been completed as per the UGC norms, according to a release from the office of the Minister. “As many as 350 applications are in the verification stage. Action with regard to their appointment will be taken after the completion of discussions at the higher level,” said the Minister. P.C. Jaffer, Secretary, Department of Finance, who was present at the meeting, promised that action would be taken as soon as the proposal is received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-look-into-lecturer-appointments/article33311848.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Provide data on farmer suicide: HC to govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to provide data on cases of farmer suicide from 2017 to 2020 and the assistance and benefits offered to their families. The court also directed the government to appoint a senior revenue officer to conduct an inquiry into cases of suicide by farmers in Shahpur taluk of Yadgir district since 2017 to ascertain the causes for death and the assistance given to the eligible family members of the deceased. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed in 2019 by Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha, Yadgir. The petitioner had complained that many farmers in Shahpur taluk were denied of benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana for crop loss though they had paid the premium. On the grievance of the petitioner that many farmers had not received crop insurance despite loss of crop, the Bench said the government would have to examine the matter either by itself or by referring it to the district-level grievance redressal committee, as per the crop insurance scheme. The Bench directed the government to inform the court of the manner in which it would find out if farmers from whom crop insurance premium was collected were denied of the benefit of the scheme. Also, the Bench said the petitioner was free to forward to the district-level committee if there have been any specific instances of denial of crop insurance benefit. Cases in State It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that 40,346 farmers committed suicide in the State between 1997 and 2016. The petitioner pointed out that Karnataka was third in the country in farmer suicide, behind Gujarat and Maharashtra. The petitioner’s counsel, Clifton D’Rozario, also told the court that 2,160 and 2,405 farmers ended their lives in 2017 and 2018, respectively, in Karnataka, and 98 farmers committed suicide in Shahpur taluk alone during 2016-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/provide-data-on-farmer-suicide-hc-to-govt/article33311855.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Year of mourning’||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who reiterated that Ugadi is the new year as per the Indian calendar, said this has been “a year of mourning”, and there is little to celebrate. “We have lost our near and dear ones to COVID-19. Scores of people have lost their livelihood this year due to the pandemic. There is nothing to celebrate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/year-of-mourning/article33311814.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man ends life||A 54-year-old builder allegedly ended his life at his residence in BTM Layout on Thursday night. According to the police, the deceased, Vivek Ananth, left a note claiming financial woes and harassment by his business partner led him to take this extreme step.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-ends-life/article33311815.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Commuters fleeced||Across Bengaluru, there were reports of autorickshaw drivers and private bus operators fleecing hapless passengers. People who had arrived from other cities were especially badly hit. Pratheeksha, a passenger, said, “The staff of the BMTC should have informed the public in advance about the strike. For a short distance, auto drivers were demanding Rs. 300.” At Majestic, auto drivers were charging double rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/commuters-fleeced/article33311825.ece
12 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ashok: Cong. is instigating farmers||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Friday hit out at Congress leaders for “instigating farmers” to hold protests opposing the land reforms and APMC Bills passed by the State legislature. He accused Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar of being “unemployed”, and therefore supporting farmers’ protest. ‘Propaganda’ Requesting the farming community not to “succumb to the anti-BJP propaganda” tactics of the Opposition party, the Minister said it was the Congress which took initiative to amend sections 79 A and 79 B by constituting a Cabinet sub-committee when V. Srinivas Prasad, now a BJP MP, was the Revenue Minister in the Siddaramaiah government. Farmers of the State have been protesting against farm laws passed by both State and Central governments. Congress leaders supported the farmers’ protest and the bandh call. The Karnataka Land Reforms (Second) Amendment Bill, 2020, passed in the State Legislature, has removed restrictions on purchase of agricultural land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashok-cong-is-instigating-farmers/article33311842.ece
12 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Home Guards honoured||Home Guards Rajalakshmi G., Udayashankar, and Parameshwar Reddy from Bengaluru South were honoured by the head of the Department of Home Guards and Civil Defence earlier this week. The honour was in recognition of their efforts to rescue a 17-year-old girl who attempted to drown herself in Sankey Tank, Sadhashivanagar, Bengaluru, recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-guards-honoured/article33311849.ece
12 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Police officer’s death: probe indicates mental stress||The mental stress he underwent following the two murders within a short span of time in his police station limits must have pushed Channarayapatna Police Sub-Inspector L.N. Kiran Kumar to end his life, concluded the investigation into his death. Kiran Kumar, 35, was found dead in his uniform at his residence on July 31. Arsikere DySP Nagesh was appointed investigation officer into the case. He recently submitted his report to the Superintendent of Police, R. Srinivasa Gowda. Two murders were reported in his police station limits in 24 hours before he was found dead. He had received 52 phone calls in his last hours. Among those who called him included his senior police officers, politicians, journalists, family members and the relatives of the dead. As the phone call recording application was not active on his phone, the investigation officer took the statements from those who called Kiran on the day. “Considering the number of calls and statements it is clear he was under tremendous pressure. Being a senior officer I had called him only once on the day, as I knew that he would be under pressure. Many had called him inquiring about the murder, arrests of the suspected and a few had said they would stage a protest if arrests were not made immediately”, Mr. Srinivasa Gowda said. The investigation officer also enquired with his family members and it came out there were no problems at his family. “Kiran had taken the profession as his passion. He hardly took a break to spend time with his family. Even on the occasion of his baby’s birthday, he took an hour’s break and returned to work. He took the extreme step unable to handle the pressure. If he had shared his feelings with someone he would have been with us today. The department lost an efficient officer”, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-officers-death-probe-indicates-mental-stress/article33312322.ece
12 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KRRS criticises Kumaraswamy||The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha has criticised former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy for the JD(S) party’s support to the controversial Bill amending the Land Reforms Act. KRRS vice-president Anekere Ravi, in a press conference in Hassan on Friday, said his Sangha had thanked Mr. Kumaraswamy when he announced farm loan waiver when he was the Chief Minister. “But his recent decisions had been against the interest of farmers. The farming community has been disappointed with his move.” The JD(S) came to power in the past in the name of farmers. But, the party had not responded to the farmers’ protests. In Karnataka the party had been extending support to the BJP for political reasons, he alleged. The farmers would continue to protest against the Centre for its controversial Bills. The Sangha had taken up a campaign not to purchase products of Reliance as the Centre had brought in anti-farmer laws to benefit such companies, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krrs-criticises-kumaraswamy/article33312109.ece
12 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Container homes’ for the flood-affected||In a novel initiative to aid those hit by floods, two families of Magundi village in N.R. Pura taluk of Chikkamagaluru district, who lost their houses in the floods last year, have now got pre-fabricated “container homes”. They were manufactured at Pune in Maharashtra and delivered to the beneficiaries at the village recently. As many as 16 houses at Magundi suffered damage during the floods in 2019 and 14 of the affected families got compensation from the State government to build new houses. Two families did not get funds as they did not meet the conditions of the government. Krishna Foundation, an NGO, came forward to help them. Arathi Krishna, head of the foundation and former deputy chairperson of NRI Forum of Karnataka, donated the houses. Ms. Krishna told The Hindu , “They were normally manufacturing windows and doors. We requested them to make houses for us. Non-corrosive primer and cool paint have been applied on the iron sheets to keep the interior surface cool.” “The house, built at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh, is durable for 40 years,” she said. The houses have been placed on a platform with four elevated edges. Each house has a bedroom, a kitchen, and living space, besides the toilet. Solar panels have been installed on the roof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/container-homes-for-the-flood-affected/article33311840.ece
12 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hundreds stranded||Hundreds of passengers were stranded at bus stops due to the indefinite strike by drivers and conductors of KSRTC in Hassan and Shivamogga districts. There were no non-stop KSRTC buses from Hassan to Bengaluru on the day, forcing the passengers to depend on personal vehicles. Many cancelled their travel due to the protest. Only 30 per cent of the buses were on the road. Till late afternoon on Friday, only 238 routes were covered by Hassan KSRTC bus stand, against the total 452 routes, said an official. Some passengers entered into an argument with the staff members as there were no buses to reach their destination. Those people who travel to workplaces regularly by bus had difficulty in reporting to the duty on the day. Some miscreants threw stones at a KSRTC bus heading to Bhadravati from Shivamogga near Machenahalli, forcing the staff to stop the bus. Following this incident, the staff members stopped services in Shivamogga city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hundreds-stranded/article33312324.ece
12 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Passengers bear the brunt of sudden transport strike||The sudden strike by employees working in North Eastern Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), a State-owned undertaking primarily operating in Kalyana Karnataka region, left passengers stranded across the region on Friday. Passengers waiting for their buses in stands across towns and cities in the region was a common scene to be seen. As per information provided by the NEKRTC authorities in Kalaburagi, the bus services at 839 of the 2,247 routes in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, and Ballari were cancelled owing to the strike. At certain places like Kalaburagi, passengers resorted to spontaneous protest condemning the transport staff for causing inconvenience to the people who, being unaware of the strike, came to bus stands. In Ballari also, passengers were found arguing with the protesting transport staff. “If the people were notified about the scheduled strike well in advance, the people would have planned their journey accordingly. Those who were on urgent and unavoidable tasks would have arranged private vehicles. This kind of surprised and sudden strike by the employees is unacceptable,” a passenger in Ballari said. Demonstrations At other places, transport staff including conductors, drivers and mechanics staged demonstrations demanding that the government consider them as State government employees and clear the salary dues. “We have been working hard to offer smooth and safe transport services to the people. But, we are facing so many problems and nobody is listening to our woes. The government should consider all the employees working in the four transport corporations – KSRTC, NEKRTC, NWKRTC and BMTC – as the employees of the government and extend all the benefits to them,” an employee who participated in the strike in Ballari said. When the employees were staging a demonstration at the Ballari Bus Stand, an officer visited the agitating site and noted down the names of the employees who were leading the protest. The employees alleged that the higher authorities would later harass the employees who were at the forefront of the agitation. The Kalaburagi Central Bus Stand was full of waiting passengers. The higher authorities were found repeatedly appealing, using loudspeakers, to the agitating bus conductors and drivers to end the strike and resume work to avoid inconvenience to the passengers. However, the protesting staff did not heed. Taking undue advantage of the absence of bus services, autorickshaw operators and taxi drivers in Raichur were found to be exploiting commuters by overcharging. “The bus charge for Kallur which is 25 km away from Raichur is Rs. 27. But the private transport operators are demanding Rs. 400,” a passenger said. The bus services in Bidar and Yadgir remained largely unaffected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passengers-bear-the-brunt-of-sudden-transport-strike/article33312097.ece
12 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police register complaint against 10 persons for ‘auction’ of GP seats||The Yaddrami Police have registered a complaint against 10 persons on the charge of auctioning gram panchayat seats at Bilvar village in Yaddrami taluk even as the GP polls are scheduled for December 27. In a video of the alleged bidding that went viral on social media, an auctioneer is seen announcing that the minimum bid amount for the seats at Ward No.1 is Rs. 26.55 lakh, and each member would get a grant of Rs. 2.5 crore if elected. The general category seat was auctioned for Rs. 8.55 lakh, the SC reserved (woman) for Rs. 7.25 lakh, SC reserved (man) for Rs. 5.50 lakh, and ST (woman) for Rs. 5.25 lakh. Further, he said that those with the highest bid were to be elected unopposed by the villagers. Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George, speaking to presspersons on Thursday, said that a complaint has been registered and 10 persons have been named in the complaint about their involvement in the auction. These include Golappa Mygeri, Hanumanth Dore, Hanumanthraya and Babluwan Padashetty, Rammana Gowda, Honnappa Gowda, Basawappagowda Navane, Mallu Kodamanalli, Gowdappagowda Bommanalli, and Madivalappa. The accused, on December 3, allegedly arranged an auction in the village and tried to grab the seats of the Bilvar Gram Panchayat with the influence of money, Ms. George added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-register-complaint-against-10-persons-for-auction-of-gp-seats/article33312098.ece
12 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Workshop for medical students on Dec. 16||Global Healthcare Academy will be conducting a one-day workshop for students who have completed paramedical, nursing, and pharmacy courses in Kalaburagi on December 16. The academy will also conduct an interview for students during the workshop and the selected students will be further trained under the guidance of medical experts in several courses, including laboratory technician, health inspector, and operation theatre technician for a duration of one to four months at Bengaluru. The academy also ensures placement in the best hospitals with a salary between Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 40,000 a month. Baburao Shegunisi, secretary of the Suvarna Karnataka Education Trust, said that the interested candidates can attend the workshop at Gyanjyothi English Medium School, GDA Colony, Filter bed, Kalaburagi. They can also contact 7204347483 or 9901576277 for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workshop-for-medical-students-on-dec-16/article33312095.ece
12 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Child marriage: Case against nine persons||The Hagaribommanahalli Police have registered a case against nine people in connection with child marriage. As per information provided by the Hagaribommanahalli tahsildar, a 13-year-old girl from Ankasamudra village was married to a man from Harugeri village at Raibag taluk in Belagavi district this May. The marriage was held at the G. Kodihalli Basaveshwara temple in Hagaribommanahalli taluk. The child marriage came to light three days ago and a case was immediately registered against nine people involved in the marriage, including the father of the girl and the man who married the minor girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/child-marriage-case-against-nine-persons/article33312102.ece
12 December 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||GP polls: 2,439 nominations filed in Kalaburagi||A total of 2,439 nominations have been filed for 2,220 gram panchayat seats in 126 gram panchayats across six taluks in Kalaburagi district which will go to the polls in the first phase on December 22. The last date for filing the nominations for the first phase polls was Thursday. Around 723 nominations were filed in Kalaburagi, 503 in Aland taluk, 604 in Afzalpur taluk, 344 in Kamalapur taluk, 169 from Kalgi, and 96 in Shahabad taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gp-polls-2439-nominations-filed-in-kalaburagi/article33312099.ece
12 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Award for Kannada professor||H.T. Pote, Kannada professor and Dean of Arts at Gulbarga University, won the Dr. L. Basavaraju Award for 2019 for his work Dr. Ambedkar Pustaka Preeti . He was honoured with the award at the auditorium of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat in Bengaluru on Thursday. Kannada Sahitya Academy president B.V. Vasanth Kumar, senior scholar Mallepuram G. Venkatesh, and writer Mallika Ghanti were present on the occasion. Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Manu Baligar presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-kannada-professor/article33312100.ece
12 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Solapur-Hassan Express back from Monday||The Solapur – Hassan Express, a key train service that connects major cities in the State including Kalaburagi with Bengaluru, which was stopped owing to the outbreak of COVID-19, will start from Monday, said Umesh Jadav, MP. In a press release, Mr. Jadhav said that he had met Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Decermber 2 and 9 and appealed to him to restart the service. He thanked the Minister and officials of Ministry for positively responding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/solapur-hassan-express-back-from-monday/article33312101.ece
12 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Patients hit as majority of OPDs in private hospitals remain shut||While a majority of the out-patient departments (OPD) of private hospitals in Mangaluru and Udupi remained closed on Friday, OPDs in government hospitals and KMC Hospitals in Mangaluru, Kateel, and Manipal functioned normally. The private hospitals had closed the OPDs in response to a national protest called by the Indian Medical Association against the Centre’s decision to allow Ayurvedic practitioners to perform surgeries. Announcement about the closure of the OPDs was put up at the entrance of Father Muller Hospital and people were asked to come on Saturday. There was no stoppage in COVID-19 testing for which a good number of people had turned up. The fever clinic and mental health counselling functioned normally at the hospital in Kankanady. Similarly, other private medical colleges in Dakshina Kannaada kept their fever clinics, COVID-19 testing, and counselling facilities open. At Government Wenlock Hospital, there was a long queue for the OPD services. As has been for over the last 10 days, degree and students from other courses had come on Friday to undergo RT-PCR test. The government doctors and specialists from Kasturba Medical College worked as usual at Government Wenlock and the Lady Curzon hospitals. The OPDs of Kasturba Medical Hospitals in Attavar and B.R.Ambedkar (Jyothi) Circle in Mangaluru, in Kateel, and in Manipal functioned as usual. “In the interest of people who are now visiting us for elective treatments, the OPDs were kept open. Doctors were given the option to take part in the protest and then resume duty,” a spokesperson of the hospital said. District Health and Family Welfare Officers of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi Ramachandra Bayeri and Sudhir Chandra Sooda said the closure of OPDs did not affect health services in the twin districts as all the hospitals provided emergency treatment. There was no disruption to working of primary and urban health centres, the two officials said. Earlier, doctors in Mangaluru and Udupi held separate meetings to protest against the Centre’s decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patients-hit-as-majority-of-opds-in-private-hospitals-remain-shut/article33312306.ece
12 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pejawar seer to attend entrepreneurs’ meet||A meeting of entrepreneurs from Tamil Nadu to raise funds for the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya will shortly be held at Chennai in connection with the nationwide fund raising campaign starting January 15, said K. Rajesh Rao, partner of Woodland Hotels, Chennai. Mr. Rao, who hails from Kadandale in Dakshina Kannada, was interacting with Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swami of Udupi Pejawar Mutt, who is one of the trustees of the Sri Ram Janm Bhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, along with other devotees at Chennai on Thursday. The seer was on a visit to Chennai. At the meeting in his hotel’s guest house, Mr. Rao said the scheduled meeting would witness participation of entrepreneurs from jewellery, textile, hospitality, real estate, software, and other sectors in Tamil Nadu. The Pejawar seer will be invited to attend the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pejawar-seer-to-attend-entrepreneurs-meet/article33312299.ece
12 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||TAPMI students win Bajaj Finserv event||Students of T.A. Pai Management Institute (TAPMI), Manipal, swept the Bajaj Finserv ATOM season 3 by bagging all three winning positions. ATOM is an atypical B-school competition where students use scenario planning and design thinking to create a disruptive solution for the future. A release here said, Team – Sharks in Suits, comprising second-year students Siddharth Kashyap, Dhruv Bhonagiri, Sayani Mukherjee and Parth Khushwaha, emerged as the ‘Best Solution Building Team’ for their digital strategy on leveraging the various products and services of the conglomerate to take it to customers through multiple bundled offerings effectively. The team won a cash prize of Rs. 5 lakh and a pre-placement offer from Bajaj Finserv. Second-year students Deepon Das and Aakarsh Gupta walked away with the title of Top 2 investors. They won a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh each. Team – Silverballers, comprising second-year students Harsimran Kaur Chawla, Priti Prasad, Kunal Kamat and Yashna Meher, emerged as the Winning Mutual Funds team. The team went on to win a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh. Institute Director and Professor of Finance Madhu Veeraraghavan congratulated the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tapmi-students-win-bajaj-finserv-event/article33312300.ece
12 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||64-year-old dies after lightning strike near house||A 64-year-old man from Karopady village of Bantwal Taluk died following lightning near his house on Thursday night. The Vitla police gave the name of the deceased as Chandappa Moolya. The police said Moolya went to the toilet around 11.30 p.m., when there was lightning. He raised his voice for help and collapsed. Family members rushed and took him to the government hospital in Vitla around 12.30 a.m. where the doctors declared him as dead. A case of unnatural death has been registered with the Vitla police. Skimming of card Following the alleged skimming of an debit card, a city resident alleged that Rs. 19,000 was illegally withdrawn from her husband’s bank account. According to her complaint with the cyber crime police, the woman said she has been using the debit card of her husband. She usually withdraws amount from a particular ATM in Kulai. On December 9, she withdrew money from an ATM in the City Centre mall. The next day she received the message about withdrawal of Rs. 19,000 from an ATM in New Delhi. She alleged that some persons have skimmed her husband’s card to illegally withdraw the amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/64-year-old-dies-after-lightning-strike-near-house/article33312305.ece
12 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||CAMPCO’s AGM tomorrow||The annual general meeting of Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Co-operative Limited will be held at the Sharada Vidyalaya campus in Kodialbail here on Sunday. All members attending the meeting should wear mask and follow social distancing. The members can also watch the live proceedings from CAMPCO’s regional offices in Puttur, Badiyadka, Sirsi, Shivamogga, Tumkur and Thrissur, said a release on Friday. The release stated that the members attending the meeting should bring copy of notice of the meeting or identity card issued by CAMPCO or the copy of the share certificate. One among these documents should be produced at the time of registration. Members can park their vehicles at Canara College for Girls in Kodialbail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campcos-agm-tomorrow/article33312304.ece
12 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||VHP leader seeks NIA probe into graffiti case||Mangaluru divisional secretary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Sharan Pumpwell, has sought a probe by the National Investigative Agency (NIA) into the recent anti-national and provocative graffiti found at two places in the city. In a memorandum to Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash on Friday, Mr. Pumpwell commended the city police for the arrest of Mohanned Shariq, 22, and Mazz Muneer Ahmed, 21, in connection with graffiti found on the compound wall of an apartment in Bejai and on the disused police outpost building in district court premises. Mr. Pumpwell said there are more persons allegedly behind the act. An NIA probe alone can bring to light the persons and the organised network. He asked Mr. Vikash to recommend to the State government for a NIA probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vhp-leader-seeks-nia-probe-into-graffiti-case/article33312309.ece
12 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||briefly||Tarun Kapoor, Secretary, Union Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas visited Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., (MRPL) on Friday and reviewed progress of projects, particularly the seawater Desalination Plant at Tannirbhavi and FCC Gasoline Treatment Unit (FGTU). Mr. Kapoor inaugurated the FGTU substation and examined its project site that critical unit of MRPL to produce BS-VI grade gasoline, said a release.    The State Election Commission has appointed G.T. Dinesh Kumar, Commissioner, Mangalore Urban Development Authority, as the election observer to ensure smooth conduct of elections to gram panchayats in Udupi district, said Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha in a statement. He may be contacted over 9739577979.    Power supply will be affected in all areas fed by feeders of Kankanady substation between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Sunday. Areas affected include Fr. Muller Hospital, Pumpwell, Valencia, Kankanady, Bendoorwell and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33312302.ece
12 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC staff strike hits bus services across Mysuru||Bus services came to a standstill across Mysuru on Friday as the drivers and conductors of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), like other road transport corporations in the State, went on an indefinite strike in support of their demands. Though some 30 per cent services were operated till noon, the operations, including on the Mysuru-Bengaluru stretch, were suspended following the reports of stoning of buses en route. The authorities took a decision to withdraw the services though some employees had reported for duty. All services to Bengaluru and the rest of Karnataka and also on inter-State routes have now come to a halt with the employees of the road transport corporations sticking to their demands, including that they be treated as government employees. The strike severely inconvenienced the public as majority of the travelling public largely depend on public transport for their commuting needs. The clueless passengers were seen proceeding towards the railway station looking for transportation needs. In the morning, there was heavy rush of passengers on buses that operated in limited numbers when some staff reported for duty. The intra-city operations were by and large normal since morning and nearly 70 per cent of trips were operated. However, when three to four buses were stoned, the services were suspended in the evening. Officials said not all the employees are taking part in the strike. However, following the incidents of stone throwing, the staff are resisting from operating the buses. They said all stranded passengers at the city bus-stand would be cleared by night, employing the on-duty staff and some buses had been stationed at the bus-stand instead of sending them back to the depots to clear the rush. Some buses suffered minor damages in the stone throwing incidents reported in the city limits and three away from the city limits, a KSRTC Mysuru urban division officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-staff-strike-hits-bus-services-across-mysuru/article33312328.ece
12 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Doctors stage strike in Mysuru||The day-long strike by allopathy doctors on Friday affected healthcare services across Mysuru on Friday with the private medical practitioners joining the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in protesting against the Centre’s move allowing Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries just like the practitioners of modern medicine. The striking doctors claimed that all non-essential healthcare services were hit barring the emergency cases and COVID-19 treatments. Despite the IMA’s claim, the strike did not elicit support from government doctors or medical officers, who functioned as usual. By and large, all major and minor private health clinics remained shut and doctors of most private hospitals bycotted non-essential services in support of the concerns expressed by the modern medicine practitioners on the decision taken to integrate different forms of medicine with the allopathy system. While the OPDs at the private hospitals had been disrupted, there was heavy rush of patients at the State-run K.R. Hospital. Other government hospitals functioned as usual and the OPDs operated as usual with extra rush. Patients were seen returning to their homes after many private hospitals had put up boards saying “No Out Patient Services” today. IMA Mysuru President Anandravi told The Hindu that the strike, in response to the call from the national body of IMA to oppose the Centre’s decision, evoked good response. The IMA and members of other associations of doctors later staged a demonstration outside the IMA office on Sayyaji Rao Road in support of their demands. They later submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the district administration seeking withdrawal of the notification.  The memorandum said IMA is for purity of all systems of medicine and does not support “mixing of all medicine systems”. “Each system of medicine should be easily identifiable by the public by specific prefixes like Dr for allopathy, Vaidya for Ayurveda, Hakeem for Unani and Homeo for Homeopaths. The research and developments should happen in their respective fields of medicine and each one should follow their own system of medicine,” they argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-stage-strike-in-mysuru/article33312332.ece
12 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Restrictions on drilling borewells in Gundlupet taluk||The district administration of Chamarajanagar has imposed restrictions on drilling borewells in Gundlupet taluk consequent to a report by the Directorate of Ground Water that the water table was depleting due to excessive usage. Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi said that no fresh permissions will be issued to drill borewell unless it was accompanied by clearance from the district ground water authority. He said the Directorate recently conducted an audit of the ground water usage as per which Gundlupet taluk figures poorly with excessive usage. Permission mandatory He said it is mandatory for the public to register themselves with the local ground water authority and seek their permission failing which they will be liable to be penalised. Any new borewell to be drilled in the notified areas for augmenting community drinking water requirements too should be backed by permission from the appropriate authority, said the Deputy Commissioner. Similarly, usage of ground water for industrial, commercial, entertainment, mining, infrastructure and other public works will also require a no objection certificate from the ground water authority, he added. In case the usage is in excess of 25,000 litres permission has to be secured from the Karnataka Ground Water Authority, the Deputy Commissioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restrictions-on-drilling-borewells-in-gundlupet-taluk/article33312326.ece
12 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||HDK did not lose people’s goodwill, says G.T. Deve Gowda||Former Minister and JD(S) MLA G.T. Deve Gowda on Friday said he does not think that former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy lost people’s goodwill by aligning with the Congress. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Gowda said Mr. Kumaraswamy as the Chief Minister of the JD (S)-Congress coalition had carried out good work. “I don’t think joining hands with Congress had brought him a bad name. He has done good work. How will he get a bad name for it?”, Mr Gowda wondered. The JD(S) MLA representing Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency, who is maintaining a distance from the party leadership ever since the coalition government collapsed, said he does not know what was occupying Mr. Kumaraswamy’s mind when he claimed that he lost goodwill of the people by aligning with the Congress. Mr. Gowda also said that was not aware of any bitter experience that Mr. Kumaraswamy had to face during the coalition rule. There was coordination between Congress and JD(S) when the coalition was in the saddle. However, Mr. Gowda said the party leadership had not asked the party MLAs for their opinion on aligning with the Congress. The decision was taken by former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and Mr. Kumaraswamy. When the JD(S) had tied up with the Congress in 2004 to form a government with Mr. Dharam Singh at the helm, Mr. Gowda said the opinion of the party MLAs was taken. “This time, the opinion of JD(S) MLAs was not taken.” Mr. Gowda also said that the BJP governments at the Centre and in the State were stable despite political statements made by some leaders to the contrary. He said the governments will complete their full terms. However, he said the issue of change of Chief Minister in Karnataka is left to the party’s central leadership. Mr. Gowda also claimed that the results of the elections to the local bodies will be in favour of the ruling party. ‘Pettiness’ Meanwhile, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha defended Mr. Kumaraswamy and said the JD(S) leader was supporting the good work being carried out by the BJP. He described as “pettiness” the criticism of Mr. Kumaraswamy for political reasons. The MP also said that Mr. Kumaraswamy had performed well during the BJP-JD (S) coalition. Describing the JD(S) leader as a “farmer’s son”, Mr. Simha said he was aware of farmers’ issues. “That is the reason he has supported the legislation brought in by the BJP”, the MP claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-did-not-lose-peoples-goodwill-says-gt-deve-gowda/article33312110.ece
12 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Three persons of family die in road mishap||Tragedy struck the family of Ramesh, a resident of T.K. Layout in the city, when the two-wheeler on which they were travelling was hit by a four-wheeler on Thursday night, killing three of them and leaving another injured. Ramesh, 40, was returning from the house of his in-laws in Siddalingapura on the outskirts of the city along with his wife Usha, 36, and two children Monisha, 5, and Siddharth, 3. A four-wheeler, which was coming from the opposite direction, toppled over the road divider and collided with their vehicle near the junction of the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway and Outer Ring Road, killing three of them - Ramesh, Usha and Monisha – and seriously injuring Siddharth, who is undergoing treatment at a hospital. Ramesh, who works as a cashier in a restaurant, and his family had spent the entire day at the house of the in-laws on Thursday and were returning in the night when the mishap took place. Senior police officials including Commissioner of Police Chandragupta and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Geetha Prasanna visited the spot, which is near the Dandi Maramma Temple on the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway. A case has been registered by Narasimharaja traffic police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-persons-of-family-die-in-road-mishap/article33312325.ece
12 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Two festival special trains||The authorities have introduced two more trains from Mysuru which will run as festival special till the end of December, according to a release. Train number 06021/06022 Chennai-Mysuru-Chennai express will operate daily and the first departure from Chennai is on December 14 and the last is on December 31. The first departure of the corresponding service from Mysuru is on December 15 and the last will be on January 1, 2021. Between Mysuru and Bengaluru, the train will have stoppages at Pandavpura, Mandya, Channapatana, Ramanagaram, Bidadi and Kengeri, the release said. Similarly, Train Number 06316/06315 will run from Kochuveli to Mysuru. The first departure from Kochuveli is on December 11 and the last on December 12. The first departure of the corresponding service from Mysuru will be on December 12 and the last will be on January 1, 2021. Between Mysuru and Bengaluru, the train will have stoppages only at Mandya, Ramanagaram and Kengeri. Both the services – to Chennai and Kochuveli – will have 21 trips in each direction, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-festival-special-trains/article33312323.ece
12 December 2020||udupi,KARNATAKA||Language training centre inaugurated||MAHE Vice-Chancellor Lt. Gen M.D. Venkatesh(retd) on Friday inaugurated global training and education centre (GTEC) at Manipal College of Nursing, Manipal, for language training to nurses and nursing students in IELTS/ OET. The centre is totally funded and envisions at expanding beyond Manipal, said a release. With increasing demand for skilful professionals across the globe, Manipal group ventures to bring a standard centre to cater with quality on a par with international standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/language-training-centre-inaugurated/article33312312.ece
12 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Modi govt. has failed to protect farmers’ interests’||Sharply criticising the Union government for bringing amendments to farm laws, Bhaskar Rao Mudbul, advocate and district president of the Kisan Sanghatan, has said that “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has completely failed to protect the interest of farmers and its performance is absolutely hopeless”. He was talking with reporters in Yadgir on Friday. “The government’s move to bring amendments to farm during the COVID-19 pandemic was utter nonsense. Why was the government in such a hurry to bring such changes without any discussion? Under the democratic system, everything should be discussed. But Mr. Modi had neither taken political parties into confidence nor discussed it with the farmers. It this the true path of providing governance and saving famers,” Mr. Mudbul asked. Expressing solidarity with the farmers’ protest in Delhi, he said, “The Union Agriculture Minister is misleading the farmers and calling them for talks. Even Mr. Modi is also saying that farmers will not be harmed by the new laws. But no one has been able to convice farmers about the new laws”. “We had hope in Mr. Modi that he would improve the income of farmers as he promised. Forget doubling the income, the condition of the farmers is becoming worse. The performances of the Modi government is hopeless,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-govt-has-failed-to-protect-farmers-interests/article33312106.ece
12 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Health services affected||Health services were disrupted in Raichur district as private doctors shut their out-patient department (OPD) in hospitals and nursing homes against the Union government’s decision to allow AYUSH doctors to perform surgeries. Except emergency and in-patient services, private hospitals closed their OPDs against the Union government’s decison and called for it to be revoked. In Yadgir, the health services were hit by the agitation of private doctors who has closed OPDs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-services-affected/article33312108.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||December 31: No celebrations on roads, public places||Celebrations that draw crowds and revellers on main roads and to public places, especially at party hubs like Brigade Road, M.G. Road, Commercial Street and surrounding areas on New Year’s Eve, will not be allowed this year, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said on Friday. Addressing mediapersons after participating in the State’s COVID-19 Task Force meeting, the Minister said this would be enforced under the Disaster Management Act. “We have discussed this with the BBMP Commissioner, City Police Commissioner and Home Minister Basvaraj Bommai. No permission will be granted to hold parties on roads and public places,” he said. This rule will apply across Karnataka. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has agreed, and a Government Order on the guidelines will be issued in two days, he said. However, parties in hotels, resorts and other places will be allowed by issuing directives to hotel managements to ensure adherence of COVID-19 norms. All hotels hosting parties, pubs, bars and restaurants will be permitted to accommodate only 50% of their capacity. They must abide by the guidelines that will be released by the Disaster Management Cell soon, Mr. Ashok said. “We are planning to have passes issued to customers at hotels to avoid large gatherings for New Year parties,” he said. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said, “With huge crowds likely to gather in public places in Bengaluru and several other cities across the State on New Year’s Eve, it will be difficult for revellers to adhere to COVID-19 norms. Ensuring wearing of masks and social distancing at such large gatherings will be tough. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that not more than 200 people should be allowed to congregate from December 20 to January 2, which we will enforce,” he said. Second wave Pointing out that the State is gearing up for a possible second wave, the Health Minister said the Task Force had given its nod for procuring the required number of testing kits, oxygen generators and other equipment. While Rs. 37.72 crore has been approved for procuring oxygen generators and other equipment in 10 district and 30 taluk hospitals, Rs. 11.32 crore has been set aside for purchasing 10 lakh rapid antigen kits and Rs. 22.50 crore for purchase of medicines for next 90 days, he said. Responding to complaints that some private hospitals are overcharging patients for Remidisvir, he said, “The government rate for this injection is Rs. 1,800. Action will be taken against hospitals under KPME Act if they overcharge.” Testing targets The Minister, who reviewed COVID-19 management in the districts where testing is not up to the mark, said, “We have now fixed targets for Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Yadgir, Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi, Bidar, Haveri and Udupi districts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/december-31-no-celebrations-on-roads-public-places/article33311812.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||City sees an increase in the number of weddings||Event planners and proprietors of marriage halls have recorded an increase in weddings in December compared to the ‘drought’ when the pandemic was at its peak. Many are of the opinion that couples, who had cancelled their weddings earlier this year, are now tying the knot in the presence of a limited number of guests. While the season for Hindu weddings is drawing to a close in a few days, the number of Muslim and Christian weddings are seeing an increase. After a lull of several months, wedding planners say the tide turned for the better in October. However, the number of events being hosted is still a far cry from last year. Savitha Shivaswamy, proprietor of Namma Event and Tavare, both event management companies, said that many families have embraced virtual events given the government’s cap on the number of attendees. This has spawned a whole new business, one that caters to virtual guests. A video of a wedding feast neatly packed in hot boxes and delivered to homes of invitees who were not able to attend the event has been going viral on social media over the past few days. The door-delivered package came with banana leaves and an instruction manual on serving and placement of different items that were packed. Event planners in the city said many clients are opting for such services, apart from seeking live streaming of events that has become the new normal. Manisha Porwal Chouraria, founder of Color Palette Productions, said that clients are seeking delivery of customised gift packages, such as saris and clothes, sweet boxes and dry fruit baskets, to invitees. “We are also customising masks and distributing them to attendees,” she said. Dawood Shariff of Servel Riyaz Caterers said, “Some clients have asked for food packets, apart from the catering for the event. Clients engage a separate service provider for the delivery of food packets that mostly contain Shaadi ki Biryani and an assortment of kebabs,” he said. Anjali Ratnam from Rings and Roses, an event management company, said the delivery of food packets for invitees was an add-on service that some clients are opting for. “Everything on the main course menu, barring live counters, is specially packed. These are delivered to invitees across the city,” she said. Wedding planners say that despite the increase in overheads, owing to arrangements to be made for sanitisation, having extra masks on hand, many clients ask for a “COVID-19 discount”. Scaled-down weddings and virtual events seem to have come as a blessing in disguise for some families. A wedding planner remarked that many families were using this opportunity to have low-key weddings, cutting down on cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-sees-an-increase-in-the-number-of-weddings/article33311819.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State to release funds for runway expansion: MP||The State government is expected to release the first tranche of Rs. 50 crore to the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) so as to initiate the land acquisition process for Mysuru airport development This was stated by Mysuru MP Pratap Simha here on Friday. Speaking to mediapersons before flagging off the Mysuru-Mangaluru inaugural flight, he said development of the airport entails runway extension which depends on land acquisition. As per the MoU signed between the Government of Karnataka and the Airport Authority of India (AAI) in 2012, the former is supposed to provide land free of cost while the latter will bear the development and construction cost. The expansion of the airport and runway extension requires an additional 114 acres of land which will cost around Rs. 170 crore. The total land required for the project including expansion of the terminal building is 182 acres. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has agreed to release Rs. 50 crore to get started with the project and once the fund is released to the KIADB, it will initiate the acquisition process and transfer the land to the AAI, Mr. Simha added. Mysuru airport Director R. Manjunath said expansion of the airport entails extending the runway length from 1,740 metres to 2,750 metres and widening the breadth from 30 metres to 45 metress to enable operation of Airbus and Boeing aircraft and thus provide long-distance connectivity from Mysuru to other cities. He said at present there were 14 flight movements from Mysuru which is now connected to Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Belagavi, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kochi and Goa. There was demand for flights to Coimbatore, Tirupati and Shirdi and the possibilities were being explored, Mr. Manjunath added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-release-funds-for-runway-expansion-mp/article33312330.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tender for 25 self-propelled mechanical sweepers||When it comes to keeping Bengaluru’s roads clean, self-propelled mechanical sweepers seem to be the more popular choice with the civic body. The BBMP, which had earlier floated a tender for truck-mounted sweeping machines, has cancelled it and floated a short-term tender for 25 self-propelled machines. The tender calls for the supply and maintenance of the machines for a period of seven years, and is likely to be finalised by the end of this month. If all goes as planned, the new machines will be added to the fleet of 26 existing mechanical sweepers that are currently deployed to clean 1,400 km of arterial and sub-arterial roads. The question of which sweeping machines to use was a matter of much debate a few months ago in the BBMP council. At the time, some councillors had alleged there was a scam in the procurement and operations of mechanical sweepers. Councillors, mostly from the ruling BJP, claimed that though the existing machines were not being utilised effectively, the civic body had floated tenders for 25 truck-mounted machines for an estimated Rs. 227 crore. Following discussions, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad had stated that he would review and cancel the short-term tenders. Shortly after this, the control over the sweeping machines was removed from the Solid Waste Management (SWM) Department and handed over to the Road Infrastructure Department ensure better and effective utilisation of the sweeping machines, said officials. Senior officials in the SWM Department said that several attempts were made to derail the use of mechanical sweepers, first by the contractors’ lobby and later by elected representatives. “The use of mechanical sweepers will bring down manpower and reduce spend on waste management,” an official said. On the new short-term tender, Sarfaraz Khan, BBMP’s Joint Commissioner (SWM), said, “In the truck-mounted machines, the suction machines can be mounted on any vehicle. The self-propelled machines are compact in comparison.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tender-for-25-self-propelled-mechanical-sweepers/article33311822.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||1,210 fresh cases, 16 deaths reported in Karnataka||The State on Friday reported 1,210 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,99,011. With 16 deaths, the toll rose to 11,928. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,807 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,68,471. Of the remaining 18,593 active patients, 253 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.19 %, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.32%. Bengaluru Urban reported 659 cases, taking its tally to 3,77,251. With six deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,224. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 13,225. As many as 1,00,846 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 87,338 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total tests rose to 1,21,64,587.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1210-new-cases-in-karnataka-16-deaths/article33311813.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||GP polls: Health Dept. told to arrange for COVID-19 patients’ voting||The district administrations were making arrangements for the COVID-19 patients exercise their franchise in the upcoming elections to the gram panchayats, visiting the respective polling booths, with the State Election Commission permitting them to vote between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. on the polling day. In the light of SEC’s directive, the administrations in the districts are preparing the guidelines for their voting and communicated to the health authorities the steps to be taken by them in this regard. Also, the patients with voting rights are being identified and informed about the provision made for their voting in the GP polls. If they wish to vote, arrangements for the same would be made, they were told. The COVID-19 patients in hospitals, home isolation and COVID-19 care centres can exercise their franchise, and they are supposed to inform the PDOs of the respective GPs expressing their wish to vote. In Kodagu, the patients had been told to inform the PDOs who will in turn inform the health authorities for the arrangements – bringing them to the polling booths in ambulances for voting and other measures. The responsibility of bringing the patients to the booth taking all safety precautions (patients should be wearing PPE kits) lies with the Health Department. They can vote wearing gloves and discard them after casting their vote. The entire polling booth would be sanitised after the patient casts his or her vote, said Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. Though the COVID-19 cases are falling, the public, officials and the staff had been told to take utmost precautions on the day of polling. Mandatory face covers, social distancing and use of sanitizers are a must in the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gp-polls-health-dept-told-to-arrange-for-covid-19-patients-voting/article33312313.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Inspector complains of blackmail||An inspector attached to the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) was allegedly blackmailed by a woman over a video. The cyber crime cell, on Wednesday, took up the case. The police are trying to track down the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inspector-complains-of-blackmail/article33311816.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Night services cancelled||On Friday, the KSRTC was forced to cancel night service buses, both intra-State and inter-State. Over 6,000 tickets booked online have been cancelled and officials said passengers will be refunded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/night-services-cancelled/article33311830.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two deaths, 49 new cases in DK, Udupi||Two COVID-19 patients with comorbidities died while 29 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. With 38 persons discharged, the active cases stood at 416. A fine of Rs. 17.58 lakh has so far been collected in 16,536 cases of people not wearing masks, said the bulletin by the Dakshina Kannada district administration. With 20 new COVID-19 cases and 15 patients discharged, the active cases in Udupi on Friday stood at 144. A fine of Rs. 18.78 lakh has so far been collected from 17,197 cases of not wearing masks and violation of social distance norms, said the bulletin sent by the Udupi district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-deaths-49-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article33312308.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New addition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-addition/article33312311.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||On the same path||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-the-same-path/article33312115.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||engagements for Dec 12||Mangaluru  Association of Physicians of India-DK chapter: Virtual inauguration of E-Con API DK-2020, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences Vice Chancellor S. Sachidanand, Fr Muller Medical College Administrator Rev Fr Ajith Menezes, College Dean Jayaprakash Alva and others attend, API DK Chapter President B.M. Venkatesh presides, Decennial Hall, Fr Muller Medical College, 8.45 am. Virtual link: econ.apidk.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements-for-dec-12/article33312303.ece
12 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||SHRC directive on conducting raids on houses||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the police to ensure clarity before conducting inspection in houses based on secret information. An order issued to the State Police Chief (SPC) recently called for clarity before conducting inspection inside the house and its premises. Some persons consider it an opportunity for vengeance and mislead the police to create inconvenience to the victim. Commission chairman Antony Dominic said the police should clarify the facts before conducting an inspection. If a family function was being held in the house, the police should not hinter it and ensure practical humane approach. The SPC should ensure that police officials should adhere to the order issued to them in this regard. The direction was issued as per a complaint filed by Senapati resident Siji P.R. On April 23, 2020, a police team had conducted inspection on his house when the marriage of his daughter was fixed. It resulted in untold miseries to him and his family with the bridegroom’s family withdrawing from the marriage. The commission had sought explanation from the Idukki District Police Chief and found that only an air gun was in the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-directive-on-conducting-raids-on-houses/article33312234.ece
12 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Driver killed as rock falls on truck at quarry||The driver of a truck was killed after a huge piece of rock fell on his vehicle at a granite quarry at Kadachikkunnu near Padivayal in the district on Friday. According to the Meppadi police, who have registered a case, the driver was identified as Silvastan, who was a resident of Pilakkavu near Mananthavady. The quarry unit had obtained a permit recently for granite mining, G. Rajkumar, Circle Inspector of Police, Meppadi, told The Hindu . The incident occurred around 1.15 p.m. while workers were removing the top layer of soil for clearing the site. Silvastan was sitting inside the cabin of the vehicle parked at the site. A huge rock slipped down on the slope and fell on the vehicle crushing it, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driver-killed-as-rock-falls-on-truck-at-quarry/article33312171.ece
12 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur all set for polls: Collector||District Collector T.V. Subhash, who is also the District Election Officer, said Kannur was fully prepared for the local body elections on December 14. Speaking to mediapersons here on Friday, he said all poll preparations and security arrangements had been completed. The district has 20,00,922 voters, including 9,31,400 men, 10,69,518 women and four transgender persons. Elections will be held to 1,682 seats in Kannur district panchayat, 11 block panchayats, 71 grama panchayats, eight municipalities and the Kannur Corporation. The District Collector said 2,463 polling booths had been set up and 96 returning officers had been deployed. Webcasting facilities have been set up in 940 problematic booths as per the directions of the Election Commission. In addition, video recording facilities had been set up in more than 500 booths and security personnel had been deployed there, he added. In the wake of COVID-19 crisis, about 4,000 Health Department employees will be part of the polling process. The Collector said the distribution of special postal ballots for COVID-19 patients and those in quarantine was in progress. Of the 7,746 voters on the Health Department’s list, 3,849 had already been issued special postal ballots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-all-set-for-polls-collector/article33312184.ece
12 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Woman falls through sinkhole, rescued||A 38-year-old woman was rescued after she fell through a sinkhole and slipped into the well of the neighbour’s house at Irikkur on Thursday.  She was washing clothes when the sinkhole suddenly formed under her feet. Locals’ help Local residents came to her rescue after they heard the wail of the woman from inside the well. She was brought out of the well with the help of Fire and Rescue Service personnel, who reached the spot from Mattannur in the district. The victim was identified as Umaiba, wife of former panchayat member K.A. Ayub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-falls-through-sinkhole-rescued/article33312169.ece
12 December 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Kunhalikutty sees UDF wave in State||P.K. Kunhalikutty, national general secretary of the Muslim League, has said that there was a UDF wave in the State after the second phase of voting. Speaking to reporters in Kannur, he said there was a strong public sentiment against the government. Never before had there been such a corrupt government. If the UDF came to power, it would replace utopian policies such as KIIFB with transparent and clear plans. More jobs would be created. Innovative plans would be formulated to overcome the recession. Life Mission would be revamped and a better housing plan implemented. Mr. Kunhalikutty said this time, the opportunity was given to the youth and newcomers. This was an exemplary decision. The benefit of this would strengthen the front. To a question on Chief Minister’s reluctance to campaign, he said it was because the Mr. Pinarayi Vijayan cannot respond to the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kunhalikutty-sees-udf-wave-in-state/article33312185.ece
12 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Liquor ban on poll days||District Collector D. Sajith Babu has imposed a ban on the sale and consumption of liquor in Kasaragod in view of the local body elections. The ban would be imposed from 6 p.m. on December 12 till the polling day and on December 16, the counting day. Hotels, restaurants, clubs, and other establishments that distribute or serve alcohol may not operate or distribute alcohol these days, said a press release. Liquor distribution was also prohibited within the limits of polling booths. On those days, individuals are also restricted from possessing alcohol, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/liquor-ban-on-poll-days/article33312182.ece
12 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Adopt zero tolerance to poll fraud: HC||The Kerala High Court on Friday said the administration should adopt zero tolerance to election malpractices and violence and ensure that no one was deprived of the right to exercise his/her franchise. Passing the order on a batch of petitions raising apprehensions of threats and violence by rival party workers on the days leading to the election, Justice V. Raja Vijayaraghavan directed that even in polling stations not categorised as sensitive, enough police personnel should be posted to rule out any incidents of violence or election malpractice. Complaints Most of the petitioners, who were from Kannur, complained that they were facing grave threats to life and feared that they would not be permitted to canvass votes. They feared that there would be bogus voting and violence on polling day and there existed the possibility of their booth agents and voters being threatened and obstructed. Poll panel submission The State Election Commission (SEC) submitted that all steps for the conduct of free and fair elections were undertaken. Meetings were held with the Chief Secretary, State Police Chief, and District Collectors on security arrangements. Sufficient police forces would be deployed in sensitive areas. Instructions were issued to the police to take stringent action to prevent bogus voting, impersonation, booth capturing and other electoral offences. The police have also been instructed to provide adequate protection to voters, polling agents and candidates. The court disposed of the petition considering the submissions of the commission and government pleaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adopt-zero-tolerance-to-poll-fraud-hc/article33312260.ece
12 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||All eyes on Kochi Corporation amid low voter turnout||A day after the local body elections in which the polling percentage in the Kochi Corporation dropped by nearly 8% compared to the previous election, the Left Democratic Front is confident of wresting power after two successive terms in the Opposition. At the same time, the United Democratic Front (UDF) hopes to retain power bucking the anti-incumbency factor, whereas both the BJP and V4 Kochi, the new apolitical outfit in the fray, are upbeat about notching up double figures in the 74-member council. The cliched theory that the LDF will benefit from the relatively lower voter turnout has kicked in, though the UDF was quick to dispel it. “The actual polling would have been in the range of 67% to 68% had not for the inclusion of non-residents and even the dead in the electoral rolls. The marginal drop in turnout could be attributed to the reluctance on the part of the aged to vote amid the pandemic, and that could evenly cut both ways,” said Dominic Presentation, who captained the UDF campaign. He is optimistic of retaining the 40 seats from the last council, unless there are major invisible undercurrents. ‘Clear advantage’ C.M. Dinesh Mani, the CPI(M) State committee member who spearheaded the LDF campaign, however, observed that a division-wise analysis gave the front a clear advantage good enough for it to romp back to power. “Squabbles within the Congress and heartburn over selection of candidates had dented the prospects of the UDF, as reflected in the lacklustre response from its support base,” he said. BJP district president S. Jayakrishnan attributed the drop in polling percentage to the disenchantment of the public with the 10-year UDF rule and expected to cash in with an unprecedented double-digit gain in the council. Nipun Cherian, the political campaign controller of V4 Kochi, alleged a conspiracy by the State Election Commission by selectively eliminating from the electoral rolls legitimate young voters, who formed the support base of the nascent outfit, thus favouring mainstream political parties’ resistance to a transition in society. “We will publish the division-wise manipulation of electoral rolls and fight it politically and legally. Despite that, we will win 15 divisions, while it is unpredictable in another 30,” he said. Meanwhile, both the LDF and the BJP claimed that V4 Kochi would eat into the UDF vote base, and the latter shot it down, saying that while the outfit might play spoilsport in a few divisions that might impact all players. “V4 Kochi may also have managed to attract that section of voters who otherwise consistently avoided voting,” Mr. Presentation said. Mr. Mani said that the political landscape had changed unlike in 2015 when apolitical outfits like the Aam Aadmi Party had some acceptance in the immediate aftermath of Narendra Modi’s victory. “People can now see through these outfits, which bring no good in the long run,” he said. Mr. Cherian, on the other hand, accused all major political parties of cross-voting and stitching up unholy nexus wherever their own candidates were on sticky wickets to keep V4 Kochi at bay, to safeguard their common vested economic interests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-eyes-on-kochi-corporation-amid-low-voter-turnout/article33312209.ece
12 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Dog tied to car, dragged along road||In a gruesome act, a dog tied to the boot of a moving car was dragged along the road at Chalakkara near Paravur, inflicting unspeakable horrors on the canine on Friday morning. Though the incident took place in the morning, it came to public attention only in the afternoon, after a video went viral, following which the Chengamanad police registered a suo motu case. It soon emerged that the dog, in fact, belonged to Usuf of Kunnukara. “He was taking the dog to abandon, as the animal was found a nuisance at home. Obviously, he was not aware of the seriousness of his action and never expected it to go viral,” said police sources. Though the police dropped in at the owner’s home, he could not be immediately found. The video shows the heart-rending scene of the dog looking distinctly haggard, initially jogging after the car and then dropping to its side, only to be dragged along the tarred road mercilessly as the car gathered speed. The brutality could have lasted longer but for some alert youngsters who, besides questioning the act, forcing the man behind it to unfasten the rope that tied the dog to the car, also captured it on video which went viral. “When we chased him down and questioned him about the cruelty, he was quite aggressive and asked us why we should bother even if the dog died,” said a youngster who witnessed the barbaric act. The dog was not seen for hours before it was tracked down in the evening with the rope still attached to the collar around its neck. The visibly wearied dog had multiple wounds on its limbs and body after being dragged through the rough surface of the road. Accused booked The accused was charged with IPC Sections 428 and 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming animal) and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. Driving licence The accused found himself in more troubled waters after the Motor Vehicles Department through a social media post informed that he had been booked under the Motor Vehicle Act and his car seized. His driving licence also seems to be in jeopardy following the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dog-tied-to-car-dragged-along-road/article33312174.ece
12 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||State to pioneer hydrogen-run buses next year||Kerala is set to become the first State to operate hydrogen-powered buses, with two buses set to ply in the Ernakulam-Thiruvananthapuram sector by mid-2021 on a pilot basis. Another 50 buses will be introduced before October 2021. The zero-polluting buses are awaiting approval from the Automotive Research Association of India. Each bus must operate at least 500 km daily to cover the high investment. Uninterrupted availability of hydrogen as fuel source can be addressed since BPCL-Kochi Refineries Ltd. is already in a position to supply it. Only that hydrogen meant for industrial use must be purified further, sources in the Transport Department said. “A fleet of 50 hydrogen buses is apt for Kochi. They can operate regular services or feeder trips,” said Jafar Malik, CEO of Cochin Smart Mission Ltd. Tenders soon Apart from BPCL, the Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (Anert) too has been tasked with producing hydrogen. They would shortly invite tenders for the purpose. Already a manufacturer has volunteered to provide a pair of SUVs for trial runs using the fuel. The Transport Department had made it clear that CNG, LNG, electricity, and hydrogen-run vehicles would be the preferred in Kerala in the coming years to scale down use of fossil fuels. 1 kg for 2 dollars “It also has to be seen whether CIAL (Cochin International Airport Limited), which produces solar power in excess of its needs, can be relied on to manufacture hydrogen from water. As per estimate, a kilogram of hydrogen can be manufactured for two dollars. Its cost would come down just like that of solar power, since the cost of electrolyser needed for the purpose is decreasing. A bus would need five kg of the fuel daily, which works to less than Rs. 2,000 per day as fuel expense,” sources said. ‘Fuel of the future’ At Rs. 2.50 crore to Rs. 3 crore per bus, hydrogen-run buses are costlier than electric buses. Their cost would come down with technological advancements. Hydrogen cells are also preferred over power stored in batteries, whose weight has to be borne by vehicles. Batteries take considerable space too. Moreover, hydrogen can be sourced from retail outlets much faster than the time needed to recharge e-vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-pioneer-hydrogen-run-buses-next-year/article33312257.ece
12 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Schools in Ernakulam get ready for partial reopening||Schools in Ernakulam under the Education Department will be ready to complete preparations within a week following the government decision on their partial reopening in January, according to an initial assessment by the authorities. A decision on resuming interactive sessions for students of classes 10 to 12 is likely to be taken at a meeting called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on December 17. The government will consult Health, Transport and Police departments before taking a final call on whether to go for a partial reopening amid the pandemic. Senior Education Department officials in Ernakulam said that they would wait for government directives on the standard operating procedures (SOPs) before the possible reopening of select classes. “The deployment of teachers can be done without much hiccups. We had already requested the Public Works Department, which is in charge of maintenance work, to ensure proper cleaning of schools,” they said. On whether school buses will ply if schools reopen partially, the officials said that they would go by the common directive of the government. However, chances of operating buses for a few students will not be viable, they added. The partial reopening of classes will be effected in accordance with the SOPs. The government has taken a cue on the matter from guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health in September. It had pointed out that all work areas intended for teaching and demonstration, including laboratories and common utility areas, shall be sanitised prior to resumption of activities with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution, with particular attention to frequently touched surfaces. Visits by students to schools and teacher-student interaction must be organised in a staggered manner. Students, teachers, and employees living in containment zones will not be allowed to visit the school. They are advised not to attend the sessions if they have ailments like fever or cold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-get-ready-for-partial-reopening/article33312211.ece
12 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pangs of polling make officials stay up all night||For officials manning the 28 counting centres in the district where polling materials, including Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), were returned at the end of the polls on Thursday evening had a long night, as most of them could return only in the early hours of Friday. Staff from the respective block panchayats and panchayats and the office of the Returning Officers concerned were roped in to manage the counting centres. They started coming in around 4.30 p.m. and had a session an hour later on how to go about their job as soon as polling officials returned. “The first batch of pollin officials arrived only after 8 p.m., and the heavy rain did not make things easy for them either,” said a panchayat official deployed at UC College at Aluva, which is the collection-cum-counting centre for the four panchayats of Alangad block. Polling officials straightaway headed to Returning Officers deployed alongside strongrooms where EVMs were verified against an elaborate checklist. “There were long queues before strongrooms, with the quick disposal being proportionate to the experience of the Returning Officers concerned,” said another official. Once the verification of EVMs was completed, polling officials were issued slips, which they had to produce at counters where they were required to submit different covers containing statutory and non-statutory forms. The number of counters set was directly proportionate to the number of booths for quick disposal. For polling officials too The day proved tough not just for the counting centre officials but was equally or more stressful for polling officials whose gruelling duty began a day before the elections. “Physical distancing was honoured more in the breach outside the polling booth. Though inside the booth we restricted to three voters at a time, and even that had to be compromised at times, as the queue lengthened and booth agents and voters exerted pressure,” said a polling official deployed at Bharata Mata College, Thrikkakara. However, there was no dearth of masks, gloves, and sanitisers though, as voting intensified, using those protective devices often proved to be a hindrance. He said that the receipt of the marked copy of the electoral roll was delayed, as it was made available well past 9 p.m. on the night before polling, stripping officials of the much-needed preparations. “Even at distribution centres, we were not encouraged to check polling materials as is usually done, which is quite useful, as it helps relatively inexperienced officials to calm their nerves by clarifying things in consultation with experienced ones,” an official said. Some confusion He added that some confusion had prevailed at counting centres at the time of submission of polling materials, which, he felt, could have been avoided, if necessary guidelines had been issued in advance, thus helping the already exhausted polling officials of returning home at the earliest. That polling and counting centre officials were given off on Friday to sleep off their fatigue proved to be of some comfort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-pangs-make-officials-stay-up-all-night/article33312206.ece
12 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Focus now on stress-free learning||School administrations should designate staff members to define and execute the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in tune with instructions given by the local administration before reopening classes, according to ‘guidelines on school education in COVID-19 times’ issued by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP). The policy should include redressing the curriculum, curtailing school hours, staggering students and disinfection and hygiene protocols. School reopening should mainly aim for school connectedness, psychosocial well-being and stress-free learning, they say. Nurses The guidelines say that the school authorities should recruit adequate number of staffers, including counsellors and medical nurses. The policy of ‘Staying home if not well’ should be in place for everyone. The entire school premises should be thoroughly cleaned and sanitised. New hygiene rules should be displayed in a pictorial and child-friendly manner on the premises. All rooms, including classrooms, staff rooms, and libraries, should be airy and well-ventilated. Furniture should be arranged with adequate spacing. The reception area should preferably have plexiglass guards. Toilet facilities and free flowing potable water should be made amply available. A sick room should be identified and kept ready with basic medicines and personal protection equipment (PPE). The authorities should share authentic scientific information regarding COVID-19 (symptoms, physical distancing, proper wearing of mask, hand sanitisation, coughing and sneezing etiquettes, and refraining from touching eyes, nose, mouth, and face) with all staff members, parents, and students through mails and telephone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-now-on-stress-free-learning/article33312212.ece
12 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Abandoned firecrackers found||An unintended firecracker burst with potentially serious repercussions for workers engaged under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme was averted but for the accidental discovery of seemingly abandoned 49 high power firecrackers in a sack from the Periyar Valley Canal at Chunagumveli near Aluva on Friday. The Edathala police rushed to the spot, and aided by the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, confirmed them to be firecrackers of the variant usually used to crank up decibel levels to add colour to festivals in places of worship. The workers engaged in cleaning the canal that had been dry for over a month had found the sackful of firecrackers. “There were 49 of them and they were live in the sense that they were filled with gun powder. If someone had lit them accidentally, they could have exploded not discounting the dampness caused by having remained in water for a while,” said Edathala police sources. Discovered by workers In fact, it is learned that the workers actually discovered them in the canal on Wednesday evening but chose to leave them unattended for the time being since they were about to wrap up the work for the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abandoned-firecrackers-found/article33312207.ece
12 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Doctors in govt., private hospitals join strike||Approximately, 70 % of doctors in government and private hospitals kept away from duty on from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday in Ernakulam district, heeding the call for a national strike called by the IMA to protest against the Centre’s decision to allow post-graduate Ayurveda practitioners to perform general surgeries. Doctors attended to COVID-19 patients and those who needed emergency care, said Dr. T.V. Ravi, president of the IMA Cochin chapter. The notification permitting Ayurveda doctors to perform 58 types of surgeries that were hitherto done by qualified allopathic doctors, will have disastrous consequences. The Centre’s move is presumed to provide health care to people in rural areas of North Indian States, where acute scarcity of qualified doctors often leads to inadequate emergency care and deaths. This is not the situation in South India. The move at introducing “mixopathy” could result in post-operative infections and even deaths, he said. The dilution of surgical standards will affect the goodwill enjoyed by Indian doctors worldwide. The British Medical Council had already denounced it. Furthermore, it would affect the prospects of MBBS degree holders seeking higher education abroad. The district secretary of KGMOA, Dr. Cyril G. Cherian, said that the body had always been demanding that the two systems of medicine retain their unique traits and strengths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-in-govt-private-hospitals-join-strike/article33312197.ece
12 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fall of maid: employer seeks impartial probe||The incident in which a house maid suffered serious injuries while reportedly scaling down from the sixth floor apartment near Marine Drive, where she was employed, seems to be getting murkier by the day with her employer petitioning the District Police Chief (Kochi City) for an impartial probe. The maid, a resident of Salem in Tamil Nadu, who was found atop the portico of the apartment complex on December 5, reportedly after trying to climb down using two conjoined saris tied to the balcony of the apartment, remains critical in a private hospital. The Central police have registered a case reportedly after the maid’s husband lodged a petition alleging that she was unlawfully restrained. The employer, a practising lawyer, alleged that the maid had tried to escape after stealing money. He said the maid, who was employed between October and December last year, had then left for her daughter’s marriage only to return on November 29 this year. He said he was forced to re-employ her taking pity on her reported financial constraints. The petitioner claimed that the maid did not respond to repeated knocks on the kitchen door that was found locked and that then he noticed the sari hanging from the balcony abutting the kitchen. Later, she was found lying atop the car porch upon which he had alerted the police and the fire force. He accused the investigating officer of forcing the family of the maid to level allegations against him under the influence of a section of the media trying to sensationalise the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fall-of-maid-employer-seeks-impartial-probe/article33312200.ece
12 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||595 recoveries, 409 new cases in Ernakulam||he district recorded 595 COVID-19 recoveries while there were 409 new cases on Friday. Five of the newly infected were health workers and the source of infection of 94 patients was unknown. Koovappady topped the incidence of fresh COVID cases with 32 new infections, while Thrikkakara had 15, Varappuzha 12, Ashamannur 11, and Elamkunnapuzha, Kalamassery, and Kothamangalam (10 each). Six migrant workers and a police officer were also infected. There were 27,155 people in quarantine, including 1,361 added to the list on Friday. Also counting the admissions to hospitals/FLTCs (108), there were 7,885 patients as on Friday. On the 100th day of the PVS Hospital being revived for treating COVID-19 patients, Petronet LNG Limited handed over to the hospital medicine and treatment gear, including two ventilators, together worth Rs. 25 lakh. IMA Kochi took the initiative to get the LNG company contribute to the hospital from its CSR fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/595-recoveries-409-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article33312204.ece
12 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea to drop age limit for assistant professor post||The Research Scholars Association here has urged the government to do away with the upper age limit of 40 years for the post of assistant professor in universities and colleges as per the University Grants Commission Regulation, 2018. The association has submitted a request to the Chief Secretary to implement a recommendation by the State Higher Education Council to dispense of with the upper age limit for direct recruitment in the universities and colleges. The researchers say they have been anxiously waiting for the implementation of the recommendation made by the governing body of the council on January 21 this year. The council had recommended to the government to dispense with the upper age limit set for assistant professor (40 years) and professor (50 years) for direct recruitment in universities and colleges as per the UGC Regulation, 2018. Even though the government implemented most of the other recommendations, the implementation of the proposal regarding the dispensation of upper age limit for recruitment of assistant professors is still pending, the association says. The request recalls that the Higher Education Department had dropped the upper age limit for the post of associate professor for appointment against regular vacancies. Similarly, the government has issued orders granting various exemptions in the matter of employment, including continuation of temporary hands even after expiry of their period of contract in view of the COVID-19 pandemic crisis. In other States The research scholars point out that there is no upper age limit mentioned in the direct recruitment in universities and colleges in States such as Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Nagaland, and Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-drop-age-limit-for-assistant-professor-post/article33312278.ece
12 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||City start-up wins global honours||Riafy Technologies, incubated under the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) here, earned four international honours at a contest conducted by smartphone manufacturer Huawei, according to a press release. The seven-year-old IT services firm functioning at Kerala Technology Innovation Zone at Kalamassery emerged victor in the categories for the best app and the most popular app, besides two honourable mentions in the event that featured 14 lakh developers from 170-plus countries. Riafy, which won from the Asia Pacific region, had its apps judged based on their social value, business value, innovativeness, design and user experience. “Cake Recipes” was adjudged the Most Popular App.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-start-up-wins-global-honours/article33312198.ece
12 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Twenty20 petitions SEC for repoll in two booths||Twenty20, the corporate-backed apolitical outfit, has petitioned the State Election Commissioner and the District Election Officer, demanding repoll in booths 1 and 2 in Ward 7 of Kizhakkambalam panchayat. It alleged booth capturing, violence, and violation of democratic principles by local party leaders and their goons on the polling day. Tension prevailed at a booth at a Madrassa in Ward 7 after a group of people stopped a husband-wife duo from casting their vote, alleging that they were not genuine voters but brought from outside allegedly to stack up votes in favour of Twenty20. “The group was stationed at the gate leading to the booth in violation of the rule that none should be allowed in the 200-metre radius of the booth. The man was literally dragged out from the booth despite possessing voting credentials. Over 100 voters were stopped from casting their vote in the two booths,” said Sabu M. Jacob, president of Twenty20. Days before the elections, Augustine Antony, general secretary of Twenty20 and five others, residents of Wards 5, 6, 7, 8, and 11 of Kizhakkambalam panchayat had approached the High Court, petitioning that local leaders of various political parties had threatened the voters as well as candidates put up by Twenty20. The petition said that the party leaders had “openly declared that the petitioners, as well as the new voters enrolled by them in the various wards, will not be allowed to cast their vote in the ensuing election.” The petition had sought the intervention of the law enforcement agencies to protect the life of the petitioners and other voters and to ensure that the election was held in a free and fair manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twenty20-petitions-sec-for-repoll-in-two-booths/article33312201.ece
12 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||ED seeks nod to question Swapna in jail||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sought the permission of the court for questioning Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, in jail for three days following the reported revelations made by M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, to the Customs. The ED said it learnt about the involvement of Mr. Sivasankar and other high-profile persons in the case from the bureaucrat’s response to the Customs’ interrogation. It was necessary to question Swapna and Sarith in the light of the revelations, the agency told the Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-seeks-nod-to-question-swapna-in-jail/article33312258.ece
12 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Clam collectors facing uncertain future||With the annual ban on harvesting in force and anxious over the upcoming season due to the decline in stock, the clam collectors of Ashtamudi are staring at a shaky future. While many of them will be struggling for survival till the ban ends, they seem more distraught over the possibility of a dry season. According to fishers, the normal estuarine ecosystem has been steadily changing over the years, posing a serious threat to their livelihood. “Be it fish or clam, there has been a considerable dip in catch. During the breeding season female clams lay lakhs of eggs, but there are some factors, including salinity, temperature and pollution, that affect the breeding,” says Murguan from Dalavapuram. In early 2020, clam collectors had spotted an invasive bivalve species that easily colonised the creeks of Ashtamudi. “This mussel leaves no space for native species to settle and we feel that this can make breeding very difficult. We feel very apprehensive about what awaits us after the ban,” he says. B. Yesudas, president, Clam Collector's Union, says boats using illegal and unscientific methods are responsible for the dip in stock, while traditional clam collectors are left to face the music. “It is not possible for manual collectors to exhaust the stock and individuals diving into the water can hardly damage the clam bed. The practice of 'kuthi vali' is the reason as they use large boats and pulleys to harvest the clams,” he says. In the process, collectors usually plough through the clam bed sweeping everything, including juvenile clams. “Though illegal, the practice is rampant in many parts and is responsible for the decline in spawner population,” he says. Sustainable development In a bid to replenish the clam stock and promote sustainable development of resources, the Fisheries Department had set up sanctuaries in Ashtamudi. The protected sites had helped the clams to multiply and according to fishers, provided livelihood for many during the pandemic. The initiative was launched as part of a comprehensive project to revive inland fisheries sector and the sites were decided after checking various parameters. “Locating the sites suitable for clam relaying requires time. The project will be continued after rechecking a number of factors in the habitat,” says an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clam-collectors-facing-uncertain-future/article33312232.ece
12 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Subiksha restaurant planned in Punalur||Food and Civil Supplies Department will launch its first Subiksha restaurant in the district in Punalur as part of the State government’s Hunger-free Kerala project. According to officials, the department is waiting for the Punalur municipality to hand over the building after which the restaurant will be opened. Forest Minister K. Raju had visited the proposed sites for the restaurant and most probably the building where the taluk homoeo hospital used to function will be taken over for the project. The restaurant will follow the same model as the one in Alappuzha opened by the department last year, providing food at a reasonable price for the public. “While vegetable meals will be available for Rs. 20, we are also planning a non-veg platter that includes fish or meat priced at Rs. 50,” said John Thomas, taluk supply officer, Punalur. Kerala cuisine The number of meals to be prepared a day will be decided depending on the demand and the menu will feature items from Kerala cuisine. He said the location would be convenient for all as it was in the centre of the town. “It is near the hanging bridge ensuring maximum access.” Since the Subhiksha restaurant in Alappuzha offers home delivery, the department is planning to introduce it in the next phase. “We are also considering an option for free lunch parcels for persons who cannot afford it. Decision in this regard will be taken in consultation with higher officials,” Mr. Thomas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subiksha-restaurant-planned-in-punalur/article33312235.ece
12 December 2020||Kollam,KERALA||554 recoveries, 482 cases in Kollam||The district reported 482 new COVID-19 cases, two deaths and 554 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 475 contact cases, one NRI, two persons who had travelled from other States, one case with no known source and three health workers. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 68-year-old Pooyappalli resident and a 42-year-old Kulathupuzha resident are due to COVID-19. A 58-year-old Kottarakara resident is the case with unknown source. The health workers who tested positive are from Kollam, Poothakulam and Thevalakkara. The district currently has 14,905 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,03,458. While 1,656 persons completed home quarantine on Friday. At present Kollam has 3,455 active cases. 326 in Kottayam As many as 326 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Friday. According to officials, all but one person contracted the virus through local contact. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was 10.47%. The fresh cases also included 36 children.  (With input from Kottayam bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/554-recoveries-482-cases-in-kollam/article33312238.ece
12 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||St. Thomas evangelical church meet||The south Kerala diocesan convention of the St. Thomas Evangelical Church of India (STECI) will be held on December 12 and 13. Presiding bishop Thomas Abraham will inaugurate the online convention on December 12 at 6.30 p.m. Bishop Abraham Chacko will preside over the function while director of the CNI diocese of Phulbani, Odisha, will deliver the devotional address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/st-thomas-evangelical-church-meet/article33312236.ece
12 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Film buffs in State to miss Kim badly||It was a day in December like this, 15 years ago. The Kairali Theatre in Thiruvananthapuram was brimming with film lovers. This was (or is) not unusual during the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK). But what made that day unforgettable was the screening of Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter...and Spring . The Korean film was stunningly beautiful. And Kerala fell in love with its director, Kim Ki-duk. It was with great sorrow that movie goers of the State heard the news of the 59-year-old filmmaker’s death in Latvia, after contracting COVID-19. No other director has enjoyed in this part of the world the kind of fan following that Kim did.  Surprising frenzy Bina Paul, the woman who introduced him to the Malayali film fan, was surprised by the frenzy created by his films in 2005 and the festivals of the subsequent years. The artistic director of IFFK had watched Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter...and Spring at an Asian film festival and was greatly impressed. It was then she felt that a selection of his films could be screened at the IFFK. “Though his films were different and had great quality, I never imagined he would go on to achieve a cult status in Kerala,” Bina told The Hindu over phone from Newcastle, England. “It was several years later that I met him—at the elevator of a hotel in Busan, to be precise—and invited him to attend the IFFK in 2013.” So Kim came to the State he had already conquered through his films. And here, he was literally mobbed by his adoring fans. “Kim was bowled over by the reaction,” Bina said. “He told me that the reception in Thiruvananthapuram was the greatest he ever had.” At IFFI Pradeep Nair, a national award-winning director who was among those who watched Kim’s films at the IFFK in 2005, recalled the director being left alone at the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) at Goa in contrast to the reception he got in Thiruvananthapuram. “Kim’s biggest fans are in Kerala, I think,” he said. “No other foreign filmmaker has had this kind of an impact on the audiences in Kerala; he has also influenced our young directors.” It may be no exaggeration to say that Kim had been the biggest draw of all time at the IFFK. He is to the Malayali film fan what Colombian writer Gabriel Garcia Marquez is to the Malayali reader. Kim will be missed in Kerala as much as he will be in his native South Korea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-to-miss-kim-as-much-as-korea-does/article33312168.ece
12 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||No-holds-barred contest in Kozhikode||As campaigning draws to a close, a three-cornered contest is on the cards in at least 45 out of the 75 seats for the Kozhikode Corporation Council. One significant development that has affected electioneering this time is the presence of a large number of women candidates, especially new faces. With the post of Mayor reserved for women, all main parties have fielded women candidates even in some general seats. 38 for women In the 75-member council, 38 seats have been reserved for women. Of the total of 350 contestants, 177 are women. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has fielded four women in general seats, the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) in one and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in three. It appears that the Left parties, which have been ruling the Kozhikode Corporation for nearly 45 years, are ahead of their rivals in the campaigning. However, poll managers are unable to predict the strong undercurrents emerging on the political scene of the State. The LDF has projected two candidates, S. Jayasree and Beena Philip, both retired principals of government educational institutions, in the fray from Kottuli and Pottamal divisions respectively, to don the post of Mayor if the coalition retains power. The UDF has fielded outgoing councillor P. Ushadevi from Chalappuram and P.N. Ajitha, a medical practitioner from Chevayur division, who will be considered for the Mayor’s post if the front upsets the LDF apple cart. Not to be left behind, the BJP has projected a mayoral candidate too — its councillor Navya Haridas, who is contesting from the Karaparamba division for the second time. In the 2015 polls, the LDF had 47 seats, the UDF 20 and the BJP seven. Intensive campaign The intensive campaign of the BJP this time is giving a hard time to both the prominent coalitions. The candidates of the BJP could play spoilsport for the ruling and opposition fronts. The increase in the BJP’s vote share in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 and the Assembly polls in 2016 has been a worrying factor for both the UDF and the LDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-holds-barred-contest-in-kozhikode-corporation/article33312187.ece
12 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||About 400 SVC volunteers to serve as special police officers||Nearly 400 volunteers who recently joined the State’s Student Police Cadet Volunteer Corps (SVC) will serve as special police officers to facilitate the smooth conduct of the local body elections in Kozhikode district on Monday. The team comprising both students and a few professionals will work together with the local police and election officials at assigned booths. It is for the first time that the alumni of the prestigious Student Police Cadet (SPC) project, launched in 2008, have come together for a new task. Though there are about 6,000 such cadets under the SVC in Kozhikode, only a limited number of volunteers has been shortlisted for election duty, considering the COVID-19 situation. Of them, nearly 100 volunteers are women, who will be posted at booths near their places of residence. “All the SVCs shortlisted for election duty have already completed their online training and they will report at the specified booths on time. They will also receive final instructions from the State-level nodal officer soon,” said Pradeep Kumar, Assistant Nodal Officer, SPC (Kozhikode city). In Kozhikode district, there are 2,987 booths where the service of special police officers, including those selected from other voluntary organisations and ex-servicemen groups, will be crucial for managing the poll procedures. Each booth will have at least one special police officer to help the local police and the polling staff. Additional volunteers are also under consideration to manage duties at 91 hyper-sensitive booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/about-400-svc-volunteers-to-serve-as-special-police-officers/article33312178.ece
12 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Akshaya entrepreneurs to lend a hand||Trained Akshaya entrepreneurs will lend a helping hand to the Kerala State Information Technology Mission (KSITM) to ensure live surveillance of 91 hypersensitive polling booths in Kozhikode district. Three control rooms The entrepreneurs will bring their own web cameras and laptops to support the IT Mission, which will set up three control rooms in the district for the monitoring process. The control room at the Collectorate will have about 10 persons to monitor the visuals and guide election authorities. Technicians from the Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation (Keltron) will handle the network-related jobs and the maintenance of backup data in a server in Thiruvananthapuram. The recorded webcam feed from various cameras will also be sent to the State election authorities. Two control rooms will be arranged exclusively for the police to monitor the law and order situation. The Kozhikode City and Rural police will have one control room each at the District Police Chiefs’ office. Trial run after connecting the cameras to the control rooms will be completed on Sunday. Mobile squads The Akshaya team will begin webcasting by covering the mock poll process. Special mobile squads of the election authority will be on the field to monitor the surveillance measures and poll-related arrangements. C.M. Midhun Krishna, nodal officer of the webcasting initiative, said the selected entrepreneurs would be given an eligible honorarium. “Keltron will transfer the fund to the IT Mission for meeting the honorarium expenses. Last term, each such entrepreneur had been given Rs. 3,000,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/akshaya-entrepreneurs-to-lend-a-hand/article33312179.ece
12 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||626 test positive in Kozhikode; 450 recover||The Health Department on Friday confirmed 626 more COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district. Of the total number of patients, 612 contracted the infection through local transmission. The source of infection remained unknown in other cases. With the newly confirmed cases, the total number of patients admitted to various hospitals for treatment reached 1,407. The relief factor on Friday was the discharge of 450 persons, who had been undergoing treatment in various first line treatment centres and hospitals. According to Health Department officials, 6,320 more samples were collected and sent for lab tests on Friday. Till date, 8,45,546 samples were collected of which 7,68,177 test results were found negative. On Monday alone, 6,320 persons were screened for the virus. To ensure the safety of voters in view of the local body elections, all the polling stations in Kozhikode district were disinfected on Friday. Health Department officials said the election would be held following the health protocol. Apart from this, there would be green protocol in place. The voters would be allowed to cast their vote by maintaining social distance. Separate queues would be maintained for men and women. Hand washing points and hand sanitizers would be arranged in advance as part of the preparatory measures. Considering the special voters undergoing treatment for COVID-19, there would be heightened vigil for ensuring the safety of polling officials. According to the latest figures, 17,920 officials would be on duty to manage the election and other related proceedings. Of them, 14,935 would be working at 2,987 polling booths in Kozhikode district. Special voters, who could not secure their ballots through special polling officers, would be allowed to accept them by post. After casting the vote, the voters would be allowed to return the sealed envelope to the Returning Officer by post or with the support of any designated agent. In Wayanad A total of 87 persons, including two health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,990. Of the new cases, 85 were infected through local contact and two persons had returned from other States. As many as 149 people recovered on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/626-test-positive-in-kozhikode-450-recover/article33312181.ece
12 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Speaker’s clarification unconvincing: Surendran||BJP State president K. Surendran has termed as unsatisfactory the clarification given by Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan regarding his alleged links to Swapna Suresh, key suspect in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. At a news conference at Koyilandy on Friday, Mr. Surendran said Mr. Sreeramakrishnan brought disrepute to the sanctity of a Constitutional position. He asked the Speaker whether he would quit his political life if proved that he had helped the accused in gold smuggling. Mr. Sreeramakrishnan had maintained a good relationship with both Swapna and another accused P.S. Sarith. The truth would come out during the investigation, Mr. Surendran said. He alleged that the Speaker had been hand in glove with the Vadakara-based Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) in corrupt deals. The society was awarded contracts even in sectors which it had no expertise. Awarding a contract without inviting tenders was corruption, he said. Mr. Surendran alleged that CPI (M) leaders had secured commission after over estimating project costs. The irregularities in awarding the project to renovate a hall in the Assembly complex were similar to bypassing rules in the construction of the flyover at Palarivattom, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/speakers-clarification-unconvincing-surendran/article33312172.ece
12 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||WPI says it had tie-up with LDF in 2015||The Welfare Party of India (WPI) rebutted the Left Democratic Front’s “communal and extremist accusations” against it as double standards. “We contested the 2015 local body elections in alliance with the CPI(M) in many panchayats after striking a deal with Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who was the then CPI(M) State secretary,” said WPI State president Hameed Vaniyambalam on Friday. The LDF’s main allegation against the rival United Democratic Front (UDF) in the ongoing local body elections is that the latter has made an understanding with the Welfare Party of India. The WPI stopped hobnobbing with the LDF following differences with the Pinarayi Vijayan government with regard to policies on the Muslim community. “For them (LDF), we are secular when they get our votes, and we are communal when they do not get our votes. This is what we ordinary mortals call double standards,” said Mr. Vaniyambalam. Welfare Party’s policy states that it can make electoral alliances with all secular parties. It is also the party’s policy to oppose all the Sangh Parivar parties, particularly the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). 50-odd local bodies The Welfare Party had made “electoral understanding” with the LDF in 50-odd local bodies across the State in 2015. The LDF openly shared power with the WPI in panchayats such as Koottilangadi, Kuruva, Mankada, Arookutty and Panavally and in the Mukkam municipality. “Raising allegations of communalism and extremism against us is nothing but double standards. We have not surrendered our principles to any political fronts. And we have not become part of any formal political alliances,” said Mr. Vaniyambalam. The CPI(M) turned against the WPI after the Lok Sabha elections even while ruling some local bodies with their support. With the UDF The WPI has made electoral understanding with the UDF in all districts except Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta. Mr. Vaniyambalam said the understanding made with the UDF was not at the State level, but at the regional level. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, laughing away the LDF-WPI 2015 tie-up, said at Palakkad the other day that the UDF had made a critical alliance with the Welfare Party in panchayats and wards with the sole purpose of defeating the LDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wpi-says-it-had-tie-up-with-ldf-in-2015/article33312272.ece
12 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Recoveries outnumber new cases in Malappuram||Malappuram district registered 619 new COVID-19 cases on Friday while 721 people recovered from the disease. The higher number of recoveries gave the health workers a reason to heave a sigh of relief. Among the new cases, 595 had contracted the disease through interaction with infected persons. The source of infection, however, could not be traced in 10 cases. Ten of the new cases had come from other States and four from abroad. Nearly 7,000 active cases are currently under treatment in Malappuram. Most of them are under observation at their homes. More than 86,000 people are quarantined across the district. While 497 COVID-19 patients are in hospitals, 239 are in first line treatment centres and 243 in second line treatment centres. According to official figures, 401 persons have died of COVID-19 in Malappuram. However, those who died after they survived the COVID-19 attack were not considered for the pandemic toll. Health officials warned people to exercise caution against lowering the guard against COVID-19, especially during the electioneering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-in-malappuram/article33312188.ece
12 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||20 counting centres in Palakkad district||Twenty counting centres are being arranged in Palakkad district for the three-tier civic body elections. The counting will take place on Wednesday. Apart from one counting centre each in each of the seven municipalities, a centre each will be set up in the 13 block panchayats. The Municipal Hall in Palakkad town will be the counting centre for the Palakkad municipality. St. Teresa’s Convent High School, Shoranur, will be the counting centre for the Shoranur municipality. For the Ottappalam municipality, the counting will be held at LSN Girls Higher Secondary School, Ottappalam. The ground floor of the Chittur Thathamangalam municipal office will be the counting centre for the Chittur Thathamangalam municipality. In Mannarkkad The votes of the Mannarkkad municipality will be counted at Kalladi Higher Secondary School, Kumaramputhur. The Government Higher Secondary School, Cherpulassery, will be the counting centre for the Cherpulassery municipality. And for Pattambi, the counting will be held at Government Higher Secondary School, Upper Pattambi. In blocks The following will be the counting centres for the 13 block panchayats in Palakkad — Thrithala: Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Vattenad; Pattambi: Sree Neelakanda Government Sanskrit College, Pattambi; Ottapalam: NSSKPT Vocational Higher Secondary School and NSS BEd Training College, Ottappalam; Sreekrishnapuram: Higher Secondary School, Sreekrishnapuram; Mannarkkad: Nellippuzha Darunnajath High School, Mannarkkad; Attappady: Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Agali; Palakkad: Vyasa Vidyapeetam Central School, Kallekkad; Kuzhalmannam: CA High School, Kuzhalmannam; Chittur: Government Arts and Science College, Nattukal, Kozhinjambara; Kollengode: BSS HSS, Kollengode; Nemmara: NSS College, Nemmara; Malampuzha: NSS Engineering College, Akathethara; and Alathur: Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Alathur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20-counting-centres-in-palakkad-district/article33312390.ece
12 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Family meet||The Nair families of Palakkad district will gather under a common banner here next year. An organising committee will be convened on January 10. The names of the family representatives should be sent to convener R. Ramachnadra Menon, Palakkad Nair Tharavadu Sangama Committee, 2nd floor, Sultan of Flavours Building, Stadium Bypass Road, Palakkad, or on WhatsApp to 94471 24354.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/family-meet/article33312391.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Doctors join nationwide stir||Doctors in public and private sector hospitals in the State kept away from outpatient services on Friday, joining a nationwide medical bandh called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) against the Centre’s move to permit Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries. Emergency services and COVID-19-related services were exempted from the strike, doctors’ organisations said. Sit-in protest The IMA Thiruvananthapuram chapter organised a protest sit-in in front of Raj Bhavan from 11.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Hospitals across the State witnessed a shutdown from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., except for emergency and COVID-19 services, IMA Thiruvananthapuram branch president Prasanth C.V. and Siby Kurian Philip said. Doctors in the government medical colleges also joined the stir by boycotting the OP from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday. Emergency services, labour room, inpatient care, emergency surgeries and ICU care were exempted from the strike, Binoy S., State president, Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA), and State secretary Nirmal Bhaskar said in a statement. Doctors’ demand The doctors’ organisations have demanded that the Centre urgently scrap the notification issued by the Central Council of Indian Medicine permitting PG Ayurveda students to practise surgical procedures on completion of formal training. The move will serve only to endanger public health, the organisations said. Attempts to integrate different systems of medicine into a single system as a cheap alternative in health care will come with unacceptable levels of human suffering and cost millions of lives, the IMA said in a statement. The notification should be seen as an attempt to wipe out modern medicine from India by 2030, the IMA alleged. The move to permit Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries will destroy not just the foundation of modern medicine, but that of AYUSH systems as well, the KGMCTA said. The Raj Bhavan dharna was inaugurated by IMA State president P.T. Zacharias.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-join-nationwide-stir/article33312276.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital to intensify containment efforts||Anticipating a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases in the aftermath of the local body elections, the district administration has decided to intensify its containment efforts. District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Friday that the capital district could not afford to let its guard down despite the significant slump in transmission of SARS-CoV-2 during the last few months. The district which had a case burden of 7,323 a month ago now has only 3,455 active cases. Attributing the dip in active cases by over half to the disease containment systems that were in place, Dr. Khosa said the district appeared poised to control the pandemic to a large extent at this rate. However, the Health Department has forecast a significant surge in COVID-19 cases during the next two days by way of closer public interactions that were witnessed during the polling period. This has prompted the district administrations to prepare an action plan to step up the activities of the COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs). Currently, around 70% of beds in the FLTCs lay vacant in various parts of the district. The scenario enabled the district administration to provide treatment through government facilities for those who test positive for the infection. The General Hospital, which has been designated as COVID-19 hospital until December 31, has 187 of its 310 beds unoccupied. Quarantine centres As part of the ongoing efforts to fine-tune the existing containment system, the Collector also issued directions to shift the existing FLTCs, COVID-19 second line treatment centres (SLTCs), and institutional quarantine centres to more convenient locations. The existing facilities in the College of Agriculture at Vellayani, Rosa Mystica Residential Higher Secondary School at Mukkola, Sree Krishna College of Pharmacy and Research Centre at Parassala, and Saraswathy College of Nursing at Karode will be shifted to Greenfield Stadium at Karyavattam, St. Nicholas Convention Centre at Pulluvila, Sree Neelakeshi Auditorium at Venganoor, and Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Development Studies at Neyyar Dam respectively. The facilities that currently function in the men’s hostel of Dr Somerwell Memorial CSI Medical College Hospital in Karakkonam and the Government Arts College in Kulathoor will be relocated to Forest Community Hall at Vellarada. The beds earmarked for men and women in the Dr. Ambedkar Vidya Niketan CBSE Model Residential School at Njaraneeli will be shifted to the Green Auditorium at Nandiyode, and the Government Ayurveda College. Dr. Khosa also directed the District Medical Officer to establish 11 more FLTCs in anticipation of the increase in COVID-19 cases. These will be arranged with a target to accommodating 1,380 patients. The district administration will call a meeting of representatives of private hospitals in the district for a review.  Thiruvananthapuram district cannot afford to let its guard down. Navjot Khosa District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-to-intensify-containment-efforts/article33312442.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU can fix criteria for courses: SC||The Supreme Court has upheld A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU)’s stance that it held the power to determine the criteria for granting affiliation for courses in engineering colleges in the State. A three-member bench comprising Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian on Thursday set aside a judgement of the Kerala High Court Division Bench that had ruled in favour of nearly 20 self-financing colleges which challenged the KTU’s decision to deny permission to introduce new courses, despite being accorded sanction for the same by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). AICTE nod The AICTE had granted permission to around 50 KTU-affiliated colleges to commence new courses this year. While the KTU granted affiliation to such courses in those colleges that already had at least one National Board of Accreditation (NBA)-accredited courses, the university proposed three criteria to decide the course of action in the case of others. These included 50% success in university examinations, a grading of ‘good’ or above in academic auditing and an average of 50% student enrolment over the past three years. Only one college among the batch met the criteria, while around 20 colleges, which were denied affiliation, moved the High Court. While a single bench had ruled in favour of KTU, the Division Bench headed by the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court held that the colleges were eligible for affiliation on the basis of the AICTE norms. The university subsequently appealed against the judgment in the Supreme Court which has now allowed the same. The apex court observed that the Syndicate, which had decided the criteria for granting affiliation, possessed the legal right under the University Act to set standards for affiliating courses. It was also noted that the applications for extension of approvals were processed by the AICTE online and merely on the basis of the self-disclosure made by the colleges in their applications. Extension of approval is granted if all infrastructure facilities that were prescribed by the AICTE were found to be available on paper. The court added that the university had the responsibility to assess infrastructure facilities of the colleges to ensure that students receive quality education. While universities cannot dilute the standards prescribed by the AICTE, they certainly have the power to stipulate enhanced norms and standards, the judgement stated.  University proposed three criteria to start new courses 20 self-financing colleges challenged KTU decision||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-has-power-to-fix-criteria-for-courses-sc/article33312242.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||277 cases, 392 recoveries in district||The district recorded 277 COVID-19 cases on Friday when 4,653 people were subjected to testing, thereby registering a test positivity rate of 5.95. While 392 people recovering from the illness, the number of active cases fell significantly to 3,455. Among the fresh cases, all except one imported cases have been attributed to local transmission. The sources of infection in 86 cases are unknown. Seven health care workers are also among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Death toll The death toll in the district also rose to 588 with five more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased included an 86-year-old man who hailed from Poojappura, a 62-year-old woman who hailed from Nedumangad, an 88-year-old woman who hailed from Peyad, a 60-year-old man who hailed from Balaramapuram, and a 65-year-old man who hailed from Manacaud in the capital. The district administration on Friday placed 1,680 people under quarantine, taking the total number of people who were being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 29,146 in houses and 116 in various institutions. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated legal action against 53 people for violating COVID-19-related norms. Booked Fifteen people among them were booked under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. A cumulative fine of Rs. 17,000 was slapped on the violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/277-cases-392-recoveries-in-district/article33312443.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Asha Kishore quits SCTIMST||Asha Kishore, former director of the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), has chosen to quit the job at the institute. Her application for the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) was approved by the president of the institute, an official communication said on Friday. Dr. Kishore is a Senior Professor in the Department of Neurology of the SCTIMST. She will be relieved from service on December 9, the date on which the High Court of Kerala dismissed her appeal challenging a Central Administrative Tribunal order cancelling the extension of her tenure as director of the SCTIMST. The court upheld the CAT order and ruled that the Central government had the power to remove the director of the institute. Dr. Asha Kishore was the director of the SCTIMST from 2015 to 2020. It was in July that Dr. Kishore was given an extension of five years as director of the institute.  Decision quashed The decision was quashed by the CAT on the grounds that it did not have the approval of the Central government. Challenging the CAT order, Dr. Kishore moved the High Court, arguing that her original appointment did not have the permission of the Central government. The High Court however upheld the CAT order that the Union Department of Science and Technology was empowered to take decisions on the institute. Following the High Court ruling, K. Jayakumar, Senior Professor at the SCTIMST, was appointed director- in-charge on November 9. Dr. Jayakumar has served as head, Department of Cardiovascular Thoracic Surgery at the SCTIMST. He is also a member of the governing body of the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/asha-kishore-quits-sctimst/article33312244.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSUs told to use solar power for their energy needs||Public sector undertakings in the State are being encouraged to look sunward to meet their electricity requirements. The State government has directed all public sector undertakings to explore the possibility of installing rooftop solar power plants under the Soura scheme of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). This, apparently, is a continuation of a direction issued in August to government departments to utilise the scheme to meet the energy requirements of their buildings. The government decision has come at a time when public sector utilities such as the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) have embarked upon solar projects to slash hefty electricity bills. In October, the chairman and managing director, KSEB, had also requested the government to direct government and semi-government institutions to register in the Soura scheme if rooftop space was available. Three models The KSEB is offering government agencies three models under the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE)-supported scheme. Under the first model, KSEB will install the solar plant on the consumer’s rooftop and maintain it for 25 years. The energy generated will be fed into the KSEB grid for a period of 25 years and 10% of the power will be given to the consumer free of cost. In the second model, KSEB will install and maintain the plant, and the energy generated will be sold to the consumer at a fixed price for 25 years. In this case too, the full cost will be borne by the power utility. In the third model, KSEB will set up the solar plant, but the cost of the plant will be shouldered by the consumer. The consumer will be eligible for compensation if the excess energy generated is exported to the grid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psus-told-to-use-solar-power-for-energy-needs/article33312246.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Approval for three more special trains||The Railway Board has approved the introduction of three more weekly and bi-weekly festival special trains in the State. Kochuveli-Indore (02646) weekly superfast festival special will leave Kochuveli at 6.15 a.m. on Saturdays to reach Indore at 5.05 a.m. on the third day. The services from Kochuveli will be on December 12, 19 and 26. In the return, Indore-Kochuveli (02645) weekly superfast festival special will leave Indore at 4.50 p.m. on Mondays to reach Kochuveli at 4.20 p.m. on the third day. The service from Indore will be on December 14, 21 and 28. Ernakulam Junction-Okha (06338) bi-weekly superfast festival special train will leave Ernakulam at 8.25 p.m. on Wednesdays and Fridays to reach Okha at 4.40 p.m. on the third day. The train will operate from Ernakulam Junction on December 11, 16, 18, 23, 25 and 30. Okha-Ernakulam (06337) bi-weekly festival special, in the return direction, will leave Okha at 6.45 a.m. on Mondays and Saturdays to reach Ernakulam Junction at 11.55 p.m. the third day. Nagercoil Junction-Mumbai (06352) CSMT bi-weekly superfast festival special will leave Nagercoil Junction at 6 a.m. on Thursdays and Sundays to reach Mumbai CSMT at 7.15 p.m. the next day. In the return direction, Mumbai CSMT-Nagercoil Junction (06351) bi-weekly festival special will leave Mumbai CSMT at 8.35 p.m. on Fridays and Mondays to reach Nagercoil Junction at 7.30 a.m. the third day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/approval-for-three-more-special-trains/article33312230.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three ISO certificates for MEMU maintenance shed||The Main-Line Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) maintenance shed at Kollam Junction has secured three International Organisation for Standards (ISO) certifications for meeting the prescribed standards of excellence in the maintenance of MEMU trains. ISO 9001 for Quality Management System; ISO 14001 for Environmental Management System; and ISO 45001 for Occupational Health and Safety Management System; are the accreditations granted after the facility aligned all activities of the shed and maintenance of MEMU coaches in line with the latest ISO standards. MEMU shed, Kollam, is the first MEMU maintenance shed to receive all the three ISO certifications. The other MEMU maintenance shed is at Palakkad Junction under the Palakkad Railway Divison. Divisional Railway Manager, Thiruvananthapuram, R. Mukund said the three ISO certifications would lead to in-depth maintenance of the MEMU rakes and analysis of defects. At a function held at the office of Divisional Railway Manager’s at Thiruvananthapuram on Friday, the representative of ISO certification agency handed over the three ISO certificates to Mr. Mukund. The efforts of a team led by Shandeep Joseph, Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer (Operations), Thiruvananthapuram Railway Division, was behind securing the ISO certifications. The service of Self-propelled MEMU trains, which are faster and economical with its quick acceleration and deceleration and less turnaround and layover time, was introduced for short-distance passenger services in Thiruvananthapuram Division during March 2012. The MEMU shed, Kollam, started its operation during the period and dealt with trip inspections and primary maintenance of two rakes of MEMU trains. Future demands Evolved into a full-fledged MEMU maintenance centre, it can handle various maintenance schedules of six MEMU rakes, three of which are based on the latest three-phase propulsion technology. The shed is equipped to meet the demands of the future when all passenger trains will be converted by Railways to MEMU rakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-iso-certificates-for-memu-shed/article33312241.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pothys closed after perks play havoc||Pothys mall that functions near Ayurveda College Junction was shut down by the district administration on Friday after a discount offered by the outlet for perishables attracted an uncontrollable crowd that blatantly violated the COVID-19 protocol. An advertisement circulated by the store, which offered essential commodities including onion, potato, tomato, ladies finger, carrot and green chilly at a throwaway rate of Rs. 9 per kg for the day, apparently brought customers in droves. The advertisement had its desired effect with people making a beeline for the store right from morning, but at the cost of throwing the pandemic restrictions to the wind. Police intervention The Vanchiyoor police, which had to intervene to rein in the crowd, registered a case by booking the proprietor under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 and ordered the store managers to shut the gate to bar further entry. However, the instruction fell on deaf ears as the public continued to make a beeline for the store to exploit the discount offer. This prompted senior district officials including Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) E.M. Safeer, Thiruvananthapuram tahsildar Harishchandran Nair, and officials of the city Corporation to rush to the store. Violations Several violations including failure to enforce social distancing and maintain a visitors’ register were also detected during their inspection. The mall was soon shut down for the rest of the day. According to official sources, the grocery section will remained closed for the next two days, while the mall will be permitted to operate the other sections. Permissible limits The district administration will decide on the permissible limits of customers in the grocery section on the basis of its area prior to its reopening on Monday. A token system will also be put in place to streamline customer entry on the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pothys-closed-after-perks-play-havoc/article33312444.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Leisure travel picks up with intra-State short tours||Even as the hospitality sector is showing a degree of uneven recovery after the prolonged lockdown necessitated by COVID-19, leisure travel to motorable tourist destinations across Kerala is showing a steady increase. High-end properties are registering full occupancy and bookings are picking up in budget properties. Since uncertainties still prevail over international travel, the main driver behind this partial recovery for the tourism sector is the domestic leisure traveller. Outbound luxury travellers in the State, left with fewer options, are on the lookout for exclusive short domestic vacations within the State. Inquiries have also started pouring in for year-end holidays during Christmas and New Year. “The stakeholders of the industry should make the most of the demand for short tours from the Kerala market,” a Kerala Tourism Development Corporation official said. Families are flocking to high-end properties in Kovalam, Ponmudi, Thekkady, Munnar, and Wayanad. The KTDC’s premium properties of Golden Peak in Ponmudi, Tea County in Munnar, Aranya Nivas, and Lake Palace (Thekkady) boast full occupancy. Properties in Wayanad, a favourite spot for techies in Bengaluru before lockdown, are now witnessing heavy turnout of families from Thrissur, Malappuram, and Kannur. Two-night packages are much in demand. “Honeymooners come in large numbers to Wayanad as international travel is yet to be fullfledged,” says Prasad Manjali, Director, Contour Island Resort and Spa, near the Banasurasagar dam. To tap the demand, hotels have slashed the tariff by over 50%. Tariff cut The KTDC has extended its off-season tariff till March 2021. The premium rooms in Lake Palace, the heritage jungle resort in the Periyar Tiger Reserve in Thekkady, which was being sold for Rs. 25,000 a day in December last year, are now rented out in the Rs. 10,000-Rs. 15,000 range. But, the occupancy level not going up as expected in the budget properties and the guests’ reluctance to use restaurants are a concern. The KTDC’s budget property Periyar House with 44 rooms has no takers while the two premium properties have full occupancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leisure-travel-picks-up-with-intra-state-short-tours/article33312263.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Second-phase polls see 76.78% turnout||The five districts that went to the polls in the second phase of the local body elections on Thursday witnessed a voter turnout of 76.78%, according to the revised figures released by the State Election Commission (SEC) on Friday. The polling percentage for Kottayam has been updated to 73.95%, Ernakulam 77.25%, Thrissur 75.10%, Palakkad 78.14%, and Wayanad 79.49%. The Kochi Municipal Corporation recorded a turnout of 62.04% and Thrissur Corporation, 63.31%, the commission said. Counting on Dec. 16 The commission also released the updated statistics for the municipalities in all five districts. Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode and Malappuram will go to the polls on December 14 in the final phase of the 2020 local body polls. The votes will be counted on December 16. Officer suspended The commission placed on suspension an officer for wearing a face mask displaying the election symbol of a political party during election duty. K. Saraswati, polling officer at the Kulassery No. 1 polling station in Ward 4 of the Kottamkara grama panchayat, Kollam, was suspended pending an investigation on the basis of a report submitted by the District Election Officer, Kollam, the commission said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-phase-polls-see-7678-turnout/article33312266.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB seeks legal advice on transmission charges||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has sought legal advice on options before it with a High Court Single Bench rejecting its plea against the new Central regulations on inter-State power transmission charges payable by the State. The KSEB will decide whether to appeal against the December 2 Single Bench verdict once the advice is received, said a KSEB official on Friday. Under the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Sharing of Interstate Transmission System Charges and Losses) Regulations, 2020, the transmission charges payable by the State are likely to shoot up to around Rs. 1,500 crore per year. Normally, it comes to approximately Rs. 550 crore. This additional financial burden could trigger a hike in power tariffs if the burden is passed on to the consumers. Tariffs could rise by as much as 50 paise per unit, KSEB officials said. The KSEB has written to the CERC and the Union Power Ministry about its reservations with regard to the new regulations. The new regulations require States such as Kerala to share the charges for underutilised high-capacity transmission lines passing through other States. The KSEB contention is that this requirement contradicts the tariff policy which dictates that usage should be the basis of calculating transmission charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-seeks-legal-advice-on-transmission-charges/article33312274.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Submit plaints on draft voters’ list before Dec. 31||The last date for submitting objections and complaints regarding the draft voters’ list for the forthcoming Assembly elections in the State has been extended to December 31, said District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also the District Election Officer, on Friday. The draft electoral rolls contain approximately 2.63 crore voters across the State. The Election Commission of India anticipates an increase in these numbers to 2.69 crore. Any Indian citizen who has completed 18 years of age on or before January 1, 2021 is eligible to be included on the rolls. Existing voters Existing voters also have time till December 31 to make the necessary changes in the information given on the rolls. The Election Commission is planning a campaign till December 31 to make sure that all eligible voters are included on the electoral rolls. The District Collector said that the cooperation of various government departments will be sought to make the campaign a success. Posters, short videos, introduction of links on government websites, and publicity activities would be taken up as part of the campaign, Ms. Khosa said. She urged the public to make use of the opportunity to include their names in the rolls. Existing voters should go through it to make sure that their names were included, she said.  Existing voters should go through the list to make sure that their names are included. Navjot Khosa District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/draft-voters-list-date-extended/article33312228.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity under 9%||As many as 4,642 new COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Kerala on Friday while 4,748 patients recovered from the disease. At 8.68%, the test positivity rate remained below nine for the second consecutive day when 53,508 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. As many as 4,029 persons, including 44 health-care workers, were infected through contact and the source of infection for 496 was unknown. Meanwhile, 29 recent deaths were confirmed on Friday as due to COVID-19, taking the cumulative death toll in the State to 2,562. Kozhikode with 626 new cases topped the district-wise figures on Friday. Malappuram reported 619 and Kollam 482 cases. Kasaragod, with 71 cases, reported the least number of cases. Of those diagnosed on Friday, 73 had arrived in the State from outside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-under-9/article33312268.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special trains extended||The services of three fully reserved weekly festival special trains have been extended by Railways with change in timings. Train 02521/02522 Barauni Junction-Ernakulam Junction-Barauni Junction weekly superfast via MGR Chennai Central, Coimbatore Junction, and Palakkad Junction will run till January 3. Train 02877/02878 Howrah-Ernakulam Junction-Howrah weekly via Coimbatore Junction and Palakkad Junction has been extended till December 28. Train 09424/09423 Gandhidham Junction-Tirunelveli Junction-Gandhidham Junction weekly via Mangaluru Junction, Ernakulam Junction, Thiruvananthapuram Central, and Nagercoil Town will run till December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-trains-extended/article33312273.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Malaria caused by new variant from West Africa||An imported case of malaria, caused by a hitherto unfamiliar variant of the Plasmodium species (the malarial parasite), in the State, Plasmodium ovale , has been reported from the Kannur district hospital, said a press release issued by the Health Department here on Thursday. Malaria caused by Plasmodium ovale is endemic in Western Africa. It rarely causes severe illness or death. The Plasmodium variant was spotted during the laboratory investigations of a soldier who had recently returned to the State from Sudan and who had approached the Kannur district hospital after he fell ill. Malaria caused by Plasmodium vivax and the more dangerous Plasmodium falciparum are commonly reported in the State. Malaria is acquired by a person after a bite from an infected mosquito. The transmission The mosquito transmits plasmodia from its saliva into the host while ingesting a blood meal. The plasmodia then enter the red blood cells and feed on the haemoglobin. The patient was treated promptly and a local outbreak of malaria caused by Plasmodium o vale could be avoided, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malaria-caused-by-new-variant-from-west-africa/article33312277.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply to be disrupted in parts of city||Water supply will be disrupted in several areas under the Thirumala, Karamana and Kuriathi KWA section offices from 10 a.m. on Saturday to Sunday night, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) said. The KWA would be carrying out interconnection works on the new 75 mld water treatment plant coming up at Aruvikkara over the weekend, the officials said. The new plant, which is expected to solve the immediate water shortage faced in the capital city areas, will be linked to the pipeline of the existing 74 mld JICA water treatment plant at Aruvikkara. The work calls for a temporary halt in operations of the existing 74 mld JICA water treatment plant from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Saturday. In city areas This would hit water supply to several city areas, according to KWA officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-to-be-disrupted-in-parts-of-city/article33312440.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sivagiri pilgrimage to be scaled down||Arrangements are under way for the 88th Sivagiri pilgrimage, set to be observed virtually on December 30, 31, and January 1. Fewer than 1,000 pilgrims will be allowed into Sivagiri every day to reduce crowding. Strict COVID-19 protocols will be followed for the pilgrimage, Sivagiri Madom authorities said at a meeting to review the arrangements. No ‘annadanam’ Large conferences and other programmes will not be held this time. Speeches by prominent people and classes will be telecast through Sivagiri TV from December 25. Melas and other stalls will not be allowed to prevent gatherings at Sivagiri and surrounding areas. There will be no ‘annadanam’ and pilgrims will not be accommodated at Sivagiri this time. Special bus and train services too will not be available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivagiri-pilgrimage-to-be-scaled-down/article33312451.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Voting process of COVID patients flawed, says BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district president V.V. Rajesh has alleged widespread irregularities in the collection of postal ballots issued to special voters in the district. Teachers of University College and officials with CPI(M) leanings were assigned to the teams, which delivered the special ballots to the voters who were either COVID-19 positive or in quarantine in the Thiruvananthapuram district limits, Mr. Rajesh said in a statement here on Friday. Special voters While the special voters also had the option of sending the ballots to the returning officers by mail or special messenger after affixing their preference, the officers in question had forced them to hand the ballots over to them, Mr. Rajesh alleged. He alleged irregularities and lack of transparency in the collection and storage of the ballots. This was done with the knowledge of the CPI(M) district leadership, Mr. Rajesh alleged. Urgent steps sought The State Election Commission should take urgent measures to convince all political parties here that everything was above board before the votes were counted on December 16, the BJP leader said.  Irregularities were done with the knowledge of the CPI(M) district leadership.  V.V. Rajesh BJP district president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voting-process-of-covid-patients-flawed-says-bjp/article33312448.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Raveendran discharged from MCH||C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here. The Enforcement Directorate had summoned him for questioning at its office in Kochi in connection with its investigation into several government projects. Mr. Raveendran had e-mailed the agency that his hospitalisation for post-COVID-19 complications had prevented him from appearing before them. He had also said he would present himself for questioning within a fortnight. Mr. Raveendran’s failure to heed the summons of the ED for the third time had triggered speculation that the agency might seek the constitution of an independent medical board to assess his health condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raveendran-discharged-from-mch/article33312264.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Repoll in ward on Dec. 14||The State Election Commission (SEC) has ordered repolling in a polling station (number 2) in the Kattoor East ward in the Mararikulam South grama panchayat in Alappuzha district. The repoll was ordered after the electronic voting machines (EVMs) used there were found defective. The repoll will be held on December 14, said State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran here on Friday. The repoll will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. and the votes will be counted on December 16. The polling station was set up at Small Scale Coir Mat Producer Cooperative Society Hall, Sarvodayapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/repoll-in-ward-on-dec-14/article33312265.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Malayattoor award for George Onakkoor||Malayalam novelist and short story writer George Onakkoor has been selected for the 14th Malayattoor award instituted by the Malayattoor Smaraka Samithi for his biography titled Hridaya raagangal . The award comprises a cash prize of Rs. 25,000, a citation, and statuette. Award for poet The Malayattoor prize for outstanding writers has gone to Sandhya E. for her collection of poems named Ammayullathinaal . The prize includes a purse of Rs. 5,001, a citation, and statuette. The jury chaired by K. Jayakumar noted that Dr. Onakkoor’s work stood out for its touching portrayal of love and human relationships. It said the biography reflected the vast experience gained by the writer through his career and life. The committee chose Ms. Sandhya’s work for its depiction of human bonds and conflicts and unique themes. The awards will be given away at a function that will be organised in Thiruvananthapuram on December 27, the death anniversary of Malayattoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malayattoor-award-for-george-onakkoor/article33312270.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fire in outlet at Aryasala||A fire broke out in an outlet of a financial institution at Aryasala while its employees and customers were in the building on Friday. There were no casualties after all those who were inside escaped unhurt. The incident occurred around 12 p.m. when a suspected short-circuit sparked fire in an air-conditioning unit and pread to other parts. Following an immediate evacuation, the Fire and Rescue Services pressed three fire units into action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-in-outlet-at-aryasala/article33312439.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agasthyamala trekking season cancelled||The COVID-19 pandemic has forced the Forest Department to cancel the annual trekking season to Agasthyarkoodam (or Agasthyamala) and extend its off-season package in a bid to prevent crowding. The off-season package, which was wound up in March-end because of the pandemic situation, was revived on November 20. The authorities plan to continue with the package for the time being. Entry pass rates According to Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden J.R. Ani, the provision for individual online bookings has been cast aside for the time being. “The entry pass rates for groups of five people and 10 people have been fixed at Rs. 16,000 and Rs. 28,000 respectively,” the Wildlife Warden said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agasthyamala-trekking-season-cancelled/article33312452.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KEL records profit after 12 years||The Kerala Electrical and Allied Engineering Company Ltd. (KEL) has recorded profits after a gap of 12 years. The company recorded a profit of Rs. 70 lakh at the half-way point of the current financial year. The company’s unit in Mamala in Ernakulam alone had a revenue of Rs. 77 crore. KEL last returned profits in the 2007-08 financial year. One of the factors that led to the company turning profitable was the successful completion of a Rs. 111-crore order from the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB). The State government had provided operating capital for the project. The recent modernisation of the company’s units at Kundara and Mamala also aided in the turnaround. The State government took up development works of Rs. 18 crore at the two units. Civil works too KEL manufactures distribution transformers for the Kerala State Electricity Board and the electricity boards in other States. At the Kundara unit, alternators are made for Railways. In addition to this, the company has taken up civil works, including hanging bridges and other tourism projects, in various parts of the State. Power transformers The manufacture of power transformers has begun on a pilot basis at the Mamala unit. Mass manufacture will begin in December. Once the plan runs in full capacity, the company expects an extra revenue of Rs. 47 crore and a profit of Rs. 2.53 crore. Work on a manufacturing plant to make motors for electric vehicles is currently progressing at the Kundara plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kel-records-profits-after-gap-of-12-years/article33312245.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC directive on hit-and-run cases||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed top government officials to look into the demand to locate using modern communication avenues, vehicle owners who fail to stop after causing accidents. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, and the State Police Chief to submit reports in this connection within four weeks. The intervention comes on a complaint by the former Chief Secretary C.P. Nair. The complaint says it is the responsibility of the person causing the accident to take the victim to hospital at the earliest; not doing so was a punishable offence. In such cases of hit-and-run accidents, victims ended up not even getting compensation. Officials were reluctant to seize the vehicle involved in the accident. Steps should be taken to locate the vehicle owners after holding consultations with experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-directive-on-hit-and-run-cases/article33312233.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mahila Congress seeks action||The Mahila Congress has demanded that the CPI(M) activists whose alleged attack led to a two-month pregnant woman suffer a miscarriage in Vizhinjam be booked for murder. It deplored the hesitance of the women’s and the rights panels to register cases against the guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mahila-congress-seeks-action/article33312438.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrest 1||The Thampanoor police arrested two people, identified as Sanal, 39, of Balaramapuram and Shaji, 38, of Kalliyoor, for allegedly stealing the mobile phone of an autorickshaw driver. The accused duo has been involved in similar cases in the city, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrest-1/article33312446.ece
12 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrest 2||The Museum police arrested a 56-year-old man who allegedly operated a racket targetting KSFE branches for financial fraud. The Kudappanakunnu native Karthikeyan was caught after being accused of defrauding money from KSFE’s Sasthamangalam and Vazhuthacaud branches. He is said to be operating a gang..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrest-2/article33312447.ece
12 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||272 fresh cases in Thrissur||Thrissur reported 272 COVID-19 cases on Friday while 500 people recovered from the disease. There are 5,824 active cases in the district and 128 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 64,659 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 58,358 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 265 people, including one health worker, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of the patients, 52 are above the age of 60 and 13 are children below 10. Under observation In all, 4,041 patients are under home observation. A total of 126 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Friday. Also, 4,365 samples were collected. 257 in Palakkad As many as 257 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Friday. When 117 of them contracted the disease through interaction with infected persons, the source of infection could not be traced in 132 cases. Among the new cases are seven persons from across the borders and one health worker. District officials said that 243 people were cured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/272-fresh-cases-in-thrissur/article33312386.ece
12 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Minister did not violate rules, says Collector||Thrissur District Collector on Friday gave a clean chit to the presiding officer of the Panangattukara polling booth where Minister A.C. Moideen cast his vote on Thursday in the local body elections. The Collector gave his report to the Election Commission stating that there was no violation of election rules. There was an allegation that the presiding officer had allowed the Minister to vote at 6.55 a.m., five minutes ahead of the scheduled time for commencement of election. Official’s explanation T.N. Prathapan, MP, and District Congress Committee president M.P. Vincent had complained to the commission in this regard. According to the presiding officer, he allowed the Minister to vote when his watch showed the time 7 a.m. The voting started only after intimating polling agents of various political parties present at the booth, he said. However, Mr. Prathapan alleged that the Collector was lying. Alleging that the Collector was being loyal o the Left Democratic Front, Mr. Prathapan demanded that the State Election Commission keep the Collector away from the election process. He also urged the commission to monitor the counting process. “Officials from outside the district should look into the voting time of Mr. Moideen.” He also demanded that the Minister’s vote be declared invalid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-did-not-violate-rules-says-collector/article33312261.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lost in the ‘moss’ of time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lost-in-the-moss-of-time/article33312196.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Doctors up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-up-in-arms/article33312177.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For farmers’ cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-farmers-cause/article33312450.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ekadasi fete||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ekadasi-fete/article33312455.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Doctors on protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-on-protest/article33312393.ece
12 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu misleading people: Ministers||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy on Friday criticised TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu for trying to “mislead people” over the mystery illness that affected many in Eluru in West Godavari district. The Ministers visited Narayanavanam mandal in Satyavedu Assembly constituency to take part in various programmes pertaining to inauguration of and stone-laying for the Panchayat Raj roads. Addressing the media, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that despite the COVID-19 crisis and the financial stress it caused, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy continued to launch various welfare schemes. Mr. Naidu was green with envy as the Chief Minister endeared himself to all sections of people, particularly the BCs, the Minorities and the Dalits, by giving them important positions in the government. “It is unbecoming on the part of Mr. Naidu to sling mud on the YSRCP government,” he said. Mr. Narayanaswamy alleged that Mr. Naidu was trying to scuttle the Polavaram works. He said that Mr. Naidu, who claims to have four decades of experience in politics, should come up with constructive suggestions to tackle COVID-19 and the undiagnosed illness in Eluru. He said that Dalits would never forgive Mr. Naidu for belittling their birth in the past. District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, Satyavedu MLA K. Adimulam and mandal-level officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-misleading-people-ministers/article33312365.ece
12 December 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts chasing all possible leads||Doctors and officials of various government departments, who have been investigating the reasons behind the mystery disease since its outbreak one week ago in Eluru in West Godavari district, are still chasing all kinds of leads. As part of their efforts to unravel the causes behind the neurotoxicity symptoms with which people are being admitted to hospitals, expert teams camping in Eluru have sent food, water and milk samples to different laboratories. The expert teams comprise, among others, representatives of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi and Mangalagiri, National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), Hyderabad, Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). It is said that it may take a few more days before the lab reports are out, which probably will throw light on the exact cause of the illness. Meanwhile, for the second time, the reports of AIIMS, IICT and NIN that arrived on Friday confirmed the presence of lead and nickel in some blood samples, and organochlorine in a few others. The reports of AIIMS and IICT did not mention the presence of any chemicals in the water samples. The water samples being collected on a daily basis in Eluru and tested at different labs showed that it was safe for consumption. NIN report “Presence of herbicides (a chemical used to destroy weed and unwanted plants) has been found in the studies taken up by the NIN. The samples relating to vegetables, fish, meat, rice and soil are under analysis and their results are awaited,” Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla said. Earlier in the day, during a video-conference with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, scientists of the State and Central institutions said that a detailed study was under way to find out if there were any toxic chemicals or organophosphates in the blood samples of the patients. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, who called on the patients in the Eluru Government General Hospital (GGH), explained the treatment being extended to the patients. Health and Family Welfare Commissioner K. Bhaskar and Collector Revu Mutyala Raju detailed the precautionary measures being taken to check the spread of the disease. “Samples of chicken, fish, shrimp and mutton, and other food samples are being tested,” the Commissioner said. Total cases The Joint Collector put the total number cases since the outbreak of the disease on December 5 at 616. Of them, 576 were discharged. About 33 cases have been referred to the GGH in Vijayawada and Guntur, Mr. Shukla said. “We are expecting the lab reports by December 15 or 16. The number of patients being admitted with symptoms of epilepsy and convulsions has come down,” said District Coordinator of Hospital Services A.V.R. Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/experts-chasing-all-possible-leads/article33312374.ece
12 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Human rights an inalienable part of democracy: DGP||Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang has said that human rights are inalienable in democracy and are an embodiment of values, as they provide guidance for the protection and promotion of the rights of individuals. Addressing a meeting organised as part of International Human Rights Day at the VIT School of Law, Amaravati, Mr. Sawang said that Human Rights Day celebrated on December 10 marked an important reminder based on the current conditions, which we were experiencing with the pandemic. VIT-AP School of Law conducted a two-day outreach programme at Zilla Parishad High School at Mandadamto as part of Human Rights Day celebrations. The theme of the event was “Stand up for rights: Promotion and protection of human rights”. “We have National and State Human rights institutions, which are unique organisations set up by the government for the promotion of protection of human rights,” Mr. Sawang said. He said that Andhra Pradesh Police had been protecting the rights of people, particularly the marginalised and vulnerable sections of society.He called upon them to work with the AP police in close collaboration to serve the community. The programme was co-hosted by the Centre for Human Security Studies, a think-tank on Human Security in India, based in Hyderabad. Vice-Chancellor of VIT-AP University S.V. Kota Reddy highlighted the university’s contribution for the empowerment and promotion of the educational rights by supporting the education of student belonging to trhe marginalised communities. He said that they were providing the free education under STARS programme as part of academic social responsibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/human-rights-an-alienable-part-of-democracy-dgp/article33311790.ece
12 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||DBRC demands changes in SC/ST Sub-Plan Act||The Dalit Bahujan Resource Centre (DBRC) has demanded that the SC/ST Sub-Plan Act be renamed as SC/ST Development Fund Act. During a State-level meeting held to discuss allocation and utilisation of SC/ST Sub Plan Budget, DBRC executive secretary Devakumar urged activists /social workers/ NGOs/ community leaders to ensure that the schemes meant for the welfare and development of the SCs, STs under sub-plan reached the eligible beneficiaries. About 92 participants from different NGOs, activists, Dalit Adivasi leaders from different districts of Andhra Pradesh discussed the need for amendments in the Act for effective implementation of the SC/ST sub plan funds. The representatives demanded that funds under the sub-plan directly reach the Dalits and Adivasis, and that the departments receiving funds design and implement exclusive schemes for the development of SC, ST communities. The DBRC demanded that the government remove the 10 years’ time limit for sub plan Act as the Act was coming to an end by 2023. Funds unspent in a financial year should to be carried forward to the next financial year and spent along with the next years allocated budget, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dbrc-demands-changes-in-scst-sub-plan-act/article33311789.ece
12 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kin of Vaddera Corpn. chief booked for ‘abusing’ hospital staff||A day after chairperson of Vaddera Corporation Devalla Revathy reportedly entered into a fracas with staff at the toll plaza at Kaza village on the National Highway No 5, her nephew Vadiya Razulu on Friday allegedly abused the staff of Kranthi Hospital at Dachepalli. Video grab goes viral A video grab of the incident went viral on social media. The hospital belongs to a senior doctor Vikranth at Dachepalli and the incident triggered a public reaction as people reached the hospital. The Dachepalli police registered a case and are investigating. On Thursday, Ms. Revathy allegedly had an altercation at Kaza after the staff stopped her car when she was passing through the emergency lane. A video of her abusing the staff went viral and a police case was registered at Mangalagiri. Later, Ms. Revathy claimed that she had been stopped for 30 minutes and her ailing mother was in the car. She said that she had a local pass and FASTag badge and was using the emergency lane as she was entitled to it as a chairperson of BC Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kin-of-vaddera-corpn-chief-booked-for-abusing-hospital-staff/article33311791.ece
12 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||1.63 lakh houses to be constructed in first phase||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has said that the State government has fixed a target of constructing 1.63 lakh houses during the first phase, and asked the departments to finalise tenders for procuring construction material. During a review meeting on the progress of housing scheme — finalisation of tenders and evaluation — the Collector said the housing department would provide construction material after tenders were finalised under reverse tendering process. The members of tender evaluation committee should finalise the rates. Joint Collector P. Prasanthi, PD, Housing, Venugopala Rao, R&B SE, Madhavi Sukanya, DPO Kondaiah, CPDCL SE M. Vijaya Kumar, Mining DD, Subramaneswara Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/163-lakh-houses-to-be-constructed-in-first-phase/article33311792.ece
12 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel delves into rise in E.G. maternal mortality rate||The District Committee on Maternal Morality, headed by East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, on Friday decided to intensify the efforts to check the MMR (Maternal Mortality Rate) despite bringing every pregnant woman under the watch of the existing health missions. The committee reviewed the apparent reasons for the 20 maternal mortalities reported between December 2019 and June 2020 across the district. Doctors warned The exact reasons for the 20 mortalities had been sought from the District Medical and Health Officer and District Coordinator of Hospital Services, to prepare an action plan to put a check the alarming rate of MMR. Mr. Muralidhar and Joint Collector Ch. Kirthi said doctors at the ground level and supporting staff associated with the National Rural Health Mission should be held responsible for the rise in the MMR and stringent action would be initiated against those who fail to deliver the stipulated services to the targeted group to prevent the deaths. “Malnutrition should also be addressed by covering every needy woman through visits to the villages and households,” said Mr. Muralidhar. He said the medical and health staff were expected to contribute their role in reducing the MMR by utilising the existing services, programmes and medical infrastructure facilities. The field level staff, particularly ANMs, had been told to ensure that every pregnant woman should undergo all the medical examinations prescribed by the doctors to assess their health status as such initiatives would help prevent the MMR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-delves-into-rise-in-eg-maternal-mortality-rate/article33312403.ece
12 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Silver worth Rs. 4.35 crore seized from SUV, 5 held||The police arrested four persons as well as a minor at Amakathadu toll plaza on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru National Highway-44 near Dhone and recovered 686.5 kgs of silver biscuits allegedly being transported illegally from Raipur in Chhattisgarh to Salem in Tamil Nadu in an SUV. The market value of the seized silver would be around Rs. 4.35 crore, the police said. “The silver biscuits stuffed in 18 bags were stashed in secret compartments under the seats of the vehicle. The precious metal was being transported from one State to the other without any valid documents or payment of tax,” Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli told the media on Friday. Acting on credible information, a team of police personnel intercepted the vehicle on Thursday night and made the arrests. The police also seized the SUV bearing registration number KA24 M 3751. Minor among the accused The accused have been identified as J. Prakash Jayaram (39) , Bhaskar (38) , Katrivel (29), Satish (34), and a minor, all believed to be natives of Tamil Nadu. Cases under under Section 41 & 102 of the Cr.Pc were registered at Krishnagiri police station. The local VRO and a goldsmith assessed the value of the silver seized from the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/silver-worth-rs-435-crore-seized-from-suv-5-held/article33311806.ece
12 December 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP seeks revival of floriculture institute||Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Friday appealed to Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) Director General Trilochan Mohapatra to revive the Floriculture Research Institute (FRI), Vemagiri in East Godavari district, saying that it would help the flower nurseries being grown in above 11,500 hectares in the district. In an interaction with Dr. Mohapatra in New Delhi on Friday, Mr. Bharat told him that the Directorate of Floriculture Research, Pune laid the foundation stone for the Floriculture Research Institute at Vemagiri in 2019. “However, the ICAR is yet to depute a single scientist or supporting staff till date. The revival of the FRI is need of the hour for development of new varieties, improve production technologies, plant production and transfer of new technologies to the field of flower nurseries in Andhra Pradesh,” the MP pointed out. In 2015, Mr. Bharat said, the State government spared 10.77 acres of land as sought by the ICAR for the FRI at Vemagiri near Rajamahendravaram. Support needed “The farmers are in need of support from the scientists from the ICAR, despite registering success in the flower nurseries with their traditional knowledge. The flower nurseries in the mandals of Kadiyam, Atreyapuram, Alamuru and Mandapeta in East Godavari district are home for more than 300 varieties of ornamental flower species,” said Mr. Bharat in his representation to Dr. Mohapatra. An estimated 50,000 people including farmers, agricultural workers and others are involved in the flower nurseries in East Godavari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-seeks-revival-of-floriculture-institute/article33312405.ece
12 December 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quality of Godavari water will be tested: MP||In view of the mystery illness cases in Eluru in West Godavari district, the water being drawn from the Godavari to cater to the consumption needs of Rajamahendravaram city in East Godavari district will be tested for its quality at the laboratories of the Central Water Commission (CWC), according to MP M. Bharat. In a release on Friday, Mr. Bharat said, “Officials from the Food Safety, Groundwater, Pollution Control Board and Rural Water Supply departments have been directed to collect the water samples from the Godavari from different locations for the purpose. The precautionary measure is aimed at continuing the supply without leading to any health complications.” “The CWC authorities have been requested to extend technical support,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quality-of-godavari-water-will-be-tested-mp/article33312366.ece
12 December 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||83% patients are vegetarians||Officials of the Health and Family Welfare (H&FW) Department said 83% of the patients who complained of epilepsy, convulsions and seizures consumed vegetarian food and only 17% consumed non-vegetarian food. Scientists of National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), Food Safety Department and other departments collected fish, shrimp, meat and chicken samples from Eluru and the neighbouring areas and sent them to the State Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kakinada, and NIN, Hyderabad, for analysis. “The scientists enquired whether the patients took vegetarian or non-vegetarian food a few days before they fell sick and on the day they suffered symptoms. More than 80% said they took only vegetarian food,” said a doctor. H&FW Commissioner K. Bhaskar, who camped at Eluru, said 83% of the patients who were undergoing treatment in Eluru GGH took vegetarian food before they fell sick. “Owing to Karteeka Masam, consumption of non-vegetarian food has come down,” Mr. Bhaskar said. Analysis of water Officials of the Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM), Pollution Control Board and Ground Water Department collected more than 200 water samples from various tanks, canals, taps, wells and borewells for analysis. “The PCB has collected samples from Eluru canal, and water reservoir, at Denduluru, water purification plant of Eluru Municipal Corporation, water tank at Kota Dibba, water sample at Vadderagudem, canal water sample at Postal Colony and sample from Pamula Cheruvu. The samples have been sent to PCB zonal laboratory, Visakhapatnam, for testing,” said a PCB official. “We collected water sample from many ponds, taps and borewells, including Erra Kaluva and summer storage tank, on Eluru outskirts. The results are awaited,” said an IPM official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/83-patients-are-vegetarians/article33312372.ece
12 December 2020||T. Appala NaiduMACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vedanta moots oil, gas exploration in 35 locations in KG basin||Environmental experts and academics are up in arms against the onshore oil and gas development and production proposed by Vedanta Limited (Cairn Oil & Gas Division) at 35 locations in the Kaza block in Krishna district in the Krishna-Godavari basin (KG Basin) of Andhra Pradesh. Vedanta group has proposed to drill 35 hydrocarbon wells to produce 30,000 barrels of oil per day and 30 million metric standard cubic feet of natural gas in the Kaza block (KG/ONDSF/KAZA/2018 Block) in the KG Basin, with an investment of Rs. 650 crore. According to an official document of the MOEFCC, the exploration will be done up to 10 years in a phased manner beginning from 2021 in the block that spreads in 114.93 sq. km. According to the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report submitted by the Vedanta group, each well pad woule be spread in 9 hectares and 10 hydrocarbon processing facilities would be set up as part of the onshore oil and gas development and production project. The land would be initially gathered on the lease basis during the exploration. The Union government was encouraging oil exploration and gas production under the Discovered Small Fields (DSF) Policy, it said. Geologist and Andhra University retired professor Krishna Rao pointed out that the EIA report did not speak on the land subsidence, which earlier occurred due the oil and gas exploration in East Godavari district. Various studies by the Andhra University on KG basin, IIT-Banaras on Vedanta group’s Ravva fields had exposed land subsidence, he claimed. The air pollution data shown in the report was far from the ground reality, he alleged. Public hearing The AP Pollution Control Board would conduct an environmental public hearing on the project at Tarakturu village in Guduru mandal in Krishna district on December 17. As many as 35 villages would be affected by the project in the four mandals of Movva, Guduru, Kalidindi and Machilipatnam. AP Human Rights Forum group comprising its State secretary Y. Rajesh, Krishna district convener P. Amar and co-convener G. Rohit launched a campaign, creating awareness on the hazards due to “fracking method” in the oil exploration. “We have already covered the entire stretch of Guduru and Machilipatnam mandals, where people are unaware of the consequences of oil exploration and its impact on the groundwater source, prospects of agriculture in the Kaza block in future", said Mr. Rajesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-to-oil-exploration-plan-in-ap/article33311687.ece
12 December 2020||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIT, Seagrass Tech sign MoU||National Institute of Technology (NIT) Andhra Pradesh and Seagrass Tech Private Limited have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to take up joint investigation and offer training to NIT students. Officials of NIT, located at Tadepalligudem in West Godavari district, and the company signed the MoU on Friday. Chennai-based Seagrass Tech Private Limited has expressed willingness to offer internships for B.Tech. and M.Tech. students, said NIT Director Prof. C.S.P. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nit-seagrass-tech-sign-mou/article33311797.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati byelection: BJP sees opportunity to prove strength||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) perceives a hidden opportunity in the ensuing byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha to prove its strength in the State. Party’s State Mahila Morcha president Nirmala Kishore, who addressed the workers of the party’s Tirupati east zone unit here on Friday, said the party was ready to launch its winning streak from Tirupati. The workers should be prepared to undertake any task the moment the poll bugle was blown. With the tagline ‘Gunde gundeku BJP’, the party workers should try to enrol as many members into the party as possible by showcasing the development projects at Centre. She also advised the party workers to hoist party flags atop their buildings to let the message go down to every lane. Ms. Nirmala Kishore said the workers should derive strength from the party’s development agenda and feel encouraged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for equitable development. She also hinted at the need for the party to develop strength at the booth level to give a tough fight in the elections. Leaders from as many as 47 mandals under the Tirupati constituency including State spokesperson Samanchi Srinivas, zonal president K. Viswanath, leaders Gundala Gopinath Reddy and K.Chandrababu Yadav participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-byelection-bjp-sees-opportunity-to-prove-strength/article33312376.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs seized||The Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) seized a huge haul of 49 logs in the forest near Srinivasa Mangapuram here in the early hours of Friday. Superintendent of Police (RSASTF) K. Anjaneyulu said the teams, led by Reserve Sub-Inspector Vasu and Deputy Range Officer Narasimha Rao combed the Bhakarapet forest on Thursday night and found some woodcutters carrying the logs and crossing the road at around 1.30 a.m. When intercepted, the persons dumped the logs and fled the area into the nearby bushes under the cover of thick fog and darkness, he said. The task force launched a manhunt to nab the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-logs-seized/article33312377.ece
12 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minimum balance must for Post Office SB accounts||Those who have savings bank accounts in post office are required to maintain a minimum balance of Rs. 500, starting Friday (December 11). Failure to ensure the minimum balance will attract a maintenance charge of Rs. 100. The charge will be levied from Saturday (December 12) . In a press release, Superintendent of Post Offices (Tirupati Division) A. Srinivasa Rao has appealed to the customers to register or update the nomination forms in all types of accounts immediately. The customers also need to link or update their Aadhaar card numbers and cellphone numbers to receive SMS alerts and avail of the other mobile banking services, said Srinivasa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minimum-balance-must-in-post-office-sb-accounts/article33312407.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kondapalli toy makers to get a leg-up||To provide the much-needed leg-up to the traditional artisans of Kondapalli village in Krishna district, Vijayawada Lok Sabha member Kesineni Nani has brought them under the fold of the National Institute of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (NIMSME). Kondapalli toys are famous for their light weight, vibrant colours and age-old production techniques. Themed around mythology, rural life and animals, these toys exhibit joyous and realistic expressions but the artisans, who have been practising this art of making toys using a wood called ‘puniki’ have never got the recognition they deserve. Under the Central scheme, funds to the tune of Rs. 1.85 crore have been sanctioned to impart training to the toy makers in skills needed to upgrade their living standards. The Centre bears 90% of the cost and the remaining 10% is to be borne by the beneficiaries. Since the artisans cannot afford it, Mr. Nani allocated the funds (Rs. 42.50 lakh) from MPLADS (Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme). "A society called Kodapalli Toy-Makers' Association has been formed and a new society building is being constructed from where the scheme would be implemented,” said Mr. Nani. This is done under SFURTI (Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries), launched by the Ministry of MSME in 2005 to promote cluster development. “We are also building nearly 25 shops in Kondapalli village. Of the many toy makers' families, only 80 of them are left in the village. We want to help them eke out a decent living sticking to their traditional art,” said the MP. New building In 1963, the State government constructed a building that housed the artisans society, along the main road. The building is in a dilapidated state. The plan is to demolish the old structure and raise a new building there for the society to function. Mr. Nani said over the years, the toy-making families left this traditional art and shifted to other works as it was no more lucrative in terms of financial benefits. “The idea is to equip the artisans with enhanced skills and help them bring a novelty in their work and attract the younger generations to this unique art,” said the MP, adding that the plan to help the artisans originated a couple of years ago but is being implemented now. The foundation stone for the society building was laid at the village on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kondapalli-toy-makers-to-get-a-leg-up/article33312379.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transparency is key in transfer of teachers, says Minister||Education Minister A. Suresh on Friday said the process of teachers’ transfers would be initiated in a transparent way, without leaving any scope for irregularities. Addressing a press conference, he said the transfers would be based on web counselling and for the understanding of the teachers, a demo on how to exercise one’s options in a web-based counselling had been uploaded on a YouTube channel which could be made use of. He said details of the district-wise vacant posts would be announced and the transfer process would be based on the GOs 53, 54 and 59. The process would be monitored by the Joint Collectors (Development), and headmasters who had completed five years in a school and a teacher who had worked at the same school for eight years would be transferred for sure. Informing that the transfer process had started on November 28, the Minister said from November 30, a seniority list was prepared and from December 3 to 7, the teachers were asked to convey to their respective DEOs if they had any objections to be raised. The DEOs were asked to prepare the final list from December 8 to 10 and from December 16 to 21, final allocations would be made to the teachers. Mr. Suresh said depending on their service, 0.5 marks were being allocated per year, and transfers were being given based on these marks. Services of minimum number of teachers would be made available even in schools located in remote Girijan areas, he said. The Minister said of the 1.72 lakh teacher posts sanctioned, 15,000 posts had been blocked and these vacant posts would be filled with regular recruitment, giving priority to the posts in remote Girijan areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transparency-is-key-in-transfer-of-teachers-says-minister/article33311794.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM will kick-start resurvey of lands on Dec. 21: Minister||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the comprehensive resurvey of lands under the ‘Jagananna Bhu Hakku - Bhu Raksha’ scheme on December 21. The resurvey being jointly undertaken by the Revenue, Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration departments, and the Survey of India (SoI), will take off at Takkellapadu in Jaggaiahpet mandal of Krishna district, and cover 17,460 villages spanning over 1.26 lakh square kilometres in three phases. Completion deadline “It is targeted to be completed by August 2023 at an estimated cost of Rs. 987 crore,” Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Revenue Dharmana Krishnadas told the media on Friday. A total of 2.26 crore acres of agricultural land would be surveyed as part of the massive project. The Minister said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had contemplated the exercise during the 2019 election campaign when a large number of people, especially farmers, brought to his notice the huge anomalies related to land boundaries. “Much work has since been done to get the lands surveyed afresh. A pilot project has already been implemented successfully at Takkellapadu, where the CM will give away title deeds to the land owners on December 21,” the Minister said, and added that the resurvey would help in quick settlement of disputes. Mr. Krishnadas said resurvey would be done in 5,000 villages in the first phase. Title deeds, along with maps, would be given to the land owners in accordance with the AP Land Titling Bill, 2020. Advanced tech The government would be deploying Continuously Operating Reference System (CORS), which was an advanced technology used in the survey of lands. Training was imparted to 9,500 surveyors and 70 base stations were being set up. Chief Commissioner of Land Administration Neerabh Kumar Prasad said drones and rovers would be pressed into service, in addition to the conventional civic engineering methods. The land owners would be given unique numbers on the lines of Aadhaar. The government is funding the survey to the extent of Rs. 5,000 per square kilometre. A sum of Rs. 200 crore has been contributed by the Centre. Principal Secretary (revenue) V. Usha Rani and Commissioner of Survey and Settlement Siddharth Jain were present.  Title deeds, along with maps, will be given to the land owners in accordance with the AP Land Titling Bill D. KrishnaDas Revenue Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-will-kick-start-resurvey-of-lands-on-dec-21-minister/article33311691.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 recovery rate increases to 98.60% in State||The State witnessed two more deaths and 520 new COVID infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The tally increased to  8,74,515 and the toll reached 7,049. One each new death was reported in Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts and the death rate remains at 0.81%. The recovery rate slightly increased to 98.60% as a total of 8,62,230 patients have recovered from the disease so far. Of them, 519 patients have recovered in the past day and the number of active cases stand at 5,236.   The overall positivity rate of the 1.06 crore samples tested so far slightly came down to 8.17%. In the past day 64,425 samples were tested and the positivity rate was 0.80%. Chittoor recorded the highest single-day tally of 108 infections in the past day while Krishna reported 71 infections. West Godavari reported 69, Guntur 64 and East Godavari 59 new infections. The remaining districts reported less than 50 new cases. They include Visakhapatnam (34), Anantapur (29), Prakasam (21), Kurnool (20), Nellore (13), Vizianagaram (12), Srikakulam (11) and Kadapa (9). The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,900), West Godavari (93,226), Chittoor (84,653), Guntur (73,801), Anantapur (66,972), Nellore (61,736), Prakasam (61,729), Kurnool (60,354), Visakhapatnam (58,595), Kadapa (54,608), Krishna (46,543), Srikakulam (45,671) and Vizianagaram (40,832).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-recovery-rate-increases-to-9860-in-state/article33312363.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu condemns attack on TDP leaders in Chittoor||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Friday condemned the attack on his party leaders allegedly by the YSRCP activists in Kurabala Kota mandal of Chittoor district, and demanded stringent action against those responsible. ‘YSRCP behind incident’ In a statement, Mr. Naidu said that TDP national general secretary Nallari Kishore Kumar Reddy, Rajampet parliamentary segment president Srinivasula Reddy and former MLA of Tamballapalle Shankar Yadav were attacked allegedly by 200 YSRCP leaders when they were on their way to B. Kothakota. Four cars were damaged in the incident, he said, and added that party leader R. Madhu Babu suffered a serious head injury. ‘Scribe targeted’ The attackers also targeted a journalist and snatched his mobile phone and camera, Mr. Naidu said. The TDP leaders were on their way to console the family members of the deceased party activist at B. Kothakota. Demanding the immediate arrest of those responsible for the attack, Mr. Naidu said there was “total breakdown of law and order under the YSRCP rule.” He said the ruling party leaders and cadres, with the tacit support of those at the helm, had been attacking innocent persons as they knew that they could get away with such acts. “There is no rule of law in the State as the Police Department is completely under the control of the YSRCP,” the TDP national president alleged. TDP State president K. Atchannaidu, in a separate statement, demanded the arrest of the attackers within 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-condemns-attack-on-tdp-leaders-in-chittoor/article33312369.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Restore people’s faith in rule of law’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has expressed concern over “total breakdown of law and order in the State.” Whistleblower’s murder In a letter to Director General of Police Gautam Sawang, the TDP chief demanded that the culprits behind the murder of Pamuri Guru Pratap Reddy, a former CRPF constable, be immediately brought to book. Mr. Naidu alleged that the 47-year-old whistleblower from Penji Anantapuram village of Kondapur mandal in Jammalamadugu Assembly segment in Kadapa district was targeted for raising his voice against rampant corruption of the ruling YSRCP leaders. Mr. Naidu alleged that people who questioned the ruling party were being tortured and killed. He further alleged that the government was trying to portray it as a faction feud. “In fact, it was a blatant killing of an upright person who tried to expose the misdeeds of the ruling party leaders,” Mr. Naidu asserted. The TDP president said there was an urgent need to initiate stringent action against such criminals to restore people’s faith in the rule of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restore-peoples-faith-in-rule-of-law/article33312370.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students told to acquire skills||In this competitive world, acquiring skills is important to be able to utilise the available opportunities in the market, said B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, founder and executive chairman of a Hyderabad-based company Cyient Ltd. He was delivering a lecture on “New opportunities in emerging technologies”, organised by the Department of Youth Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-told-to-acquire-skills/article33312380.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Samagra Parishrama Survey gets ‘Elets Award of Excellence’||Director of Industries and AP Economic Development Board CEO J.V.N. Subramanyam received an Award of Excellence for Digital Governance for implementing “Samagra Parishrama Survey - 2020” (SPS) at Elets Knowledge Exchange Summit organised by Elets Technomedia on Friday. Digital governance This virtual event celebrated the spirit of innovation in digital governance and excellence in India where innovative and path breaking initiatives that have transformed governance by integrating digital interventions enhanced efficiency were rewarded. Testimony to State’s reform agenda Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Subramanyam said the award was a testimony to the State’s reform agenda and SPS was made possible by the efforts of field functionaries at mandal and district level and convergence across the departments. Elets Technomedia SPS 2020 has so far covered over 50,000 industrial units and it would be soon scaled up. Elets Technomedia is a premier technology and media research organisation present in Asia and the Middle East, said Mr. Subramanyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/samagra-parishrama-survey-gets-elets-award-of-excellence/article33312476.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City Police gunning for visible policing||The sight of a police vehicle or a policeman in uniform has been known to act as a deterrent for people attempting to violate law and order. Keeping this aspect in mind, the City Police has embarked on a number of projects to improve visible policing in the city, by leveraging technology for better results. As part of the project, Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha has identified 23 key locations from Lankelapalem to Anandapuram, where a police vehicle equipped with GPS and VHF sets will be posted. “The 23 PCR vehicles will located at all key locations round-the-clock and we will be tracking their location real-time from the Command Control Centre. Every two minutes, we will get an update from the vehicles. The vehicles are given a clear cut and fixed route map and they will patrol a distance of 500 m every one hour and stay put at the location for an hour,” Mr. Sinha said. “The aim is to make our presence felt. At least one constable in the vehicle will be a first responder in times of a crisis or an untoward incident,” he added. Another initiative started by the City Police is the ‘sub-control’ system. All 23 police stations under the Commissionerate will have mobile sub-control centres. Each sub-control will comprise two constables in a police car or on a motorcycle. They will be given a defined area for patrolling, and they will cover busy areas like RK Beach, YMCA, AVN College, and Jagadamba Junction. Each constable will be on a 12-hour shift and the controls will work round the clock. The vehicles are GPS-enabled and can be monitored real-time from the Command Control Centre. “Apart from being the first responders, they will also perform the duty of enforcement while on patrol,” he said. E-Beats is another initiative started by the City Police. There are about 112 law and order e-beats and 38 crime e-beats. The motorcycle-borne policemen will be given a tab, loaded with the Agile App, which was developed by the City Police. The position of the e-beats are plotted by the respective station heads and monitored from the CCC. “Their position can be tracked, checked and verified from the CCC,” said Mr. Sinha. To create awareness among women on various aspects such as Disha App, women police constables will patrol the Beach Road and public places on hoverboards and bicycles. “We have two hoverboards, and every evening, two women police constables will go around the Beach Road, meeting women and educating them about the emergency app and other safety measures. We will also have 75 bicycles and women constables will use them to spread awareness among women,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-police-gunning-for-visible-policing/article33312487.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||First village secretariat inaugurated in district||The first village secretariat building in the district was inaugurated by Collector V. Vinay Chand in the presence of Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi and Chodavaram MLA Karanam Dharmasri at Jannavaram village of Chodavaram mandal in the district on Friday. The Collector participated in a series of development programmes along with the MP and MLA in Chodavaram. He also inspected the Zilla Parishad High School at Lakshmipuram and tasted the midday meal, and participated in the inauguration of the panchayat building at Simhadripuram and in gram sabhas. He said that the village secretariat was established to provide government services at the village-level and to solve the problems of villagers at the local-level. There were around 10,000 families, living in each mandal of the district. The poor people of the villages have to travel all the way to the mandal and district headquarters to get their works done and to avail of the benefits under various government schemes. The list of the beneficiaries, selected under various schemes, would be displayed at the secretariats. Those who do not find their names, for any reason, can submit the necessary documents and get their names included, if they were eligible for it. The Collector said that a dhobi ghat would be constructed and a school would be established at Jannavaram village. He said the Chodavaram sugar factory would also see good days. The Chodavaram MLA spoke about the welfare schemes introduced by the YSR Congress government and thanked the Collector for allocating Rs. 104 crore for drinking water schemes in the constituency. The Anakapalle MP inaugurated the panchayat building at Simhadripuram and said a community hall would also be built in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-village-secretariat-inaugurated-in-district/article33312485.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amma Vodi: Rs. 15,000 aid to be given a year for each student||The Director of School Education, Andhra Pradesh, announced that financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 a year will be given to students hailing from underprivileged sections studying from Classes I to XII, under the Jagananna Amma Vodi scheme, for the 2020-21 academic year. Activities like obtaining personal details, Aadhaar numbers, and bank account details of the student’s guardian, will be taken up from December 9 to 30. The headmasters will be responsible for the enrolment of children and updating their particulars. The Education Department has fixed a timeline for collection of details, confirmation, and rectification of errors, if any, and preparation of the list of eligible beneficiaries. The department had conducted a meeting with State, district and mandal-level education officer on December 9 and issued clear instructions to them in this regard. The list of students has to be placed online on the child info/Gyanabhoomi portal. The list of the students would be verified through a six-stage process and the eligible list of mothers/guardians would be released by December 16. Lists can be downloaded from the Amma Vodi portal and displayed on the school and village/ward secretariat notice boards. Discrepancies in details have to be sorted out by the school principals and complaints regarding eligibility of a beneficiary would have to be sent to the Joint Collector for necessary action. The final list, after corrections, would be displayed on the portal by December 26. The headmasters of all primary, upper primary, high schools and secondary schools have been instructed to abide by the instructions. District Education Officer B. Lingeswara Reddy said that three 24/7 helpline centres have been opened at the DEO’s office in Visakhapatnam for the education divisions of Visakhapatnam, Yelamanchili and Paderu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amma-vodi-rs-15000-aid-to-be-given-a-year-for-each-student/article33312408.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four arrested for extortion||The Duvvada police in the city arrested four persons for allegedly extorting money from a realtor on Friday. Police recovered Rs. 60,000 in cash, a fake pistol and a sharp-edged knife from them. They were produced in the court and sent to judicial remand for 15 days. “A man named P.S.N. Raju of Duvvada, working at the steel plant, was operating a real estate business in his wife’s name. Two local ruffians named P. Santosh and M. Lovaraju were allegedly demanding money from him and had also threatened to kill him,” Duvvada Circle Inspector K. Lakshmi said. The duo collected Rs. 9.5 lakh in phases and still wanted more. Two days ago, they allegedly held him captive in a four-storied building and demanded a huge amount of money. Mr. Raju somehow escaped and went to the police. The accused, and their accomplices Nagesh and Gandhi, were arrested a day later. The CI said Santosh, a known anti-social, is accused in nine cases, including attempt to murder. Lovaraju has four cases pending against him. “Both have been extorting money from people in Gajuwaka and Duvvada from quite some time,” the CI added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-for-extortion/article33312435.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revoke CCIM amendment: IMA||Many private hospitals closed their outpatient services and observed a bandh in solidarity with the call given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to protest the notification on amendment to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) Act, in the city on Friday. Meanwhile, government doctors and PG and undergraduate medical students, owing allegiance to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), AP Government Doctors’ Association (APGDA), staged a protest in front of the administrative block of King George Hospital (KGH) to express their resentment at the decision of the Centre to integrate different systems of medicine and allow practitioners of Ayurveda to conduct surgeries. The participants, carrying banners and placards, raised slogans denouncing the move. Private hospitals join protest Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital, Subham Prema Hospital, ANITS NRI Hospital, Sudha Dental Hospital and Padmavathi Nursing Home were among the private hospitals which closed their OP services and held protests in response to the call given by IMA. IMA State president Dr. N. Subrahmanyam, State CWC Member Dr. Vijayasekhar and Visakhapatnam branch president Dr. P.A. Ramani said that the recent change in policy and the medical pluralism advocated by the National Education Policy, 2020, and the four committees of NITI Aayog for officially integrating the different systems of medicine in medical education, practice, public health and research would spell the doom of modern medicine. The notification of the amendment to the CCIM Act allows Ayurveda practitioners to do 58 types of surgeries, including various abdominal operations and various ENT and eye operations. The IMA also wondered as to how Ayurvedic practitioners can perform surgeries in the absence of anaesthesia and antibiotics in Ayurveda. Meanwhile, the AP Medical and Sales Representatives Union (APMSRU) extended total support to the agitation of the doctors. APMSRU district president K.K. Choudhary and State secretary Chandramouli deplored the move of the government and demanded withdrawal of the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revoke-ccim-amendment-ima/article33312482.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC sends water samples for testing||In the aftermath of the outbreak of an undiagnosed illness in Eluru in West Godavari district, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) sent its water samples to Regional Laboratory and Pollution Control Board for testing. Though GVMC tests the water at all its reservoirs on a daily basis, these samples were sent as a precautionary measure. Speaking to The Hindu , GVMC Superintendent Engineer Venugopal said that every day, 1,620 samples are drawn from the 256 reservoirs under its purview and sent for tests. As many as 750 samples are sent to a third-party analyser named BS Chemicals, and the remaining are done by the department itself. “Basically, on a daily basis we conduct the test for chlorination. But now, we have sent the samples for tests in about 13 parameters, such as COD (chemical oxygen demand), BOD (biochemical oxygen demand), PH and turbidity,” he said. GVMC supplies water to about 23 lakh people. It supplies about 65 mgd of potable water and about 15 mgd to industry. “There are different parameters of tests for the raw and potable water and we check for various aspects such as fluoride, PH, iron and turbidity. We also check for bacteria and chlorinate the water to remove bacteria before supplying it to people,” he said. Reservoirs being cleaned “After the Eluru incident, the GVMC is taking steps to clean all its reservoirs and pipelines. We will be doing it in phases so that the water supply is not affected,” Mr. Venugopal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-sends-water-samples-for-testing/article33312480.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deeparadhana organised in Vizag by TTD||‘Sahasra Kartika Deeparadhana’ was organised by Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad and SVBC channel at MGM Park on Beach Road in Visakhapatnam on Friday. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said ‘Gudiko Gomatha’ programme was launched by TTD during the auspicious Kartika month. As part of the programme, the TTD will give one cow to each temple. The programme was launched at Sri Kanakadurga temple in Vijayawada. He said the programme will be launched in Telangana in a couple of days and will soon be launched in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. He said every year, they will conduct the Srivari Kartika Sahasra Depotsavam. Member of Parliament B Satyavati, MLAs Gudivada Amarnadh, Tippala Nagireddy and Karanam Dharmasri, and other leaders were present. Earlier, Mr. Subba Reddy along with Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao reviewed the progress of works at the Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple which is under construction at Rushikonda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deeparadhana-organised-in-vizag-by-ttd/article33312410.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LVPEI bags prestigious Greenberg Prize||The LV Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI) has added another feather to its cap by being selected for the prestigious ‘Greenberg Prize – End Blindness 2020’. Dr. Gullapalli N. Rao, Founder-Chair, LVPEI, will receive the award in the ‘outstanding achievement prize’ category. The winners were chosen based on the strength of their contributions to eliminate blindness. ‘End Blindness’ was a movement created by Dr. Sanford Greenberg, who had himself lost his eyes at the age of 19, and his wife Susan. When Dr. Greenberg was chairman of the board of governors of Johns Hopkins University's Wilmer Eye Institute in 2012, this award was announced to recognise the work of the scientific and medical communities who pioneer the fight against blindness. Dr. Rao said in a statement that he was humbled to accept the prestigious award on behalf of the 3,000-strong family of LVPEI and its supporters across the world. Eliminating avoidable blindness by 2020 was an aspiration of the global eye care community for over two decades, he said, expressing his gratitude to the Sanford and Susan Greenberg End Blindness Foundation for recognising the contributions of LVPEI to this global effort. Prize winners will be honoured in two categories: the Outstanding Achievement Prize, highlighting profound strides toward preventing and curing blindness, and The Visionary Prize, providing funding for scientists. LVPEI shares the award with one more organisation in India. The hour-long award ceremony will be streamed live and will be freely accessible and will be streamed online. It can be watched in India live at 5.30 a.m. December 15 onendblindness2020.com/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lvpei-bags-prestigious-greenberg-prize/article33312483.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in road accident||Two persons died on the spot after their motorbike hit a pole on the Beach Road-Yendada route in the wee hours of Friday. The deceased were identified as Mohan Rao (24), a resident of Jalaripeta in Vizag, and H. Sekhar (27), a resident of Palasa. Police said overspeeding led to the mishap. The bodies were sent for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-in-road-accident/article33312488.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 40L chit fund fraud in city||A woman from China Waltair, who was allegedly operating an illegal chit fund business, has reportedly fled after collecting over Rs. 40 lakh from members of the fund. The woman, identified as P.R. Kumari, was running the chit fund business for the past few years. She has over a hundred members in her chit fund business. She has now fled with the money by duping the investors, police said. Acting on a complaint lodged by the victims, police registered a case and launched a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-40-lakh-chit-fund-fraud-surfaces-in-vizag/article33312415.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1 COVID death||Visakhapatnam district recorded 34 new COVID-19 cases here on Friday, taking the total count to 59,107. There was also one death, taking the toll to 515. The number of discharges in the last 24 hours stood at 22, which takes the total discharges to 58,319. The number of active cases in the district as on date stand at 273, according to a health bulletin released by health officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-1-covid-death/article33312489.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special daily express to Kirandul from December 18||Special trains will be run by the East Coast Railway (ECoR) between Visakhapatnam and Kirandul to meet the needs of daily commuters and tourists. Train 08514 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul special express will leave Visakhapatnam daily at 6.45 a.m. with effect from December 18 to reach Kirandul the same night at 8.45 p.m. In the return direction, 08513 Kirandul-Visakhapatnam express, will leave Kirandul daily at 6 a.m. with effect from December 19 to arrive in Visakhapatnam the same night at 8.20 p.m. These trains will have stoppages at Simhachalam, Kottavalasa, Araku, Koraput, Jeypore, Jagdalpur, Dantewara and Bacheli. These trains will have eight second class reserved coaches and two second class (reserved)-cum-luggage coaches. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division A.K. Tripathi appealed to passengers to strictly follow all health protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-daily-express-to-kirandul-from-december-18/article33312381.ece
12 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah’s call to young industrialists||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has underlined the importance of values in all spheres of life and said that dedication, hard work and having principles are responsible for his attaining this position though he was born as an ordinary farmer’s son. Addressing young industrialists of YPO (Young Presidents Organisation) Greater Chapter through online from the city on Friday, the Vice-President said that industry played a key role in social development and called for business with values. He said though business meant profits, industrialists should also have social responsibility and spend a part of their profits on charity. While saying that while character, calibre, capacity and conduct were of immense importance, he felt it was unfortunate that caste, community, criminality and cash were taking centre stage now. He called upon youth to change the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiahs-call-to-young-industrialists/article33312382.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC visits Sri City||Member of Legislative Council P.V.N. Madhav appreciated the industrial infrastructure in the Sri City industrial zone in Chittoor district. The zone has ample scope for creation of jobs, he said. During his visit to the industrial city on Friday, he was received by Sri City vice- president (customer relations) C. Ramesh Kumar. Mr. Madhav recalled his visit to the place in 2010. The zone has undergone a vast transformation, said Mr. Madhav. He expressed confidence that the zone would soon become the preferred investment destination for many global companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-visits-sri-city/article33312406.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Loud appeal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/loud-appeal/article33312384.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beating the bite||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beating-the-bite/article33311799.ece
12 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Event to hone sporting talent||A mega sports event aimed at nurturing sporting talents among Adivasi youth got off to an impressive start under the aegis of the Mulugu district police at Medaram village in Mulugu district on Friday. The sports tournament christened as ‘Mulugu trophy’ was inaugurated by the Eturunagaram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) project officer Hanumant Kondiba at the sprawling grounds beside the tribal museum in the village. Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil presided over the inaugural ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/event-to-hone-sporting-talent/article33312134.ece
12 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID test data cooked up?||An investigation into the low COVID numbers in Telangana has revealed that the test results are being manipulated at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) level. Cooked up names, addresses, phone numbers and fake positive cases were revealed in the months long investigation. Out of the test data of 352, of randomly picked test cases between September and December, about 110 had suspect information. “We have been given a target of 60 tests per day. We are not getting so many people so we are taking the help of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) staffers to mobilise patients for the tests,” said a lab technician of a PHC. Four ASHA workers were seated near him working on their phones. Their job was to provide a name, an address and a phone number on which a 4-digit code is generated by the Aarogyasri server accessed by the lab technician. The testing protocol deployed by the Telangana Health department for Rapid Antigen Tests is a seamless affair with the patient walking in giving the name, address and phone number. “Once the phone number is given, an OTP is sent to the number, which generates a 15-digit unique identity of the patient. This data is automatically uploaded on the server,” said the staffer. This streamlined process has been gamed by the health officials chasing targets as documented by fake tests and even a couple of false positive cases, the investigation revealed. When this reporter underwent a test, the result was orally informed within 15 minutes and an online report was shared on the cellphone within 86 seconds. This is a massive change from the time when tests were conducted only with a doctor’s prescription and the results were made available after 24 hours. The target test number varied across the PHCs between 50 and 60, while the area hospitals have been set a target of 200 tests per day. Data collected on random dates in August, September, October and December showed multiple registrations using same phone numbers and addresses at one of the centres. Even on days when people stayed indoors due to flood havoc in October, the numbers remained constant. Even on GHMC election day on December 1, 60 people got the test done at the centre. On one day, a phone number was used by a patient called Asad, a few days later the same number was used by Anagha (names changed to protect patient confidentiality). Another give away was the repetitive nature of door numbers used for logging the tests. On December 3, out of the 5,003 tests done in the GHMC area, 141 were positive and the positivity rate was 3%. But strangely, the day’s media bulletin shows only 109 positive results. “If testing is not robust, the risk for the society will be higher as pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic carriers will be on the street. This will affect the vulnerable. Each such carrier can transmit it to three or four persons creating a ripple effect,” said Dr. B.R. Shamanna, who specialises in public health and teaches at the University of Hyderabad. “Figures should not be manipulated if you think about the welfare of the people. We are dependent on 80% Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). Other states have done it differently by deploying RT-PCR in a major way giving those states and its citizens the correct picture about the prevalence,” said the public health policy expert. “One of the likely long-term impact would be denial of vaccine. If the State’s case load is not high, the Central government officials might say, ‘you don’t need the vaccine’, then what?” he says. Once the data is manipulated, contact tracing, a key element in fighting a pandemic like COVID, is just not possible. Telangana has been having a problem with data right from the beginning of the pandemic. Between March 2 — when the first COVID-19 case was detected in Telangana — and June 17, the State averaged 429 tests per day. The numbers changed after the June 15 announcement that 50,000 tests would be conducted within the next 10 days in Hyderabad. The director of public health could not be reached for a comment, when contacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-test-data-cooked-up/article33312132.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Airport at Shamirpet not possible, says BJP||The BJP has said that the international airport at Shamirpet, if needed, as announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at his public meeting in Siddipet on Thursday was a mere eyewash as an agreement between GMR and the Ministry of Civil Aviation over Hyderabad international airport barred any new airport from coming up in a radius of 150 kms for 25 years. The 25 year period from the time the airport was completed in 2008 will expire on March 23, 2033, BJP MLAs M. Raghunandan Rao and T. Raja Singh and MLC N. Ramchander Rao told a media conference here on Friday. Mr. Raghunandan Rao said the agreement was executed in December 2004 when the current Chief Minister was a member of the Union Cabinet holding Labour portfolio. The agreement was a collective decision of the Cabinet. He recalled that a similar promise of an international airport for Warangal by Mr. Rao four years ago never took off. The latest one for Shamirpet will also meet the same fate. Obviously, the airport for Shamirpet was announced keeping in view municipal elections due in Siddipet. The government was planning to issue election notification for Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations and Siddipet municipality any time. Therefore, it was showering promises on people. The extension of IT hub at Khammam was announced by IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao in this background. Mr. Raghunandan Rao accused the government of deliberately neglecting Dubbak Assembly constituency, which he represented, while developing the neighbouring Siddipet and Gajwel constituencies. The two constituencies and Sircilla which was held by Mr. K.T. Rama Rao got a ring road but the same was denied to Dubbak. Not even the bus stand in Dubbak, which was in a bad condition, was developed, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/airport-at-shamirpet-not-possible-says-bjp/article33312143.ece
12 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR remark on statehood shows narcissism, says Madhu Yaskhi||Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy and former MP Madhu Yashki lambasted Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for claiming that there was no Telangana without him. In an interaction with reporters here, Mr. Jagga Reddy said Telangana was a gift and sacrifice of Sonia Gandhi and KCR’s statement was loaded with narcissism and nothing else. “What about hundreds of people who committed suicide for Telangana and millions of employees, students, youngsters and other sections who were willing to go to any extent for realising the separate State?” Agreeing that there was no KCR without Siddipet, Mr. Reddy said unfortunately the Chief Minister was ignoring all other constituencies in the erstwhile Medak district except Siddipet and Gajwel. “Why isn’t he providing the same funds to Sangareddy represented by me and other constituencies where TRS MLAs were elected?” Mr. Reddy said KCR should have thanked Ms. Sonia Gandhi on her birthday at least for delivering Telangana as promised. Where would have been KCR and his arrogance without Sonia Gandhi’s blessings on Telangana formation, he asked. He said KCR had a secret understanding with the BJP and his visit to Delhi was part of that. Debt trap Mr. Madhu Yaskhi questioned whether it was possible for any party with just two members in Parliament to achieve Telangana. It were the Congress MPs who fought with their own party on the issue and Ms. Sonia Gandhi kept her promise made to people. All that KCR did was to push a cash-rich Telangana into a debt-trap. The former MP also accused the CM of going to New Delhi just to meet Prime Minister Modi two days after he had criticised him. Even his appointment was not confirmed but his desire to meet the PM reflected his fear over the CBI and ED cases. “He should explain the secret behind this sudden visit,” he said. Mr. Madhu Yaskhi also asked BJP State president Bandi Sanjay and Union Minister Kishan Reddy to explain their silence on the corruption allegations made against the Chief Minister. Former Union Minister Balaram Naik said KCR was cheating the tribals on all aspects and asked why he was objecting to cultivation of maize. What could tribals grow on podu lands except maize, he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-remark-on-statehood-shows-narcissism-madhu-yaskhi/article33312157.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Allopathy doctors boycott OP services||Allopathy doctors of private and government hospitals on Friday protested against the provision allowing Post Graduate Ayurveda students to perform general surgery, ENT, dental and opthalmology procedures, by boycotting out-patient services from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. The protest was in response to the call given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The doctors are against the gazette notification issued by Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) on November third week, titled Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Amendment Regulations, 2020. The association’s Telangana chapter members had earlier said that they were against ‘encroachment’ of Ayurveda into allopathy disciplines of general surgery, opthalomology, ENT, and orthopaedics. The doctors, who have been expressing their views against the provision for the past few weeks, took to social media on Thursday night to announce their 12-hour protest on Friday. On November 22, the Ministry of AYUSH clarified that the notification specified that there are a total of 58 surgical procedures that PG scholars of Shalya and Shalakya streams need to be practically trained for so as to enable them to independently perform them after completion of their PG degree. It was also clarified that this does not allow such scholars to take up any other type of surgery. The Ministry further stated that the notification was a clarification of the relevant provisions in the previously existing regulations of 2016. Since the beginning, Shalya and Shalakya are independent departments in Ayurveda colleges that performed such surgical procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allopathy-doctors-boycott-op-services/article33312123.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Enrol young blood, Kishan tells BJP||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Friday asked BJP leadership to target enrolment of youth as 98% of them are not aligned with any party. Addressing a meeting of party workers in Warangal, Mr. Reddy said only 2% of youth had party affiliations but the rest were unemployed or doing petty businesses or odd jobs. “It is this section that the BJP should target for enrolment as party members”. This will go a long way in ensuring BJP wrestd power in the State in 2023 general elections. He called for strong booth-level committees that could repulse the money power of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao or his son-Minister K.T. Rama Rao in elections. The committees should ward off the challenge of distribution of money to voters by “father-son” duo or the threats of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi. The Union Minister said the journey of BJP to assume power in Telangana started from the by-election at Dubbak and, the second step was taken in GHMC polls where the party had achieved impressive results. “The third step should come from elections to Warangal municipal corporation, which are due shortly”. The voters had decided to give the BJP a chance at the helm in 2023 because they were fed up with the family rule of Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. In this context, he asked BJP workers to replicate in Telangana the heroic struggle by the party against the autocratic rule of Mamta Banerjee in West Bengal. Earlier, Mr. Reddy offered prayers at Bhadrakali temple to fulfil a promise that he had made when he contested the Lok Sabha elections. Speaking to media persons, he said the agitation by farmers in New Delhi was misconceived as not a single provision in farm laws which they opposed went against them. Except Punjab, nowhere were the farmers opposed to the laws. The Minister also visited the super speciality hospital of Kakatiya Medical College and criticised the State government for the delay in commencement of hospital services though the Centre had released Rs. 106 crore of the total project cost of Rs. 120 crore. When the work on the hospital started in 2016, the State government offered to pool Rs. 30 crore but released only Rs. 10 crore. The State did not hand over the Bibinagar campus of All India Institute of Medical Sciencies to the Centre to facilitate commencement of full-fledged services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/enrol-young-blood-kishan-tells-bjp/article33312150.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||612 more coronavirus cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded 612 COVID cases on Thursday taking the total to 2,76,516. While 55,178 samples were tested, results of 677 were awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients died. The new 612 cases include 144 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 73 from Rangareddy, and 60 from Medchal Malkajgiri. The total number of tests has crossed 60 lakhs. From March 2 to December 9, a total of 60,29,209 samples were tested and 2,76,516 have tested positive for coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 7,604 were active cases, 2,67,427 have recovered, and 1,485 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/612-more-coronavirus-cases-in-telangana/article33312121.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Improve data collection for road safety’||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed officials to take steps to improve data collection mechanism as part of efforts to improve road safety and minimise accidents. The mechanism should include a mobile application that can capture and record information with geo-coordinates and photographs whenever accidents occur. The officials concerned should identify accident prone locations and ensure that proper sign boards are erected in these places. Mr. Somesh Kumar conducted a meeting with senior officials on road safety measures on Friday and stressed the need for making concerted efforts to minimise road accidents and fatalities. The engineering wings of the National Highways, Roads & Buildings, Panchayat Raj and GHMC should prepare short and long term measures before February 15 to minimise road accidents, he said. He also spoke about developing a separate road safety plan for ORR, which should include automated systems like cameras, speed guns and other enforcement equipment. A committee should be constituted to study issues related to scope for setting up a unified ambulance network, trauma care centres, measures to equip hospitals for treating emergency and trauma cases and other issues. The committee should submit its report within a week so that it could be approved by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he said. The EMRI was asked to scale up training volunteers for active bleeding control, which has a major impact in saving lives. A proper training programme for both the government and institutional drivers should be conducted to sensitise them on road safety measures, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/improve-data-collection-for-road-safety/article33312125.ece
12 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Greater say for rural leaders in selection of PCC chief||Opinions of rural Congress leaders, including district Congress presidents, contested MLAs and local body heads are likely to get more weight in the selection of the new Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief for which the deliberations are presently on. Sources in the party said Congress is still a big force in the rural areas as the reach of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was confined to cities and big towns and the high command wants to take their views quite seriously. The local body elections held last year also proved to certain extent that the party continues to hold its strength in the rural areas despite the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) sweeping the polls. Congress was way ahead of the BJP in those elections garnering an impressive 28% votes. In fact, party’s share increased by 2% votes from the Parliament elections when it secured 26% and 24% in the 2018 Assembly elections. In fact, party MLAs too are from rural dominant constituencies. But for T. Jayaprakash Reddy, who represents the Sangareddy constituency, all the present MLAs of the Congress hail from totally rural areas - Bhatti Vikramarka from Madhira; Podem Veeraiah from Bhadrachalam; D. Seethakka from Mulugu and Komatireddy Rajgopal Reddy from Munugode. Even in the Parliament elections, Congress bagged two big constituencies - Nalgonda and Bhongir - that are predominantly rural based. They are represented by Uttam Kumar Reddy and Komatireddy Venkata Reddy respectively. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president A. Revanth Reddy is other parliamentarian representing Malkajgiri, the biggest constituency in the country. The GHMC elections, however, proved that BJP surged ahead of Congress, which was in second place in majority divisions in the last Grater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. However, these elections were fought on a highly divisive platform and Congress’s secularism agenda had little takers in the city. Congress believes that the BJP will take some time to overcome it in the rural areas even if it continues its present aggression. “It is not just about the party but also the political future of rural leadership. We want them to give their honest opinion,” people involved in the process revealed. The exhaustive deliberations continued for the third day and will spill over to the fourth day on Saturday when candidates who contested as MLAs in the last elections will give their opinion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/greater-say-for-rural-leaders-in-selection-of-pcc-chief/article33312158.ece
12 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A visit meant to spew venom on PM, says Bandi Sanjay||BJP State president Bandi Sanjay described Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao’s tour as an effort to spew venom on Prime Minister Narendra Modi with baseless allegations on the farm Bills, but people were not willing to believe him. At a press conference in Vemulawada, he said KCR was adept at selling lies as he had done with farmers of Telangana over the years, the latest being ignoring the farmers who, believing him, had cultivated fine variety paddy. “He is mum on buying the paddy after forcing the farmers to cultivate fine variety with threats,” he said. Mr. Sanjay alleged that after asking the farmers to cultivate fine variety on 30 lakh acres across Telangana, the Chief Minister himself had cultivated other varieties at his farmhouse and sold them to corporates. He demanded that the government buy the fine variety from farmers at Rs. 2,500 per quintal. The BJP chief claimed that even government employees and teachers were cheated after being promised PRC and interim relief. The BJP would organise protest in all district headquarters on December 14 on the issue and promised to stand with employees and teachers till the government made a statement on the same. Mr. Sanjay defended the new farm Bills, saying only Punjab farmers were protesting while others were happy with the reforms. It was evident from the farmers bandh in Telangana, which he said was a flop despite the ruling party coming onto the roads. “There were no farmers except TRS activists and leaders,” he said. The Karimnagar MP promised total support to the development of Raja Rajeshwari temple at Vemulawada and asked the government to send proposals to the Central government for assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-visit-meant-to-spew-venom-on-pm-says-bandi-sanjay/article33312155.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC issues notices to govt. over crop loss||Telangana High Court had issued notices to the State government in a PIL petition seeking payment of compensation to all farmers in Telangana who suffered extensive crop loss due to incessant rains in September and October. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the government to file counter affidavit over the issues raised in the plea. The petitioners wanted the government to provide appropriate relief to all small and marginal farmers who suffered losses due to lack of insurance coverage for crops. The petitioners, Vissa Kiran Kumar, Ravi Kanneganti and S. Ashalatha, said the government should pay the compensation to the farmers as per the provisions of National Disaster Management Act-2005. They sought an interim direction from the court to the government to immediately take up enumeration of losses relating to crops and livestock due to massive rains in September and October months. The government should also ascertain the number of farmers who ended their lives due to the crop and livestock losses due to rains to determine appropriate compensation and ex-gratia, the petitioners said. According to them, lot of farmers are slipping into debt trap due to failure of government in enumerating the crop losses. The government also could not support the farmers willing to insure their crops and thus landed ryots in financial difficulties, they stated. With no helping hand extended by State or Central government, the debt-ridden agriculturists resorting to the extreme step, they said. The government created provisions in budget for crop insurance for the year 2020-21. The matter was posted to December 31 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-issues-notices-to-govt-over-crop-loss/article33312140.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Speeding youngster meets gory end||A youngster speeding on a two-wheeler met a gory end, after he rammed into the gap between steel railings installed along footpath near Metro rail station in Ameerpet in the early hours of Friday. Head of 24-year-old Sai Girish Gupta, a badminton coach, got stuck in the gap of the steel railings. He suffered bleeding wounds and died, Punjagutta police SI Kaushik said. Gupta’s friend M. Ravi Teja, who was sitting pillion on the two-wheeler, too sustained head injuries. However, he was out of danger, the SI said. The two friends were going from Punjagutta to KPHB colony when the accident occurred around 5 a.m. “They must have been riding at high speed. Somehow, Gupta lost control and rammed into the railing,” the SI explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speeding-youngster-meets-gory-end/article33312141.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ACB finds unaccounted cash in officer’s chamber||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials found an unaccounted sum of Rs. 10.5 lakh in the chamber of an officer on deputation with Hyderabad Growth Corridor Limited, a wing of Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) on Friday. The officer, a Deputy Conservator of Forest department holding Full Additional Charge of Urban Forestry Director, I. Prakash was in his chamber in the office at Nanakramguda when the ACB authorities conducted the surprise check. Along with the Rs. 10.5 lakh, the authorities also found Rs. 19,500 in the chamber. Sources in the ACB said that the officer maintained that the money did not belong to him. Lot of pending files were also found in his chamber. Later, the ACB authorities searched his flat in Dhulapally and found another Rs. 5 lakh. The flat’s value was estimated around Rs. 30 lakh. ACB authorities stumbled upon documents suggesting that Mr. Prakash owned a building with commercial space worth Rs. 1.15 crore in Khammam town. Searches are in progress. No case was registered against the officer when reports last came in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acb-finds-unaccounted-cash-in-office/article33312139.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL to meet on development, safety||Peddapalli Member of Parliament of the Telanga Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Venkatesh Neta on Sunday convened meetings of senior officers of Singareni Collieries Company Limited belonging to Ramagundam and Bellampalli regions separately to discuss the development model of the company and safety and welfare of workers. The meeting for Bellampalli region would be held in the forenoon at Srirampur and the afternoon session would take place at Ramagundam. The Member of Parliament was a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on mines safety. He was also a member of the standing committee on public grievances, law and justice, a release said. Singareni Collieries Company Limited directors S. Chandrasekhar and N. Balaram, general managers, deputy general managers, mines safety and welfare officers would participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-to-meet-on-safety-development/article33312151.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IDA Pashamylaram set to get CETP next year||A zero liquid discharge common effluent treatment plant (CETP) to handle 480 kilo litres per day of industrial waste water generated from IDA Pashamylaram is expected to become operational within eight months. The foundation stone for the project, which is being set up by Ramky Enviro Engineers in partnership with pharma companies from IDA Pashamylaram, was laid on Friday. The project is expected to be operational in 6-8 months. Overtime, it will be expanded to treat one million litre per day. The CETP will be fully equipped to treat and recycle industrial wastewater and completely help avoid chances of illegal discharge of waste water as well as help reduce demand on groundwater resources. The plant has a capacity to treat 480 KL industrial waste water daily and is proposed to be expanded to 1,000 KL per day, release from Ramky said. It, however, did not mention the time-frame by when the expansion will be completed. The project is being implemented as a joint venture between the group of pharma companies from IDA and Ramky Enviro.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ida-pashamylaram-set-to-get-cetp-next-year/article33312433.ece
12 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CCRT holds e-learning workshop for teachers||The Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT), Hyderabad, under the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, has conducted an e-learning workshop for school teachers on the theme “Understanding cultural dimensions in School Eduction” from December 7 to 11. Field officer of Hyderabad Regional Centre M. Madan Babu introduced the theme explaining the introduction of virtual class as CCRT’s pilot project and its implementation at grass-root level. Dr. Anusha from Community Medicine, RVM Institute of Medical Science and Research Centre, delivered a talk on “School Sanitation and Hygiene During Corona Times” to teachers on the last day. Director, CCRT, New Delhi, Rishi Kumar Vashist interacted with the teachers and the valedictory was addressed by chairperson of CCRT Hemalatha S Mohan. In-charge of RC Hyderabad Y. Chandra Sekhar was present apart from 150 teachers who participated from across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccrt-holds-e-learning-workshop-for-teachers/article33312126.ece
12 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IPE offers courses under Gulf quota||The Institute of Public Enterprise (IPE) is inviting applications from children of Indian workers in Gulf countries under the Gulf quota for PGDM programmes offered by it. They can apply for Post Graduate Diploma in Management (General); PGDM - Banking, Insurance and Financial Services; PGDM - Marketing and PGDM - International Business. All graduates are eligible. IPE also offers scholarships up to Rs. 2 lakh for students with top scores of CAT/ MAT/ XAT/ CMAT/ ATMA/ GMAT. They can visit www.ipeindia.org or call on 9391932129 and 9154709139 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ipe-offers-courses-under-gulf-quota/article33312127.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IAS officer relieved from State service||Senior IAS officer of Telangana cadre Y. Srilakshmi was on Friday relieved from State service and permitted to join Andhra Pradesh government on deputation. Her request was also conceded by the Departeent of Personnel and Training of the Centre earlier. Ms. Srilakshmi who is a Principal Secretary of Public Enterprises had sought permission to work with Andhra Pradesh government on deputation over a year ago after the YSRC government assumed power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ias-officer-relieved-from-state-service/article33312361.ece
12 December 2020||KHAMMAM/Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Protest against ‘mixopathy’ move||Taking up cudgels against attempts at ‘mixopathy’, members owing allegiance to the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and other practitioners of modern medicine observed a dawn-to-dusk protest on Friday by withdrawing all non-essential and non-COVID services from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. across the district. The national IMA has called the countrywide stir in protest against the Central government’s alleged move to allow a section of Ayurveda practitioners to perform certain surgeries, what it termed as attempts at ‘mixopathy’. The members of the IMA Khammam branch held a demonstration at the IMA hall here. The demonstrators alleged that the attempts at ‘mixopathy’ will prove a death knell for modern medicine. They demanded that the Centre immediately withdraw the notification. ‘Vision-less, anti-people’ Meanwhile, IMA, Nalgonda chapter, observed a 12-hour shutdown of OP services on Friday. At Doctors’ Colony crossroads, allopathic practitioners described the move as “vision-less, meaningless and anti-people”. They said they would intensify the stir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-against-mixopathy-move/article33312133.ece
12 December 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Mission Bhagiratha water in Medak district||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that drinking water through Mission Bhagiratha will be supplied to as many as 956 habitations in the district by December 20. Participating in a review meeting here on Friday, Mr. Harish Rao said that water will be supplied from Singur, by completing pending works, and Godavari water from Komatibanda. Stating that pipeline works got damaged due to road works in Narsapur constituency, the Minister directed the officials to ensure that there is better coordination among Forest and Road and Buildings departments. “Despite having sufficient water, we are unable to give drinking water from Singur and government is getting a bad name. Send proposals for supply of water through tankers,” he directed the officials. Referring to Narsapur depot works, the Minister directed the officials to complete pending works by February 15. He said that 11 check dams on Singur and three check dams on Haldi are being constructed and by summer irrigation will be provided to 22,645 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mission-bhagiratha-water-in-medak-district/article33312428.ece
12 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||No cotton procurement on Saturdays, Sundays||Starting this week, procurement of cotton by the Cotton Corporation of India Limited will be conducted only between Monday and Friday, and Saturdays and Sundays will be observed as holiday. According to a statement, District Collector Prashant J Patil has accepted the requests of the CCI for the same. Officials of the Marketing department said the decision, to observe the two-day holiday, would ensure smooth release of purchase proceedings to farmers’ accounts, and without delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-cotton-procurement-on-saturdays-sundays/article33312148.ece
12 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Residents of Tukkapur live in fear||Chikkudu Swamy is a resident of Tukkapur village in Toguta mandal. For the past few weeks, the villagers have been facing a peculiar problem. They are spending sleepless nights. The reason: blasting that has been taking place adjacent to the village for construction of a canal. Villagers allege that their houses were developing cracks and the asbestos sheets on the roofs of some houses broke with the impact of the blasting. This was being done for constructing a distributary channel. While locals allege that the work was being done for the additional tmcft water from the Kaleshwaram to Mallannasagar, officials said it was part of the Mallannasagar project only and they could not take up additional tmcft works as National Green Tribunal has ordered stay on that. “Several old houses have developed cracks and our repeated appeals and protests were not heeded. We are facing even the problem of dust and small rocks felling on our houses,” said Mr Swamy, one of the villagers. “Only with the construction of distributary channel will the bund work be completed. Hence officials are in a rush to complete the work. The construction company has installed CC cameras as we are repeatedly visiting this area,” said another villager Raju. Another problem The villagers of Tukkapur are facing another serious problem also. As the surge pool near the village was filled with Kaleshwaram water that was flowing to Kondapochamma, the seepage has entered the houses in the village and their toilets are filled with water. Hence attending nature’s call has become a problem for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/residents-of-tukkapur-live-in-fear/article33312163.ece
12 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Special focus on policing: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that the Telangana government has been according top priority to policing and all facilities are being provided to them so that they can perform duty without any problem. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the Murkook Police Station in the mandal headquarters, constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 14.5 crore, along with Home Minister Mahmood Ali on Friday, Mr. Harish Rao said that Telangana stood top in the country in maintaining law and order and crime rate is being reduced. “Several police stations in Hyderabad and others places have got ISO certificates for their performance extending best services. More than 6.5 lakh cameras have been set up in Hyderabad and we are top in the country,” he said, adding that even the Centre has suggested to other State governments to extend similar services. He said that because of proper law and order companies like Amazon have been been coming and investing in Hyderabad Mr. Mahmood Ali said that Dial 100 is acting very fast and the police teams were reaching the spot within five of receiving a call and implementing friendly policing. DGP Mahender Reddy, Police Housing Corporation Chairman Damodar, ZP Chairperson V. Roja Sharma, Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy, Commissioner of Police Joel Davis were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-focus-on-policing-harish-rao/article33312426.ece
12 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Opposition activists demolish wall near tank||Charging MLA M. Yadagiri Reddy with having occupied 22 guntas of Peddacheruvu land, activists of opposition parties demolished a wall constructed near the tank on Friday. Learning of it, workers of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) reached the spot and entered into heated arguments with the activists of the BJP and the Congress. Police rushed there and pacified both the agitators. A bandh was also observed by the opposition parties against the MLA. CPI (M) and CPI activists also participated in the agitation. The bandh called by the opposition parties in Cheriyal against the occupation of the tank was almost total. The agitating workers claimed that the land was registered under the name of Tulja Bhavani on January 30, 2020 and even permission was accorded for the construction of a building. The opposition party workers have a demanded an inquiry and action against all those responsible for the illegal encroachment. They demanded that the officials take immediate steps to create a buffer zone and protect it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/opposition-activists-demolish-wall-near-tank/article33312430.ece
12 December 2020||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||KCR meets Amit Shah, Shekhawat in New Delhi||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Water Resources (Jal Shakti) Minister Gajendrasingh Shekhawat on the first day of his three-day visit to New Delhi. At his meeting with Mr. Shah, the Chief Minister was said to have sought release of Rs. 1,350 crore which the State government had claimed as immediate Central assistance to mitigate loss on account of heavy floods in October. He also wanted funds to the State from backward areas development programme of the Centre, sources said. The meeting with Mr. Gajendrasingh Shekhawat Shekhawat was about seeking permission to enhance the capacity to lift water from Kaleshwaram project from two to three tmcft per day. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao also requested the Central government to ensure that the height of the Polavaram project was reduced as otherwise the water flow in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam would be badly affected. Objection The Chief Minister also raised objection to the execution of Rayalaseem lift-irrigation project by the Andhra Pradesh government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-meets-amit-shah-shekhawat-in-new-delhi/article33312153.ece
12 December 2020||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||SCCL told to pay charges for using TRANSCO lines||The Singareni Collieries Company Limited management was on Friday told to pay certain charges for using the infrastructure of Transmission Corporation (TRANSCO) to supply the former’s solar power for local use. The SCCL will also have to take approvals for open access to sub-stations and lines of TRANSCO, SCCL director (Electrical and Mechanical) D. Satyanarayana Rao was informed at a meeting attended by senior TRANSCO officials. A release later said SCCL was purchasing power for its use in various areas from TRANSCO. The purchases were proportionate to the solar power produced by Singareni Collieries Company Limited and evacuated through the grid of TRANSCO. At the same time, the SCCL used its solar power either directly or through the line network of TRANSCO for local use. The SCCL was producing 300 MW of solar power and integrated with the grid and sub-stations of TRANSCO, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-told-to-pay-charges-for-using-transco-lines/article33312161.ece
12 December 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Free cattle deworming from December 14||The free deworming campaign for cattle in the district will be conducted from Dec. 14 to Dec. 23, the district Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Service said on Friday. According to officials, an expected 1.85 lakh milch animals in the district need to be dewormed. A total of 54 teams were designated for the task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-cattle-deworming-from-december-14/article33312431.ece
12 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,TELANGANA||Brahmin matrimony meet on Dec. 25||Kalyana Kalpataruvu, a Hyderbad-based Brahmin association, will be organising 23rd all-India annual Brahmin matrimonial meet ‘Kalyana Samrambham-2020’ on December 25 on Pullareddy College Grounds, Mehdipatnam, Hyderabad, according to a press release by its honorary chief organiser K. Srinivas Rao. Details of parents of prospective Brahmin brides/grooms from both the Telugu States, can be registered on www.kktvivaha.org before Dec. 13. Online spot registrations are also available, Mr. Rao said. Lists of grooms/brides will be given at the venue. For further details, call 9440039510, 9951905259, 9346189944 or 040-23344550.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brahmin-matrimony-meet-on-dec-25/article33312159.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Yuletide spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yuletide-spirit/article33312138.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Ready to go||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ready-to-go/article33312424.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Joys of childhood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/joys-of-childhood/article33312437.ece
12 December 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Unseasonal rain damages crops in Gujarat||A spell of unseasonal rain in parts of a dozen districts in Gujarat has damaged standing crops, delivering a blow to the farmers. Under the influence of multiple weather systems acting in tandem, untimely rain has occurred in several parts of the State, causing damage to the standing crops as well as the harvested produce with Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs). The State emergency centre report says the rain occurred in more than 75 taluks since Thursday evening. Private weather channel Skymet says rain is likely over Gujarat (Saurashtra and south Gujarat) between December 10 and 14, over west and central Madhya Pradesh from December 11 to 14 and Maharashtra region from December 12 to 14. Rajkot, Amreli, Veraval, Junagarh, Bhavnagar, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Gandhinagar, Valsad and Surat are likely to have light rain and showers. On Thursday and Friday, several parts of the State witnessed light to moderate showers. According to farmers, unseasonal rain has damaged groundnut and cotton in Saurashtra and tuver crop in south Gujarat. “We will see more damage if it rains again and that’s very likely as per the prevailing weather system,” Pareshbhai Kalaria, a farmer from Rajkot district, said. He said the rain has damaged sacks of grains and pulses lying in the open at various APMCs in the region. The Congress, the Opposition party in the State, and farmers have demanded that the State government assess the damage caused by the unseasonal showers and compensate the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/unseasonal-rain-damages-crops-in-gujarat/article33312224.ece
12 December 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Online registration mandatory for marriage in Gujarat||The Gujarat government has made it mandatory to obtain an online approval for marriage, and not more than 100 guests will be allowed to attend the ceremony as part of the State’s efforts to contain the pandemic, which has already claimed more than 4,100 lives across the State since its outbreak in March. The State Home Department has created a software for the online registration of the wedding ceremony or reception. The applicant will have to fill in details such as date of marriage, number of guests, venue. The move is part of the State’s efforts to disallow gatherings. According to sources, this is only a temporary step by the administration because a large number of marriages take place in the first half of December and second half of January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/online-registration-mandatory-for-marriage-in-gujarat/article33312222.ece
12 December 2020||Mumbai,||HC: systems not sensitive to problems faced by farmers||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court said “all systems” are not sensitive to the problems farmers are facing in the country while dismissing a plea by the owners of a transport company accused of duping farmers of Rs. 2.8 crore. A Division Bench of Justices T.V. Nalawade and M.G. Sewlikar was hearing the criminal application filed by the accused seeking quashing of an FIR registered against them in Jalgaon. The accused had been booked on charges of cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property. Saniya Kadri, a broker in agricultural produce, registered the complaint against the owners of Khandelwal Transporters on July 28, 2017. Ms. Kadri said she had signed an agreement with the accused after they approached her to hand over the banana produce collected from farmers. They claimed to have contacts with traders in different States who would give her a better price and help her earn more profit. Ms. Kadri alleged that the accused did not make any payment for the deliveries made between May 21 and June 18, 2017. The complainant said she is now unable to pay Rs. 2.8 crore in dues to the farmers. However, the lawyer appearing for the accused claimed that no such agreement was inked between them and Ms. Kadri. The court observed that it was “unfortunate that all the systems are not showing sensitivity towards the problems faced by farmers”. The court also noted that since farmers have no resources and cannot afford to get involved in litigation, traders take advantage of their plight. “This inability of farmers is used by traders to make money on the agricultural produce which farmers get after working hard. The suicides of farmers are increasing day by day as farmers are facing all kinds of problems and the present problem of cheating is an additional circumstance which is compelling the farmers to commit suicide.” Dismissing the plea, the Bench said it is not possible to presume that the accused had no intention of duping the farmers. The court said, “The facts and circumstances show that first the atmosphere was created to lure the farmers and when the farmers started trusting, the plan was executed and payment was not made and the farmers were cheated. The record shows that the money was collected by the applicants [transport company owners], but it was not passed on to the informant [Ms. Kadri], who was expected to pass it on to the farmers. In view of all these circumstances, this court holds that, at this stage, it is not possible to presume that there was no intention to deceive at the beginning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-systems-not-sensitive-to-problems-faced-by-farmers/article33312043.ece
12 December 2020||Mumbai,||MahaSharad to be launched today||The Social Justice Department will launch Mahasharad, a digital platform which will provide for free the tools required by differently-abled people, on Saturday to mark the 80th birthday of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar. MahaSharad stands for Maharashtra System of Health Rehabilitation and Assistance for Divyang. Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde said the department aims to reach out to 29 lakh differently-abled people through themahasharad.inportal and its mobile app, which will be available by March 2021. Mr. Munde said, “A number of generous individuals are keen to help and donate for the noble cause. There are many tools such as Braille kit, hearing aid, wheelchair, artificial organs in the market, but many Divyang individuals cannot purchase them owing to lack of money. Our platform will be the bridge.” Differently-abled people can list the tools they require on the platform and donors will be able to help them. Aid will be provided to those who register on the portal with valid credentials. The mobile application of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute — e-Barti — will also be launched to mark Mr. Pawar’s birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mahasharad-to-be-launched-today/article33312040.ece
12 December 2020||Mumbai,||State govt. staff can’t wear T-shirts, jeans or slippers||Jeans and T-shirts are no longer suitable office attire for government staff in Maharashtra. Employees are also not allowed to wear the humble slippers to office as per a new dress code. Also, all government employees must wear khadi clothes at least on Fridays to encourage the use of handspun, a circular issued on December 8 stated. “It has been observed that several officials/staff do not wear attire suitable for government employees. Hence, the image of government staff gets sullied among people,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-govt-staff-cant-wear-t-shirts-jeans-or-slippers/article33312047.ece
12 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man gets 20 years in jail for raping 4-year-old girl||The special court at Alibag has sentenced a 47-year-old man to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment for raping a minor girl. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000. Chandrakant Vishnu Chaudhary, a resident of Fanasdongri in Pen, raped his grandson’s four-year-old friend at an abandoned house on June 27, 2018. He was arrested after the child’s mother registered a complaint with the Pen police. “Eight witnesses were examined and the statement of the victim and the medical officer were most important,” additional public prosecutor Ashwini Bandivdekar-Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-gets-20-years-in-jail-for-raping-4-year-old-girl/article33312041.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records 2,385 new COVID-19 cases||Delhi witnessed 2,385 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,03,535, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. Also, 60 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 9,934. Of the total cases, 5,74,925 people have recovered and there are 18,676 active cases. The positivity of COVID-19 cases was 3.33% on Friday, lesser than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 8.53%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 18,853 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 73.7% were vacant, as per the bulletin. There were 6,501 containment zones in the city as on Friday. Health Minister Satyendar Jain told reporters that positivity is less than 5% for the past 10 days. “November 7 was the peak of the third wave in Delhi. The positivity rate was 15.26% on that day, which has been on the perpetual decline ever since. For the past 10 days, the positivity rate has been below 5%. I can say that the third wave is on the wane,” Mr. Jain said.  70,000 tests daily He also said that more than 70,000 tests however are still being carried out on a daily basis. He said that the situation was under control and requested people to wear masks, follow social distancing. When asked about a delay in reports of RT-PCR tests, he said, “I agree that there has been a delay, but that is being looked into. We followed the Central government’s orders to double the testing, which led to the delay. However, now, there is a betterment in the turnaround time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-records-2385-new-covid-19-cases/article33312036.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Jamaat case: HC rejects plea to transfer probe||The Delhi High Court on Friday rejected a petition to transfer the investigation of a case lodged against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad for holding a congregation here in March in alleged violation of orders aimed at containing the spread of COVID-19 from Delhi Police to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The petition filed by Mumbai-based lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay has also sought direction to the NIA to investigate the matter in a time-bound manner. Mr. Upadhyay also had sought for the probe to be monitored by the High Court, alleging that the Delhi Police has failed to arrest the leader despite lapse of considerable time. In May this year, Delhi government had opposed the plea saying Delhi Police was conducting the investigation in a fair manner and argued that the petitioner has no locus standi to file the plea. Delhi Police Crime Branch had on March 31 lodged an FIR against seven persons, including the cleric, on a complaint by Station House Officer of Nizamuddin police station here for holding a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat followers in alleged violation of the orders against large gatherings to contain the spread of the virus. The Enforcement Directorate has also filed a money laundering case against Mr. Saad, trusts links to the Jamaat and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jamaat-case-hc-rejects-plea-to-transfer-probe/article33312026.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Computer, Internet, phone a must for Jamia online exam||Students of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) have raised objections to rules regarding conduct of “proctored online examinations” — starting from December 21 — for undergraduate and postgraduate students, calling it discriminatory. The guidelines for the conduct of the exams, released by the Controller of Examinations, said that students have to use the latest version of Firefox browser, a Windows laptop/PC with a stable Internet connection and a web camera, among other requirements like a smartphone. Students said that universities conducting online classes had widened the digital divide and online exams were making a mockery of the very idea of public-funded education. “These are a bizarre set of guidelines that are shocking and outrageous. If followed, a majority of Jamia students will not be able to appear for their semester exams,” said the All India Students’ Association (AISA). Many of the mandatory requirements like laptop/PC, smartphone, and a stable Internet connection are luxuries many students cannot afford, it added. The rules also state that students must appear for their exams while sitting in their personal room and that any person not found in the room during the exam might lead to cancellation. “At Jamia, many students come from underprivileged and socially deprived sections who can afford quality education at affordable fees. It is impossible for every Jamia student to afford these ‘mandatory requirements’ of laptop, high-speed Internet, personal room and smartphone,” the AISA said. The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) said the guidelines are not feasible for a majority of the students. “Approximately 50% of the students belong to the SC, ST and OBC category. The underprivileged section does not have a laptop or computer or smartphone,” it said. There are a lot of places in India where the Centre itself admits there is only 2G connection. How are students in such areas expected to appear for the exams?, the NSUI asked. The authorities need to revisit the guidelines and come up with practical rules that cater to all student, the NSUI said, adding that many students have requested that they be marked on the basis of their assignments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/computer-internet-phone-a-must-for-jamia-online-exam/article33312045.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Respond to plea against Rs. 800 cap on RTPCR tests’||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the AAP government to respond to a plea challenging its decision fixing a cap of Rs. 800 on RTPCR tests for detecting COVID-19 infection. The court’s direction came on a plea by Association of Practising Pathologists, which has contended that the price fixed would not cover the cost of consumables to be used in the test. The association also contended that the price cap cannot be made applicable to TrueNat and CBNAAT tests, which are also used to detect COVID-19 infection, as they use cartridges which are very expensive. It further said that sensitivity of TrueNat and CBNAAT was 98% and 100% respectively, which were much higher than that of RTPCR open ended system test that stood at 67-70%. It also said that approximate costs incurred by the labs on TrueNat and CBNAAT tests were Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 3,500 respectively. The Delhi government said that the price cap was not applicable to CBNAAT and TrueNAT tests as these are different from RTPCR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/respond-to-plea-against-rs-800-cap-on-rtpcr-tests/article33312028.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Centre writes to Delhi govt. on permission to cut trees for 100-bed hospital||The Central government has written to the Delhi government to give permission for cutting trees for a 100-bed hospital in Najafgarh, which has been pending with the latter.  The Hindu had reported on November 27 how the hospital project of the Union Health Ministry was stuck as permission for cutting of trees has been pending with the Delhi Environment Minister’s office for almost two years. The Additional Director General (ADG) of Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change wrote to the Delhi government on November 27 to “look into the matter” of permission for cutting trees. The ADG sent the letter in response to a letter by the Secretary of Union Ministry of Health on the subject. “Forest clearance is essential for making the hospital functional. Officials have again recommended the cutting of trees to the Minister. The letter from the Centre is now pending before the Minister for approval,”a Delhi government official said. In 2018, the officials concerned had recommended the cutting of trees and as per a status report of the Delhi government. the file for the project was submitted to the Environment Minister on December 18, 2018 and the Minister has neither rejected nor approved it since then. In November, up to 55% of hospital beds for COVID-19 were occupied in Delhi and more than 90% of ICU beds were full. There were several complaints of people finding it difficult to find beds, forcing governments to start temporary hospitals. In May 2018, the Union cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had cleared the construction of the hospital and said that it will cater to the local population of 13.65 lakh people. The hospital was supposed to be operational by May 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-writes-to-delhi-govt-on-permission-to-cut-trees-for-100-bed-hospital/article33312034.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Court seeks Centre’s reply in Rakul Preet Singh case||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Centre what it had done subsequent to the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) report indicating a violation of the code of ethics by several TV channels in their news reports connecting actor Rakul Preet Singh with the Bollywood drug case, which was probed by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Justice Navin Chawla asked the Centre to submit a fresh status report while posting the case for further hearing on March 4. The NBSA was also asked to place its report on the complaints made by Ms. Singh against various TV channels for connecting her with the Bollywood drug case. The court’s direction came while hearing the 29-year-old actor’s plea, in which she has accused the media of “simply running fake news” which are not based on “true, correct and verified facts”. Ms. Singh had said the media’s slander campaign against her had “irreparably damaged her reputation, dignity and clean image, and flagrantly violated her privacy and right to be left alone”.She had sought direction to restrain news channels from airing contents which are defamatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-seeks-centres-reply-in-rakul-preet-singh-case/article33312025.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||BJP leaders meet L-G over fund release||BJP president Adesh Gupta and Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri met Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday and demanded that directions be issued to the Delhi government to immediately release a fund of Rs. 13,000 crore to the municipal corporations. Alleging that funds to this effect were due to the civic bodies, Mr. Gupta and Mr. Bidhuri also handed over a memorandum to the Lieutenant Governor in the matter. According to the BJP, in view of the seriousness of the subject, the Lieutenant Governor assured them that he would summon the Delhi government’s reply on it. “Mayors and other senior corporators have been sitting on a dharna outside the CM’s residence for the last five days demanding immediate payment of the outstanding funds. But the CM does not have time to meet the corporation leaders,” Mr. Gupta said. “The L-G has deemed the Kejriwal government’s withholding of funds of the corporation unfair. The L-G has also written a letter to the CM thrice in this context,” Mr. Gupta also said. The Delhi BJP president said the party had also demanded “appropriate action” in regard to an alleged conspiracy to “kill” the protesting Mayors allegedly by senior AAP leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-leaders-meet-l-g-over-fund-release/article33312030.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Baijal reviews status of digital delivery project||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday reviewed the status and progress of the Digital Delivery of Services project here at Raj Niwas. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the L-G said, he emphasised on the provision of all public services online through a common integrated platform for the convenience of citizens. “The need to facilitate access and use of online services by general public through various modes and on adherence to timelines have been stressed upon,” Mr. Baijal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/baijal-reviews-status-of-digital-delivery-project/article33312031.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Act against unscientific disposal of waste: NGT||Following a plea seeking action against unscientific disposal of waste in stormwater drains by dairy owners in Ghaziabad, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the State authorities to take action and ensure compliance of rules. The NGT said, “Let the statutory authorities concerned take further action of stopping the illegal activity and ensuring compliance of environmental norms.” A report furnished by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board said that two dairies were found non-compliant to rules and that environmental compensation had been assessed. “These units never obtained and nor was granted any licences or consents or permissions from State authorities like Ghaziabad Nagar Nigam, UPPCB and so on. The State authorities should take action against illegal operation of the business in a residential area as per the provisions of the applicable rules or law,” read an action plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/act-against-unscientific-disposal-of-waste-ngt/article33312039.ece
12 December 2020||Srinagar,||J&K students left in the lurch||Students from Jammu and Kashmir were left in the lurch on Friday with Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) deciding to hold proctored online exams from December 21. “We are facing multiple challenges in Kashmir to sit for any online exam. First, Internet speed is 2G in most districts. Two, prolonged electricity cuts impact both charging of gadgets and availability of Internet. Three, in case of any operation by security forces against militants, the Internet is cut. Students from the Valley will find it hard to appear in the exam,” said a Jamia student from Srinagar, requesting anonymity. Nasir Khuehami, a student-activist, has started an online campaign against JMI’s decision. “This move will lead to psychological trauma among students, financial constraints among their families and most of all the unlawful, unethical ineligibility, which will result in their failure,” Mr. Khuehami tweeted. “Many students belonging to the downtrodden section cannot afford to buy new gadgets,” he said, adding: “Heavy snowfall in Kashmir leads to power cuts of 7-8 hours due to which students won't have any alternative to Wi-Fi services as well.” Callous decision: Farooq National Conference president Farooq Abdullah termed JMI’s decision “callous and isolated from ground reality in Kashmir”. “The guidelines are elitist in nature, defeating the inclusiveness that JMI stood for since its inception.,” Dr. Abdullah said. He requested JMI “to go for ‘assignment mode’ to evaluate students or come up with 4G- enabled Internet centres across J&K to facilitate the students”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jk-students-left-in-the-lurch/article33312046.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Probe ordered into ‘mishandling’ of Rs. 2,400 cr. by North civic body: Jain||Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that he has ordered an inquiry into “misappropriation” of more than Rs. 2,400 crore by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. This, even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which runs the three civic bodies, staged protests outside the official residences of Delhi Cabinet Ministers, demanding disbursal of dues amounting to Rs. 13,000 crore. “North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which is said to be in a financial crunch and cannot pay salaries on time to its doctors and staffers, has done misappropriation of more than Rs. 2,400 crore. It was supposed to get from South Delhi Municipal Corporation. I came to know about this through newspapers. I have told the Additional Chief Secretary of Urban Development [of Delhi government] to inquire about it. An inquiry will be conducted,” Mr. Jain said while addressing a press conference at party headquarters. On Wednesday, AAP alleged that the North corporation had waived Rs. 2,457 crore owed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. When asked about the demand of Rs. 13,000 crore by the corporations, the Minister said: “They should ask the Central government. During the last elections, they were confident about getting funds from the Central government. The amount that Delhi government owes to the civic body as per the Finance Commission is duly paid off before time. We have rather loaned them money which is yet to be recovered.” “We are not supposed to pay them anything, instead, they are the ones who owe us thousands of crores,” he added. State Vice-President Ashok Goel Devraha, who led the protests which would spread to the homes of AAP MLAs on Saturday, said that the Kejriwal government was “adamant on ruining the corporations” due to political malice. “By withholding the fund of the corporations, the Kejriwal government wants to deprive Delhiites of those facilities which the civic body is struggling to provide in the fields of education and healthcare,” he alleged. AAP leader and MLA Atishi said for the past 15 days Commissioners of all the three BJP-ruled municipal corporations were on leave and raised questions over the working pattern of the corporations.   ‘Commissioners on leave’ “On one side, the Mayors of civic bodies are sitting outside the CM’s residence and busy doing politics and on the other side the commissioners are on leave. AAP wants to know why has the BJP left the municipal corporations in such a condition and who is responsible for making the new budgets or imposing series of new taxes on citizens,” she told the media.  I came to know about this [misappropriation] through the newspapers. I have told the Additional Chief Secretary of Urban Development to inquire about it Satyendar Jain Urban Development Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/probe-ordered-into-mishandling-of-rs-2400-cr-by-north-civic-body-jain/article33312033.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Blanket of fog||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/blanket-of-fog/article33312038.ece
12 December 2020||Washington,||U.S. experts back Pfizer vaccine approval||The U.S. could soon be the next country to launch an immunisation campaign against COVID-19 after experts voted to recommend emergency approval for Pfizer-BioNTech’s vaccine. The key milestone comes as the world’s hardest-hit country logged nearly 6,000 virus deaths in 48 hours, with its overall toll approaching 300,000. President-elect Joe Biden called the FDA experts’ decision on Thurdsay a “bright light in a needlessly dark time”, with official approval expected within days.  Infections are spreading fastest in North America and parts of Africa, whereas Europe’s second wave has started to stabilise and cases are down in Asia and the Middle East. Britain this week became the first Western country to roll out the Pfizer-BioNTech jab, which Canada, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia have also approved. And while Russia and China have already begun inoculation efforts with domestically produced vaccines, European Union (EU) countries are eagerly awaiting clearance. The EU’s watchdog said it would deliver decisions on the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines in late December and early January respectively, despite the disturbance of a two-week-long cyber attack, which is under investigation.   Oncethe vaccine secures official approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. hopes to start vaccinating 20 million people this month. Long-term care facility residents and health workers at the front of the line will be the first to get the shots. Momentum behind the Pfizer jab has been building with the New England Journal of Medicine recently publishing results of a clinical trial involving nearly 44,000 people, which confirmed it was 95% effective with no serious safety issues.  The FDA said it would issue an allergy warning following Britain’s lead after two healthcare workers there suffered reactions and needed treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-experts-back-pfizer-vaccine-approval/article33311680.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Israel-Morocco pact follows a history of secret dealings||Behind the announcement on Thursday that Israel and Morocco will establish their first formal diplomatic ties, there lies almost six decades of close, secret cooperation on intelligence and military matters between the two nations that officially did not acknowledge each other. Israel has helped Morocco obtain weapons and intelligence-gathering gear and learn how to use them, and helped it assassinate an opposition leader. Morocco has helped Israel take in Moroccan Jews, mount an operation against Osama bin Laden, and even spy on other Arab countries. The collaboration — uncovered in an array of interviews conducted and documents unearthed over many years — reflects a longstanding Israeli policy of building covert ties with Arab regimes where common interests — and enemies — could be found. The Moroccan-Israeli ties stemmed in part from the large number of Jews in Morocco before the birth of Israel in 1948, many of whom would migrate there, making up one of the largest parts of Israel’s population. Some 1 million Israelis are from Morocco, or descended from those who were. When Morocco gained independence from France in 1956, it banned Jewish emigration. Israel’s spy agency, Mossad, smuggled out many Jews, but the operation was exposed in 1961, when a Mossad ship carrying such migrants sank, killing most of those on board. The next month, a new Moroccan king, Hassan II, took power, and Israel made a highly successful effort to cultivate him. Israeli agents met with the Moroccan opposition leader, Mehdi Ben Barka, who asked for help overthrowing the king; instead, the Israelis told Hassan of the plot. The king permitted mass emigration of Jews and allowed Mossad to establish a station in Morocco. Israel provided weapons and trained Moroccans in using them; it supplied surveillance technology and helped organise the Moroccan intelligence service, and the two shared information gathered by their spies. Intelligence coup A crucial moment came in 1965, when Arab leaders and military commanders met in Casablanca, and Morocco allowed Mossad to bug their meeting rooms and private suites. This gave Israel unprecedented insight into Arab plans, which helped it in preparing for the 1967 war. “These recordings, which were truly an extraordinary intelligence achievement, established our feeling, of the top IDF, that we will win the war against Egypt,” Gen. Shlomo Gazit, who later became the chief of military intelligence, said in a 2016 interview. Shortly after that intelligence coup, at the Moroccan intelligence’s request, Mossad located Ben Barka and helped lure him to Paris. There, Moroccans and allied Frenchmen abducted him. He was killed and Mossad agents disposed of the body, which was never found. A decade later, Hassan and his government became the back channel between Israel and Egypt, and Morocco became the site of secret meetings between their officials, ahead of the 1978 Camp David accords and normalisation of relations between the former enemies. In 1995, Moroccan intelligence joined in an ultimately unsuccessful Mossad plan to recruit Osama bin Laden’s secretary, to find and kill the leader of al-Qaeda, according to a former Mossad official who was a partner in that planning, and asked not to be named. For years, Hassan II’s successor, King Muhammad VI, has sought Israel’s help in winning American acquiescence to Morocco’s annexation of Western Sahara, which finally came to fruition in Thursday’s announcement. Since 2006, Serge Bardugo, a leader of the small Jewish community remaining in Morocco, has been the king’s ambassador in that effort, meeting with Israeli officials and American Jewish leaders. Occasionally, these meetings were attended by Yassin Mansuri, a long-time friend of the king’s, who heads Morocco’s external intelligence agency. Mr. Mansuri met directly with his Israeli counterpart, Yossi Cohen, the chief of Mossad, conducting some of the negotiations that led to the deal to normalise ties.the new york times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-morocco-pact-follows-a-history-of-secret-dealings/article33311678.ece
12 December 2020||COPENHAGEN,||Award-winning S. Korean director Kim Ki-duk dead||South Korean filmmaker Kim Ki-duk, a controversial figure both for his work and his personal life, died in Latvia from COVID-19 complications on Friday, a Latvian film official said. Kim, who had won awards at the Venice, Cannes and Berlin film festivals, had been staying in the Latvian capital Riga in a private capacity after travelling to neighbouring Estonia for work, according to Dita Rietuma, director of Latvia’s state National Film Centre. Kim, 59, died at a hospital in Riga, Ms. Rietuma toldReuters, citing the director’s private secretary. Latvian media Delfi first reported Kim’s death, referring to Vitaly Mansky, a Russian documentary film director who was reportedly working with Kim. Kim earned global praise as a regular at international festivals, but also faced criticism, especially over his portrayals of women, including in the ultra-violent filmPieta. That movie won the Golden Lion prize at the Venice Film Festival in 2012. MeToo accusations He was accused of rape and sexual harassment by a series of actresses amid the #MeToo movement. Kim had not directly responded to those claims, but appealed in November after losing a lawsuit he pursued against one of the actresses and a local TV network that broadcast her accusations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/award-winning-s-korean-director-kim-ki-duk-dead/article33311669.ece
12 December 2020||Washington,||Key Obama-era officials among Biden’s Cabinet picks||President-elect Joe Biden announced several administration picks on Thursday, including Obama-era officials such as former National Security Adviser Susan Rice as White House Domestic Policy Council director and ex-chief of staff Denis McDonough as veterans affairs secretary. The appointments, laid out by Mr. Biden’s presidential transition team, highlight the diversity which Mr. Biden pledged to bring to his Cabinet. “This is the right team for this moment in history, and I know that each of these leaders will hit the ground running on day one to take on the interconnected crises families are facing today,” Mr. Biden said in a statement. Ms. Rice had been a contender for Secretary of State. But she was expected to face intense opposition from Republicans in the Senate confirmation process over her role in the Benghazi crisis of 2012, and that prestigious Cabinet position went to Mr. Biden’s close adviser, Antony Blinken. Ms. Rice’s appointment may come as a surprise given her experience in foreign policy. The position, which she tweeted she was “humbled and excited” to take, does not need Senate confirmation. Mr. McDonough, 51, served multiple roles in Barack Obama’s administration, including White House Chief of Staff and Deputy National Security Adviser. He has been nominated to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs, a sprawling government agency tasked with managing a healthcare network that serves nine million enrolled veterans.    He also named Tom Vilsack, 69, Mr. Obama’s Secretary of Agriculture for two full terms, to the same role.  International trade expert Katherine Tai has been chosen to be the U.S. Trade Representative. Ms. Tai, currently the chief trade lawyer for the House Ways and Means Committee, would be the first Asian American and first woman of color in the USTR role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/key-obama-era-officials-among-bidens-cabinet-picks/article33311673.ece
12 December 2020||MADISON,||Donald Trump loses Wisconsin lawsuit||President Donald Trump on Friday lost a Wisconsin lawsuit seeking to disqualify more than 2,21,000 ballots and overturn his loss to Democrat Joe Biden in the battleground State. This is the latest in a string of legal defeats for Mr. Trump. Reserve judge Stephen Simanek ruled against every argument Mr. Trump made while challenging ballots in the State’s two largest counties, saying the election was properly administered and there was no wrongdoing as the President alleged. Mr. Trump planned to appeal the ruling at the conservative-controlled Wisconsin Supreme Court, even though his chances there appear to be slim. He also has a federal lawsuit in Wisconsin, where the judge could rule as soon as Friday. The Wisconsin Supreme Court court previously refused to hear Mr. Trump’s State case before it went through the lower courts. A majority of judges have also openly questioned whether disqualifying the ballots, as Mr. Trump wants, would be appropriate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/donald-trump-loses-wisconsin-lawsuit/article33311761.ece
12 December 2020||Moscow,||AstraZeneca to use part of Russia’s Sputnik V||Pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca’s Russian branch said on Friday it would use part of Russia’s homemade Sputnik V vaccine in further clinical trials, a major sign of recognition for a jab that has been viewed with scepticism by the West. Russia was one of the first countries to announce the development of a COVID-19 vaccine. While the jab is yet to complete its third and final phase of testing, developers say that interim trial results showed 95% efficacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/astrazeneca-to-use-part-of-russias-sputnik-v/article33311667.ece
12 December 2020||New York,||TIME names Biden, Harris person of 2020||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris were named TIME magazine's 2020 “Person of the Year” for their poll victory. “For changing the American story, for showing that the forces of empathy are greater than the furies of division, for sharing a vision of healing in a grieving world,” TIME said, explaining its choice. They were chosen ahead of three other finalists: frontline healthcare workers and Anthony Fauci, the racial justice movement and President Donald Trump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/time-names-biden-harris-person-of-2020/article33311671.ece
12 December 2020||Hong Kong,||Jimmy Lai charged under security law||Hong Kong media tycoon and Beijing critic Jimmy Lai was charged under a new national security law on Friday for allegedly colluding with foreign forces. He is the latest pro-democracy figure targeted under the legislation. The city’s new national security unit charged Mr. Lai “with one count of ‘collusion with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security’,” police said. National security offences carry a maximum sentence of life in prison. The publisher will appear in court on Saturday in relation to the national security charge, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jimmy-lai-charged-under-security-law/article33311676.ece
12 December 2020||GAUHATI,||Bhutan lawmakers vote to decriminalize same-sex relations||Bhutan’s Parliament has voted to decriminalise same-sex relations, amending an existing law that penalised what it deemed “unnatural sex”. The amendment was approved on Thursday by 63 out of 69 lawmakers, with six abstaining from voting. The amendment now needs to be approved by Bhutan’s king to become law.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bhutan-lawmakers-vote-to-decriminalize-same-sex-relations/article33311670.ece
12 December 2020||Leidschendam,||Leidschendam, Netherlands, Dec 11, 2020 (AFP) -||The United Nations-backed Lebanon Tribunal on Friday sentenced Salim Ayyash, a Hezbollah member who was convicted of conspiring to kill former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri in a 2005 bombing, to five terms of life imprisonment. The trial was conducted in absentia and Ayyash remains at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/leidschendam-netherlands-dec-11-2020-afp/article33311675.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Love on the razor’s edge||Around 7 a.m. on November 24, Sarvesh Kumar Shukla woke up to discover that the blue metal gate of his humble, unplastered brick house was unlatched. Shukla, who lives in Makhu Behar village in Sitapur, Uttar Pradesh, first assumed that one of his three sons had gone out, but he found them sleeping inside. In the adjoining room, his younger daughter was fast asleep. Beside her, there was a large lump covered by a mattress. He thought it was his eldest daughter Neetu, aged 19. “But when I lifted the bichauna (bedding), she was not there,” says Sarvesh, 42, a saffron gamcha dangling over his half-sleeved pink cardigan. Sarvesh assumed that the Class 12 student was in the bathroom or had gone to the fields. But by now, apprehension had turned to fear. Perhaps, Sarvesh had already anticipated the worst. He sent a boy to check on Jubrail, a Muslim van driver in his early twenties, who lived with his two brothers and mother around 50 metres away, in a house facing a mosque. Jubrail had been missing since the night before, he learnt. Sarvesh quickly joined the dots: Jubrail and Neetu had run away together. Sarvesh claims that he had no idea that his daughter was going to leave home, let alone elope with Jubrail. In the First Information Report (FIR) lodged at the Tambaur police station on November 26 against an unknown person for “kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage”, Sarvesh submitted that his daughter would talk to someone on the phone at night, but he did not know her phone number. There were no religious undertones in the FIR. On the same day, some 130 km away from Makhu Behar village, in Lucknow, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s Cabinet gave its nod to an ordinance that makes religious conversion a non-bailable offence inviting penalties up to 10 years in prison if found to be effected for marriage or through misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or other allegedly fraudulent means. The ordinance was cleared by the Cabinet weeks after Adityanath promised to bring an “effective law” against “love jihad”, a legally unrecognised term radical Hindu groups use to accuse Muslim men of converting Hindu women by marriage. Invoking the ordinance The next day, Sarvesh submitted another application to the police in Tambaur, this time naming Jubrail as the accused and Jubrail’s family members as accomplices. In his complaint, Sarvesh alleged that Jubrail had lured his daughter into eloping with him. Two days later, Sarvesh curiously submitted yet another application, this time to the district police chief, alleging that Jubrail had induced his daughter to flee from home with the intention of converting her to another religion. In contradiction to the earlier application, Sarvesh now claimed that his daughter was a minor, aged 17. “The opposite party is Muslim. They have made my daughter disappear. Her life and honour are in danger,” pleaded an illiterate Sarvesh in a Hindi application signed with his thumb impression. Incidentally, on the same day, Governor Anandiben Patel promulgated the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. It was based on “facts” presented by the Shukla family in the new application that Sections 3 and 5 of the new ordinance were added to the FIR, says Sitapur Superintendent of Police (North) Rajiv Dixit. While Neetu and Jubrail have not been traced yet, a police officer says 10 persons accused of facilitating the elopement, all of them Jubrail’s family members or acquaintances, have been arrested. Police teams have been sent to Lucknow, Bahraich, Barabanki and even Punjab in search of the couple. Ever since the promulgation of the ordinance, the U.P. police have displayed uncanny expediency in invoking it in cases involving Muslim men and Hindu women. Apart from Sitapur, FIRs have been lodged in Bareilly, Moradabad, Mau and Muzaffarnagar. According to police records, at least 18 persons have been arrested under the new ordinance so far: 10 in Sitapur, five in Mau, two in Moradabad and one in Bareilly. Barring one, all of them are Muslims. In Makhu Behar village, Neetu’s parents are livid and ashamed at once. They are angry with themselves for failing to anticipate their daughter’s actions. “If one of my children had died, I would have felt less pain,” says Rekha, Sarvesh’s wife. “We have not been able to show our face in the village.” Standing in front of the facade of his house, Sarvesh says, “If he was not taking her to convert her, why else would a Muslim man take away a Hindu woman?” Sarvesh, a Brahmin, is a farmer. He owns eight bighas of land and five head of cattle. The family still uses wood fire for cooking. Neetu left home with Rs. 2 lakh in cash, which her father had acquired in exchange for buffaloes, and all her mother’s jewellery, allege the couple. Locals think the claim is exaggerated. “Now all I have left is this body. Either you fire a bullet into me or ask the daroga (inspector) to do it,” Rekha says. The ‘dishonour’ of their daughter having eloped with a Muslim man has upset the Shuklas more than her disappearance. Sarvesh and his family have not ventured out much since November 24. A relative of the Shuklas sums up their sentiments: “ Saath pushtin ka daag lagai gawa (The blot will last for seven generations),” he said. Another gives a threat to the couple, “ Shaadi nahi hoti, post-mortem hota (The wedding won’t take place, only the post-mortem will).” Could Neetu, prima facie an adult, have gone with Jubrail willingly and not been induced or coerced? Was there any trigger for the elopement that the parents were unaware of? These questions irk Sarvesh. “I don’t know how and what happened. Suppose I’m sitting here and someone goes to the shed and steals a buffalo of mine, how would I know who has done it,” he asks. And what if Neetu had eloped with a Hindu? “If that was the case, I would not react,” he says. Rekha adds: “We would give them a jaimala (wedding garland).” In Makhu Behar, where even inter-caste marriages are considered quite scandalous, a marriage or elopement between a Hindu woman and a Muslim man is nothing short of outrageous. Both communities say the elopement has brought them badnaami (shame). Jubrail’s single-floor, tarpaulin-roofed brick house is deserted. The only signs of life in this decrepit house are the overgrown papaya plantation in the tiny backyard, wood ash at the brick stove, and fresh lumps of cow dung in the courtyard. Jubrail’s relative’s home is also locked. An eerie silence hangs in the air; most neighbours are reluctant to talk about the case. Jubrail’s brothers Israil and Moinuddin, who is physically challenged; their mother; Israil’s wife; uncle Usman; relatives Rafiq and Shamshad; and three friends, including a Hindu van driver Saroj Shukla, who allegedly dropped the couple at the bus station are all in jail. The arrests have instilled fear among the village’s Muslims, many of whom have temporarily shifted to other places or have remained indoors. Locals whisper about Neetu and Jubrail’s friendship but refuse to comment on their alleged relationship. The two families shared a cordial relationship but maintained distance over the past year due to a minor dispute over cattle. There is a general consensus in the village that the man and woman had planned their elopement. But Neetu and Jubrail were rarely seen out together. Both Hindus and Muslims say Jubrail was always focused on earning a livelihood. He had recently purchased a second-hand van, which incidentally he did not use for the elopement. Neighbours describe Neetu as being discreet but bright. Old files, new case Some 250 km northwest of Tambaur, in Sharif Nagar village of Bareilly, septuagenarian Rafiq Ahmad is waiting for his son Uwaish, 21, to return from jail. Barely 24 hours after the ordinance was promulgated, the U.P. Police lodged a case in Deorania police station against Uwaish, a labourer, for criminal intimidation. Sections of the new ordinance were added to the printed FIR with a pen as the police system was not updated with the law. In the FIR, a local Hindu man, Tikaram Rathore, accused Uwaish of trying to coerce his married daughter, aged 20, to convert to Uwaish’s religion and marry him. Tikaram said Uwaish had developed a friendship with his daughter during their school days, and intended to “coerce, coax and allure her into converting”. However, a day later, the woman’s brother, Kesarpal, contradicted the narrative and said that his sister had planned to elope in October 2019 but was tracked by the police within days. Uwaish faced a kidnapping case but to preserve their ‘social honour’, the Rathores changed their statement and the matter reached a compromise in court, say Kesarpal and a police officer. The woman got married to another man this May. It remains unclear how the ordinance fits in this case and what prompted the family to re-open an apparently resolved grievance. The local Station House Officer says Tikaram submitted a fresh complaint and contended that Uwaish continued to harass and threaten his daughter even after her marriage. But Kesarpal, who works in a private firm, claims that his father did not approach the police. He says the police came to their house to question them about some “old files” before taking Tikaram to the police station for questioning. The police subsequently arrested Uwaish on December 2. Rafiq claims that his son and the woman had not been in touch since the settlement. The police booked his son under the new ordinance to “add stars” to their badges, he says. Rafiq also claims that the Rathore family were pressured by the police to file the fresh complaint and blames the administration for falsely implicating his son. Rafiq says last year, the woman left her house due to some domestic grievance, but Uwaish did not accompany her. “Even they (the Rathore family) are with us,” he says. Kesarpal has been inaccessible since November 29. A tool for harassment Though there is no mention of ‘love jihad’ in the draft of the ordinance, the law was introduced against the backdrop of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s promise to introduce measures to curb inter-faith marriages and relationships involving a Hindu woman and a Muslim man. Government spokesperson Siddharth Nath Singh said the ordinance would help provide justice to women, especially to those from Dalit and tribal communities. However, others argue that the ordinance is being used to harass inter-faith couples and expose them to vigilantism. Pranvesh Om, a law research scholar from Prayagraj, one of the petitioners challenging the ordinance in the Supreme Court, argues that the FIRs lodged so far do not prima facie disclose the offence and are based on mere apprehensions. In Sitapur, for instance, sections under the new ordinance were later added to the FIR on the basis of apprehensions of the informant, says Pranvesh. “Only unlawful conversion and attempts of conversion have been made punishable. Here, neither was there an attempt nor was there any offence committed. This ordinance gives room to lodge a false FIR stating that someone is preparing to convert someone unlawfully,” he says. Ali Khan Mahmudabad, Professor at Ashoka University, says the ordinance is “another tool to criminalise behaviour of Muslim men”. He says, “The goal seems to be to deepen the social gulf between the two communities so that there is more distrust and subsequently it is easier to dehumanise the other.” Already living in fear due to societal pressures, conservative customs, and restrictions, inter-faith couples now have another worry — the ordinance. It threatens to criminalise inter-faith love and marriage and places the burden of proof on the accused. Disregarding the agency of women In two cases, the consent and agency of adult women have been disregarded. On December 5, the police in Kanth arrested Rashid and his brother when Rashid was allegedly attempting to get his marriage to a Hindu woman registered. He and Pinki, from Bijnor, had been in a consensual relationship and had been living with each other for the past few months. They had known each other for two years. Pinki says the couple had got married on July 24 in Dehradun. When they reached the marriage registration office in Kanth, Rashid and his brother were arrested based on an FIR lodged by the woman’s mother who alleged that Rashid had induced Pinki into marriage and converted her under the garb of providing a job, the police say. According to Section 4 of the ordinance, any aggrieved person, his or her parents, brother, sister or any other person who is related to him or her by blood, marriage or adoption may lodge an FIR of unlawful conversion. At the tehsil, Pinki was heckled and humiliated by members of a right-wing group. She asserted that she was an adult and had married willingly but it fell on deaf ears. “This law is made for people like you,” one of the nameless vigilante leaders was heard telling Pinki in a video of the incident. The police have not found any document as proof of Pinki and Rashid’s marriage or conversion, says Vidya Sagar Mishra, Superintendent of Police, Rural Moradabad. While the right-wing group claimed that they handed over the couple to the police after chasing them near a temple, Mishra says the vigilantes had reached the spot after they heard that the police had arrived there. The woman’s mother brought the police there, he says. Pinki is now at a shelter home run by the government as she did not want to go back to her family, says Mishra. “We cannot force her to go. Also, this makes sense from a security point of view,” the officer says. ‘State has no right to intervene’ While no FIR was lodged in Lucknow, the police on December 2 controversially intervened to stop a marriage ceremony between a consenting couple — a Hindu B.Sc student (20) and a Muslim pharmacist (25) — citing the new ordinance. The police reached the venue allegedly on the complaint of a fringe outfit, the Rashtriya Yuva Vahini, which describes itself as a “ sahyogi (partner)” of the BJP. The police asked the couple to first seek the permission of the District Magistrate before getting married. The ordinance declares void any marriage done with the sole purpose of “unlawful conversion or vice-versa”. Also, one who desires to convert his or her religion has to give a declaration in a prescribed form at least 60 days in advance to the District Magistrate or the Additional District Magistrate stating that this was being done of his or her own free will and without coercion. Violation of this provision can land a person in jail for three months or even three years. The Lucknow couple agreed to marry only after acquiring the District Magistrate’s nod. The marriage ceremony was planned much ahead of the day when the ordinance was passed. After participating in the religious ceremonies of both faiths, the couple had planned to register their marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. The episode at the venue has shaken the two families who have gone under the radar. In their lower-middle class locality on the outskirts of Lucknow, the families say they prefer to stay indoors. They agree to talk after much persuasion under the condition of anonymity. Despite the episode, the families are firm on the marriage. Happy to report the unflinching support of her parents, the woman says the government or outsiders have no right to interfere in consensual inter-personal relationships. The man, mehndi colours still fresh on his hands, says the marriage was stopped only to harass them. “In our locality such cases keep coming up, but nothing happens. They appear in the thana , the consent of the man and woman is taken, and the two are asked to go live together,” says the man. While stressing that the couple had no plans of converting post-marriage, he also added that if needed, one of them would change their religion. He wouldn’t mind becoming a Hindu for her either, he says. The woman’s parents say they would rather see her happily marry a man she loves rather than see her being forced to elope. “We are happy if our children are happy,” says her mother, a cook from the Gupta community. The father says, “If we didn’t agree and tomorrow they take a wrong step, what will we do?” Vague terms in the new law The new ordinance was also invoked in Muzaffarnagar where two Muslim brothers were booked on November 29 for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. In his complaint at the Mansoorpur police station, Akshay Kumar Tyagi, who works in a prominent pharmaceutical company as a labour contractor in Haridwar, where he had been living for five years with his wife Parul and two children, alleged that one Nadeem had “trapped” her in a “net of love” with the aim of converting her. Nadeem, 32, a resident of Bhagwanpur in Haridwar, is a labourer and used to frequent their house. He became friends with Parul, Akshay submitted. By alluring her, Nadeem planned to marry Parul and convert her, alleged Akshay in the FIR. The allurement? An Oppo F15 mobile phone that Nadeem had gifted Parul. She used the phone to secretly communicate with him, he said. Nadeem’s brother Salman was also booked for allegedly helping him in the “conspiracy”. No arrests have been made in the case. Akshay did not respond to requests for an interview. Five persons were arrested in Mau district’s Chiraiyakot days after a Muslim man, already married, and 13 others were booked for allegedly abducting the daughter of a prominent Hindu gold trader on the eve of her wedding. The ordinance was also slapped against them. The police say the man, said to be a driver, and the woman fled from their homes and are yet to be traced. In the context of these cases, Pranvesh further states that the offences under the law have been defined in vague terms, in particular the word ‘allurement’. This could result in the lodging of fake cases by the member of one religion against the member of another, in order to harass them. The ordinance is also silent on the point of live-in relationships, he says. “What will be the fate of cases wherein two adults of different religions live together without marrying or converting their religion,” he asks. Also when the procedure for declaration while solemnising inter-religious marriages has already been prescribed under the Special Marriage Act, a Central law, what prompted the State government to provide for a cumbersome procedure for declaration under the new law, he asks. Meanwhile, in Sitapur, the distraught Shuklas await the return of their daughter. Sarvesh says there is no question of his daughter ever marrying a Muslim, even if there is no conversion. And what if she is adamant? “There is no way I’ll allow it,” he says sternly. “If I get back the girl, I will get her married off and liberate myself [from this responsibility].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/love-on-the-razors-edge/article33311665.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Pointing the finger at parliamentary scrutiny||The new Farm Bills passed by Parliament in the last monsoon session have evoked a scale of protest unforeseen by the government. Negotiations between the government and the farmers seem to have produced no result, and the farmers are determined to scale up their agitation in the coming days. The country seems to be heading toward a serious confrontation between the government and the agitating farmers. A noteworthy aspect of the negotiations is that many of the proposals put forward now by the government for the consideration of the farmers are issues which were more or less rejected by the government when those Bills were debated in Parliament. The government is reportedly willing to amend these Acts now in order to meet the demands of the farmers. It is another matter that the farmers have rejected these proposals. They have made it clear that they want these laws to be repealed and if necessary, fresh laws to be enacted after discussions with the farmers and other stakeholders. A process of refinement The demand for the repeal of the laws passed by Parliament only recently essentially points to a serious lapse in the management of the legislative work in Parliament. Parliament is the supreme law-making body which has put in place a large machinery of committees to scrutinise the Bills which are brought before it by the government as a part of its legislative programme. Rules of the Houses leave it to the Speaker or the Chairman to refer the Bills to the Standing Committees for a detailed scrutiny thereof. After such scrutiny is completed, the committees send their reports containing their recommendations on improvements to be made in the Bills to the Houses. While undertaking such scrutiny, the committees invite various stakeholders to place their views before them. Only after elaborate consultation do the committees formulate their views and recommendations. Under any circumstances, the Bills which come back to the Houses after the scrutiny by the committees will be in a much better shape in terms of their content. This is the common experience. That is the reason why the Rules of the Houses provide for reference of the Bills to the committees. Although, technically, the reference to the committees is within the discretion of the Speaker or the Chairman, the intendment of the Rules is that all important Bills should go before the committees for a detailed examination. However, every Bill which comes before the Houses need not be sent to the committees. For example, some minor Amendment Bills or Bills which do not have any serious ramifications need not be sent to the committees. That is precisely why the Presiding officers have been given the discretion in the matter of reference of Bills to committees. But it does not mean that they can exercise their discretion not to refer to the committee an important Bill which has serious implications for society. Such an action only defeats the purpose of the Rules. Draughtsman’s creations Data show that very few Bills are referred to the Parliamentary Committees now. Ministers are generally reluctant to send their Bills to the committees because they are in a hurry to pass them. They often request the Presiding Officers not to refer their Bills to the committees. But the Presiding Officers are required to exercise their independent judgment in the matter and decide the issue. They need to keep in mind the fact that the Bills which the government brings before the Houses often have serious shortcomings. They are in fact draughtsman’s creations. Members of Parliament who know the ground realities better apply their mind and put them in a better shape. Across history Improving the pieces of legislation through detailed scrutiny by Parliament through its committees is historically an ancient practice. In fact, the British Parliament has been doing it since the 16th century. The Indian experience of legislative scrutiny of Bills goes back to the post-Montagu–Chelmsford Reforms. It is interesting to note that the Central Legislative Assembly which was the Parliament of British India, had set up three committees: Committee on Petitions relating to Bills, Select Committee of Amendments of standing orders and Select Committee on Bills. Thus, even the colonial Parliament recognised the need and usefulness of parliamentary scrutiny of Bills brought to the House by the government. Free India’s Parliament established a vast network of committees to undertake scrutiny of various aspects of governance including the Bills. Prior to the formation of Standing Committees, the Indian Parliament used to appoint select committees, joint select committees, etc. for detailed scrutiny of important legislative proposals of the government. With the formation of standing committees, the occasions for appointing select or joint select committees are few. A cursory look at the Bills sent to the committees in the past would reveal the seriousness shown by both the government and the Opposition in having the Bills scrutinised by the committees. So far as the select committees or joint select committees are concerned, generally, a proposal from the Opposition to set up such a committee is agreed to by the government. Usually, some informal consultations take place between the government and the Opposition before a consensus is arrived at on the formation of such committees. Old-timers in Parliament are quite familiar with this healthy tradition of consensus making in Parliament. These Bills were made better Now for a few examples of Bills scrutinised by Parliamentary Committees in the past may be cited to show that important legislative proposals were usually sent to the committees for detailed examination; this resulted in the improvement of their content. The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Bill was introduced in 1999 in the Lok Sabha and was immediately referred to a joint committee of both Houses. This Bill was meant to develop new varieties of plants and protect the rights of farmers and breeders. The committee completed its work in eight months and made many improvements by way of bringing greater clarity into various terms and concepts. Similarly, the Seeds Bill, 2004 was referred to the Standing Committee on Agriculture which obtained the views of agricultural research institutions, agricultural universities, national and State seed corporations, private seed companies, scientists, farmers’ organisations, non-governmental organisations and individuals. Through the process of consultation with a wide range of experts and research organisations and farmers, the committee made significant improvements in the Bill; as a result, there was a better law on seeds. It was the same case with the Companies (Amendment) Bill, the Information Technology Bill, and the Goods and Services Tax Bill, to name a few. The Lokpal and Lokayuktas Bill which was introduced in the Lok Sabha in 2011, which was referred to the Committee, was again referred to a Select Committee of the Rajya Sabha when it was transmitted to that House after being passed by the Lok Sabha. Thus, this Bill underwent double security by two committees of Parliament. When this Bill went back to the Lok Sabha after being passed by Rajya Sabha — with amendments as suggested by its Select Committee — Sushma Swaraj, then Leader of the Opposition, Lok Sabha, was lavish in her praise of the Chairman, Rajya Sabha for subjecting the Bill to further scrutiny by the Rajya Sabha’s Select Committee and greatly improving the Bill’s content. This is only a sample of Bills referred to Parliamentary Committees for detailed study. It is in fact difficult to understand why the Farm Bills — they seek to alter the well-established system of grain trade in major grain growing States and which have left farmers completely shaken — were not sent to the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture for a detailed study. The Committee is sure to have consulted the farmers apart from other stakeholders and suggested improvements which, perhaps, could have averted the current agitation. Functioning by consensus Our Parliamentary Committees have a tradition of working in a non-party manner. The reports of these Committees are based on consensus. It may be a bit difficult for people to believe that the instrumentalities of Parliament could rise above parties. But that is how they function. The systems of Parliament are inclusive. They have the capacity to harmonise contradictions. Despite the adversarial politics playing out in full force in the Houses, the calm atmosphere prevailing in the committee rooms and the purposiveness shown by the members in dealing with issues are a tremendously reassuring factor. To make these systems gradually non-functional and irrelevant is to invite disaster. P.D.T. Achary is former Secretary General, Lok Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pointing-the-finger-at-parliamentary-scrutiny/article33311659.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Pragmatic family arrangement, a new business chapter||TVS, the pre-eminent industrial group and business family of south India, has always been known for being conservative in its business, traditional in its approach and low in public profile. With the memorandum of family arrangement announced on Thursday, the group has proved that it is not just all of the above; it is also pragmatic and rooted in reality, without romanticising that it can stay together as a family even as it enters the fifth generation. Idealistic notion vs. reality The memorandum is only the first step and there will be many trickier ones to take as the group untangles family holdings across its estimated 45-50 companies in the months ahead. But what is important is the realisation and acceptance that it is difficult to align the vision and priorities of a bunch of 40-45 people of varied age profiles, from their 20s to their 80s, with differing aspirations, outlooks and risk profiles, by the sole agent of family glue. How often have we seen family businesses falter at the altar of competing ambitions, conflicting views on business and the desire to be unfettered by historical baggage? The Ambanis may come to mind first when we think of conflicting ambitions among family members leading to trouble, but there are several other prominent business families in India that have come to grief due to their inability to manage the pulls and pressures of newer generations. The problem is the idealistic notion that familial ties and bonding at the personal level can handle any friction on the business side between family members. As the Ambani saga showed, it is impossible to manage aspirations even in the second generation among own brothers. It is naive to hope that this can happen at the level of cousins, twice or thrice removed from each other in the fourth or fifth generation. There is bound to be conflict even in the presence of a patriarch whose will may not always be respected. The TVS group, all of 109 years old, faced this predicament. Indeed, there have been minor rumblings in the past inside the group but they were well managed by the family. With the fourth generation entering stewardship roles across the major companies in the group such as TVS Motor, Sundaram Clayton, Sundram Fasteners, Brakes India, Wheels India, Sundaram Brake Linings and Lucas TVS, the pitch was laid for conflict. The elders in the group, prudently, decided to not bat on this pitch. Situating the new generation We have to remember an important point here. The generation that is now taking over the controls is born in a new India that is confident about itself, an economic powerhouse, and it is exposed to tectonic changes in technology and approach to business. It is not fettered as the earlier generations were by government controls or a low self-esteem caused by backwardness of the country labelled with the Third World tag. This is a generation that believes that the world belongs to it and is unhesitant to take risks in business, risks that their fathers and mothers would shy away from. The best way to handle them then is to give them the freedom and tell them that the world is theirs to conquer. Shackling them with family business traditions and values will only lead to disaffection. They are not going to align on a single path just because that path has been laid out by the family. Missing the bus Let us look at the other pluses of this move. If one were to write the history of the third generation of the TVS group which boasts of stalwarts such as Suresh Krishna, Venu Srinivasan, Viji Santhanam, K. Mahesh and Gopal Srinivasan, to name just a few, what would stand out is that they did not take the group into sunrise sectors such as information technology, pharmaceuticals and renewable energy. Or into capital intensive infrastructure, which was a growth area. More than a decade ago, in an informal conversation with this writer, Venu Srinivasan acknowledged that it was a missed opportunity to have not entered information technology in the 1990s. “The infotech wave is in many ways exactly like what TVS does — ethical businesses, organised people, engineers, manpower at the doorstep... I think TVS did miss that bus. Today, even if not a $4-$5 billion business, we should have had at least a $1 billion business in the knowledge sector,” admitted Mr. Srinivasan during a chat over lunch for a column that was published in Business Line under the ‘Table Talk’ series. Even as he acknowledged that it would have made a big difference to the group if it had caught the IT or pharma wave, Mr. Srinivasan could not be persuaded into giving a reason for the failure. But one could sense remorse over a missed opportunity that was most likely due to the conservatism and risk-aversion of the group. It is possible that minus the family fetters, one or more of the otherwise highly successful generation would have set out on a new path. The family re-arrangement now would make such things possible for the fourth generation leadership. Second, and this is the biggest plus, the pragmatism shown on the business side will hopefully ensure that the family stays together at the personal level. The diversity of opinion and professional aspirations will now be neatly separated from family relationships. With all the group companies now free to use the TVS brand without royalty liabilities, the franchise of the group can be built independently by each of the constituents. On a new highway To be sure, these are early days and the real challenge will be in operationalising the sentiment behind the memorandum. Given that many of the group companies are listed, there will be market expectations to manage. Some companies also have foreign collaborators that have to be aligned with the group’s decision. There could also be some cross-holdings among the companies that need to be untangled. And then, of course, are the legal formalities to be gone through and approvals that need to be secured. But there is little doubt that the group’s elders have given it a chance to survive as an entity in the next generation. During the chat with Venu Srinivasan mentioned earlier, this writer had asked him why there was no documented history of the TVS group. His reply was characteristic of the group’s philosophy: “It came from a feeling that you should not remain rooted in the past. We could not get our elder generation to document because of this thought.” This philosophy is again on display now, and hopefully it will give the group a chance to last the next 100 years serving India’s development. Raghuvir Srinivasan is Editor, The Hindu BusinessLine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pragmatic-family-arrangement-a-new-business-chapter/article33311661.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Connecting more people||The Central government’s move to enable public wi-fi data service through small retail data offices can get many more people connected, just as long-distance telephony was expanded through STD public call offices over three decades ago. Bringing broadband Internet to remote locations at minimum investment, and giving subscribers the option of making small, need-based payments to use it has remained a challenge thus far, but the Prime Minister Wi-Fi Access Network Interface (PM WANI) scheme approved by the Union Cabinet aims to bridge that divide using wireless technologies. Potentially, Internet access will connect a new wave of users not just to commercial and entertainment options, but also to education, telehealth and agriculture extension, and bring greater accountability to government by boosting transparency and interactivity. The government is hoping that by cutting through layers of bureaucracy and eliminating licences and fees, it can make it easy even for a tea shop owner to register online as a service provider, opening up new income avenues. Three years ago, when TRAI outlined the plan and initiated the first pilot of a public wi-fi system on the WANI architecture, it noted that a 10% rise in net penetration led to a 1.4% increase in GDP. Public wi-fi, however, suffered neglect because it was seen as a competitor to data services sold by mobile telecom firms, rather than as the complementary technology it is. A rapid scale-up of Internet in rural India will be transformative, given the low level of penetration — 27.57 subscribers per 100 population in 2019 - and wi-fi linked to broadband fibre service is the fastest route to achieving that. Upcoming mobile technologies such as 5G may provide good quality data, but they involve high investment in new spectrum, connectivity equipment and regular subscriber fees. The WANI system offers an elegant way forward to connect low revenue consumers. It opens up opportunities for community organisations, libraries, educational institutions, panchayats and small entrepreneurs to tap into a whole new ecosystem, purchasing bandwidth from a public data office aggregator to serve local consumers. What the citizen expects is robust service, protection of data integrity, transparency on commercial use of data, and security against cyberattacks. The government must also ensure true unbundling of hardware, software, apps and payment gateways in the WANI system, as advocated by TRAI, to prevent monopolies. Existing public wi-fi options run on a limited scale by some entities compel consumers to pay through a single gateway app, underscoring the need for reform. Executed properly, the public data offices (PDOs) of PM WANI can do what the PCOs did for phone calls, going well beyond ‘ease of doing business’ to genuinely empower citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/connecting-more-people/article33311654.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Maduro’s win||The sweeping victory Nicolás Maduro and his allies secured in Sunday’s legislative elections in Venezuela has allowed the oil-rich country’s President to tighten his grip on power. The outgoing National Assembly, in which the opposition has a majority, has remained outside his influence. Last year, the Assembly Speaker, Juan Guaidó, declared himself acting President after the opposition refused to recognise Mr. Maduro’s 2018 re-election. But despite Mr. Guaidó’s call for revolt and the support he got internationally, including from the U.S., all other major institutions, including the judiciary and the military, remained loyal to Mr. Maduro — he has emerged stronger with his United Socialist Party and allies winning 67% of the vote. But the results are unlikely to resolve the political crisis. The Guaidó-led main right-wing opposition bloc had boycotted the election. It claimed that the Supreme Court’s decision earlier this year to appoint a new election commission without participation from the National Assembly was illegal. The opposition has also rejected the results. It points out that only 31% of registered voters cast their ballots — less than half of the turnout in the 2015 legislative election which the opposition won — questioning the legitimacy of the whole process. The U.S. and several EU countries too have refused to recognise the vote. Venezuela has for long been embroiled in crises. When oil prices fell, its ambitious Bolivarian welfare schemes, launched by Mr. Maduro’s charismatic predecessor, Hugo Chávez, began showing cracks. Coupled with American sanctions, the economic crisis led to food, fuel and medicine shortages, triggering protests and forcing at least 4.5 million to flee. The 2015 legislative election was an early warning to the ruling socialists. But they failed to fix the economy. To override the opposition from the Assembly, Mr. Maduro convened a Constituent Assembly, which even passed laws. The opposition, on the other side, could have used its mandate to mobilise the people and build a bigger movement. But it chose the easier path: Mr. Guaidó declared himself the President without even a semblance of legitimacy, and joined hands with foreign powers, including Colombia and the U.S., whose antipathy towards the socialists in Caracas is hardly a secret. In effect, the Venezuelan right-wing opposition abandoned its political fight and, by taking American help to unseat President Maduro, strengthened the regime’s narrative that the opposition leaders are being used by “Yankee imperialists”. By boycotting the election, the opposition has, in practice, made it easier for Mr. Maduro to win it. If the opposition wants to challenge the government effectively, it should build a political movement at home, tapping the grievances of the public, not on the support that may or may not come from abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/maduros-win/article33311655.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre set to unveil ‘ambitious’ PSE divestment policy: Bajaj||The new public sector enterprises policy for strategic disinvestment is far more ambitious than most would ‘anticipate’, Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj said on Friday. Conceding that the policy, promised in May, had been delayed, Mr. Bajaj said the government didn’t want to do something ‘routine’. “Let me say the policy will be very ambitious, more than what is anticipated by all of you,” he told participants at FICCI’s AGM. “It will happen very soon [and mark] a first time in India. This would bring a paradigm change in the way people think in the government,” he added. Asked if public sector banks would be included, Mr. Bajaj said that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had already mentioned that even strategic sectors would have only one to four public sector players. “The rest will be privatised,” he said. Observing that there had been some ‘cooling off’ in economic activity after the festive season, Mr. Bajaj said things hadn’t gone down as much as expected. “There will be a few blips here and there, but we are positive and cautiously optimistic,” he added. ‘Growth’ would drive the review of the monetary policy framework due in March, he hinted, when asked if the current inflation targeting framework could be revisited. “We will make sure that we have taken care of the factor that targeting has not affected the policy options... we will take adequate steps to ensure growth happens,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-set-to-unveil-ambitious-pse-divestment-policy-bajaj/article33311636.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||N.K. Singh calls for a fresh look at the Seventh Schedule||Fifteenth Finance Commission chairman N.K. Singh has called for a fresh look at the Constitution’s Seventh Schedule, which forms the basis for allocating subjects to the Centre and States, and hinted at the need to fill an ‘institutional vacuum’ created by the abolition of the Planning Commission. Mr. Singh also stressed that a co-ordination mechanism between the Finance Commission and the GST Council had now become an ‘inescapable necessity’ as both were constitutional bodies dealing with revenue and grappling with ‘unsettled questions’. “The symmetry in the working of the GST Council and the Finance Commission deserves serious consideration,” Mr. Singh said at FICCI’s annual general meeting on Friday. “The Finance Commissions look at projections of expenditure and revenue, but issues of GST rates exemptions, changes, and implementation of the indirect taxes are entirely within the domain of the GST Council. This leads to unsettled questions on the ways to monitor, scrutinise and optimise revenue outcomes,” Mr. Singh noted. A month after the Commission submitted its report to the government, following extended consultations with States, Mr. Singh said States were keen to have a different kind of ‘a policy-based consultative forum’ with the Centre beyond the Niti Aayog and the National Development Council. “With the abolition of the Planning Commission, many economists and policy makers have argued about an institutional vacuum. We need to give serious consideration for a consultative forum for credible policy dialogue between the Centre and the States,” he said.  Rebuilding Trust  Urging a review of both the Seventh Schedule and Article 282 of the Constitution so as to give more flexibility to States in implementing centrally sponsored schemes, Mr. Singh said these issues needed urgent consideration to reinforce trust in fiscal federalism. “Many have argued that the trust between various forms of government is waning. Are there new seeds of suspicion and mistrust? Are the existing arrangements governing Centre-State relations — legislative, executive and financial — envisaged in the Constitution adequate to meet the aspirations of Indian society?” he asked. Mr. Singh also seemed to back the idea of linking the grant of fiscal headroom to States meeting specific reform outcomes, a term of reference for the Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nk-singh-calls-for-a-fresh-look-at-the-seventh-schedule/article33311634.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||ACMA monitoring shortage of semiconductors for impact||The Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA) said it is monitoring the shortage of semiconductors and that the immediate impact on the auto sector is not known. “ACMA is keenly watching the situation as it unfolds,” Deepak Jain, president, ACMA, said on Friday. “It is still not clear as to what extent and for how long the shortage of semiconductors will impact vehicle production in India.” He added that any stoppage of vehicle lines would have a ripple effect on the entire auto component manufacturing ecosystem. Mahindra and Mahindra on Thursday said production and sales may drop in the fourth quarter due to a global supply shortage of microprocessors. Auto parts supplier Bosch had on December 8 warned of a “severe supply shortage for imported microprocessors”. Observing that the use of electronic components in vehicles was progressively increasing, Mr. Jain said incidents such as these only precipitated the need for localisation and self-reliance in auto electronics. In its filing to the stock exchanges, Bosch had said that the demand in the consumer electronics industry had seen steep escalations driven by safety and hygiene concerns as well as the rise of 5G connectivity, leading to a surge in global demand for semiconductors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/acma-monitoring-shortage-of-semiconductors-for-impact/article33311641.ece
12 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘AUM of NBFCs heading for contraction in FY21’||Heading for a contraction in the current fiscal, the first time in more than a decade, assets under management (AUM) of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) are set to grow again at a relatively subdued 5-6% next fiscal. The turnaround will be led by larger entities with stronger parentage, top executives at CRISIL said. “Despite an estimated GDP growth of 10% next fiscal, the overall NBFC sector growth is likely to be slower because access to funding remains a challenge due to concerns about the impact of the pandemic on asset quality.” Gurpreet Chhatwal, president, CRISIL Ratings, said in a web conference. “Additionally, competition is expected to be more intense from banks which are flush with low-cost deposits and better placed with improved capital buffer than in the previous years,” he added. While growth would be a challenge in the near term, it is significant to watch out how asset quality pans out as we approach the next fiscal, Mr. Chhatwal said.  Competition is expected to be more intense from banks which are flush with low-cost deposits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aum-of-nbfcs-heading-for-contraction-in-fy21/article33311632.ece
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SIAM data affirms Nov.’s increase in PV wholesales||Wholesale sales of passenger vehicles rose 4.65% in November driven by the festive season, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) said on Friday. As per data shared by the industry body, passenger vehicle dispatches to the dealers from OEMs stood at 2,64,898 units last month, up from 2,53,139 units in the year ago period. Meanwhile, the auto dealers body Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) earlier this week had said that retail sales for passenger vehicles were up 4.17% to 2,91,001 units. “We have witnessed an increase in wholesale numbers in the month of November, where passenger vehicles grew by 4.65% and two-wheelers by 13.43% over the corresponding month of last year, primarily on account of the festive season,” Rajesh Menon, Director General, SIAM said. Wholesales of two-wheelers also increased to 16,00,379 units from 14,10,939 units in the year ago month. However, in contrast, the retail sales, as per FADA, fell 21.40% during the month to 14,13,378 units. “The retail sales of two-wheelers lags behind the wholesale sales numbers but would even out over a period, as OEMs engage with their dealers. While the festive season brought back some fervor in specific segments, the overall economic scenario would determine the industry’s performance going forward,” Mr. Menon said. As per data shared by SIAM, cars sales were down 2.77% to 1,49,949 units, while sales of utility vehicles were up 17.16% to 1,03,525 units and van sales rose 8.23% to 11,424 units. Likewise, in two-wheelers, sales of scooters were up 9.29% to 5,02,561 units, while motorcycle sales rose 14.90% to 10,26,705 units. Overall, wholesale sales of vehicles across categories -- passenger vehicles, three wheelers, two-wheelers and quadricycles, rose 9.83% to 18,88,903 units. Sale of commercial vehicles, which are now released by SIAM quarterly, are not included in this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/siam-data-affirms-novs-increase-in-pv-wholesales/article33311652.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre cancels 1.63 lakh GST registrations||The government has cancelled more than 1.63 lakh GST registrations over October and November due to non-filing of returns by the taxpayers concerned for more than six months, Revenue Department sources said. This exercise is aimed at weeding out fake firms, fly-by-night operators, and circular trading entities. More than 11,000 GST registrations were cancelled in Ahmedabad and nearly 20,000 in the Chennai GST and central excise zone. Officials said that cancellation proceedings were being initiated for about 29,000 more taxpayers who had not filed their GSTR-3B returns for more than six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-cancels-163-lakh-gst-registrations/article33311630.ece
12 December 2020||MUMBAI,||L&T said to be poised for key civil projects||Units of Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (L&T) have emerged as the lowest bidder in multiple construction projects, officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The Heavy Civil Infrastructure business of L&T’s construction arm has emerged as the lowest bidder for the Main Plant of Kudankulam 5&6 units of Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. (NPCIL), they said. The work includes construction of the reactor building and other associated safety related structures for the two new units. L&T is also said to be the lowest bidder for the first 7.955 km elevated section of Chennai Metro’s new 26.09 km Line-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lt-said-to-be-poised-for-key-civil-projects/article33311631.ece
12 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||For Business Pages WHO pre-qualifies Biological E’s Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine||A single-dose injectable Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine of Biological E has been pre-qualified by the World Health Organisation, making the vaccine maker one of two pre-qualified suppliers of TCV to UN agencies. The vaccine was developed in collaboration with the GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health, Italy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/for-business-pages-who-pre-qualifies-biological-es-typhoid-conjugate-vaccine/article33311629.ece
12 December 2020||Mumbai,||Forex reserves surge by USD 4.525 bn to record USD 579.346 bn||The country’s foreign exchange reserves surged by $4.525 billion to touch a record high of $579.346 billion in the week ended December 4, the RBI’s data showed. In the previous week ended November 27, the reserves had declined by $469 million to $574.821 billion. Foreign currency assets rose by $3.932 billion to $537.386 billion.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/forex-reserves-surge-by-usd-4525-bn-to-record-usd-579346-bn/article33311644.ece
12 December 2020||London,||Solskjaer’s position under the scanner||Manchester United’s early Champions League exit means Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s position is back under scrutiny ahead of Manchester City’s visit to Old Trafford for a game neither side can afford to lose. The Manchester derby is the most eye-catching fixture during a Premier League weekend that includes a trip to Crystal Palace for leader Tottenham and a date at Fulham for champions Liverpool. Both Manchester clubs have recovered from slow starts to the campaign after having barely two weeks of pre-season due to European commitments in August. Solskjaer’s men, following a run of four straight league wins, can claim to be in the hunt for a first league title since Alex Ferguson’s retirement in 2013 sent the Red Devils into a spiral of decline. But the helter-skelter nature of some of those victories, allied to the shoddy defending that led to a 3-2 defeat to RB Leipzig in midweek, means the pressure is once again on the Norwegian. A fourth defeat in six Premier League games at Old Trafford this season could see the Red Devils finish the weekend eight points off the leader, albeit with a game in hand. City are a point behind United, in seventh, but Pep Guardiola’s men appear to be coming into form after recording back-to-back league wins for the first time this season. In stark contrast to United’s Champions League woes, City’s serene progress into the last-16, with two games to spare, allowed Guardiola to leave Kevin De Bruyne and Gabriel Jesus in reserve for the derby. “When you win it’s always easy to go to the next game, it’s easier to win again and again,” said Bernardo Silva after Wednesday's 3-0 victory against Marseille. “We want to keep the momentum going in a tough game against United on Saturday and we want to keep winning.” However, for all United’s inconsistencies, Guardiola will be wary of their pace. City were repeatedly undone by United’s quickfire counter-attacks last season -- losing three of four meetings -- and have shown signs in defeats to Tottenham and Leicester this season that they have not resolved the issue. Title race United and City are just two of five genuine title contenders, with Chelsea perched just two points behind Tottenham and Liverpool at the top of the table. A slip in the standards set by Liverpool and City in recent seasons promises the most open race for years. Arsenal struggles Arsenal is the only member of the so-called ‘Big Six’ which has lost touch with the top of the Premier League. The Gunners are a lowly 15th in the table after their sixth defeat in 11 games at the hands of Tottenham last week. The main problem for Mikel Arteta’s men is the lack of goals — only the current bottom three have scored fewer than Arsenal’s 10 so far and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has not found the net from open play in the league since the opening weekend. But the Spaniard was buoyed by his side’s reaction after the defeat to Spurs, saying he sees a team with “big belief”.  Manchester City is in seventh spot, a point behind Manchester United United and City are just two of five genuine title-contenders Chelsea perched two points behind Tottenham and Liverpool at the top of the table||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/solskjaers-position-under-the-scanner/article33311620.ece
12 December 2020||Sydney,||Bumrah’s willow takes the centrestage||Pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah headlined the opening day’s play with a maiden First Class fifty and then chipped in with a two wickets in an impressive bowling effort, putting India in the driver’s seat against Australia in the pink-ball warm-up game here on Friday. Bumrah (55 n.o., 57b) was the top-scorer as the visitors folded for a disappointing 194 in 48.3 overs. Strong comeback But the Indians came back strongly with the ball to bundle out Australia for 108 at stumps as 20 wickets fell on a curtailed day when almost an hour was lost due to heavy rain. On a day when the recognised batsmen struggled, Bumrah, whose Test batting average is 2.9, produced a stellar performance with the willow, smashing the ball six times to the fence and twice over it. Earlier, after skipper Ajinkya Rahane opted to bat, Prithvi Shaw (40) and Shubman Gill (43) — both 21-year-old — showed glimpses of why they are rated so highly. However, the rest of the team including the seasoned Rahane, failed to impress. Green, who had scored a hundred in the first warm-up game, suffered a concussion while bowling after a rasping straight drive from Bumrah struck him on the head. Batsman Patrick Rowe was named his concussion substitute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrahs-willow-takes-the-centrestage/article33311753.ece
12 December 2020||Madrid,||Real aims to end Atletico’s unbeaten run||Real Madrid, having avoided a disastrous Champions League exit, faces city rival Atletico on Saturday looking suddenly well-equipped to ruin its unbeaten run. Karim Benzema scored twice against Borussia Moenchengladbach on Wednesday to end any fears that Real would fail to progress to the group stage after it started the match with its hopes in the balance. With Sergio Ramos back to lead the defence and Benzema clinical in front of goal, Real eventually went through as group winner with a comfortable 2-0 victory meaning it will avoid many of the big guns in the last-16 draw. Coach Zinedine Zidane, whose job has been the subject of speculation after a turbulent start to the season, seems safe for now. Atletico, which leads LaLiga by a single point from the season’s surprise package, Real Sociedad, also booked its ticket to the Champions League knockout stage with a composed 2-0 win against RB Salzburg in Austria. Diego Simeone’s side goes into the last-16 draw as Group A runner-up behind reigning champion Bayern Munich. While the city derby — albeit without the fervent crowd such a game normally attracts to the Bernabeu — will dominate headlines on Saturday, Barcelona’s match against Levante on Sunday will also come under intense scrutiny. Barca is in such disarray that it needs a victory merely to steady the ship after a morale-sapping 3-0 defeat to Juventus in the Champions League. The Catalans still qualified for the last 16, but as group runners-up Lionel Messi and his teammates risk drawing one of Europe’s big names. After the tumultuous summer which almost saw Messi depart, Barca and new coach Ronald Koeman never seem to have recovered. It sits an unaccustomed ninth in the table with just 14 points from 10 games. Goalkeeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen said a win against modest Levante, which has just three points fewer than the Catalans, was essential. “In LaLiga we are not where we want to be but we can claw back some points and that is the aim in the next few weeks. “We’re playing at home and we can’t afford to drop a single point now.” Sociedad, meanwhile, takes on Eibar on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-aims-to-end-atleticos-unbeaten-run/article33311623.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||National shooting trials in January||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) has announced a set of two selection trials for rifle and pistol shooters at the Dr. Karni Singh shooting range, Tughlakabad, from Jan. 6 to 18. These will be followed by a set of two more in February, and will form the basis for choosing teams for the World Cups to be held in India and Korea. The national federation has released a set of about 200 shooters, eligible to participate in the trials, on its website thenrai.in . Entry fee per event ranges from Rs. 2250-3450. Shooters are expected to make their own arrangements for board and lodging. Ammunition will be provided against payment on valid arms license. Entries will be accepted only through NRAI’s online system till Dec. 28. Thereafter, entries will be accepted on triple fee till Jan. 2. The NRAI also announced that entry fees paid for the trials scheduled in April this year, would be returned. There will also be mixed team events in rapid fire pistol and rifle 3-position events. All shooters have to produce COVID-19 test reports, timed within 48 hours before the first trial. Only one person will be allowed to accompany a shooter, and with valid COVID-19 negative report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-shooting-trials-in-january/article33311625.ece
12 December 2020||Wellington,||Nicholls rides his luck, scores a century||Henry Nicholls rode his luck to post a crucial century as New Zealand, weakened by Kane Williamson’s absence, survived a shaky start to reach 294 for six on day one of the second Test against the West Indies on Friday. Nicholls survived multiple dropped catches as he snapped a 21-month string of low scores with his sixth Test century. At stumps, Nicholls was 117 not out with Kyle Jamieson on one. From being on the ropes at 78 for three, Nicholls said New Zealand now considered 400 would be “good”. It was left to Nicholls to prop up the innings, but he had to survive dropped catches and even a technical malfunction, when a broken stump mic prevented a review, to bat New Zealand out of a hole. He was dropped once on 21 and twice on 47, while on 29 a top edge for six sailed just out of the reach of Jermaine Blackwood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nicholls-rides-his-luck-scores-a-century/article33311739.ece
12 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Paes rejuvenated and ready for action||India tennis great Leander Paes on Friday said that he felt rejuvenated after a long coronavirus-induced break and would go for more records in the Olympics and Grand Slam participation. Paes, who owns the record of 46 Davis Cup wins and has participated in seven consecutive Olympics, also revealed his new goals. “I am embarking on trying to finish up 100 Grand Slams (main draws). Am at 96 at the moment,” said the 47-year-old at the launch of Motovolt smart electric cycles here. Paes, who had announced 2020 would be his last season, looked forward to competing in the Tokyo Olympics ‘for India.’ “Regardless of which partner I play with, India represents itself to get the record of eight Olympics. I already have the record at seven, but if we can push the record up one more time to eight Olympics, my belief is that India would forever stay in the history books as to the most number of Olympics played in tennis. Hope Tokyo happens. Hectic schedule “The reason for ‘One Last Roar’ season was I was physically and emotionally tired because of the travel, hard work, 4.30 a.m. wake-up calls, the 12-hour-15-hour a day (schedule) and living a champion’s life. The career was really long and I started to feel it at the end of 2019. After this long break of 10 months, I feel rejuvenated and happy.” Paes, who last played a competitive match in March, said he would love to take to the court in 2021. “I am still waiting for the calendar to come out. The Australian Open has been pushed back. We don’t know whether it will happen. We don’t know whether the Olympics are going to happen. We hope the vaccine can be distributed fast so that all of us can get back to life,” said the winner of 18 Grand Slam titles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paes-rejuvenated-and-ready-for-action/article33311760.ece
12 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Ahamed sizzles for TVS Racing||K.Y. Ahamed led an emphatic 1-2 finish for TVS Racing as he defeated his mentor and former champion Jagan Kumar to win the premier Pro-Stock 301-400cc race in the first round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI-Indian National Motorcycle Racing Championship at the MMRT here on Friday. Ullas Santrupt (RACR Castrol Power Racing) won the Novice (Stocke 165cc) category, ahead of S. Nithin (Sparks) and Mohan Babu (Pvt, Chennai). International rider Rajiv Sethu brought some cheer to the Honda camp with a commanding victory from pole position in the Pro-Stock 165cc class.  The results (provisional, six laps unless mentioned):   National Championship: Pro-Stock 301-400cc: Race 1: 1. K.Y. Ahamed (TVS Racing) (11m 47.347s); 2. Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) (11:48.059); 3. Karthik Mateti (Gusto Racing) (11:51.430).   Pro-Stock 165cc: Race 1: 1. Rajiv Sethu (Eneos Honda Erula Racing) (12:08.653); 2. Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) (12:13.410); 3. S. Mathana Kumar (Eneos Honda Erula Racing) (12:13.445).   Novice (Stock 165cc): Race 1: 1. Ullas Santrupt (RACR Castrol Power Racing) (13:06.057); 2. S. Nithin (Sparks Racing) (13:06.281); 3. Mohan Babu (Pvt, Chennai) (13:06.512).   Girls (Stock 165cc): Race 1 (5 laps): 1. Ann Jennifer (Sparks Racing) (10:58.872); 2. Lani Zena Fernandez (Gusto Racing) (11:14.395); 3. Alisha Abdullah (Sparks Racing) (11:14.456).   TVS One-Make Championship (Open): Race 1: 1. Abhishek Vasudev (Bengaluru) (11:48.941); 2. Karthik Mateti (Hyderabad) (11:54.768); 3. Anand R (Chennai) (11:54.954).   Novice: 1. Navneeth Kumar (Puducherry) (13:20.647); 2. Sudheer Sudhakumar (Delhi) (13:24.196); 3. T.V.R. Teja (Hyderabad) (13:24.218) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santrupt-steals-the-show/article33311835.ece
12 December 2020||Pune:,||Silver Flames runs to glory in Evatina Plate||Trainer Altaf Hussain’s ward Silver Flames (P. Trevor astride) won the Evatina Plate, the main event of the Mumbai races held here on of Friday. The winner is owned by Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Solomon F. Sopher, Dinsha P. Shroff, Munchi P. Shroff & K. Dadachanji. Trevor rode two more winners on the day.  1. KEUKENHOF PLATE (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: REVELATOR (A. Sandesh) 1, Belenus (Neeraj) 2, Majestic Warrior (Kaviraj) 3 and Palomar (Parmar) 4. Not run: Artful. 1-3/4, 1/2, Nk. 1m, 11.48s. Owners: M/s. Jatin L. Trivedi & Nitin H. Jain. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  2. KANTHARA PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: ALLURING SILVER (Suraj Narredu) 1, Dreams (T.S. Jodha) 2, Dumas (S. Zervan) 3 and Multistarrer (A. Sandesh) 4. 5-1/2, 2-1/2, 1/2. 1m, 25. 56s. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Ms Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Rishad Pandole & Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole Brdg Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Mukul Sonawala & Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP. Trainer: P. Shroff.  3. P D BOLTON TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: MYSTIC BAY (P.Trevor) 1, Golden Guest (C.S.Jodha) 2, Sharareh (Parmar) 3 and Lady Of Luxury (Ajinkya) 4. 2-1/2, 3-3/4, 1-1/4. 57.37s. Owners: Mr. Jamshed Byramjee Jeejeebhoy rep. Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. B.E. Saldhana. Trainer: M. Narredu.  4. GIRL FROM IPANEMA PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden 3-y-o only: ONE WISH (A. Sandesh) 1, Chancellor (P. Trevor) 2, Rising Sun (Parmar) 3 and Posse (Zervan) 4. 2-1/2, 2-1/4, 1-3/4. 1m, 11.66s. Owners: M/s. Jatin L. Trivedi & Nitin H. Jain. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  5. EVATINA PLATE (1,200m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: SILVER FLAMES (P. Trevor) 1, Excellent Gold (Kaviraj) 2, Gazino (Chouhan) 3 and Intense Stylist (N B Kuldeep) 4. 1/2, 1/2, Nk. 1m, 10.90s. Owners: Dr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Solomon F. Sopher, Dinsha P. Shroff, Munchi P. Shroff & K. Dadachanji. Trainer: Altaf Hussain.  6. GIRL FROM IPANEMA PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden 3-y-o only: BIRKIN BLOWER (S. Zervan) 1, Market King (A. Sandesh) 2, Enlightened (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Decaprio (Peter) 4. Not run: Seasons Greetings. 3/4, 6-1/4, 2-3/4. 1m, 10.75s. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. & Mrs. D.P. Adenwalla. Trainer: Vishal Gaikwad.  7. WILD EAGLE PLATE (1,800m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: HISTORIAN (P. Trevor) 1, Resolute (C.S. Jodha) 2, Peerless (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Martini (Chouhan) 4. 3-1/4, 1, Hd. 1m, 54.12s. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. Asha Narredu. Trainer: M. Narredu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/silver-flames-runs-to-glory-in-evatina-plate/article33312315.ece
12 December 2020||GURUGRAM:,||Chirag Duhan advances||Chirag Duhan knocked out the top seed Yugal Bansal 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the Rs. 1,00,000 men’s ranking tennis tournament on Friday.  Other results: Quarterfinals: Lakshay Gupta bt Sourabh Sehrawat 5-7, 6-3, 6-2.   B.N. Kumaran bt Karan Singh 2-6, 6-4, 6-1; Digvijay Pratap Singh by Chinmay Dev Chauhan 6-3, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chirag-duhan-advances/article33311996.ece
12 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KSSC seeks suggestions for resuming activities||The Kerala State Sports Council (KSSC) has sought suggestions from sports associations and other stakeholders for framing guidelines to resume sports activities in the State. The KSSC's move is to help the State government come up with a comprehensive Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for holding competitions. The SOP will vary, depending on the nature and level of body contact in each disciple. Despite requests from many State associations, the government has so far not eased the norms for resuming sports competitions in the State. The other day, the government, fearing a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases after the local body elections, had flagged the Kerala Cricket Association’s President’s Cup cricket tournament. However, KSSC is keen to reopen stadiums and resume the functioning of its Sports hostels and coaching centres in the State. With a few national competitions scheduled for next year, the KSSC doesn’t want sportspersons to miss these events for the lack of proper training. It is likely that the State government will give permission to resume sporting activities after the Christmas holidays||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kssc-seeks-suggestions-for-resuming-activities/article33312225.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||ISL provides the right platform to fast-track youth development||During my playing career, I was lucky enough to represent Australia at four World Cups. Each tournament was special, but I’ll never forget my first World Cup goal in 2006 against Japan. I didn't know at the time that it was Australia’s first goal at a World Cup, but I vividly remember running over to the corner flag to celebrate. The FIFA World Cup 2022 will be the first major tournament hosted in West Asia, presenting Qatar with a chance to do something special both on and off the pitch. Qatar is currently hosting the AFC Champions League East Zone matches and will also host the final of the competition on December 19. The decision to open a slot for teams from the ISL in the AFC Champions League from 2021 is super exciting. My time with Jamshedpur in 2018-19 convinced me that ISL is the right platform for Indian football to fast-track youth development. The tournament is one of the reasons behind the ongoing infrastructure revamp in Indian football and it has also given youngsters the much-needed exposure and playing time. Inspiration One of the most special things about sport is how it inspires people. Some of my earliest memories of football as a boy are watching highlights of Mexico ’86 and being moved by the skills of Diego Maradona. The amazing moments he created made me dream about replicating it for my country in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isl-provides-the-right-platform-to-fast-track-youth-development/article33312214.ece
12 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,||KCA’s maiden T20 league likely to start in February||The Kerala Cricket Association’s inaugural T20 league will have to wait. The State government is likely to give a nod to the tournament only after the new COVID-19 guidelines are introduced (the league was proposed to be held at Alappuzha this month). “I have had meetings CM Pinarayi Vijayan and Health Minister K.K. Shailaja and was told that the government would bring out the new guidelines once the election to the local bodies are over next week,” KCA secretary Sreejith V. Nair told The Hindu on Friday. “We hope to start the league some time in February.” He added that the KCA was waiting for BCCI's decision on the Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament. “Our original plan was to hold the league before that, but we are not sure if we would be able to do that now,” he said. “In that case, we will conduct trials to select the Kerala team.” The KCA had announced two weeks ago the players and coaching staff of the six teams for the T20 league, considered a precursor to a Kerala Premier League. It had also signed a three-year MoU with sponsors Twenty First Century Media and Dream11. “We are confident of staging the first edition this season itself,” Sreejith said. “We want to conduct it before the next edition of the IPL.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kcas-maiden-t20-league-likely-to-start-in-february/article33312226.ece
12 December 2020||BERLIN,||Prolific Lewandowski eyes milestones||Robert Lewandowski, the German league’s top-scorer, can make his 200th Bundesliga appearance for Bayern Munich in Saturday’s tricky away match at FC Union, where Germany’s leading clubs have struggled in the past. In fact, Lewandowski could claim two milestones in Berlin as he is just two short of scoring 250 Bundesliga goals for both Bayern and ex-club Dortmund. Lewandowski has shaken off a leg knock which ruled him out of Wednesday’s 2-0 home win over Lokomotiv Moscow in the Champions League with the holder already through to the last 16 as group winner. “I assume that he is 100% fit,” said Bayern coach Hansi Flick. Leading the way Lewandowski, Bundesliga’s top-scorer for the last three seasons, once again leads the way with 12 goals so far. Two of his closest rivals — Dortmund’s Erling Braut Haaland, who has 10 goals, and Leverkusen’s Lucas Alario, on seven — are sidelined by knee injuries. Bayern holds a one point lead over Bayer Leverkusen, which it faces away the following weekend. Union’s eight-match winning run was ended last Friday by a 3-1 derby defeat at Hertha Berlin. To make matters worse, Union’s top-scorer Max Kruse, who claimed five goals and four assists in November, misses Saturday’s game against Bayern with a torn hamstring. Even without Kruse, Union coach Urs Fischer is looking forward to the “awesome task” of facing the league leader and European champion. “We will try to be brave and get through the difficult phases. We must not lose the courage to attack,” added Fischer, whose side is sixth. Union’s Swiss coach has just signed a contract extension, reportedly until 2023.  Lewandowski has scored 248 league goals for Bayern and Dortmund. Only Gerd Mueller and Klaus Fischer have previously reached the 250 goals milestone Lewandowski has played 330 Bundesliga games in his career, including 199 for Bayern||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prolific-lewandowski-eyes-milestones/article33311607.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||WA chief Coe not sure of Russian doping issue being solved soon||World Athletics president Sebastian Coe on Friday said he wants suspended Russia to return as an “accountable and responsible” member federation but is not sure of resolving the country’s doping-related issue in the near future. Russia was suspended in 2015 after a report commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) found evidence of mass doping among track and field athletes. “I hope it in the foreseeable future, I am not sure, I will use the word ‘near’ as I cannot quantify that (future) but that has to be our ambition,” Coe said when asked if he is hopeful of resolving the Russian doping issue in the near future. “It’s not a good thing to have a country like Russia sitting outside our sport. I want Russia to be back as a fully functioning member federation with accountability and responsibility that every other member federation accepts,” Coe said in an interaction with PTI. The Russian federation paid a multi-million-dollar fine in August to avoid expulsion by World Athletics. Testing of athletes Asked how difficult was dope testing of athletes during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Coe said, “We are continuing (testing of athletes) though it is challenging. There are travel restrictions...logistical challenges getting to the athletes. “But we have continued our testing processes. The nature of testing has changed, now it is intelligence-led, it is incremental and sequential. “We know who, how and where the challenges are.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wa-chief-coe-not-sure-of-russian-doping-issue-being-solved-soon/article33311609.ece
12 December 2020||TOKYO,||Relocated Olympic marathon route approved||A route has been approved for the Olympic marathon, which is to be held in the northern city of Sapporo to avoid the Japanese capital's summer heat, Tokyo 2020 organisers said on Friday. A dummy-run marathon will take place on May 5 to test the circuit, the organising committee said. The controversial decision to relocate the marathon and race-walking events was made in November 2019, before the Games were postponed by a year. The marathon will have three laps — the first much longer, crossing the Toyohira River, while the second and third laps repeat a section of the first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/relocated-olympic-marathon-route-approved/article33311624.ece
12 December 2020||Adelaide,||‘Kohli is a proponent of all-out aggression’||Batting great and former India coach Greg Chappell has called Virat Kohli the “most Australian non-Australian” cricketer of all time. Chappell invoked Mahatma Gandhi before crediting Kohli’s intensity for bringing about a paradigm shift in Indian cricket. “Many previous Indian cricket teams tended to play with undue deference to their opponents, as if in accord with the Gandhian principle. Sourav Ganguly was the first Indian captain to try to change that approach. It worked to a degree in India, but usually hit a hurdle overseas,” Chappell wrote in Sydney Morning Herald . “Virat Kohli does not believe in passive resistance. He is a proponent of all-out aggression. His idea is to dominate the opposition. “Kohli is the most Australian non-Australian cricketer of all time. He embodies the new India. As the premier player and captain of the world’s pre-eminent cricket power, he feels an abiding responsibility to the wider game.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-is-a-proponent-of-all-out-aggression/article33311743.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Victor denies ATKMB||Joao Victor scored the 50th goal of this edition as Hyderabad FC came back to hold ATK Mohun Bagan 1-1 at the Fatorda Stadium on Friday. After Manvir Singh gave ATKMB the lead in the 54th minute, Victor equalised 11 minutes later by converting the penalty after HFC’s Nikhil Poojary was fouled inside the box after receiving a through-ball from Souvik Chakrabarti. Roy Krishna tested HFC goalkeeper Subrata Paul in the ninth minute with a brilliant header off a Pritam Kotal cross, just two minutes after firing a shot straight at the ’keeper. After the break, ATKMB continued to mount pressure on its opponent and found the breakthrough when Manvir received the ball off a goal-kick. The Indian forward sprinted into the box, got lucky with a ricochet off an onrushing Odei Onaindia and found the back of the net. However, Victor spoiled ATKMB’s party.  The result: ATKMB 1 (Manvir 54) drew with HFC 1 (Victor 65-pen)   Saturday’s match: Odisha FC vs FC Goa, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/victor-denies-atkmb/article33311750.ece
12 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Rohit clears fitness test, to leave for Australia||Having passed his mandatory fitness test at the National Cricket Academy in Bengaluru, Rohit Sharma is set to leave for Australia in a couple of days and join India’s squad for the last two Tests. The BCCI had said last month that Rohit’s fitness would be assessed on December 11. However, it is learnt that Rohit, who had injured his hamstring during the IPL, cleared all the mandatory fitness drills on Thursday evening under the watchful eyes of the NCA medical staff, with NCA head of cricket Rahul Dravid and chief selector Sunil Joshi in attendance. A BCCI official, on condition of anonymity, confirmed to The Hindu that since he has proven his fitness, Rohit is expected to be available for selection for the third Test, scheduled in Sydney from January 7. Having returned to Mumbai late on Thursday, Rohit will now travel to Australia via Dubai and serve the requisite 14-day ‘hard’ quarantine. It is still not clear whether the senior batsman, who was unavailable for the Test series in New Zealand earlier this year, will fly to Melbourne or Sydney. In any case, the earliest he can resume training Down Under will be December 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-clears-fitness-test-to-leave-for-australia/article33311757.ece
12 December 2020||BENGALURU:,||Tenno Sho expected to score in Racing Patrons Trophy||Tenno Sho, who has been well tuned, is expected to score in the Racing Patrons Trophy (1,600m), the main event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Dec. 12). False rails (width about 8.5m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position.  BELOVED PRINCE PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 1-45 p.m.: 1. Chisox (12) Sai Vamshi 57, 2. Golden Vision (4) Arshad 57, 3. Impeccable (1) Zervan 57, 4. Jokshan (6) Irvan 57, 5. Master Of Success (3) Ashhad Asbar 57, 6. Praia Do Cassino (5) Mark 57, 7. Canotina (9) S. John 55.5, 8. Carmine (10) Indrajeet Singh 55.5, 9. Hitomi Sakuma (11) R. Ravi 55.5, 10. Marvellous Maggi (7) Jagadeesh 55.5, 11. Rosy Rapunzel (2) Darshan 55.5 and 12. Watchmystars (8) Trevor 55.5.  1. WATCHMYSTARS, 2. JOKSHAN,   3. CANOTINA   MURUDESHWAR PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 20, 4-y-o & over, 2-15: 1. Challenging Star (9) Nazerul 60, 2. Definitive (2) Ankit Yadav 59, 3. Elite Agent (8) B. Harish 58.5, 4. Proudwish (6) Sai Vamshi 58.5, 5. Glorious Days (3) A. Imran 58, 6. Barog (11) M. Naveen 57.5, 7. Sky Moon (7) Chethan G 57.5, 8. South Bell (4) Chandrashekar 57.5, 9. Commandpost (12) R. Ravi 57, 10. Zala Princess (5) Arshad 57, 11. Song And Dance (1) Rayan 56.5 and 12. Brightside Of Life (10) R. Pradeep 55.5.  1. SONG AND DANCE, 2. GLORIOUS DAYS, 3. CHALLENGING STAR   BADAMI PLATE (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over, 2-45: 1. The Response (3) M. Naveen 60, 2. San Bernardino (1) M. Prabhakaran 58.5, 3. Gold Mist (10) P. Surya 56.5, 4. Halfsies (5) S. Imran 56.5, 5. Charmaine (11) Ashhad Asbar 56, 6. Apollo Bay (2) Arvind K 55.5, 7. Tyto Alba (7) P.P. Dhebe 55.5, 8. Arrogance (9) Saddam. H 53.5, 9. Premier Premises (12) J.H. Arul 52.5, 10. Nerva (4) R. Shelar 52, 11. Annalease (6) Khurshad Alam 51.5 and 12. Azeemki Princess (8) S. Shareef 50.5.  1. THE RESPONSE,   2. SAN BERNARDINO, 3. GOLD MIST   ADICHUNCHANAGIRI PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-15: 1. Arabian Phoenix (2) Zervan 57, 2. First Impression (4) M. Naveen 57, 3. Jaga Daku (6) Darshan 57, 4. Morganite (9) Ashhad Asbar 57, 5. Rainbow Rising (11) R. Marshall 57, 6. Towering Presence (1) P.P. Dhebe 57, 7. Welcome Surprise (10) Arshad 57, 8. Amazing Blaze (12) Trevor 55.5, 9. Baroness (8) Rayan 55.5, 10. Perfect Halo (7) Shreyas Singh 55.5, 11. Shanghai Queen (5) Jagadeesh 55.5 and 12. Silverita (3) S. John 55.5.  1. AMAZING BLAZE, 2. MORGANITE, 3. ARABIAN PHOENIX   GARDEN CITY TROPHY (1,200m), rated 45 to 65, 3-45: 1. Alberetta (3) Vaibhav 60, 2. Cuban Pete (8) Zervan 60, 3. Fire Glow (2) Arshad 60, 4. Knotty Oak (6) R. Marshall 59.5, 5. Fair Warning (7) S. John 59, 6. The Strength (5) M. Naveen 59, 7. Crack Of Dawn (12) Trevor 58.5, 8. Aaron The Baron (11) Naveen K 57.5, 9. Winall (1) Ankit Yadav 57.5, 10. Silver Dew (9) Darshan 56, 11. Bold Move (10) S. Shareef 55.5 and 12. Skyfire (4) Kiran Rai 55.  1. CUBAN PETE, 2. SILVER DEW,   3. CRACK OF DAWN   RACING PATRONS TROPHY (1,600m), rated 60 & above, 4-15: 1. Tenno Sho (3) A. Imran 60, 2. Roma Victor (6) S. John 58, 3. Southern Ruler (8) Darshan 58, 4. Knight Templar (2) Trevor 57.5, 5. Velocidad (4) R. Marshall 57, 6. Angelino (7) Zervan 56.5, 7. Commodus (1) Jagadeesh 52.5, 8. Indian Pharaoh (5) Ashhad Asbar 52.5 and 9. Mystic Flame (9) Irvan 52.5.  1. TENNO SHO, 2. ROMA VICTOR, 3. MYSTIC FLAME   BECKET PLATE (1,600m), rated 30 to 50, 4-y-o & over, 4-45: 1. Le Marc (5) J.H. Arul 60, 2. Rorito (12) S. John 59, 3. Show Girl (10) Vaibhav 58, 4. Venus Bay (1) Ashhad Asbar 57, 5. Mighty Red (11) Darshan 56.5, 6. Candlelightqueen (9) Zervan 56, 7. Kalyan (2) Jagadeesh 54, 8. Amazing Angel (3) Chetan K 53.5, 9. Dreams United (8) P.P. Dhebe 53.5, 10. Marco Polo (7) Trevor 53.5, 11. Star Sapphire (6) Arshad 53.5 and 12. Alexandre Dumas (4) Rayan 51.5.  1. CANDLELIGHTQUEEN,   2. MARCO POLO, 3. MIGHTY RED   MURUDESHWAR PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 20, 4-y-o & over, 5-15: 1. Konichiwa (11) Mark 60, 2. My Vision (10) Chethan G 60, 3. Antheia (8) Arvind K 59.5, 4. Heavenly Angel (5) Darshan 59.5, 5. Indian Star (7) S. John 59.5, 6. Super Gladiator (12) J.H. Arul 59.5, 7. Gazebo Talk (9) M. Prabhakaran 59, 8. Iconic Princess (6) Trevor 59, 9. Fierce Fighter (3) A. Imran 58, 10. Fortuneer (4) P.P. Dhebe 58, 11. Special Stone (1) M. Naveen 58 and 12. Lovely Sierra (2) Ashhad Asbar 57,5.  1. INDIAN STAR, 2. GAZEBO TALK,   3. ANTHEIA  Day’s best: CUBAN PETE  Double: WATCHMYSTARS — INDIAN STAR  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tenno-sho-expected-to-score-in-racing-patrons-trophy/article33311645.ece
12 December 2020||COIMBATORE,||We are in total control, says JK’s Hari||The 23rd FMSCI-JK Tyre National racing championship got underway on Friday at the Kari Motor Speedway circuit in Chettipalayam, near here, with complete COVID precautions in place. “We have been discussing whether to do an event this year given the COVID situation. After a lot of discussion, we came to the conclusion that things are opening up and we needed to go ahead,” said Hari Singh, Head of Operations, JK Tyre Motorsports. “We are pleased that we are in total control of the situation now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-are-in-total-control-says-jks-hari/article33311646.ece
12 December 2020||Coimbatore,||No stopping Vishnu, Amir||MSport boys Vishnu Prasad (Chennai) and Amir Sayed (Kottayam) dominated the opening day’s proceedings in the 23rd JK Tyre-FMSCI National racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway here on Friday. The drivers were returning to this circuit after almost a year due to the pandemic. And the re-designed track did pose some challenges for them. But Vishnu and Amir handled them with aplomb. The former, as expected, finished on top in the LGB Formula 4 class that witnessed some exciting moments. However, it was Amir who turned out to be the star of the day as he claimed a double in the JK Tyre Novice Cup. The 16-year-old, on his very first visit to the circuit, drove a commanding first race winning from lights to flag. The second race, however, turned out to be the best. Starting eighth on the grid, he planned his move to perfection, hunted down the front-runners one by one before taking the chequered flag in style. The interesting thing was, he adapted to the track conditions very well.  “I was prepared and I knew I had the pace. The whole goal was to stay out of trouble and set good laps comfortably and win the race,” said an elated Amir. “There were some tough moments too since I had started eighth. I waited for the opportunities, made my moves and won it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-stopping-vishnu-prasad-amir/article33311648.ece
12 December 2020||DUBAI,||Ankita Raina enters doubles final||India’s Ankita Raina and Ekaterine Gorgodze of Georgia reached the doubles final with a 6-7(1), 6-3, [10-2] victory over Anna Blinkova of Russia and Heather Watson of Great Britain in the $100,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament on Friday. Ankita and her partner had earlier knocked out the second seeds.  The results: Ankita Raina & Ekaterine Gorgodze (Geo) bt Anna Blinkova (Rus) & Heather Watson (GBR) 6-7(1), 6-3, [10-2].   Semifinals: Ankita & Gorgodze bt Kirsten Flipkens (Bel) & Andreja Klepac (Slo) 7-6(3), 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-raina-enters-doubles-final/article33311626.ece
12 December 2020||Paris,||Sociedad advances||Real Sociedad snatched qualification for the last-32 stage of the Europa League in the final seconds on Thursday after Willian Jose’s late leveller in a 1-1 draw at Napoli and AZ Alkmaar's shock 2-1 defeat at Rijeka allowed the Spanish side to progress. Young Boys, Molde, Wolfsberg and Maccabi Tel-Aviv rounded off the group stage by making Monday's draw in Nyon, where they join the 18 already-qualified teams and will be met by eight drop-outs from the Champions League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sociedad-advances/article33311742.ece
12 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Natarajan, Shardul and Washington to stay back||Shardul Thakur, T. Natarajan and Washington Sundar have been retained as back-up and net bowlers for India's Test series in Australia, starting on December 17.  While left-arm seamer Natarajan, a stand-out performer in the T20I series, was scheduled to stay on as a net bowler, Shardul was asked to stay back once Ishant Sharma was ruled out of the series. Off-spinner Washington is expected to lend his weight as a net bowler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natarajan-shardul-and-washington-to-stay-back/article33311754.ece
12 December 2020||MELBOURNE,||Pranjala beats Charlotte, posts second win||Pranjala Yadlapalli defeated Charlotte Kempenaers 6-3, 7-5 in the third league match of the UTR Pro tennis tournament here. It was the second win in the league for Pranjala, following the one against Ellen Perez. She had lost to Storm Sanders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranjala-beats-charlotte-posts-second-win/article33311627.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Online transaction approval to BTC withdrawn||The Karnataka Government has withdrawn with immediate effect the in-principle approval Bangalore Turf Club (BTC) was granted in July for online transactions. The BTC had introduced online transaction applications on Nov. 21.   D. Nischal (82 n.o.) and K.L. Shrijith (53 n.o.) led Vultures CC to a thumping 10-wicket win over Rajajinagar Cricketers to enter the semifinal of the Y.S. Ramaswamy Memorial Trophy. In the last-four clash, it will take on Swastic Union CC (1) which beat BUCC (1) by seven wickets. In the other quarterfinal encounter, Manoj S. Bhandage's all-round effort (3/59 & 63 n.o.) was instrumental in Sir Syed Cricketers' four-wicket win over Social Cricketers. It will meet Mount Joy CC, which defeated Jawahar SC (1) by 77 runs.  The scores (quarterfinals): BUCC (1) 158 in 43.4 overs (Rohan Kadam 29, Tushar Singh 32, M. Venkatesh 25, Shreyas Gopal 3/21) lost to Swastic Union CC (1) 162/3 in 31.1 overs (R. Samarth 51 n.o., K.V. Siddharth 49, K. Gowtham 29).   Rajajinagar Cricketers 148 in 38.3 overs (M.S. Shamanth 29, Abhishek Ahlawat 3/40) lost to Vultures CC 154 in 29.3 overs (D. Nischal 82 n.o., K.L. Shrijith 53 n.o.).   Mount Joy CC 267/8 in 50.0 overs (Bharath Dhuri 36, Akshan Rao 45, Sharath Belur Ravi 65, Aditya Somanna 62, Shrikar Ganiga 3/58) bt Jawahar SC (1) 190 in 37.4 overs (S.M. Raj Kumar 44, Himadri 61, Pavan Gokhale 4/38).   Social Cricketers 263/9 in 50.0 overs (S. Aadarsh Prajwal 25, K.V. Aneesh 46, Akshay Ballal 37, G. Ajitesh 27, Rahul Vernekar 30, V. Vyshak 41 n.o., Manoj S. Bhandage 3/59) lost to Sir Syed Cricketers 264/6 in 49.2 overs (S.J. Nikin Jose 64, Shrikara 30, Kranthi Kumar 41, Manoj S. Bhandage 63 n.o.).    Rohith Sankar and Sahana H. Murthy emerged the boys’ and girls’ sub-junior champions respectively at the CVL Shastry Memorial table tennis State championship on Friday.  The results (finals):   Boys: Sub-junior: Rohith Shankar bt Varun B. Kashyap 8-11, 14-12, 11-6, 11-5; Cadet: Teshub Dinesh bt Arya.A.Jain 11-9, 11-7, 11-7.   Girls: Sub-junior: Sahana H. Murthy bt Trupti Purohit 11-6, 12-10, 11-7; Cadet: Vrishali Kini bt Saanvi Vishal Mandekar 11-9, 11-7, 9-11, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-transaction-approval-to-btc-withdrawn/article33311833.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Zia-ul-Haq helps LB Club stun Rann Star||Zia-ul-Haq (4/45 & 24) and Tejas Dahiya’s unbeaten 41 proved crucial as Lal Bahadur Shastri Club knocked out Rann Star Club by one wicket to enter the quarterfinals of the 30th All India Sperry Om Nath Sood memorial cricket tournament at the RSKP grounds here on Friday.  The scores: Rann Star Club 194/9 in 40 overs (Sarthak Ranjan 61 n.o., Zia-ul-haq 4/45) lost to Lal Bahadur Shastri Club 197/9 in 37.4 overs (Tejas Dahiya 41 n.o., Jonty Sidhu 36, Vikas Dixit 32) .    Mayank Dagar’s 100 went in vain for Sporting Club as half-centuries from Dev Lakra, Yash Dhull and Mayank Rawat helped Bal Bhawan post a 72-run victory to win the Eventeneurs Cup at the Sports Maidan here.  The scores: Bal Bhawan Academy 328/8 in 50 overs (Dev Lakra 78, Yash Dhull 62, Mayank Rawat 57, Deepak Punia 41, Aman Jainwal 35) bt Sporting Club 256 in 44.1 overs (Mayank Dagar 100, Rohan Rathi 59, Yogesh Sharma 3/46) .    Dipesh Balyan (31 & 4/31) was instrumental in Lal Bahadur Shastri Club beating Telefunken Club by five wickets in the first Bhola Singh memorial (under-17) cricket tournament at the Chattar Singh ground.  The scores: Telefunken Club 167 in 38 overs (Yash Bansal 49, Sahll Wilson 35, Dipesh Balyan 4/31) lost to Lal Bahadur Shastri Club 171/5 in 34 overs (Dipesh Balyan 31, Aditya Bhatia 28, Rohan Parchanda 3/22) .    Tejas Dahiya (82 & 2/38) and Himanshu Bhati (3/7) helped Lal Bahadur Shastri Club beat Rohtak Road Gymkhana by 60 runs in the Turf Youth Cup (under-19) cricket tournament at the Guru Gobind Singh College ground  The scores: L. B. Shastri Club 243 in 39.5 overs (Tejas Dahiya 82, Priyansh Arya 30, Upanshu Verma 28, Abhishek Kumar 3/32) bt Rohtak Road Gymkhana 183/8 in 40 overs (Harshit Bisht 48, Yug Gupta 42, Himanshu Bhati 3/7) .    Binay Rawat (126) and Sandeep More (49) were the main architects of Triaksh Club’s 93-run win over Aarush Sports in the first Tripathi Premier League at the Tripathi Sports Complex here.  The scores: Triaksh Club 263/5 in 40 overs (Binay Rawat 126, Sandeep Mor 49, Arvind Verma 3/45) bt Aarush Sports 170 in 30.5 overs (Kush Nagpal 31, Gurvinder Singh 3/9, Amit 3/45) .    Om Prakash (55) and Ayaan Sachdeva (40) enabled West Delhi Academy beat Sporting Club by four wickets in the Hari Ballabh Sharma memorial (under-14) cricket tournament at the St. Stephen ground.  The scores: Sporting Club 165 in 38 overs (Vishal Singh 56, Anant Bisht 40, Mehul Malik 32) lost to West Delhi 169/6 in 39.3 overs (Om Prakash 55, Ayaan Sachdeva 40) .      Madhur Yadav (76 n.o. & 3/10) played a stellar role in Bimla Dobhal Academy’s nine-wicket win over Comet Club in the first Ratan Lal Saini cricket tournament at the D. Force ground here.  The scores: Comet Club 115 in 38.3 overs (Yash Poonia 48, Dweep Gahlot 3/8, Madhur Yadav 3/10) lost to Bimla Dobhal Academy 116/1 in 21 overs (Madhur Yadav 76 n.o.) .    Ayush Badoni (85), Sultan Ansari (66) and Lakshay Thareja (56 n.o.) contributed the most to Sahgal & Chaudhary’s 42-run victory over Delhi Colts in the B.R. Sharma memorial cricket tournament at the Mohan Meakin ground at Ghaziabad.  The scores: Sahgal & Chaudhary Academy 319/7 in 40 overs (Aayush Badoni 85, Sultan Ansari 66 Lakshay Thareja 56 n.o., Ekansh Dobal 42) bt Delhi Colts 277/9 in 40 overs (Sumit Goli 106, Dharmender Sharma 50, Manvender Singh 38 n.o., Tushar Tyagi 32, Suryakant 3/47) .    Three wickets each by Rudraksh Bhandari and Meenakshi Vashisht set the stage for Telefunken Club’s nine-wicket win over West Delhi Academy in the Airliner Winter Cup cricket tournament at the Rohini ground.  The scores: West Delhi Academy 82 in 23 overs (Aditya Jaiswal 31, Rudraksh 3/2, Meenakshi Vashisht 3/25) lost to Telefunken Club 86/1 in 21 overs (Parikshit Sehrawat 36) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zia-ul-haq-helps-lb-club-stun-rann-star/article33311995.ece
12 December 2020||JOHANNESBURG,||de Kock named Test captain||Quinton de Kock was on Friday named South Africa's Test captain for the 2020-21 season. A 15-man squad for the two-Test series against Sri Lanka (December 26-30 at Centurion and January 3-7 at Johannesburg) was also announced. de Kock was appointed captain of the limited-overs teams last season.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-kock-named-test-captain/article33311741.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Scriptures as signposts||The Vedas are held to be the main and original source of all knowledge, temporal and transcendental. This includes divine knowledge of God, the mystery of creation, etc, as well as all else pertaining to the attainment of all the goals of human existence. The Vedas are infinite, eternal and endless, and are believed to be ‘apaurusheya,’ that is, not made by any human being. They are known as Sruti and the authority of the Vedas does not depend on anything external for they are considered to be the very breath of the Supreme Brahman and hence the very word of God. In a discourse, Swamini Satyavratananda drew attention to the fact that humanity owes a tremendous debt to the Vedas for the concern and care they bestow on the life now and here after of each and every created being. But the Vedas are difficult to comprehend. So the rishis and sages well versed in Vedic thought have written sutras on each of the four Vedas. Sutras are in the form of concise and aphoristic statements and are classified on the basis of the topics dealt with. ‘Saruta’ sutras deal with Vedic rituals and rites, and ‘grihya’ sutras with rituals pertaining to family life and the welfare of every human being. Yet another type is ‘dharma’ sutras that explain the moral and ethical code of living by following which one can attain the highest Purushartha, moksha. Since it was not easy for all to unravel the meanings in the cryptic statements of the sutras, there evolved the Smritis comprising the Itihasas and the Puranas. Herein the same topics are presented in simplified version so that all can grasp the core ideas of the goals of life. It is hence apt that the Vedas are fondly referred to as Veda Mata, for the profound values of life they impart to all beings to help them evolve spiritually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/scriptures-as-signposts/article33311735.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 08:43 IST,||Sudoku - December 12, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-12-2020/article33312663.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||But first, haleem||Among all that I really miss in these restricted times is the sound of a degh being opened in a small lane in Old Delhi. The degh would contain haleem , a dish that never fails to warm the cockles of my heart. Its aroma would embrace all of us, waiting to buy a plate of the meat-and-wheat dish. Until last year, I used to get a large pot of Hyderabad’s special haleem delivered during Ramzan. This year, of course, the service was suspended. I was moping about that when I learnt that a food outlet called Pot Pot (potpot.in) had haleem (and a whole lot of other delicacies) on the menu. The place is run by Varun Tuli, who is one of the most talented chefs I have come across. I first had his food when we went with a group of friends to his restaurant Yum Yum Tree, which offered various kinds of sushis (among other Oriental dishes). The restaurant closed after some years, and he opened Yum Yum Cha in Khan Market. And now there is Pot Pot. Pot Pot’s food is delivered in Delhi and Gurugram, and it is open all days from 12 noon upto 11 pm. They have a pickup point in Udyog Vihar, Gurugram, and plan to open one in GK 1 in Delhi. These days, the best delivery services focus on hygiene, and their food is delivered in earthenware placed in cloth bags. Pot Pot gives a nice twist to Indian dishes: For instance the menu includes miso masala fish (Rs. 585) and truffle galaouti slider (Rs. 485). I had their spicy lotus root bhel (Rs. 285), which was a delicious mix of crunchy lotus roots and peanuts, flavoured with lime juice and a Thai dressing. The bacon-wrapped tandoori prawn (Rs. 585) was grilled in a tandoor, giving it a pleasantly smoky taste. The malai broccoli (Rs. 345) had florets also grilled in a tandoor and then topped with cream (I would have liked it without the cream). But I really enjoyed the mini Jaipuri mattar (Rs. 585), a dish that consisted of mildly sweet peas, tempered with hing , raw turmeric and shahi jeera in ghee, and garnished with ginger slivers. A dish called the blackest pot turned out to be dal makhni . But it wasn’t heavy, nor had the flavours been overwhelmed by butter or cream. It was a smoky mix of urad and chana dals which had been cooked on slow heat for 24 hours. The menu includes interesting rotis (truffle kulcha, roomali roti flavoured with saffron, with spinach and so on) and rice dishes. I had the bisi bele bhaat (Rs. 445), prepared with dal pappu, rice, gunpowder and peanuts, and served up with mint raita (Rs. 445). The dishes come with chutneys and condiments: mango chutney, mint chutney, and crushed garlic and chillies. The haleem (Rs. 685) was more meaty than usual, but the cracked wheat added texture and taste to the dish that’s as nourishing as it is flavoursome. I took a bowl of that, added crispy onions on top, along with ginger slivers and green chillies, and really didn’t need anything more. I could smell the aroma of freshly cooked haleem . And, just for a moment, I was back in Old Delhi. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/but-first-haleem/article33312353.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The queer Sri Lankan experience||Brandon Damian Ingram is overwhelmed. He has what he calls a ‘regular’ job in advertising, he is studying for his Master’s in mass communication, and he is dealing with all the attention that comes with playing the lead in a much-anticipated film. The film in question: Deepa Mehta’s eponymous adaptation of the novel, Funny Boy . And given that it is Canada’s official entry to the Academy Awards this year, and was purchased by director Ava DuVernay’s distribution company, Array, the attention is unsurprising. But the excitement has largely been contained within the walls of the Sri Lankan actor’s home in Colombo, which he barely steps out of. “With everything else that’s happening in the world, I’ve just been in one place — on my phone,” he laughs. Authored by Sri Lankan-Canadian novelist Shyam Selvadurai, Funny Boy (which was originally published in 1994) tells the story of Arjie Chelvaratnam, a Tamil boy coming to terms with his sexuality against the backdrop of Sri Lanka’s brutal ethnic conflict in the ’80s. Ingram, 35, vividly remembers the moment when he realised that a role in Funny Boy might become reality. In June last year, while at Colombo’s Barefoot Café, meeting with a friend, he received a message from Selvadurai — a casual acquaintance — informing him that the novel was to be adapted for film. “Deepa would like to audition you,” read the message. “I realised he meant Deepa Mehta and my mind was just blown,” confesses Ingram. Three months later, he was on sets, playing the older version of Arjie.  The time traveller  A pivotal event in Funny Boy is the Chelvaratnam family’s experience of Black July — the anti-Tamil pogroms that ravaged the country in 1983 and signalled the beginning of the decades-long conflict between the secessionist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam and the Sri Lankan state. Ingram wasn’t alive during the riots (he was born two years later), but like all Sri Lankans of his generation, the event, and the war that ensued, defined his life. The conflict would only come to an end in 2009, when Ingram was 24. Which is why recreating the horrors of ’83 felt like catharsis. “It was magical,” he says, about the chance to travel back in time. “While there was one part of bringing this book alive, there was also another part of reconstructing the past. It was like being inside a time machine every single day.”   Soaps and careers   This is the theatre actor’s film debut, and when asked about his big-screen aspirations, he steers the conversation towards one particular medium. “I really want to be in a series because I love television so much. My dream — and this is going to sound hilarious — is to play the villain on one of those really soapy Hindi soaps, like Kahani Ghar Ghar Ki . I feel like that’s my true calling,” he says, without any irony. But he is not sure if he is ready to give up advertising just yet. He started in the field at 17, and 11 years later, decided to leave the industry. The five years that followed saw him live an itinerant life, waiting tables at a café in the beach town of Hikkaduwa, managing a bar in the western surfing hub of Arugam Bay, and working on his novels. But eventually, he felt a tug — to go back to Colombo. So he returned to advertising last year, joining Wunderman Thompson Worldwide (formerly JWT) as creative director — a job that he maintained even during the intense shooting schedule for Funny Boy .  Facing down criticism  Shyam Selvadurai is one of Sri Lanka’s renowned literary exports, and Funny Boy is one of his most acclaimed works. It is therefore surprising that Ingram hadn’t read the book until he was cast in the film. The reason, he says, is that the subject matter was too close to him. As a young gay man grappling with his own sexuality, he was afraid to be associated with it. “Every time I was at a bookshop, I couldn’t pick it up. Because to even pick it up meant looking around and thinking, ‘They’re going to know’.” But in the years since, Ingram has become far more vocal and open about his sexual orientation and politics. On his personal blog, he has written about his country’s restrictive anti-LGBTQI laws — a hangover from its British colonial occupation, modelled after India’s own Section 377 (which was read down in 2018). That is why a gay Sri Lankan man playing the lead in an Oscar-contending movie about a gay Sri Lankan boy is a big deal to him. “I hope this film acts as a catalyst for more conversations,” he says. And yet, sections of the Sri Lankan Tamil Diaspora have criticised the casting choices in Funny Boy , including the decision to cast Ingram, a Sinhala-speaking, non-Tamil actor, in a Tamil-speaking role. As far as Tamil representation goes, the main cast features just one actress, Nimmi Harasgama, who is half-Tamil. After the release of the trailer in October, there was a call on social media to boycott the film. Also, critics said, whatever little Tamil could be heard was mispronounced, and amounted to erasure of Tamil Sri Lankan culture. When I bring this up, Ingram admits that he has held back on commenting about the issue. “It is wild for me to not say anything [because I am usually very outspoken on social media], but I don’t think I possess the right kind of ground,” he says, adding that he understands where the criticism comes from. In defence, he points to Mehta’s recent admission that she had auditioned Tamil actors who, for different reasons, had not accepted the role. But on a personal level, he doesn’t believe that being a non-Tamil prevents him from doing the role justice. He says that playing a Tamil character has even helped him understand his country’s past a little better. Now that the film is in cinemas, he knows things may change. He is open to the possibility of relocating to pursue more acting opportunities (“but I’ll definitely end up back in Sri Lanka”), but as to where that might be, he is not sure. Having grown up on a diet of dubbed Indian soap operas (“Mandira Bedi was bigger here than she was in India,” he says, gushing about the Indian actor’s ’90s serial, Shanti - Ek Aurat Ki Kahani ), he is open to tapping into the Indian market. And luckily, he is fluent in Hindi, thanks to those very soap operas that he no longer watches in their dubbed formats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-queer-sri-lankan-experience/article33311571.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Of sinners and saints||Rap provocateur Vivian Fernandes, who goes by the moniker Divine, upended the pandemic by working through the year to produce a superlative album. “Covidse pehle hi hum faasle rakhte the” (I maintained a distance even before Covid struck) is just one of the lines from the 29-year-old Mumbai rapper’s new album ‘Punya Paap’, which is telling of how he turns context into wordplay. “I made 25 samples, shortlisted 15 and picked 11 from that,” he says of his second album, which released earlier this month. It features a slew of collaborations including rapper Dutchavelli from Birmingham, Brooklyn rap star Nas and Grammy-winning soul singer Cocoa Sarai. From oppression of the working class to climate change to love, Divine covers a wide spectrum. You hear his love for disco on the slick ‘Disco Song’ and his nod to the OG Bollywood gangster film on ‘Satya’. On ‘Top 5 D.O.A’ he raps, “Mazaa aata hai yaar gaana banane mein,” (It’s great fun making songs) so listeners can feel the head rush that he did while making this album. No surprise then that the title track has over 10 million views on YouTube. Excerpts from an interview: Making the second album is always a challenge because everyone has really high expectations. Was that the case with ‘Punya Paap’?    Itis tough to raise the bar, especially since ‘Kohinoor’, my first album had an amazing response. But there was no pressure because of the lockdown. I had no phone calls, no brand [endorsements], no shows. I was in my zone, and had fun writing this album. I wanted to bring in sounds that were in my head, in my heart and were never out there. ‘Disco Rap’ is something I’d heard as a child so I wanted to do something on a similar beat. I had Nas and Dutchavelli, who sent me verses in three days. Nas recorded when he wasn’t well and that’s a huge thing for me. I’m also lucky to have friends who have studios, because I was in there five days a week for two months straight. The main reason this album sounds good is because of the production. I want to shout out to all the producers who answered my 4 am calls to fix something. Especially Stunnah Beatz from Guwahati — we have great chemistry and whenever I call him, he knows exactly what I want. You mentioned that you showed up at the label’s office and gave them the tracks for ‘Kohinoor’ . Is that how it worked for this album as well?    Yeah,they [the label] cannot choose. I’m blessed that they allow me to do that. Did the label step in to help the collaborations happen?    Dutchavellihappened because of BBC. I’ve played their festival and they’ve covered me a couple of times. They asked me who in the UK I would like to collaborate with and I picked Dutch, since he is one of my favourite rappers. I was on his song (‘Bando Diaries’) before this.    In ‘Top 5 D.O.A.’ you say “Abhi bhi sapne mein chal rahe apan” (I’m still walking in in a dream). What’s unbelievable about your life?    Everything,man. Everything feels unreal. I wouldn’t think that a guy from Bombay who comes from Andheri East would be on a Nas song, on a Dutch song. I never thought that would happen. I’m still dreaming, I think. You’ve brought in Jesus and Moses in your rap. How did you decide that you will talk about your faith on the album?    2013’s‘Voice of the Streets’ was my first track that got 25,000 views in three to four months, and I was the happiest guy at that point in time. I wanted to start off my second album with the sample of the French choir featured on that, because it was underrated. It is not a religious thing. As for rapping with Biblical references, that is what I’ve heard my mum speak about and I draw from what I’ve heard or felt around me. If I knew something aboutMahabharat, I would have used those references also. It is just a natural thing. But I do believe in God. Who is ‘Mera Bhai’ about?    Itis about some of the instances with my friends, because suddenly my life took off. Because work is important [to me], some of my friends drifted away, turning their back on me. They were thinking that I was the one who drifted away, so I made that song. Maybe some of them misunderstood me, so this song is for them and they will get it. So, it is not about Naezy?    Nana na. Naezy’s cool with me. I love him. We hang out.    What do you mean by “Modi-wala shot”?    Itis open to interpretation. Whatever my fans think.  The writer is an independent journalist and a faculty of journalism at FLAME University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/of-sinners-and-saints/article33311525.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Lights, camera, culture!||My last column was about how – finally – the OTTs were going to be regulated. I have more good news, friends and patriots. Our days of binge-watching Netflix and Amazon, even as we pray for more wholesome content, are nearing their end. As we speak, India's biggest, purest film city is being set up at the speed of the Pashupatastra leaving Arjuna’s Gandiva . And it could be up and running like a deer in Sage Vasishta’s ashram as early as 2021. If the ghost of Nehru or the Mughals (or both working as a tag team) don’t put a diabolical, dynastic spanner in the works, that is. As per official reports, about 1,000 acres of sacred land have been allocated to build this Swachh Bharat Sapna Factory. Photographs of India’s biggest, brightest – and gummiest – star, Akshay Kumar taking the lead have social media in a tizzy. Take that, Trudeau. Our boy is no turncoat. It looks like the monopoly of the god-knows-what-snorting Nepo Gang is finally coming to an end. It is soon going to be the days of good, clean, enlightening, uplifting cinema — the kind Chandragupta Maurya and Manoj Kumar would have co-directed had they had the opportunity. I have a few ideas that I would like to share. On how this new era could be ushered in. As is our ancient custom, let’s begin with names. Bollywood, a name that has been in currency for too long, is just a toxic derivative of the deeply corrupting western capital of cinema. And it should be erased with immediate effect. Our new film city should be called Culturewood, or better still, Sanskari Lakdi . That it brings to mind the corrective implement used by our young patriots on anyone eating the wrong fare, cracking the wrong joke, or marrying the wrong kind is no coincidence. The names of Kollywood, Tollywood and Mollywood will be changed, too, in due course. Together, they will be called Madrasi Lakdi . When they learn Hindi, we could do a rethink. As for real estate allocation, why not split the property right down the middle? One half for Kangana Ranaut, the other for Akshay bhai Bhatia, separated by an electrified fence so that Kangana’s wooden horse doesn’t stray. Kangana’s section will make films on all that is wrong with our ancient land today. She will write, produce, direct, and star in all the vehicles herself. Some of her titles: Tapsee Ki Sasti Kahani , Trudeau Ek Dodo , Anurag Ek Dishrag and K Jo, Please Go Go . These movies will be released on Twitter. And anyone criticising the movies will be made the subject of the next movie. Akshay Kumar, meanwhile, will make movies that are totally positive. His subjects will deal with all that is good and great in our ancient land. Deshbhakt Khiladi 1, 2 and 3, Central Vista: Ek Prem Katha , I Love My Statues , Garam Masala Part 2 : The MDH Story ... One of the main resources for any big industrial complex is water. Sunny Paaji will make sure there is plenty of water throughout the year in the film city. He will bore through the soil doing the ‘ Yaara O Yaara ’ step from Jeet and install hand-pumps every 100 metres or so by using the reverse of the Gadar method. Kent RO systems could be procured at a discounted price using his family connections. Deer and peacock will flit about the campus, pushpaka vimanams will fly overhead showering petals, and Mukesh Khanna, Alok Nath and Barack Obama will be on the advisory board. I’m loving it. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lights-camera-culture/article33311527.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||For better or for worse||“Laugh at us, laugh with us, have a good time,” declares Maheep Kapoor, one of the leads of the new Netflix reality show, The Fabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives . The eight-episode series tracks the lives of four close friends — Kapoor, Neelam Kothari Soni, Bhavana Pandey, and Seema Khan — who are firmly entrenched in the Hindi movie industry. In the two weeks since it aired, it trended number one on the digital platform in India, despite reviewers panning it. The protagonists, to their credit, were prepared for the inevitable trolling. Kothari Soni, a popular actor in the 1980s and 1990s and now a jewellery designer says, “They are making fun of it, yet they are watching the whole thing.” Indeed, ‘cringe but binge,’ seems to be the verdict from audiences. Filled with scenes of dining out and dressing up, the show is a main course of gloss and glamour, with a tiny serving of drama on the side. Produced by Karan Johar’s Dharmatic Entertainment, it includes appearances by Gauri and Shah Rukh Khan, plus an assortment of B-town (Malaika Arora, Ekta Kapoor), as well as society (Natasha Poonawalla, Surily Goel, Monisha Jaising make an appearance at the party finale). Following in the footsteps of mega-hit US reality shows such as The Real Housewives and Keeping up with the Kardashians , it has no intellectual pretensions. Instead, it aims to show us how the other half lives.  Who is acting?  Shopping in a Rolls Royce on an overseas trip? But of course. Yet aside from these obvious displays of largesse, these women’s lives are not without struggle. Early on, Khan alludes to a less than perfect marriage, Pandey’s husband, Chunky, rues his lack of ever winning an acting award, and Kapoor talks of being the less successful family among her famous in-laws (her brothers-in-law include Anil and Boney Kapoor). The show touches upon female ambition — Khan, Kapoor and Pandey have a business they want to grow, Kothari Soni explores a potential return to acting. Whether these issues seem pedestrian to the general public is besides the point. The show offers an escape. How accurate a portrayal is it? Kapoor is known for her use of colourful language (“I make no apologies,” she says). The flare up between Khan and Pandey is authentic. Those accents that annoyed viewers? They are not fake. Kothari Soni explains how she was born and raised in Hong Kong, studied at American and British schools and finds it odd that people think she is faking it. Ditto Kapoor, who was raised in London and lived all over the world. Moreover, the foursome find it funny when people compliment them on their acting skills. “We are not acting, this is us in real life, and our conversations with each other and our families,” says Kothari Soni. If it were acting, Khan quips, “Give me an Oscar!”  Risks worth taking  Filmed prior to the pandemic, it was Johar, an old friend, and his team, who encouraged them to do a pilot. Khan was the first to get onboard. The others had apprehensions. Pandey says, “You’re putting yourself out there for people to judge you.” Kothari Soni admits that while she was very excited initially, she got cold feet. “I’ve been such a private person. I did films 20 years ago. To have people in my home — I was nervous.” It was her husband, Sameer Soni, who persuaded her. She remembers him saying, “‘I think you’re giving yourself too much importance; you don’t get a better gig than this, just blindly do it.’” Kapoor says she wanted to make her own adventure, and what better way to do it than with her best friends? Plus, her son counselled her to not say no to platforms like Netflix and Dharmatic. “It is a very brave thing that we’ve done,” she says. “We’ve opened our homes, our lives, we’ve exposed our children to the show and up for judgement. It is not easy.” The idea of self as a brand — long the domain of politicians — gained currency with the explosion of reality TV and social media in the 21st century. The biggest beneficiary of that credo is, of course, Donald Trump, who parlayed his TV avatar into the ultimate top job in the US. At its best, reality TV can help change our thinking on issues. Kim Kardashian West started off as an object of ridicule, yet now uses her celebrity to get the wrongfully convicted out of prison. And she rakes in millions. “Reality TV can be a launch pad for careers beyond the show,” says Karla Bookman, founder of independent media company, The Swaddle. She cites the example of The Real Housewives franchise in the US. “The most popular and business savvy stars parlayed their roles into fashion lines, restaurants and even a $100 million liquor brand.” But such brand building comes with a cautionary note. Prathap Suthan, CCO of Delhi-based Bang in the Middle, says, “Be it bouquets or brickbats, thinking ‘all news is good news’ is short sighted. Reality TV may show someone the road back into the limelight, but to build their brand, they need to have other factors going for them, such as intrinsic charisma, calibre, staying power. They need to be like phosphorous and burn bright. Otherwise it is an ephemeral brand world that they are building.” In a year when Bollywood faced tremendous backlash against a culture of entitlement, were the women nervous about how the show would come across? Pandey acknowledges that the world is very different from when they first started filming in 2019. She says the series was not to demonstrate that they didn’t care. “It was made for an entirely different reason, to be light-hearted and fun,” she explains. Kothari Soni adds, “People were starved for this kind of content. The timing is perfect. They are making fun of it, yet they are watching. That says it all.” Kapoor agrees. “It has become fashionable to troll and abuse,” she says. “Everyone cannot love us. But they have watched the show. Love us, hate us, they’ve watched us, they’ve not ignored us.” Khan concludes that the idea was to sit back and forget about one’s troubles. “What feels better than a good laugh? I really don’t know.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/for-better-or-for-worse/article33311566.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I’m not as fast as Stephen King’||Fans of the pop-culture-stuffed world of Ready Player One have had to wait for almost 10 years to return to the simulated wonderland of the OASIS. Set in 2045, Ernest Cline’s début novel in 2011 was set on a planet devastated by climate change, with a majority of the populace in the virtual universe OASIS created by tech genius James Halliday. Upon his death, Halliday devised a contest where the winner would not only gain his enormous fortune, but also get control of his creation. In 2018, Steven Spielberg adapted the book into a successful movie, and its sequel, Ready Player Two was out last month. Excerpts from an interview with Cline, who talks of the pros and cons of writing a sequel, his fascination for 80s pop culture and more. How has Steven Spielberg impacted your style?    We started talking about the sequel on the sets of the first movie. Steven has a great storytelling sensibility that has helped shape my storytelling since childhood. To be able to bounce ideas off him and get his feedback was so gratifying. He was encouraging through the whole process, never hurried me, and read different drafts and gave feedback. I’m grateful for his time and his kindness. How much of Ready Player Two was influenced by the film? For instance, Aech being scared of horror movies.  Yes, that was one part. I tried hard to not have too many references to the movie. For instance, Daito dies in the novel but lives in the movie and there was no way I was going to bring him back. I wanted to write a sequel to my book and be true to that story. Having said that, I couldn’t help being influenced by the movie a little bit. The other detail that draws from the film also relates to Aech. Spielberg selected a song by Prince, ‘I Want to be your Lover’, for the scene in which Parzival and Art3mis meet for the first time. I thought Aech would be a huge Prince fan and that made me connect them and it led to the whole Prince challenge in Ready Player Two . Also, the actress who played Aech, Lena Waithe, is a huge Prince fan. The movie is definitely a sequel to Ready Player One the book and not the film. Why is there a nine-year gap between the two novels?    I wrote another novel, Armada , which came out in 2015. I wrote its screenplay along with Ready Player One and my daughter was born too. Both novels are elaborate, like puzzle boxes with pop culture references. The way the challenges fit together takes me a long time. I am not as fast as Stephen King, I don’t know how he does it. (Laughs)     Is Ready Player Two inspired by a few episodes of Black Mirror ?    There are some Black Mirror episodes that have a brain-computer interface, but it was not an inspiration. The show draws from the same things I did — William Gibson’s book, Neuromancer , and two films, Brainstorm and Strange Days . There’s also the Japanese anime,Sword Art Online, that inspired me.  Why is so little of Ready Player Two set in the real world?    It is partly because now the OASIS is indistinguishable from reality with the advent of the ONI, the brain-computer interface. Also, the real world is tricky. The more I fleshed it out, the more wrong I’m going to be about my predictions. On the other hand, I felt I could extrapolate the Oasis and the virtual world 25 years ahead just from my knowledge of video games. On Will Wheaton (of Star Trek: The Next Generation ) reading for the Ready Player One audiobook... He was one of my favourite actors growing up. We were both born in 1972, are geeks, love movies, sci-fi and role playing games. I instinctively knew that he would be perfect as he adds his own voice and verbal interpretation of the story that many prefer to reading text. It was the most popular audiobook of the last decade — it debuted at number one on The New York Times ’ audiobook category and retained the position for five months. Which segments of the hunt did you enjoy the most?    My favourite was probably the Prince section. I never tried to gamify a musician’s catalogue before. I don’t think it was my least favourite section, but the most difficult one was creating the Tolkien planet. There are a lot of books and different versions of Middle Earth that were created over the years. So that was a tonne of research I had to do. Is Ready Player Two ’s film adaptation on the cards?    It is a crazy time for the movies out there, but I do think there is a good chance that it could become a movie someday. We’ll have to wait to see.  Published by Penguin Random House UK, the book is priced at Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/im-not-as-fast-as-stephen-king/article33311560.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Behind the scenes: Paava Kadhaigal||Fearing their father’s staunch views on marriage, two sisters take different approaches to tell him who they love  Storyteller: Vignesh Shivan “Most films that tackle this topic [honour killing] are hard-hitting, and can be disturbing for audiences. There’s also a large section of people who are sceptical about watching anything with a tragic ending. I wondered if there is a lighter vein to handle such things. This was my challenge when I started writing.” Actor: Kalki Koechlin “There aren’t too manyvellaikaara[white] actors who can speak Tamil, so it was hard to turn down a role that fit me so perfectly. When Vignesh narrated the story, I liked what he was trying to do, which was to take a serious subject and approach it with a unique perspective.” Actor:Anjali “Although it was not my first time playing two characters on screen, I wanted to go beyond using differences in clothing and make-up to distinguish between them. I tapped into the similarities in their characters and in the way siblings talk.”     A family grapples with guilt and anger after their young daughter suffers a traumatic incident  Storyteller:Gautham Vasudev Menon “It was a difficult film to write, film, edit and look at later as well. The genre was such: honour, pride, love, sin. I know the kind of feedback that will come for a film like this, people asking why we portrayed things in a certain way. Whether it is ‘right’ or ‘wrong’, it is my take on the issue.” Gautham Menon:Need to know “Acting is not something I look forward to. Films that I did with others directing me gave me confidence, but it is not the same when you are directing yourself. I like to look at the actors while directing. So, for me to be in a frame was tough.” Actor:SIMRAN “For years I have been asking [Menon] to take on full-fledged acting roles, but he always pushed back on the idea. So it was the best surprise when he decided to play Satya. This was not an easy topic for me to accept as an actor, but the way it was narrated was very convincing. I’m playing a role like this after many years, probably the first afterVaaranam Aayiram. Another challenging role I have signed up for is in theTamil remake of Andhadhun .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/behind-the-scenes-paava-kadhaigal/article33311589.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s your worldview?||I remember back in 1998, when, as a post-grad student of Social Communications and Media at Sophia’s Polytech in Mumbai, a few of us were shoved into a police truck and driven down to the police station because we were outside the New Excelsior theatre protesting the vandalisation of Deepa Mehta’sFireby right wing groups. We were young, hot-blooded and very excited by the first-ever film addressing issues of marginalised sexuality and ‘choice’ being screened publicly at a theatre. Getting arrested at the time was a mark of ‘pride’ rather than shame. Cut to 2020. This time, the villain is Covid-19. As a result of the pandemic, Pride has been postponed to 2021 because large crowds cannot officially gather. The queer community, unlike the fearless farmers who are camped on the borders of Delhi, have decided not to take the ‘risk’. However, once again, cinema unites us. And once again it is a Deepa Mehta film,Funny Boy, that brings the community together. The I-View World Film Festival, organised and hosted by Engendered, a trans-national arts and human rights organisation, marks International Human Rights Day (December 10). It has partnered with Hybrid Film Festival in New York, to showcase 50 shorts, documentaries and feature films from South Asia, Canada, Britain, Italy, Sweden, Netherlands, Argentina, Australia, Turkey/Syria, Iran and Thailand. The 10-day festival will have Covid-conscious screenings and a socially-distant red carpet at the DLF Cyber-Hub in Gurugram, with a panel discussion around Deepa Mehta’s film (and Canada’s official entry for the 2021 Academy Awards). It can also be viewed virtually on the Plexigo app. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com     The I-View World Film Festival is on till December 20. Watch the films on plexigo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/whats-your-worldview/article33311516.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||How film sets operate now||In London, director Ben Hume-Paton sits in front of a computer screen and says, “Action.” Over 10,841 km away, in Singapore, co-director K Rajagopal relays his instructions to the actors and crew filming an advertisement for Interpol. In Lyon, France, the client watches in real time, while in Puducherry, producer Samir Sarkar, of Magic Hour Films, ensures everything goes seamlessly. All over Zoom. This is the new reality — of remote filming, which is growing in popularity worldwide in these times of quarantining and social distancing. Cutting-edge technology and software mean that commercials, shows (and sometimes, feature films) can be shot with a skeleton staff on ground, and the rest of the crew sitting elsewhere. “Tech such as QTake [which allows a director sitting anywhere in the world with a good internet connection to see a high definition, real-time view from the camera lens], or even more general platforms like Zoom, Google Meet and Amazon Chine are now being used to facilitate the remote export of creativity of a director, along with the supervision of the client, without having to step on to a physical film set,” says Sarkar.  Shot from afar  Many production houses have been quick to adopt (and adapt to) such technology. The new TV advert for Mercedes-Benz, for example, was made by Kiev-based Radioaktive Film — with the director sitting in Ukraine and the crew in China — using QTake. “I think the pandemic has made many productions realise they can work effectively using advanced remote tools. Just imagine what a waste it is to move the crew around the planet and accommodate them in every location, when most of them can sit in their office and collaborate on multiple projects remotely,” says Vlado Struhar, the Slovakian film director and programmer, who developed QTake as “an on-set tool to capture takes, and provide playback, editing and compositing”. But is what’s good for ads also good for feature films and shows? Movies such as WW84 , and the new Jurassic Park and Batman , have used QTake (from approx Rs. 1,47,200 onwards) and similar software while filming this year, points out Struhar. Closer home, we’ve seen several early experiments of remote filming, done at its most basic during the early days of lockdown. Think C U Soon , the Malayalam film starring Fahadh Faasil, which was shot on an iPhone, or Home Stories , Netflix India’s tetraptych anthology. For the latter, filmmaker Anubhuti Kashyap recalls how she sent actors Imaad Shah and Saba Azad, who live together, a Canon EOS-1D C camera and some lights, and guided them over Zoom (along with her DoP) on how to frame the shots, where to place the lights. “They would record the footage and send it to us for approval. You can only plan certain kinds of shots and half the time we were working blind,” she laughs. Now with studios reopening, new patterns of working are being established. “Filming is a physical as well as a mental and creative process. Creativity can be exported remotely, but the process of filming itself has to be handled physically on location,” says Sarkar. So directors are back on sets, with their masks on, and just the essential cast and crew (such as the cinematographer) on hand.  Movie making distilled  Limited footprints on set are a given. “For Scam 1992 , there was a minimum of 100 people on set,” says Jai Mehta, who shot portions of the SonyLIV Originals crime drama during lockdown and did much of the post-production remotely. “Now I won’t have more than 40 [except for sequences that require heavy production, costumes and lighting, such as songs or action sequences].” I like shooting with a smaller crew, but it will also be sad. It will be a different feeling to not have passionate people around.” Investment in technology is another essential. Options like virtual production (VP) can be called an indirect advocate of social distancing — allowing filmmakers to create movies without having to cram people on to a set. “Virtual production has been around for quite some time, with the original Avatar [James Cameron’s 2009 film] being a major milestone. In the last two years, we’ve seen the evolution of the tools in the VP toolbox take off, and the pandemic has only served to accelerate that trend,” says David Conley, executive producer at Weta Digital, the New Zealand-based digital visual effects company co-founded by filmmaker Peter Jackson. “LED walls have captured the buzz at the moment because of cost efficiency for certain types of projects, and because you can reduce on-location requirements and the number of crew on set.” Famous Studio in Mumbai has an LED floor. So, more the merrier? Cost could be a deterrent, but Conley says, think of it as “shifting that cost into pre-production, building the assets you need earlier for the virtual stage”, and it is a long term investment. “A lot of people look at remote filmmaking as a step back, but I see it as a step forward,” shares Mehta. “It is a way for us to plan better and do things we would not have done otherwise. You can criticise it, but the fact is that we need these interventions. Films are changing, filmmaking is changing and we need to evolve.”  With inputs from Susanna Myrtle Lazarus and NidhiAdlakha   I did Putham Pudhu Kaalai [for Amazon Prime] at the peak of the pandemic, with a 10-member cast and crew. The efficiency I saw on set, with each person taking on a couple of jobs, was something I had not seen with a crew of 185. This indie style of shooting is something I’d love to take forward post-pandemic.  Sudha Kongara     Vaanmagal [part of Netflix’s Tamil anthology, Paava Kadhaigal ] was shot just a week before lockdown. It was not easy to WFH on the post-production — coordinating the actors, and dubbing and editing. But it did give rise to the thought that anything is possible and showed us that we did not need so much time for the production of a film.  Gautham Vasudev Menon    When you have good talent on board, the medium of work is not going to bother you too much. Dubbing [for Love Panna Uttranum , part of Netflix’s Tamil anthology, Paava Kadhaigal ] was done online, on a video call. There was no compromise or difference — what we would have done in person, we managed to do remotely.  Vignesh Shivan    We shot two important scenes of Putham Pudhu Kaalai [for Amazon Prime] remotely. I had a good cinematographer, Ajayan Vincent, in Hyderabad who understood what I wanted. Shruti [Hasan] also did online rehearsals with me. But this was done only because of the pandemic; I don’t think it will be the new order. What I do like, however, is the idea of having a small crew and getting the help of other people remotely.  Suhasini Maniratnam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/how-film-sets-operate-now/article33311556.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Hubble: Wonders of Space Revealed||Find out the story behind one of the most complex machines ever created. The Hubble telescope has made more than 1.3 million observations and enabled over 15,000 scientific papers to be written. Go behind the scenes to learn about its dramatic history, a launch that turned into a disaster, and the astronauts who risked their lives to fix it. The invention that opened up the universe in unimaginable ways has been around for 30 years, and this anniversary film meets the scientists and astronomers who use it on a daily basis.  Premieres today at 9 pm on Sony BBC Earth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/hubble-wonders-of-space-revealed/article33311518.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Traditional hour||Pankaj Udhas, Talat Aziz, Anup Jalota and Sudeep Banerji, among many others, will perform at the 19th edition of Khazana, a festival ofghazals.On December 19 and 20, from 8 pm, streaming for free on Hungama’s online platforms. Kalakshetra’s 67th annual art festival goes online from December 21 to 31, with performances by Nithyashree Mahadevan and Rakesh Chaurasia. Tickets from Rs. 300 on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/traditional-hour/article33311543.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Snakes up your sleeve||Herpetologist Gowri Shankar, in collaboration with Bay of Life Surf School & Surf Shop, is organising a STORM workshop: Scientific Training on Reptile Management. Learn the basics about reptiles, how to identify snakes, snake rescue protocols, equipment, legal issues and conservation implications. On December 19 and 20, from 9 am to 5 pm, at Jacob’s Farm, Thalambur. Rs. 7,500 per head. Email jay@bayoflife.com to register.9884659995||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/snakes-up-your-sleeve/article33311545.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Margazhi 2020: Yet another annual fixture goes virtual. Charsur Arts Foundation’s concerts, with over 30 big names, including Sikkil Gurucharan, begin on December 15 (season pass at Rs. 1,500 on in.bookmyshow.com). The Music Academy (@madrasmusicacademy) has scaled down their events, and will be held from December 24 to 31. But don’t fret about not being able to Instagram thesabhacanteen food. Most regular caterers have plans to set up shop soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article33311529.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Deck the halls||Get into the Christmas spirit with a box of decorations curated and delivered to your home by New Delhi-based CherishX. Pick from the basic DIY kit (at Rs. 1,900) to the gold pack that includes a six-foot-tall tree, ornaments and more (at Rs. 6,499). On cherishx.com. Add to the warmth of the season with Hands carpets’ Christmas Story collection, featuring snowy grey and fiery red rugs. From Rs. 24,000 on handscarpets.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/deck-the-halls/article33311531.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Winter brews||Sula Vineyards, along with Blue Tokai Coffee Roasters, has launched a limited edition Barrel Aged Blend. The cold brew features wine barrel-fermented coffee beans with subtle hints of grapes, dark chocolate, oak, tannins, and black currant. At Rs. 250 for 200 ml. Craft beer MAKA di from Latambarcem Brewers in Goa, has a festive honey ale made with wild honey from Jim Corbett Park in Uttarakhand. Details: makabeer.space||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/winter-brews/article33311533.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Stripes and saris||Payal Khandwala comes to Collage in Chennai with her latest collection that reflects her love for architecture. The line features staggered lines and stripes creating illusions of colour and texture. Structured drapes of handwoven silks and organza come in a palette of indigo, olive green, coffee brown, crimson and magenta, with highlights of silver yarn. Shop saris, jackets,kurtasand jumpsuits from Rs. 12,800 onwards.28291443||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/stripes-and-saris/article33311535.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Artemis Moon Mission: After Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, we’ll soon have the first woman and next man on the Moon. Almost 50 years after Apollo 17, NASA has announced a crew of 18 people who will be training to be part of a lunar surface mission set for 2024. While scientific research is one of the main goals, “activities related to field geology, sample collection and return and deployed experiments” are also on the cards. Details: nasa.gov||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article33311537.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Turning ‘21||After a year filled with uncertainty, we know one thing for sure — time rolls on, and the new year will come. Chennai’s ITC Grand Chola is gearing up for 2021 with a slew of events: weekend family packages at their signature restaurants, a Christmas market from December 25 to 27, and Gourmet Bubble, with a private venue, bespoke menu and an exclusive service team. Hampers from Rs. 2,200.9677050598||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/turning-21/article33311539.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Dance like a Nutcracker||Shortly after their annual Radio City Christmas Spectacular was cancelled, The Rockettes have started spreading holiday cheer through free virtual dance classes on their Instagram page. The American precision dance company has performed at the New York venue since 1932. Learn the parade of the wooden soldiers and the tree lighting routine, among others. The classes are hosted live on @therockettes on Wednesdays, till December 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dance-like-a-nutcracker/article33311541.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The rise of branded developers||With consumer preferences tilting towards branded products over the last few years, the share of homes by branded players is on the rise across the top seven cities. As per Anarock data, out of the total new housing supply in 2015 (approx. 3.90 lakh units), branded players’ share accounted for 41% while the remaining 59% of housing supply was by non-branded players. In 2020, the overall share by branded players has increased to 53% of the total supply (approx. 75,140 units in 2020 till September) across the top cities. This clearly indicates that branded players have been increasing their supply to tap into the growing demand from home buyers. Another reason could be the liquidity crisis which the real estate sector has been grappling with over the last few years. Smaller players have had the short end of the stick and many of them face challenges with raising funds from banks and other financial institutions. City-wise trends Of the total 15,020 units launched in Bengaluru in 2020 till September, a whopping 63% were by branded developers. In Chennai too, out of the total new launches of nearly 5,250 units in the city this year, branded developers had a 63% share.  In 2015, the ratio of branded vs non-branded players’ supply in Bengaluru stood at 52:48 and in Chennai it was 53:47.  In sharp contrast, new supply in Kolkata and NCR continues to be dominated by the non-branded players in 2020. Out of the total 13,000 units launched in NCR in 2020, nearly 45% comprise branded projects, while 55% of the supply comes from non-branded developers. Kolkata saw a new supply of just 2,500 units in 2020 so far, of which 38% was by branded developers while a whopping 62% was by non-branded ones. Back in 2015, the ratio was 31:69 in Kolkata and 37:63 in NCR.  In MMR and Pune, the new supply share of branded developers in 2020 stands at 54% and 55% respectively. Back in 2015, the branded vs. non branded ratio was 40:60 in MMR and 31:69 in Pune. Both markets have seen branded players’ share increase significantly over the years.  In Hyderabad, the new supply stood at nearly 8,300 units in 2020 of which the share of branded players is 46%. In 2015, the ratio of branded vs. non-branded was the reverse — at 54:46. 2020 vs. 2019 Approx. 2.37 lakh housing units were launched across the top seven cities in 2019, out of which nearly 57% (over 1.35 lakh units) were by branded developers. In 2020 (until September), approx. 75,140 units have been launched, of which more than 53% are by branded developers. While the overall share in 2020 against 2019 declined marginally, the fact is that 2020 has seen a drastic reduction in the total number of overall housing units launched. When the entire 2020 supply data becomes available by the end of December 2020, the share of branded players is very likely to have increased. Trends to note Despite consumer preferences generally skewed towards branded products, NCR saw the new supply share by branded players dip in 2020 from the previous year. In 2019, the ratio between branded and non-branded stood at 57:43 while in 2020 it stood at 45:55. In Hyderabad too, new supply by these developers saw a sudden dip in 2020 — from 61% share in 2019 the supply share fell to mere 38% in 2020. One reason could be that while branded players preferred to defer their new launches, non-branded players sought to launch projects that were previously approved and waiting to be launched. Bengaluru, Chennai, MMR and Pune, on the other hand, saw the new supply share by branded developers at almost same levels in 2020 as 2019.  (Note: ‘Branded’ developers include listed players, developers who have been operating for a decade and more, even newly-formed entities of large conglomerates and also those with sizeable areas under development either locally or pan-India)   The writer is Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-rise-of-branded-developers/article33311592.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Restoring the Bowring Institute||Bengaluru’s Bowring Institute (founded in 1868 by Benjamin Lewis Rice) is not just a heritage landmark and club but a part of India’s colonial history. Ever since, it was frequented by the British regiment posted in the Bangalore Cantonment and the structure has served as a silent witness to the changes that have occurred over its 132-year existence. Built on the principles of Victorian architecture blended with tones of the Indo-Saracenic style, the structure is divided into three wings comprising a large convention hall that is flanked on both sides by expansive multi-functional spaces where one of them serves as a library. When the building was put up for restoration, it’s condition was a serious cause for worry, states Stuart Clarke, Hon. Treasurer, Bowring Institute and the restoration’s project coordinator. Multiple alterations Clarke explains how deep cracks marked the walls as the damaged foundation had been patched up without understanding the structural implications or the heritage value of the building. “Large sections of the roof and walls were also damaged due to heavy seepage of rainwater. To make matters worse, multiple alterations had been carried over the last six decades without paying heed to the long-term impact.” When the current restoration process commenced in September 2016, the approach was clear: to keep the heritage value fully in perspective, where the structure will be restored based on the methods, techniques and materials that were primarily used in its original construction. Since the entire building was built using lime mortar and lime plaster, the restoration would involve preparing lime mortar on-site to the exact specifications of the original material used over a century ago. Back to the roots Sriram Krishnan of Archieteriors, the restoration’s lead architect says ASI-certified limestone was chosen, the lime powder ground on-site with sieved river sand, wild aloe vera and inknut water to get the right consistency. “This mixture was fermented for 14 days in a pit which was covered with 2 to 3 layers of gunny bags along with a layer of hay to ensure zero penetration of sunlight,” he adds. Incidentally, the lime mixture, once fermented, generates a lot of heat. “We had to opt for alternate day rotation of the artisans working on the lime plaster as constant exposure caused heat boils on their skin,” says Krishnan. The fermented lime mixture was further mixed with palm sugar water, inknut water and egg white to produce the authentic original lime plaster. On ground The structural analysis undertaken prior to the restoration had revealed extensive damage to the substructure as well as the superstructure. To address the substructure, trenches of 1.5 x 2 m dimension were dug along the foundation, with the soil strengthened by sand and lime piles of 50 mm diameter with grouting pressure of 10 kg/sq m at every 450 mm c/c to a depth of 600 mm. The cavities on the foundation wall were filled with lime mortar and further strengthened through RCC buttressing. As for the superstructure, “two types of cracks were found on the plaster stripped walls — structural and weathering cracks,” says Krishnan, adding, “The structural cracks radiating from the roof, across the arches, down to the foundation were treated using ISMC members internally and externally. The weathering faults were treated using the crack stitching technique and finished with lime mortar.” Up on the roof As for the roof, the structure came with both, a sloping wooden roof and a flat Madras terrace roof. There was a strong interconnection between the two for structural stability as well as rainwater run-off. “The prevailing tiled roof and supporting timber trusses were in a bad condition, with the damaged original timber trusses having been removed many years ago and replaced with asbestos sheets. These sheets were now replaced with timber rafters as in the original design,” explains the architect. The flat Madras roof too had leakages in multiple sections, requiring re-laying. This was again done conforming to the original roof structure, with the first layer comprising steel/wooden rafters, the second layer comprising bricks laid diagonally on an incline of 5 to 10 degrees. The third and fourth layers were again similar bricks but laid flat to cover the joints and ensure good bonding for the roof. Original detailing The original oxide-based floor tiles were found to have weathered, requiring replacement with similar pattern and style. The floating wood floor of the central hall also had its entire wooden members damaged, requiring replacement. Given the era it was constructed in, the building also featured multiple openings in the form of doors, windows and ventilators, where the damaged sections needed replacement. Likewise, the now rusted wrought iron railings enclosing the open verandahs were replaced with similar designs. The external detailing and motifs on the roof and parapet walls were also found to be damaged and therefore reconstructed by referring to pictures of the original structure. The design team that worked on the project also included Ashwath Narayana, Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage, Karnataka Government, and H.S. Srikanth, Hon. Secretary, Bowring Institute.  The weathering faults were treated using the crack stitching technique and finished with lime mortar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/restoring-the-bowring-institute/article33311597.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||For your winter fabric haul||As the cold sets in, it’s the norm in most homes to revamp the closet and put away summer clothes. Up North, it’s time to bring out the winter specials — sweaters, jackets and shawls — in fabrics that keep us warm and look good too. Shouldn’t the change of season mean a change of your home’s setting so it turns into a warm and cosy haven, no matter what the weather is like outside? These fabrics will weave in warmth into your home without compromising on style: Tweed This tight-knit and strong fabric is stylish and flexible. Once used by the British upper class, it’s a popular choice amongst many these days. It may have traditionally spelt country when worn as coats, jackets or trousers, but there’s no reason why you can’t explore it for furnishings. Cushion covers maybe? Or give a favourite chair an update? Silk The material has been a prized fabric down the ages and is still much sought after because it adds a luxurious and opulent appeal. It works extremely well for temperate and cold winters. This tough natural material is easy to wash and doesn’t lose its colour, strength or shape. Try it as a lovely pair of drapes, a runner or get a custom bedspread. Corduroy A heavy-duty fabric, it can help create a variety of looks — casual, formal, rustic or elegant. Lighter and brighter colours such as pale yellow, cornflower blue and celery green create a fresh interior palette, and lend themselves well to family rooms. Darker shades such as charcoal, sandstone and chocolate create a more formal ambience. Look for varying wales (the width of the cord; the number of ridges per inch) to create different statements. Leather Most of us associate leather with very cold climates or snow-capped mountain tops. However, it is a round-the-year fabric that’s good for moderately cold countries. This versatile, multi-functional and natural material can help you create a surfeit of settings — be it masculine, rustic, elegant or modern. Leather exudes a classy appeal — it lends your room a subtle grace, an elegant grandeur which is not possible with regular furniture. Velvet  Symbolising elegance and style, it is a product of several fabrics like linen, silk, wool, mohair and cotton. This elegant material is meant for special occasions and can make a luxurious statement. What can you do? Upholster a pouf, even a sofa or add lavish throw pillows. Also explore velveteen and velour, similar fabrics which provide the same qualities. Lighter fabrics Hemp, cotton and bamboo are light natural fabrics and can be used in winter. They add a laid back style to any space. Add a couple of shaggy rugs, a warm throw on the sofa and yellow lighting to create the cosiest winter setting ever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/for-your-winter-fabric-haul/article33311601.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru gets a 2.4 million sq.ft. housing project||Real estate consultancy Anarock recently announced the culmination of a major land deal in Whitefield, Bengaluru’s prominent IT/ITeS hub. The consultancy represented both the buyers (Godrej Properties) and the sellers in this outright land acquisition of 18 acres of prime land which Godrej Properties will develop into a mid-range residential township. Ritesh Srivastava, SVP - Land Services, Anarock Property Consultants says, “The timing for this plot’s acquisition for residential development is impeccable, considering the massive demand for quality housing in Bengaluru post the lockdowns. Of the total 15,020 homes launched in Bengaluru in 2020 till September, branded developers like Godrej Properties accounted for a massive 63% share. This clearly indicates that homebuyers in India’s Silicon Valley are focused on quality and execution certainty.” The current interest rate cycle is also turning favourable for the housing sector, wherein more and more organised realty players are expected to acquire land in prime residential corridors in the coming months, she added.  High demand Over the last decade, Whitefield’s skyline has metamorphosed significantly into tall skyscrapers and big residential communities. The housing demand in this region is primarily driven by IT professionals working in nearby office complexes. The locality’s residential real estate growth has also benefited from the saturation of core areas of the city, significant rise in IT/ITeS and retail spaces in and around the locality, availability of land parcels for large-scale developments and the presence of excellent physical infrastructure. The superlative connectivity to the central business district, the upcoming metro corridor from Byappanahalli to Kadugodi under the phase-II of Namma Metro, and the proposed eight-lane peripheral road that connects Whitefield to other arterial roads of the city enhances the real estate potential of this region. Overall, Whitefield has earned its label ‘the jewel of the eastern suburbs’. Developmental perks Whitefield also provides easy access to all social infrastructure facilities including schools and colleges, shopping malls, and hospitals. Land prices here have appreciated considerably in recent times on the back of surging demand for housing options in nearby areas. The new project, which is slated to be completed in the next 5-6 years, will deliver approx. 1,600 units spread over 2.4 million sft.  Anarock Property Consultants   The housing demand is primarily driven by IT professionals working in nearby office complexes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/bengaluru-gets-a-24-million-sqft-housing-project/article33311606.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Legalities of home rentals||Usually, houses are rented out with agreements valid for 11 months. In Tamil Nadu, it is compulsory to register rental agreements. My queries are: 1. If the house is not registered, can the landlord enforce this rule? 2. If it is registered, can it be for a duration exceeding 11 months? 3. What is the current rate of stamp duty payable on such rental agreements? R. Sampath Chennai The Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act 2017 stipulates that no person shall let out or take on rent any premises except under an agreement in writing and further stipulates that the same shall be informed to the Rent Authority in the form specified in the First Schedule of the Act. The First Schedule, besides particulars relating to the landlord, tenant and premises, also requires that the duration of tenancy be mentioned. The period of tenancy may be as agreed between the landlord and tenant as specified in the Tenancy Agreement. No stamp duty is applicable to this registration with the Rent Authority irrespective of the duration of lease. Eviction proceedings before the Rent Court can be initiated based on the tenancy agreement registered with the Rent Authority. My son has an NRI property (apartment) which he plans to sell. My friends tell me that the sale will be registered by the government registrar only if the buyer or seller produces a TDS Certificate for the transaction. Is this accurate? If so, what is the procedure when my son, who has become a US citizen now, does not have any income tax account in India? Kathiresan Chennai Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) will be applicable for any property sale of value above Rs. 50,00,000. Please consult your chartered accountant for a comprehensive solution to your query.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/legalities-of-home-rentals/article33311603.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Home sales in Mumbai rise||Knight Frank India’s latest report reveals that the home sales volume in Mumbai was recorded at 9,301 units in November 2020, registering a whopping 67% year-on-year (YoY) rise over the same month last year. This was boosted by the stamp duty cut and the festive period of Diwali. This strong growth of 17% month-on-month (MoM) in November 2020 comes after a robust 42% MoM growth during October 2020 and massive 112% MoM growth during September 2020, when sales of residential property started to show an upward trend after months of the COVID-19 induced slowdown. At 9,301 units registered in November 2020, the residential sector of Mumbai recorded the highest ever registrations in the month of November over the last 9 years. The registrations in November 2020 have jumped by 17% MoM and massive 67% (YoY).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/home-sales-in-mumbai-rise/article33311598.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||FIVE YEAR FOCUS||REALTY RATES  Segment 2020 2015  (INR per sq.ft.)   Luxury 20,000 16,500 apartments  Premium 16,000 14,000 apartments   Budget 14,500 12,500 apartments  Strategic Consulting, JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/five-year-focus/article33311604.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The queer Sri Lankan experience||Brandon Damian Ingram is overwhelmed. He has what he calls a ‘regular’ job in advertising, he is studying for his Master’s in mass communication, and he is dealing with all the attention that comes with playing the lead in a much-anticipated film. The film in question: Deepa Mehta’s eponymous adaptation of the novel, Funny Boy . And given that it is Canada’s official entry to the Academy Awards this year, and was purchased by director Ava DuVernay’s distribution company, Array, the attention is unsurprising. But the excitement has largely been contained within the walls of the Sri Lankan actor’s home in Colombo, which he barely steps out of. “With everything else that’s happening in the world, I’ve just been in one place — on my phone,” he says, laughing. Authored by Sri Lankan-Canadian novelist Shyam Selvadurai, Funny Boy (which was originally published in 1994) tells the story of Arjie Chelvaratnam, a Tamil boy coming to terms with his sexuality against the backdrop of Sri Lanka’s brutal ethnic conflict in the ’80s. Ingram, 35, vividly remembers the moment when he realised that a role in Funny Boy might become reality. In June last year, while at Colombo’s Barefoot Café, meeting with a friend, he received a message from Selvadurai — a casual acquaintance — informing him that the novel was to be adapted for film. “Deepa would like to audition you,” read the message. “I realised he meant Deepa Mehta and my mind was just blown,” says Ingram. Three months later, he was on sets, playing the older version of Arjie.  The time traveller  A pivotal event in Funny Boy is the Chelvaratnam family’s experience of Black July — the anti-Tamil pogroms that ravaged the country in 1983 and signalled the beginning of the decades-long conflict between the secessionist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam and the Sri Lankan state. Ingram wasn’t alive during the riots (he was born two years later), but like all Sri Lankans of his generation, the event, and the war that ensued, defined his life. The conflict would only come to an end in 2009, when Ingram was 24. Which is why recreating the horrors of ’83 felt like catharsis. “It was magical,” he says, about the chance to travel back in time. “While there was one part of bringing this book alive, there was also another part of reconstructing the past. It was like being inside a time machine every single day.”   Soaps and careers   This is the theatre actor’s film debut, and when asked about his big-screen aspirations, he steers the conversation towards one particular medium. “I really want to be in a series because I love television so much. My dream — and this is going to sound hilarious — is to play the villain on one of those really soapy Hindi soaps, like Kahani Ghar Ghar Ki . I feel like that’s my true calling,” he says, without any irony. But he is not sure if he is ready to give up advertising just yet. He started in the field at 17, and 11 years later, decided to leave the industry. The five years that followed saw him live an itinerant life, waiting tables at a café in the beach town of Hikkaduwa, managing a bar in the western surfing hub of Arugam Bay, and working on his novels. But eventually, he felt a tug — to go back to Colombo. So he returned to advertising last year, joining Wunderman Thompson Worldwide (formerly JWT) as creative director — a job that he maintained even during the intense shooting schedule for Funny Boy .  Facing down criticism  Selvadurai is one of Sri Lanka’s renowned literary exports, and Funny Boy is one of his most acclaimed works. It is therefore surprising that Ingram hadn’t read the book until he was cast in the film. The reason, he says, is that the subject matter was too close to him. As a young gay man grappling with his own sexuality, he was afraid to be associated with it. “Every time I was at a bookshop, I couldn’t pick it up. Because to even pick it up meant looking around and thinking, ‘They’re going to know’.” But in the years since, Ingram has become far more vocal and open about his sexual orientation and politics. On his personal blog, he has written about his country’s restrictive anti-LGBTQI laws — a hangover from its British colonial occupation, modelled after India’s own Section 377 (which was read down in 2018). That is why a gay Sri Lankan man playing the lead in an Oscar-contending movie about a gay Sri Lankan boy is a big deal to him. “I hope this film acts as a catalyst for more conversations,” he says. And yet, sections of the Sri Lankan Tamil Diaspora have criticised the casting choices in Funny Boy , including the decision to cast Ingram, a Sinhala-speaking, non-Tamil actor, in a Tamil-speaking role. As far as Tamil representation goes, the main cast features just one actress, Nimmi Harasgama, who is half-Tamil. After the release of the trailer in October, there was a call on social media to boycott the film. Also, critics said, whatever little Tamil could be heard was mispronounced, and amounted to erasure of Tamil Sri Lankan culture. When I bring this up, Ingram admits that he has held back on commenting about the issue. “It is wild for me to not say anything [because I am usually very outspoken on social media], but I don’t think I possess the right kind of ground,” he says, adding that he understands where the criticism comes from. In defence, he points to Mehta’s recent admission that she had auditioned Tamil actors who, for different reasons, had not accepted the role. But on a personal level, he doesn’t believe that being a non-Tamil prevents him from doing the role justice. He says that playing a Tamil character has even helped him understand his country’s past a little better. Now that the film is in cinemas, he knows things may change. He is open to the possibility of relocating to pursue more acting opportunities (“but I’ll definitely end up back in Sri Lanka”), but as to where that might be, he is not sure. Having grown up on a diet of dubbed Indian soap operas (“Mandira Bedi was bigger here than she was in India,” he says, gushing about the Indian actor’s ’90s serial, Shanti - Ek Aurat Ki Kahani ), he is open to tapping into the Indian market. And luckily, he is fluent in Hindi, thanks to those very soap operas that he no longer watches in their dubbed formats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-queer-sri-lankan-experience/article33312355.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Of sinners and saints||Rap provocateur Vivian Fernandes, who goes by the moniker Divine, upended the pandemic by working through the year to produce a superlative album. “Covidse pehle hi hum faasle rakhte the” (I maintained a distance even before COVID struck) is just one of the lines from the 29-year-old Mumbai rapper’s new album ‘Punya Paap’, which is telling of how he turns context into wordplay. “I made 25 samples, shortlisted 15 and picked 11 from that,” he says of his second album, which released earlier this month. It features a slew of collaborations including rapper Dutchavelli from Birmingham, Brooklyn rap star Nas and Grammy-winning soul singer Cocoa Sarai. From oppression of the working class to climate change to love, Divine covers a wide spectrum. You hear his love for disco on the slick ‘Disco Song’ and his nod to the OG Bollywood gangster film on ‘Satya’. On ‘Top 5 D.O.A’ he raps, “Mazaa aata hai yaar gaana banane mein,” (It’s great fun making songs) so listeners can feel the head rush that he did while making this album. No surprise then that the title track has over 10 million views on YouTube. Excerpts from an interview: Making the second album is always a challenge because everyone has really high expectations. Was that the case with ‘Punya Paap’?    Itis tough to raise the bar, especially since ‘Kohinoor’, my first album had an amazing response. But there was no pressure because of the lockdown. I had no phone calls, no brand [endorsements], no shows. I was in my zone, and had fun writing this album. I wanted to bring in sounds that were in my head, in my heart and were never out there. ‘Disco Rap’ is something I’d heard as a child so I wanted to do something on a similar beat. I had Nas and Dutchavelli, who sent me verses in three days. Nas recorded when he wasn’t well and that’s a huge thing for me. I’m also lucky to have friends who have studios, because I was in there five days a week for two months straight. The main reason this album sounds good is because of the production. I want to shout out to all the producers who answered my 4 am calls to fix something. Especially Stunnah Beatz from Guwahati — we have great chemistry and whenever I call him, he knows exactly what I want. You mentioned that you showed up at the label’s office and gave them the tracks for ‘Kohinoor’ . Is that how it worked for this album as well?    Yeah,they [the label] cannot choose. I’m blessed that they allow me to do that. Did the label step in to help the collaborations happen?    Dutchavellihappened because of BBC. I’ve played their festival and they’ve covered me a couple of times. They asked me who in the UK I would like to collaborate with and I picked Dutch, since he is one of my favourite rappers. I was on his song (‘Bando Diaries’) before this.    In ‘Top 5 D.O.A.’ you say “Abhi bhi sapne mein chal rahe apan” (I’m still walking in in a dream). What’s unbelievable about your life?    Everything,man. Everything feels unreal. I wouldn’t think that a guy from Bombay who comes from Andheri East would be on a Nas song, on a Dutch song. I never thought that would happen. I’m still dreaming, I think. You’ve brought in Jesus and Moses in your rap. How did you decide that you will talk about your faith on the album?    2013’s‘Voice of the Streets’ was my first track that got 25,000 views in three to four months, and I was the happiest guy at that point in time. I wanted to start off my second album with the sample of the French choir featured on that, because it was underrated. It is not a religious thing. As for rapping with Biblical references, that is what I’ve heard my mum speak about and I draw from what I’ve heard or felt around me. If I knew something aboutMahabharat, I would have used those references also. It is just a natural thing. But I do believe in God. Who is ‘Mera Bhai’ about?    Itis about some of the instances with my friends, because suddenly my life took off. Because work is important [to me], some of my friends drifted away, turning their back on me. They were thinking that I was the one who drifted away, so I made that song. Maybe some of them misunderstood me, so this song is for them and they will get it. So, it is not about Naezy?    Nana na. Naezy’s cool with me. I love him. We hang out.    What do you mean by “Modi-wala shot”?    Itis open to interpretation. Whatever my fans think.  The writer is an independent journalist and a faculty of journalism at FLAME University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/of-sinners-and-saints/article33312334.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Lights, camera, culture!||My last column was about how — finally — the OTTs were going to be regulated. I have more good news, friends and patriots. Our days of binge-watching Netflix and Amazon, even as we pray for more wholesome content, are nearing their end. As we speak, India's biggest, purest film city is being set up at the speed of the Pashupatastra leaving Arjuna’s Gandiva . And it could be up and running like a deer in Sage Vasishta’s ashram as early as 2021. If the ghost of Nehru or the Mughals (or both working as a tag team) don’t put a diabolical, dynastic spanner in the works, that is. As per official reports, about 1,000 acres of sacred land have been allocated to build this Swachh Bharat Sapna Factory. Photographs of India’s biggest, brightest — and gummiest — star, Akshay Kumar taking the lead have social media in a tizzy. Take that, Trudeau. Our boy is no turncoat. It looks like the monopoly of the god-knows-what-snorting Nepo Gang is finally coming to an end. It is soon going to be the days of good, clean, enlightening, uplifting cinema — the kind Chandragupta Maurya and Manoj Kumar would have co-directed had they had the opportunity. I have a few ideas that I would like to share. On how this new era could be ushered in. As is our ancient custom, let’s begin with names. Bollywood, a name that has been in currency for too long, is just a toxic derivative of the deeply corrupting western capital of cinema. And it should be erased with immediate effect. Our new film city should be called Culturewood, or better still, Sanskari Lakdi . That it brings to mind the corrective implement used by our young patriots on anyone eating the wrong fare, cracking the wrong joke, or marrying the wrong kind is no coincidence. The names of Kollywood, Tollywood and Mollywood will be changed, too, in due course. Together, they will be called Madrasi Lakdi . When they learn Hindi, we could do a rethink. As for real estate allocation, why not split the property right down the middle? One half for Kangana Ranaut, the other for Akshay bhai Bhatia, separated by an electrified fence so that Kangana’s wooden horse doesn’t stray. Kangana’s section will make films on all that is wrong with our ancient land today. She will write, produce, direct, and star in all the vehicles herself. Some of her titles: Tapsee Ki Sasti Kahani , Trudeau Ek Dodo , Anurag Ek Dishrag and K Jo, Please Go Go . These movies will be released on Twitter. And anyone criticising the movies will be made the subject of the next movie. Akshay Kumar, meanwhile, will make movies that are totally positive. His subjects will deal with all that is good and great in our ancient land. Deshbhakt Khiladi 1, 2 and 3, Central Vista: Ek Prem Katha , I Love My Statues , Garam Masala Part 2 : The MDH Story ... One of the main resources for any big industrial complex is water. Sunny Paaji will make sure there is plenty of water throughout the year in the film city. He will bore through the soil doing the ‘ Yaara O Yaara ’ step from Jeet and install hand-pumps every 100 metres or so by using the reverse of the Gadar method. Kent RO systems could be procured at a discounted price using his family connections. Deer and peacock will flit about the campus, pushpaka vimanams will fly overhead showering petals, and Mukesh Khanna, Alok Nath and Barack Obama will be on the advisory board. I’m loving it. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lights-camera-culture/article33312335.ece
12 December 2020||Jaipur,||Miffed BTP threatens to cut ties with Congress in Rajasthan||Upset with the Congress zila parishad members joining hands with the BJP to defeat its zila pramukh candidate in Dungarpur, the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) on Friday threatened to sever its alliance with the ruling party in Rajasthan. The BTP, with its two MLAs, had extended support to the Congress after the government formation in 2018. In the recent four-phase panchayat body elections, the BTP-backed Independents won 13 of the 27 seats in the Dungapur Zila Parishad, while the BJP and the Congress won eight and six seats respectively. The Congress and the BJP came together to defeat BTP candidate Parwati Doda and voted for Surya Ahari, a BJP member, who contested as an Independent. The BTP needed just one vote from the Congress for helping its candidate to reach the majority mark of 14 and get elected as the zila pramukh. The Congress’s failure to support the BTP resulted in the victory of the BJP earlier this week despite the Opposition party winning just eight seats. Founded in Gujarat Founded in neighbouring Gujarat by tribal leader Chhotubhai Vasava in 2017, the BTP entered the electoral fray in Rajsthan in 2018 and won two Assembly seats - Chorasi and Sagwara - in Dungarpur district. The nascent party has started wielding considerable influence in the tribal-dominated regions of southern Rajasthan. As an ally of the Congress, it voted for the Congress’s candidates in the Rajya Sabha elections held in June and backed Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot during the political turmoil in July and August. BTP MLAs Rajkumar Roat and Ram Prasad supported the Congress during the confidence vote on the floor of the Assembly. Mr. Vasava, an MLA from Gujarat’s Jhagadia constituency, said the Congress and BJP were “two sides of the same coin” and alleged that both were trying to finish the regional parties by entering into alliance with them. The BTP would shortly withdraw its support to the Congress government and strengthen itself as an “alternative front” in the State. BTP State president Velaram Ghogra said a party executive meeting would be held in a couple of days and a formal decision announced for snapping the alliance with the Congress.  Congress and BJP two sides of the same coin and both were trying to finish the regional parties by entering into alliance with them. Chhotubhai VasavaFounder, Bharatiya Tribal Party||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/miffed-btp-threatens-to-cut-ties-with-congress-in-rajasthan/article33312007.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s your worldview?||I remember back in 1998, when, as a post-grad student of Social Communications and Media at Sophia’s Polytech in Mumbai, a few of us were shoved into a police truck and driven down to the police station because we were outside the New Excelsior theatre protesting the vandalisation of Deepa Mehta’sFireby Right Wing groups. We were young, hot blooded and very excited by the first-ever film addressing issues of marginalised sexuality and ‘choice’ being screened publicly at a theatre. Getting arrested at the time was a mark of ‘Pride’ rather than shame. Cut to 2020. This time the villain is Covid-19. As a result of the pandemic, Pride has been postponed to 2021 because large crowds cannot officially gather. The queer community, unlike the fearless farmers who are camped on the borders of Delhi, have decided not to take the ‘risk’. However, once again, cinema unites us. And once again it is a Deepa Mehta film,Funny Boy, that brings the community together. The I-View World Film Festival, organised and hosted by Engendered, the trans-national arts and human rights organisation, marks International Human Rights Day (December 10). It has partnered with Hybrid Film Festival in New York, to showcase 50 shorts, documentaries and feature films from South Asia, Canada, Britain, Italy, Sweden, Netherlands, Argentina, Australia, Turkey/Syria, Iran and Thailand. The 10-day festival will have Covid-conscious screenings and a socially-distant red carpet at the DLF Cyber-Hub in Gurugram, with a panel discussion around Deepa Mehta’s film (and Canada’s official entry for the 2021 Academy Awards). It can also be viewed virtually on the Plexigo app. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com  The I-View World Film Festival   is on till December 20.   Watch the films on plexigo.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/whats-your-worldview/article33312354.ece
12 December 2020||PALWAL,||Farmers camping at Palwal hope govt. will bow to their demands||Amid stand-off between the farmer unions and the Central government over the withdrawal of three contentious Farm Laws, the farmers, mostly from Madhya Pradesh, camping at a flyover on the Delhi-Agra Highway (NH-19) near Kundli-Manesar Palwal Expressway here for the past over a week blocking the traffic on both the carriageways, sound optimistic saying that government would eventually “bow” to their demands. Prepared for a long haul, the farmers said the government had softened its stand from earlier advocating the three legislations as “good” to being ready to make “amendments” now. Gathering steam “The government has softened its stand. Earlier, the government said laws were good. Now they feel the need for amendments. More people are likely to join us now as the wedding season will be over by December 12 and wheat has been sown. Our numbers are swelling. The movement will gather more steam in the days to come,” said Kuldeep Singh, a Sikh from Bhind in Madhya Pradesh, playing cards on a winter afternoon on Thursday. Sitting next to him, Sukhvinder Singh, added that it was an elected government and would have to withdraw the laws if the farmers don’t want it. Amit Pal Singh, another farmer, said they had come prepared for months and were also supported by the locals. While a temple close to the protest site has allowed the protesters to use the washrooms on its premises, the petrol pumps and hotels in the vicinity don’t object to the farmers going their to take bath. “Even the stall owners don’t charge us for the tea. The locals supply milk and vegetables in abundance every day and a group of teenagers collected Rs. 15,000 to donate us for meeting the kitchen expenses. We are really touched,” said Mr. Kuldeep Singh. Overcoming hurdles Another group of farmers from M.P.’s Gwalior, reaching Palwal on December 4, claimed the Uttar Pradesh Police put barricades at Agra and Mathura in a bid to stop them, but they overcame all hurdles to reach Haryana. “More farmers from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are likely to join us,” said Harvinder Gill, 35. Bundelkhand Kisan Union national president Vimal Kumar Sharma, accompanied by a few farmers from the Bundelkhand region, said the U.P. Police tried to stop them from marching towards Delhi, but they managed to reach travelling through different routes inside villages. Prepared for the December 12 call to make tolls free, the farmers claimed they had called up their families back home asking them to ensure that the tolls in their neigbourhood were made free. “The farmers could be happy with amendments till the time they had not decided to march to Delhi, but now they want complete repeal. We are seeking our due and not begging. It’s country of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’,” said Gurjeet Singh, summing up the overwhelming sentiment at the protest site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-camping-at-palwal-hope-govt-will-bow-to-their-demands/article33312014.ece
12 December 2020||New Delhi,||Capital’s air quality expected to improve today due to rain||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram was in the “poor” category on Friday and Noida’s in the “very poor” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air quality of the national capital is expected to improve to the “poor” to “moderate” category on Saturday due to scattered rainfall. “Under the influence of fresh western disturbance, isolated to scattered rainfall and better ventilation conditions are expected on Friday night and Saturday and the AQI is likely to further improve on to the lower end of the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category by December 12,” said government-run monitoring agency, SAFAR. The AQI of Delhi was 295 on Friday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 256 and 324 respectively. The effect of stubble burning on air quality was negligible on Friday. But the local surface-level winds were calm, which does not help in the dispersion of pollutants. Also, the mixing height, which is the height from the ground-level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was also low at night. This also prevents pollutants from getting dispersed easily. The air quality is expected to increase later in the week. “As an aftermath of western disturbance, high moisture availability with higher air holding capacity and dense fog formation is expected, which will lead to deterioration of AQI to the ‘poor’ to lower end of the ‘very poor’ category on December 13 and December 14,” SAFAR added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capitals-air-quality-expected-to-improve-today-due-to-rain/article33312019.ece
12 December 2020||Jaipur,||Panel to probe infants death in Kota hospital||The Rajasthan government on Friday appointed a four-member committee to investigate the death of nine newborns at J.K. Lon Hospital in Kota during the last two days. The committee will submit its report within three days, after inspecting the hospital and looking into the medical facilities available in the institution. Five infants died at the hospital during Wednesday night and four more on Thursday. All of them were one to four days old. The death of an unusual number of newborn babies in the hospital in December last year had also generated a controversy. J.K. Lon hospital, run by the State government, is dedicated to the treatment of children and infants. Medical and Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here that he had received reports from the hospital’s Medical Superintendent and the Kota Medical College Principal, explaining the causes of death of the newborns. The reports stated that three of the infants had been brought dead to the hospital, while three others had died of congenital diseases. The remaining three newborn babies died from cot death, also called the sudden infant death syndrome, which is caused by suffocation during breastfeeding or other reasons, according to the reports. Mr. Sharma asked the Principals of all medical colleges in the State to take special care of the treatment of newborns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/panel-to-probe-infants-death-in-kota-hospital/article33312008.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Light rain likely today||The Met department on Friday said the city will witness partly cloudy sky with light rain on Saturday. The maximum and minimum temperatures will settle between 26 degrees Celsius and 13 degrees Celsius respectively. The cloudy weather is likely to raise the minimum temperature for a day and then cause a drop thereafter. Change in weather The change in weather is being caused by an active western disturbance in the region that has brought fresh snowfall in the Himalayas. The Met has also forecast moderate to dense fog in the morning over the next few days. “Mainly clear sky with moderate fog in the morning on December 13 and mainly clear sky with moderate to dense fog in the morning on December 14 and 15,” the Met said. On Friday, the sky was partly cloudy with the maximum temperature settling at 25.8 degrees Celsius, which is three degrees warmer than normal and the minimum was 11.3 degrees Celsius, which is two degrees above normal. After a colder than normal October and November, December this year has been warmer than usual with both the maximum and minimum temperatures staying above normal for the season so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/light-rain-likely-today/article33312018.ece
12 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Illicit liquor trade rampant in Punjab: AAP||Leader of theOpposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Friday wrote a letter to Governor V.P. Singh Badnore alleging that under the ruling Congress government, illicit liquor smuggling was rampant across the State.  ‘Patronage of leaders’ In his letter, Mr. Cheema alleged that the illicit liquor trade was flourishing under the patronage of Congress leaders and there was no fear of the law. “As many as 126 deaths were reported in Punjab due to consumption of spurious liquor recently in the Majha area, but no strict action was taken against those behind the tragedy,” he said. The AAP leader said that despite the fact that the Excise and Taxation Department and the Home Department were under Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, he had failed to curb illicit liquor smuggling in the State, demanding that he should quit the posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/illicit-liquor-trade-rampant-in-punjab-aap/article33312010.ece
12 December 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha govt. not keen on reopening schools||The Odisha government seems to be not keen on reopening schools any time soon though active COVID-19 cases in more than 50% districts are in double-digit, indicating remarkable improvement in the situation. A day after Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik issued a stern warning not to make separate statements on opening of educational institutions, preparations for starting higher classes such as IX and X have been put on the back burner. Earlier, it was stated that schools may reopen from the first week of January. The decision to reopen educational institutions would be taken by taking all aspects into consideration, Mr. Patnaik had said. Parents have expressed concern over sending children to schools in the middle of the current winter season although the recovery rate was as high as 98.52%. Similarly, the daily positive rate came down to below 1% for the first time. The State government on Friday reported 387 positive cases, taking the total to 3,23,029. As many as 3,17,870 persons have already recovered. Four persons have died, taking the total fatalities to 1,798.  Less cases Only four persons were found to be recuperating in Subarnapur district, while Kandhamal and Gajapati had five and six persons infected with COVID-19 respectively. The total active cases in Boudh, Nabarangpur, Nayagarh, Dhenkanal, Deogarh, Ganjam, Rayagada and Malkangiri remained under 50. The highest number of 415 active cases were identified in Sundargarh district. Meanwhile, the State government said it had kept all logistics ready for the vaccination programme. “We are in constant touch with the Centre for the vaccination programme,” said Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govt-not-keen-on-reopening-schools/article33312011.ece
12 December 2020||Guwahati,||Arunachal tribal group sets govt. offices on fire||A tribal group demanding the cancellation of electoral rights to non-indigenous people, mostly former Assam Rifles personnel, set several government offices on fire at Vijaynagar in Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang district on Friday. The arson followed the decision of the State Election Commission to defer the panchayat elections in areas under Vijaynagar Circle citing law and order issues. The rural polls are scheduled for December 22. The district police said a large number of people led by Yobin (tribe) Students’ Union swooped down on Vijaynagar at around 8:30 am and burnt down the offices of the extra assistant commissioner, Special Branch of the State police and the post office. “The miscreants, carrying machetes, sticks, bows and arrows, also ransacked the Vijaynagar police station and partially damaged the civil helipad,” State police spokesperson Hemant Tiwari said. Kime Kaming, the Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts reached Vijaynagar by chopper while other senior officials, including Inspector-General of Police (Law and Order) Chuku Apa, were on their way. “An additional force is being rushed to Vijaynagar for maintaining law and order,” the spokesperson said, adding that the senior officials will camp there until the situation becomes normal.  Non APST candidates Trouble had been brewing in the area after the locals objected to the political parties fielding “non-APSTs” [non-Arunachal Pradesh Scheduled Tribes] for the posts of zilla parishad and gram panchayat members. The parties, including the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, dropped such candidates after the All-Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union took up the issue. Vijaynagar, bordering Myanmar, is one of the remotest administrative circles of Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/arunachal-tribal-group-sets-govt-offices-on-fire/article33312012.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three of firm nabbed for duping buyers of Rs. 20 cr.||Three directors of a real estate firm have been arrested for allegedly duping over 20 buyers to the tune of Rs. 20 crore on the pretext of higher returns, the police said on Friday. The arrested have been identified as Aniel Kumar Saham, Aunirban Saha and Ashok Kumar Sirohi, they said. The case came to the fore when a woman approached the police alleging that the accused cheated her of Rs. 5.44 crore by luring her into their group housing project in Noida. The accused persons used to dupe the buyers to invest in the project on the pretext of huge profits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-of-firm-nabbed-for-duping-buyers-of-rs-20-cr/article33312023.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||One killed, two injured during fight near hospital||A 32-year-old man was stabbed to death while two brothers injured during a brawl with another group of youths near Safdarjung Hospital, the police said on Friday.  Two arrested The deceased, Neeraj, was stabbed at least 22 times and. Rakesh and Mukesh sustained injuries, they said. The three victims worked as sweepers at the Safdarjung Hospital. Two persons — Krishna and Ravi — have been arrested, an officer said, adding: “The incident happened on Wednesday night when the two groups were drinking at an open space near Safdarjung Hospital. The scuffle started after one group confronted the other over their contractual status. One of the accused brought a knife from a vendor and attacked all of them. After the attack, all of the accused left the spot.” “A juvenile has also been apprehended. A case of murder and attempt to murder has been registered,” said DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-killed-two-injured-during-fight-near-hospital/article33312024.ece
12 December 2020||JAIPUR,||80% turnout in Rajasthan polls||About 80% of 14.32 lakh voters cast their votes in the elections for 50 municipal bodies situated in 12 districts of Rajastan on Friday. The highest turnout at 90.32% was recorded at Nagar in Bhatatpur district in the polls for the town's municipality. Of the total urban local bodies which went to polls, 43 were municipalities and seven were municipal councils. As many as 7,249 candidates were in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/80-turnout-in-rajasthan-polls/article33312009.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Life support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/life-support/article33312021.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. not giving sanitary pads to schoolchildren’||The Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress (DPMC) on Monday lashed out the Delhi government for not providing sanitary pads to schoolchildren under the Udaan scheme during the pandemic. DPMC chief Amrrita Dhawan said if the government was not providing sanitary napkins to these girls then the party is ready to take up the responsibility. “The pandemic can end but the menstrual cycle will not. This is each women's reality and hence we bleed with pride,” Ms. Dhawan said. Under the scheme, 30,000 out of school girls used to get six sanitary napkins a month for Rs. 6. Ms. Dhawan said while the government is using the pandemic as a reason to have not floated a new tender for the scheme, data shows that in last 18 months, sanitary napkins were provided for only six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-hits-out-at-govt-for-not-giving-napkins-under-udaan/article33312017.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||How film sets operate now||In London, director Ben Hume-Paton sits in front of a computer screen and says, “Action.” Over 10,841 km away, in Singapore, co-director K. Rajagopal relays his instructions to the actors and crew filming an advertisement for Interpol. In Lyon, France, the client watches in real time, while in Puducherry, producer Samir Sarkar, of Magic Hour Films, ensures everything goes seamlessly. All over Zoom. This is the new reality — of remote filming, which is growing in popularity worldwide in these times of quarantining and social distancing. Cutting-edge technology and software mean that commercials, shows (and sometimes, feature films) can be shot with a skeleton staff on ground, and the rest of the crew sitting elsewhere. “Tech such as QTake [which allows a director sitting anywhere in the world with a good internet connection to see a high definition, real-time view from the camera lens], or even more general platforms like Zoom, Google Meet, and Amazon Chine are now being used to facilitate the remote export of creativity of a director, along with the supervision of the client, without having to step on to a physical film set,” says Sarkar.  Shot from afar  Many production houses have been quick to adopt (and adapt to) such technology. The new TV advert for Mercedes-Benz, for example, was made by Kiev-based Radioaktive Film — with the director sitting in Ukraine and the crew in China — using QTake. “I think the pandemic has made many productions realise they can work effectively using advanced remote tools. Just imagine what a waste it is to move the crew around the planet and accommodate them in every location, when most of them can sit in their office and collaborate on multiple projects remotely,” says Vlado Struhar, the Slovakian film director and programmer, who developed QTake as “an on-set tool to capture takes, and provide playback, editing and compositing”. But is what’s good for ads also good for feature films and shows? Movies such as WW84 , and the new Jurassic Park and Batman , have used QTake (from approx Rs. 1,47,200 onwards) and similar software while filming this year, points out Struhar. Closer home, we’ve seen several early experiments of remote filming, done at its most basic during the early days of lockdown. Think C U Soon , the Malayalam film starring Fahadh Faasil, which was shot on an iPhone, or Home Stories , Netflix India’s tetraptych anthology. For the latter, filmmaker Anubhuti Kashyap recalls how she sent actors Imaad Shah and Saba Azad, who live together, a Canon EOS-1D C camera and some lights, and guided them over Zoom (along with her DoP) on how to frame the shots, where to place the lights. “They would record the footage and send it to us for approval. You can only plan certain kinds of shots and half the time we were working blind,” she laughs. Now with studios reopening, new patterns of working are being established. “Filming is a physical as well as a mental and creative process. Creativity can be exported remotely, but the process of filming itself has to be handled physically on location,” says Sarkar. So directors are back on sets, with their masks on, and just the essential cast and crew (such as the cinematographer) on hand.  Movie-making distilled  Limited footprints on set are a given. “For Scam 1992 , there was a minimum of 100 people on set,” says Jai Mehta, who shot portions of the SonyLIV Originals crime drama during lockdown and did much of the post-production remotely. “Now I won’t have more than 40 [except for sequences that require heavy production, costumes and lighting, such as songs or action sequences].” I like shooting with a smaller crew, but it will also be sad. It will be a different feeling to not have passionate people around.” Investment in technology is another essential. Options like virtual production (VP) can be called an indirect advocate of social distancing — allowing filmmakers to create movies without having to cram people on to a set. “Virtual production has been around for quite some time, with the original Avatar [James Cameron’s 2009 film] being a major milestone. In the last two years, we’ve seen the evolution of the tools in the VP toolbox take off, and the pandemic has only served to accelerate that trend,” says David Conley, executive producer at Weta Digital, the New Zealand-based digital visual effects company co-founded by filmmaker Peter Jackson. “LED walls have captured the buzz at the moment because of cost efficiency for certain types of projects, and because you can reduce on-location requirements and the number of crew on set.” Famous Studio in Mumbai has an LED floor. So, more the merrier? Cost could be a deterrent, but Conley says, think of it as “shifting that cost into pre-production, building the assets you need earlier for the virtual stage”, and it is a long-term investment. “A lot of people look at remote filmmaking as a step back, but I see it as a step forward,” shares Mehta. “It is a way for us to plan better and do things we would not have done otherwise. You can criticise it, but the fact is that we need these interventions. Films are changing, filmmaking is changing and we need to evolve.”  With inputs from Susanna Myrtle Lazarus and NidhiAdlakha   I did Putham Pudhu Kaalai [for Amazon Prime] at the peak of the pandemic, with a 10-member cast and crew. The efficiency I saw on set, with each person taking on a couple of jobs, was something I had not seen with a crew of 185. This indie style of shooting is something I’d love to take forward post-pandemic.  Sudha Kongara     Vaanmagal [part of Netflix’s Tamil anthology, Paava Kadhaigal ] was shot just a week before lockdown. It was not easy to WFH on the post-production — coordinating the actors, and dubbing and editing. But it did give rise to the thought that anything is possible and showed us that we did not need so much time for the production of a film.  Gautham Vasudev Menon    When you have good talent on board, the medium of work is not going to bother you too much. Dubbing [for Love Panna Uttranum , part of Netflix’s Tamil anthology, Paava Kadhaigal ] was done online, on a video call. There was no compromise or difference — what we would have done in person, we managed to do remotely.  Vignesh Shivan    We shot two important scenes of Putham Pudhu Kaalai [for Amazon Prime] remotely. I had a good cinematographer, Ajayan Vincent, in Hyderabad who understood what I wanted. Shruti [Hasan] also did online rehearsals with me. But this was done only because of the pandemic; I don’t think it will be the new order. What I do like, however, is the idea of having a small crew and getting the help of other people remotely.  Suhasini Maniratnam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-film-sets-operate-now/article33312215.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||How film sets operate now||In London, director Ben Hume-Paton sits in front of a computer screen and says, “Action.” Over 10,841 km away, in Singapore, co-director K. Rajagopal relays his instructions to the actors and crew filming an advertisement for Interpol. In Lyon, France, the client watches in real time, while in Puducherry, producer Samir Sarkar, of Magic Hour Films, ensures everything goes seamlessly. All over Zoom. This is the new reality — of remote filming, which is growing in popularity worldwide in these times of quarantining and social distancing. Cutting-edge technology and software mean that commercials, shows (and sometimes, feature films) can be shot with a skeleton staff on ground, and the rest of the crew sitting elsewhere. “Tech such as QTake [which allows a director sitting anywhere in the world with a good internet connection to see a high definition, real-time view from the camera lens], or even more general platforms like Zoom, Google Meet, and Amazon Chine are now being used to facilitate the remote export of creativity of a director, along with the supervision of the client, without having to step on to a physical film set,” says Sarkar.  Shot from afar  Many production houses have been quick to adopt (and adapt to) such technology. The new TV advert for Mercedes-Benz, for example, was made by Kiev-based Radioaktive Film — with the director sitting in Ukraine and the crew in China — using QTake. “I think the pandemic has made many productions realise they can work effectively using advanced remote tools. Just imagine what a waste it is to move the crew around the planet and accommodate them in every location, when most of them can sit in their office and collaborate on multiple projects remotely,” says Vlado Struhar, the Slovakian film director and programmer, who developed QTake as “an on-set tool to capture takes, and provide playback, editing and compositing”. But is what’s good for ads also good for feature films and shows? Movies such as WW84 , and the new Jurassic Park and Batman , have used QTake (from approx Rs. 1,47,200 onwards) and similar software while filming this year, points out Struhar. Closer home, we’ve seen several early experiments of remote filming, done at its most basic during the early days of lockdown. Think C U Soon , the Malayalam film starring Fahadh Faasil, which was shot on an iPhone, or Home Stories , Netflix India’s tetraptych anthology. For the latter, filmmaker Anubhuti Kashyap recalls how she sent actors Imaad Shah and Saba Azad, who live together, a Canon EOS-1D C camera and some lights, and guided them over Zoom (along with her DoP) on how to frame the shots, where to place the lights. “They would record the footage and send it to us for approval. You can only plan certain kinds of shots and half the time we were working blind,” she laughs. Now with studios reopening, new patterns of working are being established. “Filming is a physical as well as a mental and creative process. Creativity can be exported remotely, but the process of filming itself has to be handled physically on location,” says Sarkar. So directors are back on sets, with their masks on, and just the essential cast and crew (such as the cinematographer) on hand.  Movie-making distilled  Limited footprints on set are a given. “For Scam 1992 , there was a minimum of 100 people on set,” says Jai Mehta, who shot portions of the SonyLIV Originals crime drama during lockdown and did much of the post-production remotely. “Now I won’t have more than 40 [except for sequences that require heavy production, costumes and lighting, such as songs or action sequences].” I like shooting with a smaller crew, but it will also be sad. It will be a different feeling to not have passionate people around.” Investment in technology is another essential. Options like virtual production (VP) can be called an indirect advocate of social distancing — allowing filmmakers to create movies without having to cram people on to a set. “Virtual production has been around for quite some time, with the original Avatar [James Cameron’s 2009 film] being a major milestone. In the last two years, we’ve seen the evolution of the tools in the VP toolbox take off, and the pandemic has only served to accelerate that trend,” says David Conley, executive producer at Weta Digital, the New Zealand-based digital visual effects company co-founded by filmmaker Peter Jackson. “LED walls have captured the buzz at the moment because of cost efficiency for certain types of projects, and because you can reduce on-location requirements and the number of crew on set.” Famous Studio in Mumbai has an LED floor. So, more the merrier? Cost could be a deterrent, but Conley says, think of it as “shifting that cost into pre-production, building the assets you need earlier for the virtual stage”, and it is a long-term investment. “A lot of people look at remote filmmaking as a step back, but I see it as a step forward,” shares Mehta. “It is a way for us to plan better and do things we would not have done otherwise. You can criticise it, but the fact is that we need these interventions. Films are changing, filmmaking is changing and we need to evolve.”  With inputs from Susanna Myrtle Lazarus and NidhiAdlakha   I did Putham Pudhu Kaalai [for Amazon Prime] at the peak of the pandemic, with a 10-member cast and crew. The efficiency I saw on set, with each person taking on a couple of jobs, was something I had not seen with a crew of 185. This indie style of shooting is something I’d love to take forward post-pandemic.  Sudha Kongara     Vaanmagal [part of Netflix’s Tamil anthology, Paava Kadhaigal ] was shot just a week before lockdown. It was not easy to WFH on the post-production — coordinating the actors, and dubbing and editing. But it did give rise to the thought that anything is possible and showed us that we did not need so much time for the production of a film.  Gautham Vasudev Menon    When you have good talent on board, the medium of work is not going to bother you too much. Dubbing [for Love Panna Uttranum , part of Netflix’s Tamil anthology, Paava Kadhaigal ] was done online, on a video call. There was no compromise or difference — what we would have done in person, we managed to do remotely.  Vignesh Shivan    We shot two important scenes of Putham Pudhu Kaalai [for Amazon Prime] remotely. I had a good cinematographer, Ajayan Vincent, in Hyderabad who understood what I wanted. Shruti [Hasan] also did online rehearsals with me. But this was done only because of the pandemic; I don’t think it will be the new order. What I do like, however, is the idea of having a small crew and getting the help of other people remotely.  Suhasini Maniratnam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-film-sets-operate-now/article33312216.ece
12 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hemani- brief||A Deputy Commissioner of Police and an Additional DCP, who were on duty at the Singhu border during the farmers’ protest have tested positive and are under home quarantine. In the wake of the development, a COVID-19 testing booth has been set up for the police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hemani-brief/article33312016.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Traditional hour||Pankaj Udhas, Talat Aziz, Anup Jalota and Sudeep Banerji, among many others, will perform at the 19th edition of Khazana, a festival ofghazals.On December 19 and 20, from 8 pm, streaming for free on Hungama’s online platforms. Kalakshetra’s 67th annual art festival goes online from December 21 to 31, with performances by Nithyashree Mahadevan and Rakesh Chaurasia. Tickets from Rs. 300 on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/traditional-hour/article33312343.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Cheer and joy||The Imperial has Christmas hampers that come in red baskets and include an assorted chocolates in a box, a boozy Christmas cake, gingerbread cookies with winter spices, stollen bread, a mince pie, La Molisana Spaghetti, balsamic vinegar, extra virgin olive oil, marshmallows, roasted nuts, Organic India tulsi and jasmine teas, a chocolate Santa, and Pringles. Rs. 7,080, at 1911 restaurant, The Imperial, Janpath, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cheer-and-joy/article33312346.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||In store||Japanese fashion brand Onitsuka Tiger has launched a 1,500 sq ft store in Pacific Mall. Expect men’s and women’s shoes, clothes (jackets, tees), accessories (socks, bags, caps) in new designs, updated classics (like the oiled leather series), and in collaboration with artists like Willow Smith. The current shoe collection, the Holiday Quilting Series has velvet quilted uppers. Ground floor, Pacific Mall, Tagore Garden, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-store/article33312347.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Margazhi 2020: Another annual fixture goes virtual. Charsur Arts Foundation’s concerts, with over 30 big names, including Sikkil Gurucharan, begin on December 15 (season pass at Rs. 1,500 on in.bookmyshow.com). The Music Academy (@madrasmusicacademy) in Chennai has scaled down events to be held from December 24 to 31. But don’t fret about not being able to Instagram thesabhacanteen food. Most regular caterers have plans to set up shop soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article33312336.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Deck the halls||Get into the Christmas spirit with a box of decorations curated and delivered to your home by New Delhi-based CherishX. Pick from the basic DIY kit (at Rs. 1,900) to the gold pack that includes a six-foot-tall tree, ornaments and more (at Rs. 6,499). On cherishx.com. Add to the warmth of the season with Hands carpets’ Christmas Story collection, featuring snowy grey and fiery red rugs. From Rs. 24,000 on handscarpets.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/deck-the-halls/article33312337.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Winter brews||Sula Vineyards, along with Blue Tokai Coffee Roasters, has launched a limited edition Barrel Aged Blend. The cold brew features wine barrel-fermented coffee beans with subtle hints of grapes, dark chocolate, oak, tannins, and black currant. At Rs. 250 for 200 ml. Craft beer MAKA di from Latambarcem Brewers in Goa, has a festive honey ale made with wild honey from Jim Corbett Park in Uttarakhand. Details: makabeer.space||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/winter-brews/article33312338.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Live dive||With its regular menu featuring Mangalorean Chicken Sukhha, Masala Jackfruit Cigar, Onion Cheese Bhaji, Pizza Kulcha and a lot more, Farzi Café will also have a live performance by The Toll Road tonight. A Delhi-based Bollywood fusion band, they will entertain people with retro and the latest Hindi movie cover hits. 9.30 pm onwards; Farzi Café, World Mark 3, Aerocity, New Delhi; for reservations 9667250222/ 9667260222||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/live-dive/article33312340.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Artemis Moon Mission: After Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, we’ll soon have the first woman and next man on the Moon. Almost 50 years after Apollo 17, NASA has announced a crew of 18 people who will be training to be part of a lunar surface mission set for 2024. While scientific research is one of the main goals, “activities related to field geology, sample collection and return and deployed experiments” are also on the cards. Details: nasa.gov||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article33312341.ece
12 December 2020||December 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Dance like a Nutcracker||Shortly after their annual Radio City Christmas Spectacular was cancelled, The Rockettes have started spreading holiday cheer through free virtual dance classes on their Instagram page. The American precision dance company has performed at the New York venue since 1932. Learn the parade of the wooden soldiers and the tree lighting routine, among others. The classes are hosted live on @therockettes on Wednesdays, till December 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dance-like-a-nutcracker/article33312342.ece
