16 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Farmers’ protest chokes units in Bahadurgarh’s industrial cluster||Hundreds of industrial units in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh, the hub for India’s non-leather footwear manufacturers, are bearing the brunt of the ongoing farmers’ agitation at Tikri. Though a majority of the industrial units in this satellite town of Delhi are now running at less than half of their capacity, many are temporarily shut, with the transportation of raw material and processed goods taking a hit. Narinder Chhikara, senior vice-president, Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industry, told The Hindu that ‘Part B’ of the Modern Industrial Estate (MIE), housing around 1,600 units, including footwear, electronics, plastic, auto-parts and chemicals, was the worst hit. “Bahadurgarh has around 10,000 small and big industrial units in different sectors and almost all have been hit, with the transportation of raw material and processed goods affected, but the ‘Part B’ of the MIE, surrounded by a drain, the protesters and Delhi, bears the brunt. The units in this part are either temporarily shut or running at 30%-35% capacity,” said Mr. Chhikara. The footwear industry of Bahadurgarh stares at huge losses if the agitation prolongs and the transportation of winter footwear is delayed further. Though industrialists are ready to pay extra to transport their finished products to the warehouses in Delhi’s Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar and Punjabi Bagh areas via the Kundli-Manesar Expressway to be despatched further, transporters are not willing to accept the goods since their warehouses are full. Mr. Chhikara said several internal roads connecting Delhi to Bahadurgarh were either shut or witnessed a huge rush of traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-protest-chokes-units-in-bahadurgarhs-industry-cluster/article33341160.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Landsharks slowly encroaching upon Phalguni riverfront||Nearly two acres of the Phalguni (Gurupura) riverbed abutting the river front road from Kulur to River Festival Venue has gradually been encroached upon by landsharks right under the nose of the district administration and the Mangaluru City Corporation. The encroached portion once was the part of the Phalguni where local residents used to collect Maruvai  (clam) .  The space was later being used as a Dhakke (landing point) to unload extracted sand and gradually debris were dumped to expand the encroachment. The stretch of the riverfront road from Kulur till Kodikal Road Junction that once had expansive mangrove forests has been witnessing gradual decline of the mangroves. Building debris and other waste material were being dumped at the riverfront (Phalguni’s southern bank) to reclaim the land by unscrupulous elements. Regional Director of Coastal Zone Management Authority Y.K. Dinesh Kumar said that the authority in association with the Forest Department had made several attempts to prevent encroachment of the riverbed. Trenches were dug between the road and the river and tree saplings were planted, he added. Yet, encroachment was continuing, he said. While the process of encroachment removal under the Coastal Regulation Zone laws takes time, the revenue authorities could get it done immediately, Dr. Kumar said and added that he would submit a report to the Deputy Commissioner immediately. Stating that it was a dangerous trend that could completely change the course of the river, tourism entrepreneur Yatish Baikampady said that it was for the district administration to get the encroachment removed. A month ago, the corporation Commissioner had got two goods vehicles dumping debris at the location seized, he recalled. Corpn. action Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that the corporation has been penalising violators and was in the process of installing closed circuit television cameras at vantage locations to prevent further encroachment. On removal of the existing encroachment, Mr. Sridhar said that the corporation would do it with help from the Revenue Department and the Coastal Zone Management Authority. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that the administration would take action and remove the encroachment from the riverbed. Prior to that, he would get a report from the Coastal Zone Management Authority, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/landsharks-slowly-encroaching-upon-phalguni-riverfront/article33341749.ece
16 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||47 elected unopposed in the first phase of gram panchayat polls||As many as 47 candidates have been elected unopposed in the first phase of thegram panchayat elections in Dharwad, Alnavar and Kalghatgi taluks of Dharwad district. And, there are a total of 2,748 candidates in the fray for a total of 920 seats. In a release, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that a total of 3,096 nomination papers had been declared as valid in the first phase of the elections and of these, 302 candidates had withdrawn their nomination papers. In 47 wards, where there were single candidates, they had been declared elected unopposed, he said. Polling will now take place for 920 seats in 542 constituencies of the 65 gram panchayats on December 22. In Dharwad taluk, out of the 1,805 valid nomination papers, 30 candidates have been declared as elected unopposed after 173 candidates withdrew their nomination papers. A total of 1,602 candidates are in the fray. In Kalghatgi taluk, out of the 1,115 valid nomination papers, 16 candidates have been declared elected unopposed after 110 candidates withdrew their nomination papers. As many as 989 candidates are left in the fray. Out of the 176 valid nomination papers in Alnavar taluk, one candidate has been declared elected unopposed, while 19 candidates withdrew their nomination papers. The taluk has 157 candidates in the fray now. The Deputy Commissioner has said that election symbols have already been allotted to the candidates according to the guidelines issued by the State Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/47-elected-unopposed-in-the-first-phase-of-gram-panchayat-polls/article33341283.ece
16 December 2020||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||I am Indian first, Bengali later: Suvendu Adhikari||Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday targeted his party’s political stand terming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as outsider ( bahiragat ) party clearly indicating that his departure from the party is a matter of days. Mr. Adhikari, who addressed a non-political rally at his home turf Haldia at Purba Medinipur district, made several political comments obliquely referring to the TMC. These remarks by the dissident TMC leader comes days ahead of the proposed visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah to West Bengal, triggering fresh speculation about Mr. Adhikari joining the BJP in the coming days. “Our biggest identity is that we are Indian first, after that we are Bengalis ... Satish babu (freedom fighter Satish Samanta) never called Nehruji (Jawaharlal Nehru) outsider and Nehruji never called him a non-Hindi speaking person. This is what India is all about,” Mr. Adhikari said at the rally. Referring to the Nandigram movement, Mr. Adhikari said it is not movement of the individual but a movement of the people. He also said that those making personal attacks on him will suffer the same fate of CPI(M) leaders Lakshman Seth and Anil Basu. “The Suvendu family is a family of not five to seven people. My family is every village of Bengal who eat plain fermented rice ( panta bhaat ),” Mr. Adhikari said, adding that even after resigning from the Cabinet on November 27, people are coming to his rallies which indicates they are with him. During the day, supporters of Mr. Adhikari celebrated his 50th birthday at various places in the city. Senior BJP leader and observer for the State, Kaliash Vijayvargiya also called up Mr. Adhikari to wish him. Earlier in the day Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also targeted dissenters in the Trinamool Congress. “I will not tolerate those who were with the party and government for 10 years and now, with elections round the corner, are reaching out to another party,” Ms. Banerjee said at a rally in Jalpaiguri in north Bengal on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-am-indian-first-bengali-later-suvendu-adhikari/article33341355.ece
16 December 2020||Mumbai,||Privilege notice: Assembly absolves Speaker from appearing in SC||The Maharashtra Assembly on Tuesday unanimously passed a resolution absolving the Speaker from appearing in front of or replying to the notices sent by the Supreme Court in a matter regarding breach of privilege motion against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. The House also observed that legislature is not answerable to the judiciary for its proceedings and it cannot overpower the legislature in any manner.  ‘Based on precedent’ Speaker Nana Patole moved the resolution saying it is based on precedent, and is not an attempt to interfere with the judiciary’s proceedings. “Last week, at a conference of Assembly speakers, which was attended by President and vice-president, I had raised this issue where vice-president too agreed that the legislature is not answerable to the notices sent by the judiciary,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Rahul Narvekar questioned the motion saying it needs to be looked in to as to whether the court’s notice was regarding Assembly proceedings or related to breach of personal liberty of Mr. Goswami. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab said the resolution is not about obstructing judiciary from doing its work but only to reiterate that rights of legislature go parallel with that of the judiciary. “It is not personal, but maintains the dignity of the chair. Nobody wants to interfere with anyone else’s business. But we want to reiterate the stand taken by former Lok Sabha speaker Somnath Chaterjee that legislature cannot be answerable to the judiciary,” said Mr. Parab. He also cited previous instances of breach of privilege motions against Manjeet Sethi and Shobha De where Assembly took a similar stand. Sudhir Mungantiwar (BJP) said instead of passing such resolutions on a case-by-case basis, the House should pass a final resolution absolving the Speaker from such instances in future as well. Last month, the apex court had summoned Vilas Athawale, assistant secretary of the Maharashtra Legislature for allegedly intimidating Mr. Goswami with an intent of deterring him from approaching the court. Objections had been raised to Mr. Goswami producing minutes of the proceedings sent to him by the Speaker and Privilege Committee of the Legislature to the court without seeking permission. Mr. Athawale. in his reply, had said that the letter was sent on the directions of the Speaker. The court had mulled over seeking reply from the Speaker, but the matter was then adjourned for two weeks. Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik had moved a breach of privilege motion against Mr. Goswami for making objectionable and derogatory comments against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Earlier in the day, BJP leaders questioned the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the police action against Mr. Goswami and action by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation against actor Kangana Ranaut, calling it unwarranted and that it does not qualify to the rule of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/privilege-notice-assembly-absolves-speaker-from-appearing-in-sc/article33341772.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Categorisation of SROs based on demand proposed||The State government has decided to categorise the sub-registrar offices (SROs) into different groups to meet the anticipated increase in demand for transactions relating to registration/mutation of non-agricultural properties. Accordingly, more number of sub-registrars would be deployed in the areas of high demand, especially in the areas within the Greater Hyderabad limits and surrounding areas, to expedite the registration/mutation processes. “Sub-registrars and their subordinate staff from the areas of low demand will be deployed in the offices where the demand is high so that there are no delays in carrying out the transactions,” Roads and Buildings Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy said adding the redeployment of staff would be in place for the next three months. The five-member Cabinet sub-committee headed by Mr. Prashanth Reddy, constituted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, held its first meeting with section of stakeholders including builders on Tuesday. The Chief Minister directed the sub-committee to hold meeting with all stakeholders to elicit their views on evolving guidelines for simplifying the registration processes further avoiding scope for payment of bribes. Briefing media after the meeting, Mr. Prashanth Reddy said the categorization of SROs was contemplated in view of the rush anticipated at these offices consequent on allowing registration of non-agricultural properties after a gap of close to 100 days. The Cabinet panel had decided to conduct a meeting with bankers on Wednesday to clear their doubts, if any, pertaining to the online processes. “The entire set of documents are hosted online. Bankers need not have any apprehensions about them,” he said. The meeting would be followed by workshop of stakeholders on Thursday wherein discussions would be held on statutory issues, system related issues and operational problems. Asked about the difficulties faced in generation of property tax identification number (PTIN) and other issues, he said the intention of the Chief Minister was to ensure that a unique number was given to each of the property spread across the State. He said the provisions relating to development-cum-general power of attorney (DGPA) would be included in the website within two days. Steps would also be taken to incorporate GPA, mortgage deeds, mortgage release deeds and other provisions at the earliest. “Most of the teething problems encountered in the system have been overcome and efforts are underway to ensure hassle-free transactions,” he averred.  Picking up pace While 82 registrations of non-agricultural properties was completed on the first day, by the second day it has gone up to 140 and 433 slots have been booked for Wednesday in 92 SROs, a note from the Chief Secretary’s office said on Tuesday. Further, a new online facility for conversion of agriculture lands to non-agriculture (NALA) will be available on Dharani agriculture portal from Wednesday, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sro-categorisation-mooted/article33341718.ece
16 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘Caste, community don’t matter; falling in love not a crime’||“ Jab pyar karte hai toh jaat biradi toh koi dekhta nahi hai . Pyar karna toh gunah thodi hai (when someone falls in love, caste and community don’t matter to them. Falling in love is not a crime, is it?)” says Pinki, the 22-year-old Hindu woman whose Muslim husband, Rashid, was arrested in Moradabad under the new Ordinance against Unlawful Conversion. Talking to The Hindu on Tuesday from her in-laws’ house in Kanth, Moradabad, a day after she returned home after having spent more than a week in a government shelter home and hospital, she also said she feared she had already suffered a miscarriage. A day after she recorded her statement before a magistrate, following which she was allowed to go and live with her in-laws, Ms. Pinki reiterated that she had married Mr. Rashid of her own will. “We are adults,” she said. Mr. Rashid and his brother were arrested on December 5 after they were booked under Sections 3 and 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. Rashid and Pinki had arrived at the marriage registration office in Kanth when they were handed over to the police, allegedly by members of a right-wing outfit that opposed their marriage and even heckled the woman. The FIR against the brothers was lodged on a complaint by Ms. Pinki’s mother, a Bijnor resident from the Scheduled Caste community, who alleged that Mr. Rashid induced and coerced her daughter into marriage and took her to Kanth to convert her. Mr. Rashid allegedly concealed his Muslim identity from Ms. Pinki, her mother had alleged. However, Ms. Pinki refuted all the allegations against her husband and maintained that she married him of her own free will on July 24 at Dehradun, where the two were working before moving to Mr. Rashid’s home in Kanth. Ms. Pinki said they performed a nikaah ceremony and that she even recited the Quran. She dismissed her mother’s charge that Mr. Rashid had tricked her into marriage. “I know the boy and what caste [community or religion] he belongs to. I know everything about him,” Ms. Pinki told this newspaper. Ms. Pinki said that her husband and brother-in-law were innocent and demanded that they be immediately released. “If getting a court marriage is such a big crime, then they should lock [people] up. That way nobody will get married in court or elope,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caste-and-community-dont-matter-love-is-not-a-crime/article33341162.ece
16 December 2020||Kozhikode,||Kozhikode farmers to join Delhi protest||Around 75 farmers and environmental activists from Kozhikode will join the farmers who are protesting against the three contoversial farm Acts in Delhi soon. A meeting of activists here on Tuesday decided that the contingent will stay in Delhi for three days and be part of the protests. An array of farmers’ organisations, environmental forums, the Kerala Nadi Samrakshana Samithi, Sarvodaya Sangham, Lohya Vichara Vedi, and NAPM were part of the protest held in Kozhikode on Tuesday in support of the farmers. South India coordinator of Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangh, P.T. John, was the chief guest and keynote speaker at the protest. ‘Helping corporates’ “These Acts were passed without even proper consultation with Parliament so as to help the corporates. They will not benefit the farmers in any manner,” said T.V. Rajan, State secretary of the Kerala Nadi Samrakshana Samithi, who was part of the protest. The protesting organisations opined that the Acts would result in the corporates acquiring farm lands along with the produce and that ultimately even common people would have to suffer the consequences as the corporates would dictate the prices of essential commodities. The organisations decided to continue with similar protests and extend their support to the farmers protesting in Delhi in any way possible. They will also organise programmes to create awareness regarding the Acts among the common people, Mr. Rajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kozhikode-farmers-to-join-delhi-protest/article33341314.ece
16 December 2020||YADGIR,||Nine arrested in Yadgir for auctioning panchayat seats||Sindhanur Police booked nine persons for auctioning panchayat members and electing four unanimously in Hosalli EJ village in Sindhanur taluk of Raichur district and arrested the accused on Monday. The police action came after Election Nodal Officer and Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer Baburao Rathod lodged a complaint, sources said. A video of the open auction of members went viral on the social media following which the officer visited the village and conducted an inquiry before lodging the complaint, the sources added. Papayya Durgappa Nagarahal, Sharanayya Amarayya, Mallikarjun Gurubasayya, Hanumanth Parasappa, Nalla Ashok Krishnamurthy, Durugappa Basappa Amaji, Vijay Bhaskar Achhayya, Subbarao Ramarao Yalamati and Yankappa Huchhappa have been booked under Sections 171 (H) (F), 188 of Indian Penal Code and Section 22 of Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act. These persons conducted the open auction and elected Muttayya Karabasayya, Parasuram Master, Yamanappa and Narasappa Hampayya unanimously for Rs. 10 lakh to be paid by them for the development of a Durgadevi temple in the village, it was said in the complaint, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-arrested-in-yadgir-for-auctioning-panchayat-seats/article33341282.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Ruckus in Council as Deputy Chairman is pulled around||The Karnataka Legislative Council witnessed pandemonium of an unprecedented scale on Tuesday, with the power tussle between the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress taking a very physical turn. The defining visual of the day was Congress members trying to drag Deputy Chairman S.L. Dharme Gowda (JD-S) out of the seat of the Chairman he had occupied, while BJP members trying to ensure he stayed put. This happened soon after BJP members locked Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty (Congress) out of the House. The Council had been reconvened for a day as the House was adjourned sine die last Thursday by Mr. Shetty even as a no-confidence motion moved against him was pending. The BJP, with the JD(S), argued that Mr. Shetty had lost the support of the House and could not preside over the session. The Congress insisted that Deputy Chairman occupying his seat while the Chairman was locked out was against all House rules. After shouting and jostling that lasted about half an hour, the House was adjourned sine die by Mr. Shetty, who had managed to get in. Soon after, a delegation of the BJP, accompanied by JD(S) members, met the Governor and asked for his intervention in the matter of no-confidence motion. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said Mr. Shetty should tender his resignation immediately and conduct himself in a manner befitting his position. The contentious Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, which was scheduled to be taken up in the Council on Tuesday, may now be brought in as an Ordinance by the government. The events of Tuesday also made the bonhomie between the JD(S) and the BJP more apparent, with the two parties banding together on the issue of no-confidence motion. The JD(S) has earlier sided with the BJP on amendments to land reforms, but opposed the proposed changes to the anti-cow slaughter legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ruckus-as-deputy-chairman-is-pulled-around-in-council/article33341281.ece
16 December 2020||GUNTUR,||Crop insurance premium paid at one go||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that his pro-farmer government has always come to the aid of farmers in distress. Soon after crediting YSR Crop Insurance amount to the accounts of farmers with a click of button at his camp office on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan said the scheme covered 50 lakh farmers and one crore acres of farmland for the year 2019. Stating that it was a record of sorts that the crop insurance for crop damages was being paid within months of natural disasters, the Chief Minister said that Rs. 1,252 crore had been credited to the accounts of 9.48 lakh farmers. “A sense of anguish and pain overwhelmed me after I saw the plight of farmers . Why have the farmers shied away from taking insurance? What is the credibility of insurance companies. We then decided that the government should pay the premium of insurance policies and now, we are crediting the insurance premium directly into the accounts of farmers,” Mr. Jagan said. Mr. Jagan said that farmers could now look forward for quicker disposal of their insurance claims. “Earlier, insurance premium used to be paid in three phases by farmers to the State government, Central government and there was no one to follow it up. This year we paid Rs. 971 crore, including Rs. 503 crore as the share of State government, to the companies,’’ the Chief Minister said. He said that it was unfortunate that not even 20 lakh farmers were covered under crop insurance till the year 2019, as many of them did not have trust on insurance firms. But now, the State government was paying insurance premium for 49.80 lakh farmers covering 45.96 lakh hectares. Input subsidies would also be paid to those who suffered crop damages in the recent cyclones, on December 31, he said. Minister for Agriculture K. Kanna Babu, Minister for BC Welfare Ch. Venugopala Krishna, AP Agrimission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagireddy and Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crop-insurance-premium-of-farmers-paid-at-one-go/article33341154.ece
16 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘It is a do-or-die battle for farmers of Amaravati’||The Praja Pada Yatra held on Monday to mark the completion of 365 days of agitation against the shifting of the Andhra Pradesh capital from Amaravati, evoked good response. The Yatra was spearheaded jointly by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi Joint Action Committee (JAC) and United Farmers’ Action Committee. A number of people from different fields took active part in the massive rally taken out from Padavala Revu Centre to the BRTS Road here. Farmers, a large number of women, youth and students of all age groups marched ahead raising slogans of “Jai Amaravati” and “Save Amaravati”. The farmers’ agitation in the villages located in the Amaravati region will complete a year on Thursday (December 17). To mark the ‘milestone’ in their fight against the government’s plans to shift the capital out of Amaravati to Visakhapatnam, the JAC and farmers’ organisations have coordinated a series of protest programmes that will culminate in a massive public meeting at Uddandarayunipalem. JAC conveners A. Sivareddy and Gadde Tirupati Rao pointed to the huge public response to the protest call and said it reflected the people’s desire that Amaravati be retained as the permanent and sole capital of Andhra Pradesh. They said there was no doubt in their minds that the agitation would soon become a people’s movement, and that it would not stop till Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy withdrew the plan to shift the capital. Farmers’ committee convener Puvvada Sudhakar said 34,000 farmers had come forward to contribute their mite to the development of a new capital.But Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had extended his support to Amaravati as the new capital on the floor of the Assembly, suddenly tossed up the weird idea of establishing three capitals, he said, adding that it was a “do or die” battle for the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-do-or-die-battle-for-amaravati-farmers-leaders/article33341082.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru/Delhi,||Tributes pour in from students, peers for Roddam Narasimha||Roddam Narasimha (July 20, 1933 – December 14, 2020), who passed away on Monday at the age of 87, was a towering figure in the field of aerospace engineering. But it was his humility and passion for science and teaching that his students and colleagues remember. He remained active and involved in academics and took special lectures for research students until four years ago. K.R. Sreenivas, Chairman of Engineering Mechanics Unit, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), who attended Dr. Narasimha’s classes and later worked as his colleague, described him as a very “passionate teacher” whose classes would often involve lengthy discussions. “He was someone who would help his students understand, encourage them to engage in a debate, and have a dialogue,” he said. When he was director of NAL in 1992-1993, he would teach at IISc. after he finished his work at NAL. “He would hold classes that were not scheduled on the timetable,” Dr. Sreenivas added. Students said he always made the time to have lunch with them where they would discuss a wide range of topics from philosophy to India’s defence strategy and space research. Even the briefest of interactions would inspire his students. Rama Govindarajan, a professor at ICTS-TIFR who did her Ph.D. with Roddam Narasimha when he was the Director of NAL, recalled, “He was so busy then that I only met him on five-minute rides from NAL to the airport, when he left town. Every one of these meetings propelled me closer to my Ph.D.” Dr. Narasimha was greatly instrumental in fostering the large data sciences initiative at International Centre for Theoretical Sciences (ICTS-TIFR) in Bengaluru, which includes various areas of the earth sciences. “This has crystallised into a very important group that studies the mathematical foundations of the Indian monsoon,” said Spenta Wadia, the founding Director of ICTS-TIFR. From 2013, he was a member of the International Advisory Board of ICTS. “He was at the forefront of the effort to establish the ‘IndiaLight’ project for large data connectivity for big data science in India, which, however, did not materialise due to lack of government funding” said Prof. Wadia. H.S. Sudhira, Director at Gubbi Labs, who is a volunteer at India Literacy Project (ILP), recalled Dr. Narasimha’s belief in science as a tool for development. “He contributed financially for the development of science kits by ILP. At one time, he had even approached the then BBMP Commissioner to talk about the problems faced by residents due to commercialisation of New BEL Road,” he said, adding that never once did the renowned scientist and Padma Vibhushan awardee drop names to intimidate people. In the recent past, the Principal Scientific Advisor’s office and NITI Aayog proposed the Science and Technology Cluster initiative. The idea was for academic institutions, government labs, private companies and the government to come together to solve scientific problems of societal impact. Dr. Narasimha was very interested in participating in the Bangalore Science and Technology (BeST) cluster. The BeST Cluster has proposed the design and manufacture of turbo fan jet engines in India as an aspirational engineering challenge that needs to be undertaken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tributes-pour-in-from-students-peers-for-roddam-narasimha/article33341429.ece
16 December 2020||KOCHI,||V4 Kochi planning to expand across State||V4 Kochi, the new apolitical outfit launched just ahead of the local body polls, has announced that it will expand to other districts shortly. The organisation said that it will be launched across the State in consultation with like-minded people as an alternative to all prevailing political outfits and fronts. It challenged the Left Front government to publish all survey-related sketches and implementation of Section 4 (2) of the Right to Information Act. The announcement came at an event named “Kerala Declaration” organised by V4 Kochi in front of the Gandhi statue near Rajendran Maidan on Tuesday. The event was attended by like-minded people and anti-corruption activists from various districts, a release issued by the organisation said. The organisation office bearers Nipun Cherian, Manoj Kumar, Biju John, Shakkeer Ali, Vincent John, and Sujith Sukumaran spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/v4-kochi-planning-to-expand-across-state/article33341320.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Tablighi case: court acquits 36 foreigners||A Delhi court on Tuesday acquitted 36 foreigners who were chargesheeted for attending a religious congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin here in alleged violation of visa norms and government guidelines issued in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg acquitted the foreign nationals from 14 countries of all the charges levelled against them. The 36 foreigners were facing charges under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 3 (disobeying regulation) of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Section 51 (obstruction) of Disaster Management Act, 2005. Around 47 chargesheets have been filed until now against over 915 foreign nationals, belonging to 34 different countries, in relation to the religious congregation held at Nizamuddin in March this year. Earlier, the local courts here had allowed over 120 Malaysians and 11 Saudi Arabians who had participated in the religious congregation to walk free after payment of Rs. 7,000 fine. They had filed a plea seeking lesser sentence under the plea bargaining process by accepting mild charges. Plea bargaining is a provision under the Code of Criminal Procedure in which an accused can negotiate with the prosecution at the pre-trial stage and plead guilty in exchange for certain concessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tablighi-case-court-acquits-36-foreigners/article33341461.ece
16 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Six Haryana MLAs meet amid government-unions stand-off||Five Independent MLAs of Haryana and Jannayak Janta Party’s Barwala legislator Jogi Ram Sihag held an informal meeting at Panchkula on Tuesday, demanding that the Centre should find an immediate solution to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Besides Mr. Sihag, Badshahpur MLA Rakesh Daultabad, Pundri MLA Randhir Singh Gollen, Prithla MLA Nayan Pal Rawat, Nilokheri MLA Dharam Pal Gonder and Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan attended the meeting. Mr. Sangwan said they met for lunch at Mr. Gollen’s invitation but added that the government should immediately find a solution to the imbroglio. The Dadri MLA had earlier this month resig-ned as chairman of Haryana Livestock Development Boa-rd and withdrawn support to the BJP-JJP government. The MLAs, speaking to a Hindi news channel, said the farmers’ stir was one of the longest ever and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should realise that it was gaining momentum. Mr. Sihag, who refused to accept his appointment as chairman of Haryana Housing Board, said he always stands with the farmers, but added that it did not mean that they could make “unjustified” demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-haryana-mlas-meet-amid-government-unions-stand-off/article33341673.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||AIIMS Nurses Union suspends strike following High Court order||The AIIMS Nurses Union suspended its strike late on Tuesday evening after the Delhi High Court restrained it from continuing with its agitation against the hospital’s alleged decision to hire nursing officers on contractual basis. “The [AIIMS Nurses] union has decided to suspend the strike respecting the High Court order today,” said AIIMS Nurses Union president Harish Kumar Kajla. Justice Navin Chawla passed the order earlier in the day on a plea moved by the AIIMS administration against the protesting nurses who went on an indefinite strike from December 14 afternoon. AIIMS in its plea contended that the entire hospital had come to a standstill because of the strike. The court ordered the nurses’ union to discontinue the strike “till further order” after it was informed that the grievances of the agitating nurses were being considered by the authorities. The High Court also issued notice to the union while posting the case for hearing on January 18 next year. Last month, the nurses’ union had given a notice for strike from December 16 over an “anomaly” in their pay under the Sixth Central Pay Commission, because of which they are getting “paid less”, and other demands. On Monday, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria had appealed to the nurses to call off their agitation. He termed the strike “very inappropriate” and said that 22 out of 23 demands made by the union had been met. ‘Forced to go on strike’ On Tuesday morning, the nurses protested outside the director’s office demanding “justice” and said they had been “forced” to go on strike by the hospital administration. Mr. Kajla told the media that the hospital administration has not come forward to talk to them since Monday afternoon and was instead “threatening” them against going on strike. Mr. Kajla said the AIIMS director was “lying” about meeting 22 demands. “Not even a single demand has been met. Not hiring nurses on contractual basis was one of the demands. No one used to be hired on contractual basis at AIIMS till now. But now they have started doing it,” Mr. Kajla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiims-nurses-union-suspends-strike-following-high-court-order/article33341463.ece
16 December 2020||GUNTUR,||CM raises Polavaram, Capital issues with Shah||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Tuesday, and discussed several key issues during the meeting that lasted over an hour. Presenting the second revised estimates for the Polavaram irrigation project, the Chief Minister urged the Home Minister to sanction Rs. 55,656 crore for the purpose. Urging the Home Minister to issue directions to the Union Irrigation and Finance Ministries to reimburse the cost of land acquisition, and resettlement and rehabilitation of evacuees as per the LA Act of 2013, the Chief Minister said the number of project-oustees had gone up to 1.06 lakh from 44,574 earlier. “Hence, the cost of resettlement and rehabilitation has gone up,” he pointed out. Stating that the bills for the project had been pending reimbursement since 2018, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said any further delay could increase the project cost considerably. The Chief Minister told Mr. Amit Shah that the State government was ready with arrangements for administering the Covaxin vaccine. Raising the issue of Special Category Status, he urged the Union Home Minister to consider the State’s appeal favourably. The Chief Minister also took up the issue of certification from the Central Power Ministry to obtain additional loan from the Central agencies in view of the COVID lockdown. GST arrears Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also urged the Union Home Minister to facilitate disbursal of Rs. 1,600 crore towards rice subsidy and GST arrears of Rs. 4,308.46 crore pending since April 2020. He also urged Mr. Amit Shah to facilitate the release of Rs. 1,111.53 crore grant to the local bodies, Rs. 1,954 crore under the 15th Finance Commission, and pending NREGS arrears of Rs. 3,801.98 crore. Mr. Jagan urged Mr. Shah to issue a notification for locating the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Kurnool and the Executive Capital in Visakhapatnam as the relevant Acts had been passed in the State Legislative Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-raises-polavaram-capital-issues-with-centre/article33341152.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Local involvement?||Encroachment of the Phalguni (Gurupura) riverfront could be the handiwork of people having their land on the other side of the River Festival Venue Road, say some residents. A local resident who did not wish to be named said that land owners on the left side of the road could be behind the encroachment. There was a proposal to construct a 30 ft wide riverfront road as a part of Smart City project. Land owners who wish not to lose their land were allegedly getting land added on the riverside to avoid acquisition of their land, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/local-involvement/article33341747.ece
16 December 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 infections drop in West Bengal, but deaths a concern||The number of daily COVID-19 infections in West Bengal has been declining over past few days, but deaths due to the contagious viral infection remains a matter of concern. In the past 24 hours West Bengal recorded 2,289 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number of infections to 5,25,918. The State recorded 45 deaths due to COVID-19 in the past 24 hours taking the total to 9,145. While the daily infections have dropped to about 2,000 the State is recording more than 40 deaths over the past few days. Of the 45 deaths in the past 24 hours, 14 were reported from Kolkata and 13 in North 24 Parganas. The COVID-19 toll in Kolkata increased to 2,812, while the deaths in North 24 Parganas rose to 2,172. Both Kolkata and North 24 Parganas together recorded more than 50% of total deaths in the State. Kolkata recorded 503 new cases in the past 24 hours while North 24 Parganas recorded 523 new cases. Both the city and the district have recorded more than one lakh infections so far. The number of active cases in the State is 20,663 and the discharge rate is 94.33 %. Another interesting aspect of the State’s fight against COVID-19 is that the State has not tested more than 50,000 samples since the outbreak of the disease. West Bengal is the fourth most populous State in the country. As of last 24 hours, the State has tested 41,569 samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-infections-drop-in-west-bengal-but-deaths-a-concern/article33341353.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,||I-T searches yield Rs. 23 cr. in unaccounted cash||The Income Tax Department has detected evasion of income of over Rs. 700 crore from the searches it conducted on the premises of a prominent industrial group in the city. During the searches, officials seized Rs. 23 crore in unaccounted cash from various locations. The search operation was carried out on December 9, based on intelligence inputs about tax evasion. It covered 60 premises across Chennai, Tiruchi and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Mumbai. The business activities of the group that came under the lens included cement manufacturing, logistics and construction, among others. According to a statement issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes, foreign assets worth Rs. 110 crore, in the form of fixed deposits, were found during the searches. They had not been disclosed in the returns, and would attract action under the Black Money Act. Inflation of expenditure to take out cash and reduce profits, receipts not accounted for in full, bogus claim of depreciation and other such activities, adding up to Rs. 435 crore, were also detected. There were also “indications of capitation fee receipts for medical admissions to postgraduate programmes”. Details of financial transactions between the group in question and another group for the sale of three infrastructure facilities at various ports were found during the searches. Complex financial arrangements creating bogus liabilities from their own concerns were also said to have been made, ostensibly to reduce the capital gains arising out of the transfer. Capital gains of approximately Rs. 280 crore have been established. Huge capital introduction through a web of bogus inter-corporate transactions within the group is also under the scanner.  While the I-T Department did not mention the name of the group, sources indicated that the raids were carried out on the premises of the Chettinad Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-t-searches-yield-rs-23-cr-in-unaccounted-cash/article33341199.ece
16 December 2020||Special Correspondent Pune,||Maharashtra reports over 4,000 recoveries||Maharashtra reported a healthy number of recoveries, with as many as 4,395 patients discharged on Tuesday as opposed to 3,442 new COVID-19 cases. The State’s active case tally has declined to 71,356 with the total case tally at 18,86,807. With 70 deaths, the fatalities are 48,339. The cumulative recoveries stand at 17,66,010. The State’s recovery rate rose marginally to 93.60%. “Of a total 1,18,06,808 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,86,807 (case positivity rate of 15.98%) have returned positive with nearly 58,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate now stood at 2.56%. Pune district reported more than 500 new cases to take its case tally to 3,63,284 while 11 deaths saw its death toll reach 7,642. As per district administration figures, the active case figure has currently come down to 9,014 while its recovery rate has crossed 95%. Mumbai city reported 521 new cases to take its case tally to 2,91,634 of whom 14,096 are active. Seven fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,991. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 300 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,19,962 of whom 5,190 are active. Four deaths took the total death toll to 3,107. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported five deaths as its cumulative death toll rose to 1,731 while 59 fresh cases saw the case tally rise to 54,172 of whom 1,975 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported just 22 cases and one death as the district’s reported cases reached 49,248 of whom just 124 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,742. Kolhapur continued with its trend of low cases surges and high recoveries, reporting a mere ten cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 49,182 of whom 522 are active. Dr. Awate informed that currently, 5,24,059 persons across the State were in home quarantine and 4,316 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-reports-over-4000-recoveries/article33341773.ece
16 December 2020||Special Correspondent Mumbai,||Varavara Rao can continue to be in private hospital till Dec. 21: HC||The Bombay High Court said on Tuesday that 81-year-old poet Varavara Rao will continue to be in a private hospital for his treatment till the matter is heard on December 21. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik that Mr. Rao had been in a private hospital and now, as per medical records, he could be discharged. The court said it would want to hear at length the pleas filed by senior advocates Indira Jaisingh and Anand Grover on behalf of Mr. Rao’s wife, Hemalatha, seeking bail on medical grounds. Mr. Rao was shifted from Taloja jail to Nanavati hospital on November 18 for medical examination and treatment. Mr. Singh said a plea for temporary medical bail was filed in the sessions court, which had denied bail. He stated that a new plea that raised additional grounds with different facts should be raised before the sessions court first. The Bench also referred to the Arnab Goswami judgment passed by the Supreme Court on granting him bail and said, “Now we have a judgement wherein it has been clarified that the HC can grant bail in writ. Earlier there was a grey area. Now the law has been made clear.” Mr. Grover, representing Ms. Hemalatha, said Mr. Rao had 24 cases against him at one point but he had never gone absconding. He said they have applied for clone copies of the records but have not be given the same. Mr. Grover said that if Mr. Rao was sent back to jail now, there was no medical infrastructure there to aid him. The court said it would hear the matter virtually on December 21 and added that Mr. Rao’s medical treatment would continue and the State government would continue to bear the cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/varavara-rao-can-continue-to-be-in-private-hospital-till-dec-21-hc/article33341776.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Wistron violence: Dept. constitutes probe team||The Department of Labour has issued an advisory to Wistron Corporation following a violent protest by contract workers alleging non-payment of wages. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar told The Hindu that following the incident on December 12, a meeting was held with company representatives and the Labour Department on December 14. Apart from non-payment of wages, workers also alleged that they were made to work 12-hour shifts but were yet to get paid overtime. “We have constituted a team to look into the allegations of long work hours, delay in payment and disparity in payments. We believe that a ‘small communication gap’ led to this incident and vandalism,” said Mr. Hebbar. He added that it had been found that Wistron had sub-contracted to six different companies. The factory, which began operations around four months ago, did not have a labour union. “We are yet to ascertain if permission had been obtained for posting women in night shifts,” he added. Mr. Hebbar said the aggrieved workers had not intimated the department about their problems. “Workers could have sent a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner or the labour official in Kolar district. We support the labourers. But they should not have taken the law into their own hands,” he said. He urged workers and labourers in the State to contact the department if they were facing problems with their employers. So far, the police have identified 158 people who allegedly participated in the protests, and efforts are on to identify others involved in the violence. “All the accused said they were angry because of irregular pay and harassment by their seniors. The Labour Department is conducting a probe into this,” police officers said.  We support the labourers. But they should not have taken the law into their own hands Shivaram Hebbar,Labour Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wistron-violence-dept-constitutes-probe-team/article33341426.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Law Ministry nod sought on postal ballots for NRIs||The proposal of the Election Commission of India (ECI) to extend the postal ballot option to overseas electors is pending with the Law Ministry, sources in the Commission said on Tuesday. On November 27, the ECI had written to the Ministry proposing to extend the facility to non-resident Indians (NRIs), starting with the coming Assembly elections in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The ECI letter stated that the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, would need to be amended in order to send postal ballots to NRIs electronically and then have them sent back via post. The amendments should be made at the earliest in order to facilitate the right of overseas electors and boost “the image of the country internationally”, it stated. The Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS), which was used to to send ballots to Service electors, would be extended to overseas Indians if the proposal is adopted. An ECI official said it had discussed the system with the Ministry of External Affairs at a recent meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/law-ministry-nod-sought-on-postal-ballots-for-nris/article33341164.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,||RSS leader dies in road accident||Venkataramana Holla (60), Mangaluru Divisional representative of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s Gram Vikas unit, died in a motor vehicle accident in Polya village near Kabaka under Puttur Traffic Police limits on Tuesday. The police said that Holla, a resident of Agrabail in Bantwal, had been to attend a RSS Baitak in Puttur on Monday. He stayed back at the RSS office in Puttur. On Tuesday morning, he left the RSS office for his house on his motorcycle at around 5 a.m. At around 5.20 a.m., Holla’s motorcycle was hit by a heavy vehicle in Polya. Holla fell off the motorcycle and came under the wheels of the heavy vehicle. Residents of a house and a masjid nearby heard the commotion and rushed to the spot. Holla was found dead. On a complaint by Holla’s nephew Sridhar Rao, the police registered a case under Section 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code. A search has been launched for the heavy vehicle involved in the accident. Holla was associated with the RSS since his childhood. MP and State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel was among the RSS activists who trained under Holla. Recently, Holla was made the Mangaluru Divisional representative of the Gram Vikas unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rss-leader-dies-in-road-accident/article33341750.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Return to normalcy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/return-to-normalcy/article33341166.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC moots elevation of Delhi judge as Telangana CJ||The Supreme Court collegium has recommended the transfer of judges of several high courts, including the transfer of Justice J.K. Maheshwari of the Andhra Pradesh High Court to Sikkim and the elevation of Justice Hima Kohli of the Delhi High Court as the Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, a source familiar with the developments informed on Tuesday. The top court's recommendations are yet to be sent to the Law Ministry, revealed the source. The chief justices of AP and Sikkim will swap places with CJ J. K. Maheshwari moving to Gangtok and CJ Arup Kumar Goswami moving south. Recently, the Andhra Pradesh High Court was dragged into a controversy as the Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy had alleged that a senior judge of the Supreme Court was interfering in the functioning of the HC. Justice S. Muralidhar, a judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court, is recommended for elevation as CJ of Odisha High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-judge-as-ts-cj-mooted/article33341709.ece
16 December 2020||KURNOOL,||Four children killed as van ploughs into procession||Four children were killed on the spot and 10 others were injured when a goods van ploughed into a religious procession at Yerraguntla of Sirivella mandal in Kurnool district in the early hours of Tuesday. About 40 persons were taking out a pre-Christmas procession on the Kadapa-Ranipet National Highway No. 40 when the accident occurred, Sirivella Circle Inspector Chandrababu Naidu said. The deceased were identified as Hashvardhan, 10, Surekha,10, Jhansi, 11, and Vamsi, 10. The seriously injured were first shifted to the Nandyal government hospital and later to the Government General Hospital in Kurnool for better treatment. CM’s directive Chief Minster Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered the district administration to provide all possible assistance to the injured persons. Superintendent of Police K. Fakkeerappa and Joint Collector Ramasundar Reddyrushed to the spot. The driver reportedly did not stop the vehicle but sped away, but the police apprehended him at Bathaluru. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-children-killed-as-van-ploughs-into-religious-procession/article33341070.ece
16 December 2020||GUNTUR,||A.K. Goswami is CJ of A.P. High Court||Justice Arup Kumar Goswami, Chief Justice of Sikkim High Court, has been appointed as Chief Justice of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh. Chief Justice of AP High Court J.K Maheswari has been appointed as Chief Justice of Sikkim High Court. Born in1961, Justice Goswami graduated from Cotton College in 1981. He obtained LL.B degree from Government Law College, Guwahati in 1985. He was designated as a senior advocate in 2004 and was the standing counsel of Gauhati High Court in 2004. Justice Goswami was elevated as Judge of the High Court in 2011 and was appointed as the Chief Justice of Sikkim High Court in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ak-goswami-is-cj-of-ap-high-court/article33341157.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Scrap quotas for IIT faculty: Ministry panel||A committee constituted by the Union Ministry of Education (MoE) to suggest measures for effective implementation of reservation policies in IITs has recommended that these institutions be exempted from following the policies in faculty recruitment. The committee based its recommendations primarily on arguments claiming the need for IITs to maintain their academic excellence and the lack of candidates from the reserved categories who fulfil the qualification criteria. In its report, obtained by an activist through a Right to Information Act application, the committee suggested that IITs be included in the list of Institutes of Excellence that are exempted from reservation policies under the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Act (CEI Act) of 2019. Currently, eight institutions, including the Homi Bhabha National Institute and its constituent units, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Space Physics Laboratory and Indian Institute of Remote Sensing are part of this list. “Being established and recognised as institutions of national importance under an Act of Parliament, IITs ought to be listed under the Schedule to the above CEI Act, 2019, for exemption from reservations,” the report said. In its reply to the RTI request, the MoE said the report was under the examination of the government. To address diversity issues, the report argued that a “system emphasising targeted goals over a period of time” and not “specific quotas” be followed so that IITs can “compete with other top institutions in the world in terms of excellence, output, research and teaching.” The Committee was constituted in April 2020 with Director of IIT Delhi, V. Ramgopal Rao, as its Chairperson and the Director of IIT Kanpur, Registrars of IIT Bombay and IIT Madras, and representatives from Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE), Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Department of Personnel and Training and Department of Persons with Disabilities as members. It was asked to suggest measures on effective implementation of reservation policies not only in recruitment, but also for admissions. The committee met twice in May and submitted its report on June 17, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scrap-quotas-for-recruitment-of-faculty-in-iits-moe-panel/article33341163.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Protests go on, amid impasse||Protesting farmer leaders have threatened to close the Delhi-Noida border crossing at Chilla if the agricultural reform laws are not repealed. On the 20th day of protests, both the Centre and the protesters reitera-ted their stand.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protests-go-on-amid-impasse/article33341615.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Is govt. serious on a solution?’||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the largest outfits in Punjab, has questioned the intent of the Centre in resolving the stalemate. It said the government had been trying to malign the movement.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/is-govt-serious-on-a-solution/article33341616.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers being misled: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has once again stressed the importance of his government’s farm laws which have been opposed by farmers fearing adverse impact and the entry of the private sector. The farmers have been demanding repeal of the laws for the last 20 days.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/you-are-being-misled-modi-tells-farmers/article33341167.ece
16 December 2020||BENGALURU,||‘OCI students eligible for govt. quota admission’||Declaring that students under the Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) category are to be considered as “citizens of India” for admission to professional courses, the High Court has directed the State government not to restrict their admission only under the NRI quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oci-students-eligible-for-govt-quota-admission/article33341614.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Legal Services Authority team visits Mandara||Gopala Rukmini shows the bucket full of water she is using for washing utensils. “This is part of the water supplied today. We have to sparingly use water that is supplied once in two days,” said Ms. Rukmini, who lives in the Kudupu Mandara area that was ravaged by garbage slip in August 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/legal-services-authority-team-visits-mandara/article33341753.ece
16 December 2020||Chennai,||Wait for an official announcement: RMM||After widespread media speculation that actor Rajinikanth’s yet-to-be-launched party is called Makkal Sevai Katchi, Rajini Makkal Mandram, an outfit started by Mr. Rajinikanth in 2018, has asked its supporters to wait for an official announcement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wait-for-an-official-announcement-rmm/article33341200.ece
16 December 2020||guwahati,||Bodo council gets new chief after 17 years||Assam’s Bodoland Territorial Council on Tuesday got a new chief 17 years after it was created as an alternative to the Bodoland Statehood movement. Pramod Boro, former president of the All Bodo Students’ Union, was sworn in as the chief executive member of the BTC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bodo-council-gets-new-chief-after-17-years/article33341466.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Spike in return of people to Bangladesh||In the past four years, nearly twice the number of illegal Bangladeshi migrants were caught leaving the country compared to those coming in illegally, according to data available with the Border Security Force and National Crime Records Bureau. Till December 14 , as many as 3,173 illegal migrants were caught by the BSF while trying to cross the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spike-in-return-of-people-to-bangladesh/article33341465.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cold wave sweeps city, minimum drops to 4.1°C||The minimum temperature in the Capital on Tuesday fell to 4.1 degrees Celsius, which is the lowest this season, leading the Meteorological Department to declare a cold wave. The minimum temperature was five degrees lower than normal for this season. The Met Department said the cold wave is likely to continue till December 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cold-wave-sweeps-city-minimum-drops-to-41c/article33341674.ece
16 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||ARO dies on his way to duty in Hubballi||A Physical Education Instructor who had been deputed as Assistant Returning Officer for elections to the Noolvi Gram Panchayat died while proceeding for duty on Tuesday. He reportedly fell unconscious near the Unkal Bus Station in Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aro-dies-on-his-way-to-duty-in-hubballi/article33341284.ece
16 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Street plays, folk songs encourage voting||With polling for gram panchayats scheduled to take place on December 22 and 25, the Dharwad district administration has employed artistes to sensitise voters through street plays and folk songs on the significance of exercising one’s franchise during the elections and also on COVID-19 guidelines. Such awareness programmes aimed at increasing the polling percentage were held at Kandli and Dimbuvalli villages of Kalghatgi taluk of Dharwad district on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/street-plays-folk-songs-encourage-voting/article33341286.ece
16 December 2020||Pune,||First Mumbai nearby||Stating that 14 farmers had died in the last three weeks during the farmers’ agitation, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti on Tuesday warned the Narendra Modi government that any further attempts to repress the protests by force would have serious repercussions across India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-mumbai-nearby/article33341774.ece
16 December 2020||Mumbai,||Second Mumbai nearby||Notwithstanding the Bombay High Court’s comments on the Maharashtra government for shifting the Metro car shed from Aarey colony to Kanjur Marg, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said that the State is committed to development but not at the cost of environment. “Even the High Court has said that more than who owns the land, the beneficiaries of the project are important. I again request all parties to not spoil the interests of Mumbai,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-mumbai-nearby/article33341775.ece
16 December 2020||BENGALURU,||‘OCI students eligible for govt. quota admission’||Declaring that students under the Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) category are to be considered as “citizens of India” for admission to professional courses, the High Court has directed the State government not to restrict their admission only under the NRI quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oci-students-eligible-for-govt-quota-admission/article33341427.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Block-level monitoring hubs planned||State governments have been directed to identify at least one Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) management centre in each block to ensure that any adverse reaction or side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine could be rapidly contained, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference on Tuesday. “The countries where vaccination has already begun, especially in the UK, adverse events took place on the very first day. So, it is essential that the States and UTs [Union Territories] prepare for this too,’’ he said. NITI Aayog member (health) Dr. V.K. Paul said this was an adult vaccine, which would be administrated at such a large scale for the first time and didn’t begin from the hospital setting. “This will need extra caution,’’ he noted. India has six proposed COVID-19 vaccines undergoing clinical trials and three are seeking emergency use authorisation. “Also the Drugs Controller General of India granted clearance for clinical trials for one more candidate vaccine from India — the novel mRNA vaccine candidate, HGCO19, which has been developed by Gennova, Pune, and is supported by the government. The vaccines will be stable at 2-8°C for two months and thus enable us to use our available cold chains,’’ he stated. In India, though case mortality is declining, the situation should not be taken for granted. “Most of us are still susceptible. Uttarakhand, Himachal, and Nagaland are States where the situation is a matter of concern. This is a devastating disease. It could cause a mild disease but can also take a serious turn as we have seen in the case of reported fungal infection at a hospital in Delhi. The infection caused patients to lose eyesight,” Dr. Paul pointed out. Mr. Bhushan said adequate cold chain infrastructure had been made available across India. “Guidelines for estimation of electrical and non-electrical cold chain equipment and their strengthening have been issued and 29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41,000 deep freezers and 300 solar refrigerators will be used for the vaccination drive,’’ he said. As per data released by the Health Ministry on Tuesday, the number of new confirmed COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours has fallen under 22,100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/block-level-monitoring-hubs-planned/article33341117.ece
16 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Police file chargesheet against Binoy Kodiyeri in rape case||The Mumbai police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet against Binoy Kodiyeri, elder son of former Kerala CPI(M) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, in an alleged rape case. “The chargesheet runs into 345 pages. Four witnesses were examined and their statements included in the chargesheet, along with the DNA report of the complainant’s son,” Dayanand Bangar, senior officer in the Oshiwara police station, told The Hindu . A 30-year-old woman had accused Mr. Kodiyeri of cheating her and coercing her into a long-term relationship on the promise of marriage. She said they had a child from the union and that Mr. Kodiyeri had abandoned them in 2018, saying he would not be able to provide maintenance. He has been charged under Sections 376 (punishment for rape), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Paternity test On July 3, 2019, the Dindoshi sessions court granted him anticipatory bail and directed him to submit his blood sample to the Oshiwara police for a paternity test. Mr. Kodiyeri had to pay Rs. 25,000 as personal bond and one or two sureties of a similar amount. Judge M.H. Shaikh had directed him to be present before the Oshiwara police station every Monday for a month. The anticipatory bail conditions were that Mr. Kodiyeri would not threaten the prosecution witnesses and would not tamper with prosecution evidence. He would not leave the country without the prior permission of the trial court and would take part in the investigation whenever the police officer called him. “The chargesheet has been filed by the police before the Andheri magistrate court but we haven’t received it,” advocate A.Z. Mookhtiar, representing the complainant, told The Hindu . Binoy Kodiyeri’s younger brother Bineesh had been recently arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in a drug racket case. Mr. Balakrishnan had stepped down as party State secretary citing ill-health, a day after his younger son’s arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-file-chargesheet-against-binoy-kodiyeri-in-rape-case/article33341097.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid impasse over new laws, protests continue||Protesting farmer leaders have threatened to close the Delhi-Noida border crossing at Chilla on Wednesday if the three contentious agricultural reform laws are not repealed. On the 20th day of protests, both the protesters and the Centre reiterated their positions and dialed up the rhetoric, but made no concrete efforts to resume negotiations. At a press conference on the Singhu border on Tuesday, farmer leaders said they were “determined to win, no matter what”. “The government is saying they will not repeal these laws but we say that we will make them do it,” said Jagjeet Singh Dallewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta, a Punjab farmers group. The Delhi-Noida border crossing at Chilla will be closed at 11 a.m. on Wednesday if the Centre continues to close the door for farmers, he said. BKU-Tikait group general secretary Yudhvir Singh had harsh words for Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself. “We voted for this Prime Minister but now he is not willing to hear us or talk to us... All farmers now recognise that we made a mistake in voting for him,” he said. Responding to the PM’s allegation that the protests were being funded by foreign money, Mr. Singh asked how the hard-earned money sent by the children of farmers who are abroad could be counted as foreign money. The Prime Minister himself came to power using Gujarati NRI money, he said. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met again with farmers of the BKU (Kisan) faction who support the farm laws, and claimed that most of the agricultural community recognised the benefits of the laws. He said the government was willing to continue its dialogue with “genuine farm unions” and is willing to find a solution with an open mind. However, dashing the hopes of those demanding a legal guarantee for minimum support prices, the Minister added that MSP is an “administrative decision and will continue as it is”. Noting that 20 farmers participating in the agitation had died of various causes so far, protestors said a Shraddhanjali Diwas, or homage day, would be observed in honour of these “martyrs” on December 20. Two farmers were killed and one sustained injuries in a hit-and-run case on the Delhi-Ambala Highway early on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protests-continue-amid-impasse-over-new-laws/article33341104.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Pranab’s son asks for memoir manuscript||Abhijit Mukherjee, former Lok Sabha member and son of the former President of India Pranab Mukherjee, on Tuesday objected to the publication of the final volume of his father’s memoir, The Presidential Years, and has demanded to see the manuscript before its release. Mr. Mukherjee's objection, however, drew a sharp reaction from his sister, Sharmistha Mukherjee, who asserted that the manuscripts were cleared by her father and “none should stop it for cheap publicity”. The book is scheduled to be released in January. On December 11, the publishers, Rupa, released an excerpt of the final final volume, in which the late President talks about the Congress losing focus after his elevation as the President and Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh busy saving the government. The excerpt also has a portion in which he describes Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s functioning as “autocratic” in his first term. “I, the Son of the author of the Memoir ‘The Presidential Memoirs’ request you to kindly stop the publication of the memoir as well as motivated excerpts which is already floating in certain media platforms without my written consent”, Mr. Abhijit Mukherjee tweeted and tagged the publishers as well as its head, Kapish Mehra. Formal letter sent “Since my father is no more, I being his son want to go through the contents of the final copy of the book before its publication as I believe, had my father been alive today, he too would have done the same. Therefore , I being his son request You to immediately stop its publication without my written consent till I go through its contents !”, he said and mentioned that he had also sent a formal letter. “The final draft contains my dads’ hand written notes & comments that have been strictly adhered to. The views expressed by him are his own & no one should try to stop it from being published for any cheap publicity. That would be the greatest disservice to our departed father”, Ms. Mukherjee tweeted, tagging her brother and asking him not to create hurdles. She also corrected him that the memoir was called The Presidential Years and not The Presidential Memoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pranabs-son-asks-for-memoir-manuscript/article33341126.ece
16 December 2020||AHMEDABAD,||You are being misled, PM tells farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has once again stressed the importance of his government’s farm sector laws, which have been opposed by farmers fearing adverse impact and entry of the private sector. The farmers have been demanding repeal of the laws for the last 20 days. On a day-long visit to Kutch in his home State Gujarat, Mr. Modi said “farmers were being misguided” by the Opposition and a few others. He assured the farmers that their concerns were being addressed by his government, which accorded top priority to their interests. “The agriculture reforms are exactly what farmer bodies and even the Opposition have been asking for years,” the PM said, as he hinted that there was no going back on them. PM cites Gujarat model “The Government of India is always committed to the welfare of the farmers, and we will keep addressing their concerns,” Mr. Modi said at a ceremony to lay the foundation for development projects in Kutch. He used the opportunity to interact with a group of Sikh farmers, who have settled in Gujarat for decades. To convince the farmers about the benefits the agriculture reforms would bring to them, the Prime Minister used the example of Gujarat, where many farm-friendly schemes were introduced during his tenure as Chief Minister. These initiatives minimised government intervention in agriculture, he said. “I want to ask you, did the dairy owner take your animal because you are selling milk to him? Has anyone taken your land or property for entering into a contract to sell your fruits and vegetables?” the Prime Minister asked. “The country is asking why the freedom enjoyed by dairy farmers is not being provided to small and marginal farmers growing cereals and lentils.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/you-are-being-misled-pm-tells-farmers/article33341111.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Ruckus in Karnataka Council, Dy. Chairman pulled around||The Legislative Council on Tuesday witnessed unprecedented scenes, with members physically clashing and hurling abuse at each other over the issue of no-confidence motion against Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty. While Mr. Shetty was physically prevented from entering the House on Tuesday morning, Deputy Chairman Dharme Gowda, who had occupied the chair before the opening bell stopped, was dragged out by Congress members. The turn of events at the House of Elders was described by senior members as “a blot on the Council’s dignity and tradition”. In the melee, making its political intentions known, the JD(S) members moved over to the BJP camp in an attempt to bring down the Chairman — a Congress member whom it had supported in December 2018. The session, which had been reconvened after being adjourned sine die last Thursday, was expected to be stormy as the agenda released on Monday night did not have the no-confidence motion listed, much to the chagrin of the BJP. This, secretariat sources pointed out, was because the Chairman had rejected the motion since there was “no specific charge” against him. However, the BJP insisted that the Chairman had lost the confidence of the House and that he had to step aside to enable the motion to be taken up. The drama began to unfold even before the House proceedings could start on Tuesday morning. Taking the Congress by surprise, JD(S) member and Deputy Chairman Dharme Gowda, egged on by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, occupied the chair even as the opening bell was still ringing. Incensed, the Congress members trooped in and physically dragged Mr. Gowda out of the chair, even as BJP and JD(S) members tried to make him sit back in it.  Chairman out  On the other hand, Mr. Shetty was not allowed to enter the House. A few Congress members, in a bid to enable the Chairman to come inside, started kicking the door through which the Chairman usually enters. Meanwhile, as Mr. Gowda was physically removed, Congress member Chandrashekar Patil sat in the chair. BJP members took objection to this and tried to surround the chair. Amid the cacophony, Mr. Shetty, who had by then finally managed to enter, announced that the House was adjourned sine die. Soon, Congress chief whip M. Narayanaswamy was seen sitting in the chair, which was opposed again by the BJP. In the high-decibel drama, a couple of BJP and Congress members nearly came to blows even as a glass frame fitted to protect members from COVID-19 broke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-upper-house-plunges-into-chaos/article33341072.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI/ CHANDIGARH,||It’s BJP versus all others in Punjab||The Punjab unit of the BJP is awaiting some kind of resolution to the face-off between farmers’ groups and the Union government over the three agriculture related laws in order to politically address the impact of not just parting ways with long time ally — the Akali Dal — but also the protests. Anxious partymen made a beeline to Delhi this week, holding meetings with Union Ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Narendra Singh Tomar, asking about the prospects of any kind of resolution to the impasse. “The Centre is prepared to resolve all grievances of farmers to end the deadlock. This assurance was given by Union Home Minister Amit Shah to our delegation, which met him and Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Delhi recently,” Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma told The Hindu . Significantly, Mr. Sharma said the delegation also discussed the political scene in Punjab in view of the upcoming municipal elections in the State, the first since the parting of ways with the Akali Dal. He had earlier announced that the BJP would be fighting all 117 Assembly seats in the State in 2022, a big jump from the 23 seats it usually fought within the NDA. The BJP-Akali Dal alliance was one of the oldest of the NDA, but lately the BJP has been chafing at the bit, wanting a larger seat share. Party leaders conceded that the situation on the ground was very much a case of all versus the BJP but drew sustenance from the case in Haryana, where the party formed a government twice by appealing counter intuitively to a non-Jat support base. “It’s a challenge and we need to convert it into an opportunity... Earlier, there were times when it was the Congress versus all. Now in Punjab — in fact, across the country — it is BJP versus all. In neighbouring Haryana, same thing happened; the BJP decided to go it all alone and that opportunity was converted into an achievement,” said Manoranjan Kalia, a former Minister and ex-BJP State president. For now though, it’s mostly a wait and watch game for State leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-farmers-protest-its-bjp-versus-all-in-punjab/article33341106.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||British PM to be chief guest at Republic Day celebration||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be the chief guest of India’s Republic Day celebrations, U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said here on Tuesday. He stressed that the Indo-Pacific region was one of the “highest” focus areas of the U.K.’s foreign policy. Addressing a press conference with the visiting dignitary, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said both the countries should make a difference to the “rules based global order.” Mr. Raab said, “We welcome India’s return to the UN Security Council... Prime Minister Johnson has invited Prime Minister Modi to join the U.K.-hosted G7 summit next year. Prime Minister Johnson has also gratefully accepted the very generous invitation to attend India’s Republic Day celebrations in January which is a great honour.” He stated that the U.K. and India were working on an “Enhanced Trade Partnership” that would be a stepping stone for a free trade agreement (FTA) between the two sides, covering a vast array of activities from information technology to lifestyle. The future FTA with India was expected to be a part of the post-Brexit British economic plans. Mr. Raab said both nations would build a new generation of partnership in the Indo-Pacific region, which was one of the “highest foreign policy priorities” of the Boris Johnson government. He confirmed that HMS Queen Elizabeth Carrier Strike Group would visit the Indo-Pacific region in 2021. Mr. Jaishankar pointed at areas of bilateral convergence in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific region. India looked forward to work with the U.K. as it began its non-permanent stint at the UN Security Council in January 2021, he said. Mr. Raab said, “We are committed to building a stronger defence and security partnership with our Indian friends. That will help us tackle shared issues of concern like terrorism, maritime security, including things like piracy in the western Indian Ocean. It will also help us to respond to the new and emerging challenges like space and cyber security.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/british-pm-to-be-chief-guest-at-republic-day-celebration/article33341120.ece
16 December 2020||Guwahati,||Man declared ‘foreigner’ dies at 104||A bedridden man who was sent to a detention centre for foreigners at the age of 102 has died at his residence in southern Assam’s Barak Valley. He was 104. News portals based out of Cachar district reported on December 14 that Chandradhar Das died close to midnight on December 13 before he could prove his citizenship. His daughter, Niyati Das, said the centenarian was not keeping well and unable to eat properly for months. “He could barely speak but had one last wish – to die as a recognised Indian,” she said from their residence at Amraghat near district headquarters Silchar. “Sad to know [of his death],” said Lakshmanan S., Mission Director of National Health Mission, Assam, who was the Deputy Commissioner of Cachar district when a Foreigners’ Tribunal (FT) declared Das a foreigner in an ex-parte judgement. Mr. Lakshmanan had ensured bail for Das on humanitarian grounds after his condition came to light. Detention centre The centenarian was lodged at the Silchar Central Jail – one of six that doubles up as a detention centre for “illegal foreigners” – in January 2018 after an FT in Silchar declared him a non-citizen. Das’s claim of citizenship was based on a refugee registration certificate issued in 1956 in Tripura capital Agartala, which said he was born in Comilla district of erstwhile East Pakistan, now Bangladesh. His case had been pending as the authorities in Tripura have not verified the document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-declared-foreigner-dies-at-104/article33341129.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Secretariat trees may not be saved as NGO pulls out||Most of the giant decades-old trees on the secretariat premises may not be saved from felling after all. Vata Foundation, the voluntary organisation, which had offered to translocate the trees, free of cost, has stopped work two days ago after moving about 18 trees to a private land in Shamshabad in huge trailers. This was in protest against the departments concerned seeking Rs. 1,000 each for the eight trees by the agency for “illegally” translocating them along with the 10 trees that were officially permitted! The Forest department's Tree Protection Committee (TPC) had permitted translocation of 30 trees and had allowed 50 to be felled, according to sources in the know, seeking anonymity. 70 trees identified Another 70 trees were identified for removal with the 'powerful' Tree Protection Committee having to identify those among them, either for translocation or felling. In the meantime, the voluntary agency, which is involved in digging, trimming and transport of the giant trees, shifted about eight trees identified for felling, since it considers any tree - irrespective of age or species can be saved. "Claiming revenue loss, officials concerned demanded we pay for the illegal translocation of trees identified for felling. It is as if the onus is only on us to save trees despite the Minister for Municipal Administration, K.T. Rama Rao, stating no more trees to be felled for development. On the one hand, we see saplings planted with wide publicity and on the other, trees are being mercilessly felled," said the sources concerned. ‘No cooperation’ "We have not been receiving any kind of cooperation at the secretariat site and on top of it, we have been paying for labour for digging, trimming and transport. It costs up to Rs. 2 to 2.5 lakh to move these 50 plus year-old trees 35 km away with heavy equipment. We have decided to pay up Rs. 8000 for shifting eight trees earmarked for felling," explained Foundation Founder-Trustee P. Uday Krishna. The Foundation has already moved its volunteers and equipment to Tellapur-Nallagandla road where local residential associations sought translocation of 100 trees facing the axe due to a proposed road widening project. About 16 have been translocated to properties of private individuals, he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/secretariat-trees-may-not-be-saved/article33341701.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Handiwork of BJP, JD(S), says Cong.||Terming Tuesday’s incidents at the Legislative Council a “black mark in India’s Parliamentary democracy”, Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday accused the BJP and the JD(S) of engineering a “planned conspiracy” in which the rules of the House were violated and Constitutional provisions thrown to the wind. “The Chairman was locked in his office, and without his permission the Deputy Chairman was asked to chair the session. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy have to tell the people which of the House rules were followed today,” he told presspersons after the Council was adjourned sine die amid din. “The rules state that if the Chairman cannot officiate the House because of foreign travel, health grounds or any other specific reasons, he can allow the Deputy Chairman to officiate. Has this rule been followed? The no-confidence motion was not on the House agenda since it had been rejected for not being in order. If the motion comes into the agenda, 10 members should support the motion without any discussion. Based on this, the Chairman has to fix a day for taking up the motion within five days. Has this rule been followed?” he asked, reading from the rulebook. Asking if this was a “banana republic” to bring a rejected notice on to the agenda without the Chairman’s permission, Mr. Siddaramaiah said, “It was illegal on the part of the Law and Parliamentary Secretary to write to the Chairman to hold the session. Despite this, the Chairman did not want to get into a fight and had the decency to convene the session. Against the rules, the BJP wanted to conduct the session by making the Deputy Chairman sit in the chair.” The former Chief Minister alleged that Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan made the Deputy Chairman sit in the chair illegally and the Law Minister threatened the marshals. “Both instigated party members to indulge in goondaism,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/handiwork-of-bjp-jds-says-cong/article33341076.ece
16 December 2020||KOCHI,||PFI received over Rs. 100 crore, says ED||The Popular Front of India (PFI) has received over Rs. 100 crore in its accounts over the years, according to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). A large part of the deposits have been made in cash and the source and disbursal of these funds are under investigation, said the agency on Tuesday in its custody application for K.A. Rauf Sherief, general secretary of Campus Front of India (CFI), the student wing of the organisation. Sherif was arrested by the agency last week. Since 2013, the PFI had been indulging in various scheduled offences and the money transfers and cash deposits had gone up significantly after 2014. Anti-CAA stir Investigations had revealed that the PFI was involved in the anti-CAA [Citizenship (Amendment) Act] protests and funds during the period between December 2019 and February 2020 may have been used for the purpose, it said. Role in Delhi riots In another case of money laundering in the Delhi riots of February 2020, according to the ED, the role and involvement of members/activists of the PFI have come to the notice. Several PFI members/activists/office-bearers were arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the investigation into the riots, the ED said. There are also indications that the PFI has links with the recent violence in Benguluru in which its political wing, the Social Democratic Party of India, has been found to be involved. Various offences The PFI has also been involved in various cases in the past in which public order was disturbed and various offences of grave nature committed, it said. Recent searches conducted on the offices of the organisation and the residences of its office-bearers across India revealed that the organisation had been collecting huge amounts of funds from abroad and the targets of foreign collection of funds been fixed. Foreign funds PFI members/activists were appointed for the collection of funds. Since these foreign funds were not reflected in the bank accounts of the PFI, it was evident that the money was remitted through hawala/underground channels, it submitted. The ED said it was evident that the PFI and its associated organisations such as the CFI were continuously involved in the offence of money laundering and using the proceeds of crime for committing unlawful activities across India. The Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, will consider the case on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pfi-received-over-rs-100-crore-says-ed/article33341077.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,||OCI students eligible for govt. quota, says Karnataka HC||Declaring that students under the Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) category are to be considered as “citizens of India” for admission to professional courses, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government to admit them to undergraduate professional courses, including engineering, medical, and dental, even under the government and institutional quotas, and not to restrict their admission only under the NRI quota. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda delivered the verdict while dismissing an appeal filed by the government against the April 2019 single judge verdict, which also had allowed OCI students to seek admission to professional courses in regular quota of seats. The Division Bench allowed the petitions filed by OCI students, Pranav Bajpe and several others. While confirming admission given to the students in 2019–20 based on the court’s directions, the Division Bench directed the government to admit all eligible OCI students to professional courses, through the Karnataka CET and the NEET admission process, from the academic year 2020–21 by allowing them to participate in counselling for selection of seats in government and private aided or unaided colleges. The Division Benchhas quashed Section 2(1)(n) of the Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Determination of Fee) Act, 2006, as amended in 2017 to include the ‘OCI’ cardholders within the definition of “Non-resident Indian.” While interpreting the provisions of the Constitution, the Citizenship Act, 1955, and the notifications issued on the rights of OCI cardholders under the Citizenship Act, the Division Bench held that inclusion of the expression ‘OCI cardholder’ in the definition of NRI in the 2006 Act was contrary to notifications issued under the Citizenship Act. The laws of the State must yield to the Central law as citizenship is controlled by the laws made by Parliament, the Division Bench held. Noticing that the petitioner-students were minors at the time of filing the petitions, the Bench held that they “had the benefit of a dual citizenship” — a citizenship of the foreign country on account of their birth in that country and the citizenship of India as per Section 41A and 4(1)(b) of the Citizenship Act, which gives citizenship of India with certain conditions. This right is particularly conferred on minors in the Citizenship Act so as to safeguard and protect their interests until they attain full age, the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oci-students-eligible-for-govt-quota-says-karnataka-hc/article33341088.ece
16 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Govt. is targeting us in all possible ways’||As the farmers’ agitation over the Centre’s new farm laws continues, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the largest outfits in Punjab, has questioned the intent of the Central government in resolving the stalemate. BKU(U) president Joginder Singh on Tuesday told The Hindu that since the agitation started the government has been repeatedly trying to malign the movement with the sole aim of discrediting it. He said there was nothing wrong in waving photos of jailed activists on Human Rights Day from the outfit’s platform at Tikri (the Delhi-Bahadurgarh border). “Raising our voice demanding the release of activists and intellectuals, who we feel have been wrongly put behind bars, is not something new... On December 10 to observe the Human Rights Day, we again raised the demand from our stage. What’s wrong in that?” Mr. Singh alleged that the BJP-led Central government was finding ways to target and weaken the agitation on one pretext or the other. “First they [government] said the ongoing movement is led by the Congress [Opposition], then they associated it with the Khalistanis, then with Pakistan-China and then tried to label us as anti-national.” Mr. Singh accused the government of targeting the movement in all possible manners. “They are trying to bring to the fore the farm unions which they claim are backing the new laws. In Haryana, their Ministers are trying to provoke emotions by raising the Satluj-Yamuna Link canal issue... All this is being done to weaken our struggle,” he said. “The government is double faced... On one side, they give an impression that they want to resolve the issue but on the other hand they are making attempts to defame the agitation. Also, what’s the point of selectively inviting farm unions separately for talks? They are fearful of our unity and therefore they want to divide us at any cost. I urge all the unions to stick together,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-targeting-us-in-all-possible-ways/article33341107.ece
16 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Stop salaries of top officials if pension dues are not paid: HC||The Orissa High Court has ordered that the salary of Odisha Finance and Law Secretaries be withheld if the pension of a person, who retired from service 22 years ago, is not regularised by next week. A division bench comprising Justice S. Panda and Justice S.K. Panigrahi took the stringent view after noting that the pension had not been regularised despite the HC order to do so a year ago. Mithuram Bhoi (80), who was a work-charged employee in the Hirakud Dam Project, had retired on June 30, 1998. As he was not paid the pension benefit, he had moved the State Administrative Tribunal (SAT) to get his dues. The SAT had ordered payment of basic minimum pension after regularising his service in 2015. The Department of Irrigation had moved the High Court against the SAT’s order. The Orissa HC had, however, upheld the SAT order in December 2019. division bench comprising then Chief Justice K.S. Jhaveri and Justice K.R. Mohapatra had directed the government to regularise the services of Mr. Bhoi against any sanctioned post and grant minimum scale of pay, pension and other retirement benefits taking into consideration the period during which he discharged his service as a work-charged employee. The HC had then directed payment of actual pension from February 1, 2020 and arrears. It even made it clear that if the amount was not paid, the employee should be paid 9% interest from the date of his entitlement. As the government failed to carry out the HC order, Mr. Bhoi filed a contempt of court case. The HC Bench comprising Justice Panda and Justice Panigrahi said: “Since the court has passed an order on December 12, 2019 and in the meantime, one year has elapsed and for non-compliance of the order, contempt application has been filed, copy of the same has been served on the State government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-salaries-of-top-officials-if-pension-dues-are-not-paid-hc/article33341115.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Netaji museum planned in Kolkata for 125th anniversary||As a part of the commemoration of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary in 2022, the Union Culture Ministry is planning a museum in Kolkata, an exhibition at the Victoria Memorial and cultural performances in West Bengal, the Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel held a meeting that was attended by family members of the freedom fighter to discuss the preparations. Mr. Patel said the programme would start from January 23, 2021, a year ahead of the 125th birth anniversary. Historical documents, photos and other materials would be brought together at one place for display. A museum on Bose was “proposed to be set up in Kolkata as a part of commemorations and that the current museum at Red Fort, New Delhi is also proposed to be expanded”, the statement said. Culture Secretary Raghvendra Singh said the Victoria Memorial in Kolkata would host a grand exhibition and an “eminent personality” would deliver the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Memorial lecture, it said. “The celebrations would also include cultural programmes in West Bengal under the ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat programme’, especially in partnership with paired State of West Bengal ie. Rajasthan,” the statement said, referring to the Centre’s initiative for interaction between States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/netaji-museum-planned-in-kolkata-for-125th-anniversary/article33341118.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Jairam Ramesh refutes govt. claim on Parliament session||Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh refuted the government’s claim that informal discussions had been held with Opposition leaders before deciding against holding the winter session of Parliament. In a tweet, Mr. Ramesh said no such consultation had happened. “The Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha was NOT consulted. Mr. Pralhad Joshi is as usual departing from the truth,” Mr. Ramesh tweeted. Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad is the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Ramesh was reacting to the letter sent by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi to Congress’s Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chaudhary in reply to the latter’s demand for a special session of Parliament to discuss the three farm laws and the ongoing farmers’ protest against it. In his response, Mr. Joshi said “I have informally contacted floor leaders of various political parties and they have expressed concerns about the ongoing pandemic and opined of doing away with winter session.” This was the first comment from the government on skipping the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jairam-ramesh-refutes-govt-claim-on-parliament-session/article33341099.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Spike in return of people to Bangladesh||In the past four years, nearly twice the number of illegal Bangladeshi migrants were caught leaving the country compared to those coming in illegally, according to data available with the Border Security Force (BSF) and the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB). Till December 14 this year, as many as 3,173 illegal migrants were apprehended by the BSF when they were attempting to cross over to Bangladesh, three times more than the 1,115 caught while trying to enter India through illegal means. In 2019, 2018 and 2017, the numbers of Bangladeshis leaving the country stood at 2,638, 2,971 and 821 respectively, compared to the 1,351, 1,118 and 871 persons respectively who entered illegally. In 2017, as many as 892 Indians were caught while crossing over to Bangladesh and 276 while entering the country without any documents. However, such data is not available for subsequent years in the NCRB’s annual report. A senior government official said the number of persons leaving the country could be more as there are instructions to avoid paperwork and documentation for out-migrants. Another official added that there had been a surge in numbers of illegal Bangladeshis leaving the country due to the lack of work following the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. “If they are apprehended, we let them go back. If they are arrested, it leads to lengthy legal procedures and the illegal migrants then have to be placed in a shelter or detention home till their nationality is proved,” the official said on condition of anonymity. On November 29, 2017, former BSF Director General K.K. Sharma had told a press conference in Delhi that they had instructions to push back the Rohingya to Bangladesh as they become a “liability” once they are arrested. Mr. Sharma said it was difficult to distinguish between the Rohingya and Bangladeshis and the BSF personnel were not equipped to differentiate between the two on the basis of dialect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spike-in-return-of-people-to-bangladesh/article33341109.ece
16 December 2020||Kochi,||HC: no interference in appointment of IT team||The Kerala High Court has officially said that there was no interference from any quarters in the appointment of five IT professionals in the court. In a press release on Tuesday, Sophy Thomas, Registrar General, said the reports that appeared in newspapers in this regard, both in Malayalam and in English “are not the official versions of the High Court”. NIC connect The government had at no time expressed any incapacity on the part of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and there was no move to avoid the NIC from the development of the IT infrastructure of the High Court. As per the specific proposal of the High Court, the technical team appointed would have to work along with the NIC, the release added. The press release was issued against the backdrop of newspaper reports alleging that former IT Secretary and Principal Secretary to Chief Minister M. Sivasankar, an accused in the money laundering case registered in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, had interfered in the the appointment of the High Court IT professionals. No inquiry No inquiry was ordered by the Chief Justice into the recruitment process, the press release clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-no-interference-in-appointment-of-it-team/article33341321.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Health survey data flags disparity in Net access||The 5th National Family Health Survey (NFHS 5) data for 17 States and 5 Union Territories released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has indicated a stark disparity in access to the Internet by men, in contrast to women in a number of States. In Karnataka and Bihar, for example, twice as many men have access to the Internet as compared to women. Sikkim stands out Sikkim is the only State where access among men (78.2%) and women (76.7%) is almost equal.  While the detailed report with data for all the States is awaited, the data from the first phase of the NFHS-5 indicated a decline in nutritional status of children under 5 years, continued female sterilisation being dominant as the modern method of contraceptives, anaemia being much higher among women compared to men and increase in teenage pregnancies. The first set of findings from the NFHS 5, conducted in 2019-20, was released recently four years after the last one (2015-16), and is one of the most comprehensive, data at scale on health and family welfare and emerging issues in this area. Analysing the current data, the Population Foundation of India (PFI), a non-government organisation working in the area of health and community wellbeing, said States like Manipur, Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Nagaland had also shown an increase in teenage pregnancies. “Along with an increase in child marriage, Tripura has also shown an increase in teenage pregnancy from 18.8% in 2015-16 to 21.9%. Domestic violence Also while spousal violence has generally declined in most of the States and UTs, it has witnessed an increase in five States, namely Sikkim, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Assam and Karnataka. Karnataka witnessed the largest increase, from 20.6% in the NFHS 4 to 44.4% in the NFHS 5. Sexual violence has increased in five States (Assam, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Meghalaya and West Bengal),’’ noted the PFI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-survey-data-flags-disparity-in-net-access/article33341113.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||No change of court in actor assault case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea made by the Kerala government for transferring the trial of the case relating to the abduction and sexual abuse of a female actor in which actor Dileep is an accused. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar agreed with the Kerala High Court that allegations of bias against the trial judge were unwarranted. The State government, represented by advocate G. Prakash, had said the trial was marred by incidents of bias towards the prosecution and harassment of the survivor. “During the trial, while the examination of PW1/survivor was going on in-camera, the fifth accused took pictures inside the court hall using his mobile phone,” the State’s appeal said. “The trial court has remained a mute spectator despite the prosecution bringing these aspects to the notice of the trial court,” the State had emphasised.  The police version of the case said that the actor was held captive and assaulted by some of the accused while on her way to Kochi. They had also taken a video of the incident. The allegation is that Dileep had masterminded the conspiracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-change-of-court-in-actor-assault-case/article33341079.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers’ protest chokes units in Bahadurgarh||Spread across the industrial areas of Bahadurgarh, including the ‘Footwear Park’, around 1,000 footwear manufacturing units employ over 2 lakh workers, most of them migrant. Though Agra and Kanpur remain the hub for leather footwear, Bahadurgarh footwear manufacturers have around 50% share in the country’s non-leather footwear industry. Rajesh Chug, owner of Sunflag Chemicals Private Limited, a manufacturer of paint drier, said both his units in MIE’s ‘Part B’ were running at almost one-third capacity. “We are running the units with a lot of effort, though many in our neighbourhood are now temporarily shut. The agitators have left a narrow passage, making it difficult for heavy vehicles to cross during the daytime. So the trucks carrying goods mostly ply at night. The export of our goods is also hit. We are unable to get fresh orders due to delays in despatch,” said Mr. Chugh. He added the workers also had difficulty in reaching the factory from Delhi and that attendance was almost 20% down. Rajesh, a worker at a wood adhesive factory, said the unit had a dozen workers but it was temporarily shut for the past few days. “The owner has assured the payment of dues, but if the agitation continues, it might become difficult for him to pay without work for long. Earlier, he paid us during the lockdown as well,” said Mr. Rajesh, a resident of Chhotu Ram Nagar. He said the unit had taken a long time to recover after the lockdown induced by COVID-19, and now the agitation had led to a similar situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-protest-chokes-units-in-bahadurgarh/article33341083.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Scrap quotas for faculty in IITs, says MoE panel||“Being established and recognised as institutions of national importance under an Act of Parliament, IITs ought to be listed under the Schedule to the above CEI Act, 2019, for exemption from reservations,” the report said. In its reply to the RTI request, the MoE said the report was under the examination of the government. To address diversity issues, the report argued that a “system emphasising targeted goals over a period of time” and not “specific quotas” be followed so that IITs can “compete with other top institutions in the world in terms of excellence, output, research and teaching.” The Committee was constituted in April 2020 with Director of IIT Delhi, V. Ramgopal Rao, as its Chairperson and the Director of IIT Kanpur, Registrars of IIT Bombay and IIT Madras, and representatives from Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE), Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Department of Personnel and Training and Department of Persons with Disabilities as members. It was asked to suggest measures on effective implementation of reservation policies not only in recruitment, but also for admissions. The committee met twice in May and submitted its report on June 17, 2020. The report said that the expectations on the faculty from IITs were very high due to the quality and standards of education. “The faculty being recruited at IITs are candidates with minimum of Ph.D. degree with superior academic record and high research accomplishments,” it said. Highlighting the issue of low enrolment of reserved category students in Ph. D programmes in IITs, the committee said this was severely limiting the number of reserved category candidates available to be hired as faculty in the IIT system. Research programme Acknowledging the need to address this, the committee suggested offering a two-year Research Assistantship funded by the MoSJE for students from reserved categories aspiring to join Ph. D programmes. Stating that this will expose them to the IIT system of research, the committee said students may opt for Ph.D admissions or other opportunities after the assistantship. It, however, added that the subsequent selection of these students to regular Ph.D programmes will be only based on “merit” and there shall be no obligation on IITs to admit them. If granting full exemption from reservation was not possible, the committee recommended that the implement of reservation policies for all categories including Economically Weaker Sections be restricted just to Assistant Professor Grade I and Grade II and not for levels above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scrap-quotas-for-faculty-in-iits-says-moe-panel/article33341084.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Caste, community don’t matter, love isn’t a crime’||On December 5 evening, Ms. Pinki was brought to a Nari Niketan women’s shelter home. However, on December 11, she was admitted to a government hospital after complaining of pain in her abdomen. Ms. Pinki alleged that it was only after three days, when her health worsened, that she was taken to a hospital. She also alleged that after she was administered injections at the hospital, her bleeding worsened. “I have had a miscarriage,” she claimed, a day after doctors and officials said that the foetus was intact but further examination was on. Ms. Pinki’s claim is yet to be medically ascertained. On Monday, Nirmala Pathak, senior consultant at the district women’s hospital in Moradabad said the Ms. Pinki was referred to the Meerut Medical College for further tests like a TVS (trans vaginal scan). While the foetus was visible in the ultrasound, the heartbeat could not be observed clearly, Dr. Pathak had said. Ms. Pinki is yet to get tested and says she preferred to visit a private hospital. On Tuesday, Dr. Pathak dismissed Ms. Pinki’s allegations on the injections allegedly causing her suspected miscarriage. “The patient reported light spotting (bleeding) (with abdomen pain) and was given injections and pills to stop bleeding and relieve her pain,” said Dr. Pathak. Recalling the incident on December 5, when she had planned to get her marriage registered, Ms .Pinki alleged that members of a right-wing group had handed over the couple to the police. Ms. Pinki, who works in a cloth showroom, also alleged that her mother was instigated to file a complaint against her husband by a right-wing group. Despite living with her husband since July, her family had not earlier intervened or objected, she claimed. “We were living peacefully. I am happy with my husband,” she said, adding she had no problem in living as a Muslim.  Rajesh Chandra Gupta, District Probation Officer, denied allegations of mistreatment at the Nari Niketan. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Moradabad Prabhakar Chaudhary said the two accused men were under judicial remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/caste-community-dont-matter-love-isnt-a-crime/article33341089.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Vice Admiral Srikant passes away in Delhi||The Navy’s most senior submariner, Vice Admiral Srikant, died in the early hours of Tuesday due to COVID-19 related complications at the Base hospital in the national capital. The ‘grey dolphin’, as he is referred to, was the Director General of Project Seabird in Karwar, Karnataka. He was due to retire on December 31. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh expressed his condolences in a message on Twitter. “Deeply pained at the untimely and sudden demise of DG Seabird, Vice Admiral Srikant. The MoD and the Indian Navy will always remember his stellar contributions and remarkable service to the nation. My deepest condolences to his bereaved family and friends. Om Shanti!,” he said. Vice Adm Srikant had held appointments such as the Commandant of the National Defence College and the Inspector General of Nuclear Safety. He had also served as Defence Advisor in the Indian High Commission in Islamabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vice-admiral-srikant-passes-away-in-delhi/article33341124.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||MoS quotes Manusmriti at official conference||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Tuesday quoted Hindu scripture Manusmriti while virtually addressing a conference organised by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Mr. Reddy said that in the Manu Dharma Shastra, “Manu has divided the police into two functional departments, namely: the criminal investigation department and the law and order wing.” He stated, “Our great epics Ramayana and Mahabharata have emphasised the protection of the ‘praja’ [people] as the most important and basic duty of the king. To implement this, the king could use the concept of ‘danda’, the ability of the State to punish the guilty.” Mr. Reddy was addressing the inaugural session of a conference on best practices in crime and criminal tracking. “Crime does not follow jurisdictional boundaries. Hence, our response to crime should also not be restricted by boundaries. Immediate recording of crime and the access of the information to all stakeholders is undoubtedly a key aspect of any effective law enforcement operation,” he observed. Integrated database concepts such as the Interoperable Criminal Justice System have become indispensable, he stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mos-quotes-manusmriti-at-official-conference/article33341610.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC collegium moots transfer of HC judges||The Supreme Court collegium has recommended the transfer of judges of several High Courts, including the transfer of Justice J.K. Maheshwari of the Andhra Pradesh High Court to Sikkim and the elevation of Punjab and Haryana HC judge, S. Muralidhar, as the Chief Justice of Orissa, a source familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. The top court’s recommendations are yet to be sent to the Law Ministry, said the source. The Chief Justices of AP and Sikkim may swap places, with Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari moving to Gangtok and Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami moving south. Recently the Andhra Pradesh HC was dragged into a controversy as Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy had alleged that a senior judge of the Supreme Court was interfering in the functioning of the High Court. Justice S. Muralidhar, who is currently a judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court, is being recommended for elevation as the Chief Justice of Orissa High Court. Justice Pankaj Mithal with the Allahabad High Court, is being recommended as the next Chief Justice of Jammu and Kashmir. Justice Hima Kohli of the Delhi HC is being recommended for elevation as the Chief Justice of Telangana High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-collegium-moots-transfer-of-hc-judges/article33341611.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Council chief should go, says Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday demanded that Legislative Council Chairman Prathapchandra Shetty tender his resignation immediately and conduct himself in a dignified manner befitting of his position. “At least now he should resign,” the Chief Minister told reporters, expressing concern over the manner in which the Upper House had to be adjourned amid unruly scenes. “The Congress should ask the Chairman to resign immediately and conduct himself in such a way as to bring respect to the seat of the presiding officer.” He said that after the JD(S) publicly stated that it would stand with the BJP on the matter of no-confidence motion against the Chairman, it was the responsibility of the Congress to ensure that he resigned. “As per the opinion of legal experts, the Chairman lacks eligibility to sit on his chair as we had initiated the process to move no-confidence motion against him during the previous session itself,” Mr. Yediyurappa argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/council-chief-should-go-says-yediyurappa/article33341074.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. stand is shocking, says Chidambaram||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Tuesday termed the the Modi government’s “no repeal” stand over the farm laws as “shocking”. He urged the government to reach an agreement with the agitating farmers by “climbing down from its high horse”. In a series of tweets, Mr. Chidambaram said it is “obvious” that any agreement between the farmers and the Centre will need a new Bill. “It is shocking that after 20 days of farmers’ protests in the bitter winter of Delhi, the government continues to stick to the ‘no repeal’ stand. It is obvious that any agreement between farmers and government will necessarily require a new Bill to be passed in Parliament,” he said. In a separate tweet, former party chief Rahul Gandhi attacked the Modi government, saying only “crony capitalists are its best friends”. “For Modi Govt: Dissenting students are anti-nationals. Concerned citizens are urban naxals. Migrant labourers are Covid carriers. Rape victims are nobody. Protesting farmers are Khalistani. And crony capitalists are best friends,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-stand-is-shocking-says-chidambaram/article33341098.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Medical staff need a break, SC tells govt.||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the government to consider giving a ‘break’ to medical staffers in the forefront of the battle against the pandemic, saying working in the COVID-19 wards continuously for months may take a toll on their mental health. “For the last seven-eight months, doctors have not been given any break and are continuously working. You take instruction and think over giving them some break. It must be very painful and might be affecting their mental health,” a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre. The Bench was shocked to hear that Gujarat had collected around Rs. 90 crore from people who violated the norm to wear face masks in public. The court said that despite the collection of a huge amount as fine, violations continued in the State. Perusing an affidavit filed by Gujarat on fire safety in hospitals and public places, the court said it did not specify the hospitals which have fire clearance certificates. The information cited was of 2006. The Bench had taken suo motu cognisance of the recent blaze in a COVID hospital in Rajkot, where several patients died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/medical-staff-need-a-break-sc-tells-govt/article33341100.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Homeopaths can offer only supplements’||The Supreme Court on Tuesday clarified that homeopaths could prescribe government approved add-ons and mixtures to supplement conventional treatment for COVID-19 but could not advertise any cures to the virus. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, in a judgment, in fact, endorsed a March 6 advisory of the Ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) that homeopaths could not prescribe medicines for COVID-19 treatment but could provide prophylactic interventions for improving the immunity of patients. The verdict came on a petition that challenged the Kerala High Court order of August 21 that said AYUSH practitioners could prescribe government approved mixtures and tablets only as immunity boosters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/homeopaths-can-offer-only-supplements/article33341114.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Serious injustice, exploitation triggered violence’||All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) on Monday said their study into the unrest among employees at Wistron and the ransacking that followed were the result of “serious injustice and exploitation” employees suffered at work. Wistron is a multinational corporation from Taiwan that assembles iPhones at its factory at Narasapura Industrial Estate in Kolar district. AICCTU, in its fact-finding report, states that about 10,000 of Wistron’s employees are contract workers. Their job interviews were done by Wistron officials and they report to executives of the company. However, their job letters say they are being appointed by certain contractors, and half a dozen contractors are involved with Wistron, the report added. “Clearly, these contractors are mere name-lenders and Wistron is following an unfair labour practice to deny workers their rights as regular/permanent workers,” alleged the trade union. AICCTU said its office bearers visited Narasapura, met the workers to understand what led to the protest and ransacking of the company premises. “The workers were understandably in fear to speak up for their rights. Each worker is compelled to do a 12-hour shift every day and has no say in the matter. They kept demanding their salaries and overtime wages that were due, but officials never heard their plea,” the report said. According to the trade body, these contract workers consist of three broad categories – migrant workers from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, and other States; migrant workers from other districts of Karnataka, and workers from various villages in the taluks around Narasapura. Workers are now getting messages from the employer directing them not to report for duty until further communication, the trade body said. “Now they are worried about their jobs, and uncertain about their pending salaries and wages. The State government has to intervene and solve labour woes, especially when the majority of them are from an economically poor background and Dalits,” demanded the trade body. Meanwhile, tech giant Apple has said that it is undertaking a detailed investigation following the violence in the Wistron unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/serious-injustice-exploitation-triggered-violence/article33341073.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||AIIMS nurses protest at hospital in Delhi citing pay cuts||Hundreds of nurses of the AIIMS staged a protest on Tuesday, after the AIIMS Nurses Union on Monday went on an indefinite strike following the hospital’s alleged decision to hire nurses on contractual basis. The Union had issued notice over “anomaly” in their salaries and other demands under the sixth Central Pay Commission. On Tuesday, the nurses were protesting outside the Director’s office, demanding “justice” and said that they have been “forced” to go on strike by the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aiims-nurses-protest-at-hospital-in-delhi-citing-pay-cuts/article33341121.ece
16 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Two held for using drones for smuggling||Punjab police on Tuesday said they have arrested two members of a module using drones for cross-border smuggling of narcotics and weapons through an international network, including Pakistan-based smugglers with links to Khalistani operatives. They were identified as Lakhbir Singh and Bachittar Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-held-for-using-drones-for-smuggling/article33341467.ece
16 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Teacher beaten up for ‘molesting’ five girls||A teacher of the Mandal Parishad Primary School (MPPS) at Chintavarre village in Laxmidevipalli mandal allegedly sexually assaulted five girl students of the school on the pretext of taking private classes despite closure of the school due to COVID-19 pandemic. The incident came to light on Tuesday when the parents of a girl thrashed the teacher identified as D. Sunil Kumar at the school after their daughter narrated her ordeal to them, sources said. Sources said that some of the angry parents reportedly filed a complaint with the local police on Tuesday evening demanding stern action against the errant teacher. District Educational Officer Somasekhara Sarma told The Hindu that the secondary grade teacher has been suspended based on a complaint filed by the parents of five girl students on charges of sexually assaulting the five students.  Secondary grade teacher, Sunil Kumar has been suspended based on a complaint filed by the parents of five girl students. Somasekhara Sarma, District Educational Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teacher-beaten-up-for-molesting-five-girls/article33341607.ece
16 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Transport Minister tests COVID-positive||Telangana Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar has tested positive for COVID-19. The Minister tweeted that his RT-PCR test report showed he was positive and that he was now in home isolation. He advised those who had met him in the recent past to also get tested. He urged his friends and well-wishers not to contact him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/transport-minister-tests-covid-positive/article33341086.ece
16 December 2020||Srinagar,||Elections, Kashmir problem two different issues: JKAP chief Bukhari||J&K Apni Party (JKAP), a new entrant in the Union Territory’s (UT) regional politics, on Tuesday organised its first rally here and its president Altaf Bukhari said “the ongoing polls should not be mixed up with the larger political problem of Kashmir”. Mr. Bukhari, first regional leader and ex-Peoples Democratic Party Minister to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in March after abrogation of J&K’s special status, said, “people by participating in the District Development Council (DDC) polls are drafting a new narrative on Kashmir”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elections-kashmir-problem-two-different-issues-jkap-chief-bukhari/article33341122.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||AIIMS nurses call off strike||The Nurses Union of Delhi AIIMS called off their strike on Tuesday night after a two-hour meeting with the hospital administration, even as the Delhi High Court restrained it from continuing its agitation. The hospital administration has said “local issues” would be immediately addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aiims-nurses-call-off-strike/article33341609.ece
16 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata dares Centre to impose President’s rule||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banarjee on Tuesday dared the Centre to impose President’s rule in her State. Such a step would get more votes for her and help win Assembly elections, she claimed. “Impose President’s Rule if you can. I will be relieved of my administrative responsibilities and will give more time for political rallies,” she stated at a public rally at Jalpaiguri. Concerns over law, order The Trinamool Congress chairperson’s remarks come at a time when a section of the BJP leadership is demanding Central intervention, raising concerns over the law and order situation and murder of political workers. During the day, a delegation of BJP leadership met officials of the Election Commission of India on the “ issue of deteriorating law and order situation in West Bengal and the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha polls”.  At the public rally, Ms. Banerjee said that the BJP was trying to divide the minority votes in the State by bringing in a Hyderabad-based party. Though the Trinamool Congress chairperson did not name the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) or its leader Asaduddin Owaisi, her remarks were clearly directed at that party. “They [the BJP] are inviting a party from Hyderabad to split Muslim votes. You all have seen what happened in the polls in Bihar”. Ms. Banerjee said that party would try to create a polarisation so that the Hindu votes could go to the BJP and the Muslim votes could get divided. The AIMIM leadership had expressed its willingness to contest Assembly polls in West Bengal. Ms. Banerjee asked the people of north Bengal as to what her sin was that her party did not win a single seat from there in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “I haven’t won a single seat in north Bengal in the Lok Sabha elections but I want your support, your blessings in the Assembly polls,” she said. Referring to the incident involving the attack on BJP president J.P. Nadda’s convoy in Diamond Harbour, she raised questions as to what were “criminals” doing with the convoy of the BJP leader. “People get angry when they see those who have attacked and vanadalised the bust of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar”, she said, adding that she would not allow Bengal to be turned into Gujarat as the BJP had claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-dares-centre-to-impose-presidents-rule/article33341127.ece
16 December 2020||Kolkata,||Buddhadeb discharged from hospital||Former West Bengal Chief Minister and veteran Communist leader Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was on Tuesday discharged from a private hospital in Kolkata after his health parameters showed considerable improvement. Doctors treating him said he would continue to be under intensive care at his residence. “He was happy that he is returning home, listened to all our instructions and agreed to follow them at home,” said Dr. Kaushik Chakraborty, who treated Mr. Bhattacharjee at Woodlands Hospital. A team of doctors and nurses accompanied the 76-year-old leader to his Palm Avenue residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/buddhadeb-discharged-from-hospital/article33341130.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||India Post Payments Bank launches digital payment services ‘DakPay’||The Department of Posts and the India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) on Tuesday unveiled a new digital payment application “DakPay”. Union Minister for Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad said it added to the legacy of India Post, which was reaching out to every household.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-post-payments-bank-launches-digital-payment-services-dakpay/article33341132.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Prashant Bhushan moves Supreme Court, seeks hearing on his plea before review petitions are considered||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court seeking a direction that his two pleas, in which he has sought review of the orders convicting and sentencing him for contempt of court, be heard after adjudication of his separate petition raising the issue of right to appeal in such matter. The application has been moved by Mr. Bhushan, a day before a three-judge Bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar is scheduled to consider in-chamber on Wednesday his two petitions seeking review of the apex court’s orders by which he was convicted and sentenced in the contempt case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prashant-bhushan-moves-supreme-court-seeks-hearing-on-his-plea-before-review-petitions-are-considered/article33341133.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Post lockdown, MTC faces a crisis as commuters give it a pass||Since its inception in 1972, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) said it had never faced such unprecedented levels of low occupancy as recorded during the COVID-19 period. Being the city’s only public bus operator, the MTC had gained the confidence of the masses. More than 35 lakh people travelled daily before COVID-19 struck, leading to the shutting down of services from March 25 to September 1. The MTC had a healthy average of 60% to 65% occupancy rate before the pandemic struck. Amidst the pandemic, the government permitted the operation of 200 buses for the transportation of essential and government staff. Though normal services resumed on September 1 with safety guidelines, the confidence level among commuters reached the nadir with the occupancy rate registering 14% at one point and averaging at 10 lakh passengers per day. The MTC is going through a crisis of sorts, including poor occupancy, loss of public confidence, financial constraints and operating buses, and to top it all off, one-third of the fleet has been kept idle due to a lack of commuter strength. Regular commuters pointed out that the MTC had become an undependable transport operator. The transport corporation was criticised in the past for scrapping a number of regular bus routes citing poor patronage, irregular operation of buses against scheduled timings and stoppage of multi-modal small link buses. A comparison of the data before and during COVID-19 presents a clear picture of MTC’s current situation. The body pays an average of Rs. 100 crore as salary and wages per month. It has sustained expenses of over Rs. 450 crore towards salary alone without operating buses for five months (April to August), leading to mounting financial losses. A senior official of the MTC, confirming the poor patronage level, said the occupancy rate had improved from 30% in October to 41% in November. Raghavan, a resident of Nanganallur, said thousands of commuters from localities like Keelakattalai, Madipakkam, Moovarasampet, Ullagaram-Puzhithivakkam and Adambakkam, depended on bus services to reach their offices, as there were no other public transport facilities. Private transport After the lockdown was relaxed, owing to the absence of bus services people have begun switching over to private transport. He said, “At present only a few buses including 18R (Nanganallur to Broadway) and 45V (Nanganallur to Ice House) are operated at a frequency of two hoursI have started using my two-wheeler to reach the Metro station at Guindy.” While the State government announced allowing 100% occupancy of passengers in MTC and the seven State Transport Undertakings (STUs) from Monday, commuters pointed out the relief measure was too late for people to switch over from their private vehicles. Sivasubramaniam, of ITDP India, said the Karnataka government operated the public buses including air-conditioned buses during the peak COVID-19 period, boosting the confidence of the commuters. M. Shanmugam, president of the Labour Progressive Front (LPF) and the transport trade union affiliated to the DMK, said more than 7,000 of the eight STUs, including 1,000 buses of the MTC, could not be operated because of non-payment of road tax. He said the STUs should create confidence among the public by operating more buses, as keeping the buses idle would serve no purpose. A senior official of the State Transport Department denied that the MTC could not operate the full fleet because of non-payment of road tax and added that poor patronage was the actual reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-lockdown-mtc-faces-a-crisis-as-commuters-give-it-a-pass/article33341642.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Multilevel car parking at Chennai airport soon||Majority of the construction work for Chennai airport’s new multilevel car parking lot is complete, Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said, adding that they are planning to open it by April. The parking lot will have the capacity to house nearly 2,000 cars. Once operational, passengers can directly walk to the domestic or the international terminal through a transit tube facility that links the parking lot with the terminal. “Right now, the number of passengers travelling is growing quite well in the domestic sector. From nearly 5,000 passengers a day in May, it has spiked to about 20,000 a day now, with nearly 200 flights daily. The traffic will only go up in the coming months. Hence, a facility like this will be convenient for the passengers. By the time the lot is open, we are hoping that regular international flights, too, are operational,” an official said. Work for the parking lot began early last year at an estimated cost of Rs. 250 crore and over an area of 4.25 acres with two towers on either side of the Airport Metro station. While the present parking space can cater to 1,200 cars, the new one can hold up to 2,000 cars. Apart from the additional parking space, there will also be retail outlets and a multiplex. While one of the two towers will exclusively be for parking vehicles, the other will have parking space, retail outlets and the multiplex. “We have been contemplating reducing the space allotted for the retail outlets and increasing the parking lot area because of the impact of COVID-19. But it is not finalised yet. The multiplex and the retail outlets will come up a little later,” another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multilevel-car-parking-to-come-up-at-airport-soon/article33341648.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases rise to 183 on IIT-Madras campus||With another 79 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on the campus of IIT Madras, the Health Department has decided to test students residing in hostels of educational institutions, working women’s hostels and mansions in a phased manner. Institutions with a single mess were advised to arrange for takeaways for students, according to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. The Health Secretary warned educational institutions of action that do not adhere to the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued for higher educational institutions through two Government Orders. Saturation tests Following a cluster of COVID-19 cases at IIT Madras, he said the Chief Minister, while reviewing the situation, had ordered that saturation tests be carried out. “There are a total of 770 students. There were a few cases from December 1 to 6 but the numbers started to increase from December 11. So, the Health Department and Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) were instructed to test all,” he told reporters during the sidelines of an event at Communicable Diseases Hospital (CDH) on Tuesday. Till Monday, 104 persons, majority of them students, tested positive for COVID-19. “On Monday alone, we lifted 539 samples covering all hostels, and workers. Of this, 79 persons have tested positive for the infection. Till Monday, the positivity rate was 25%. This has reduced to 15% now,” he said. Localised cluster A total of 978 samples were lifted of which results are awaited for 25. Of the results of 953 tests, 183 persons have tested positive from December 1, he said, adding that the overall positivity rate was 19%. “This is a localised cluster,” he pointed out. As a continuation, tests would be conducted in other educational institutions such as Anna University, Madras University and Bharathidasan University in a phased manner where there are messes. “Apart from contacts of positives, we will test students staying in hostels of institutions, working women’s hostels and mansions,” he said. Students, he said, should avoid group discussions, meeting in laboratories and dining halls. “Through Higher Education Secretary Apoorva, we have advised Vice-Chancellors to arrange for takeaways if there is a single mess, that is to arrange for distribution of food in hostels,” he said. Apart from this, mass testing would also be taken up in places such as the Koyambedu market. Already, GCC has tested 4 lakh vendors, he pointed out. The Chief Minister has instructed the Health Secretary, GCC Commissioner and all district Collectors to make wearing of masks mandatory. “We should ensure effective implementation of mandatory use of masks, and take action if required. Till now, we have collected Rs. 9.83 crore as fine for violations,” he said. Lesson for public The official pointed out that COVID-19 cases were on the declining trend in the State, with the positivity rate being less than two per cent. “This is a lesson for the public. Many think that the disease is on the decline and there was no need to wear masks when in groups or during family programmes, or during marriages. We are closely monitoring other hostels, and aggressive testing will continue,” he said.  ‘Follow SOP’ Cautioning educational institutions, he said the guidelines issued for functioning of higher educational institutions were clear. “If the standard operating procedures are not followed, if students sit together in classes with no gaps in between or are being casual in dining halls, we will take action on the college administration,” he said. On the occasion, Rotary Club Chennai Coastal and Meenambakkam, under the global grant, has provided a RT PCR testing kit for CDH, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-rise-to-183-on-iit-madras-campus/article33341241.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Passengers seek safer buses||Until March, K. Selvam, a resident of Teynampet used to travel to his work place in Anna Nagar in Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses. After the pandemic, he feels safer to cycle to work as he used to do during the lockdown when there was no public transport. “I purchased a cycle during the lockdown and started cycling to work. When bus services were started I was not very sure whether I should travel by them. When I saw the lack of personal distancing in the buses, I decided to continue cycling to work. It has made me fitter and helped me save some money too,” Mr. Selvam said. Urban planning experts feel that if public transport modes are not made safer, it could lead to an increase in private motor vehicle usage. “This will start choking the streets and increase pollution. The government should ensure that the buses are well-sanitised and personal distancing is followed. There should be more frequency of services as the number of passengers would be limited,” an urban planning expert said. Many preferred travelling by trains, considering safety aspects. “At least there 12 compartments. In buses, neither the crew nor the passengers wear masks,” said K. Balakrishnan, a resident of Villivakkam. Meanwhile, many students, too, wanted to travel by trains rather than buses. “After college reopened, I have been travelling by bike. Since I travel from Korattur to the city, I feel comfortable travelling by train. It is safer too,” said S. Mugesh, a final-year student of a city college. A senior railway official said as of now they were running 320 suburban services. “We have written to the Railway Board and are awaiting their reply for allowing all students to travel using their bonafide letter from the college and identity card at the ticket counter. As of now, we are allowing those appearing for exams or interviews,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-seek-safer-buses/article33341644.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC appoints former CJ to monitor the selection process of Marina beach vendors||The Madras High Court on Tuesday appointed former Sikkim High Court Chief Justice Satish K. Agnihotri to select, by draw of lots, the 900 vendors to whom licences would be issued by the Greater Chennai Corporation for selling food items, souvenirs and other articles on modern push carts as part of the Marina Beach Beautification Project. The Second Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh made the appointment after Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal suggested the name of the retired judge and also stated that the latter had consented to supervise the draw of lots in order to ensure fairness and transparency in the process of selecting the vendors. When an advocate representing the vendors commended the efforts taken by the court towards beautification of the beach but insisted on taking care of the vendors too, the judges said they had already instructed the Corporation to bear in mind that the endeavour of the court was to beautify the beach and not to disturb the livelihood of the vendors. Alternative avenues On Monday, the judges had instructed the AAG to find out some alternative avenues for the vendors who could not be accommodated in the Marina beach. It was not as if Marina beach was the only place where the vendors could eke out their living. They could earn money even in other places, the senior judge on the Bench told the AAG. While restricting the number of vendors on the Marina beach to 900, it must be ensured that others do not flood the court by claiming deprivation of livelihood, he added. The AAG, in turn, told the court that the Corporation had decided to grant licence to the vendors under two categories. He said 60% of the licences would be given to the existing vendors and the rest would be given to new vendors. He submitted that at present more than one member of a family had been vending on the beach. Steps had been taken to identify such people and restrict the vending licence to only one member per family, he said.  Steps have been taken to restrict the vending licence to only one member per family  S.R. Rajagopal Additional Advocate General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-appoints-former-cj-to-monitor-the-selection-process-of-marina-beach-vendors/article33341645.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The continuing political relevance of MGR||Nearly 33 years after the death of former Chief Minister and AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran (MGR), different political players continue to stake claim to his legacy in Tamil Nadu. In the recent days, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan has started projecting himself, aggressively, as a claimant of the legacy of MGR — the first actor to head a government in India. In a tweet on Tuesday, he published a video of MGR felicitating him at an event in the 1980s, claiming that he “grew up” on the lap of the former Chief Minister. A couple of days ago in Madurai, he referred to MGR’s idea of creating a second capital for the State. In March 2018, his long-standing colleague in films, Rajinikanth, who plans to launch a political party next month, declared that he wanted to revive MGR’s rule in the State. Over a decade ago, DMDK founder Vijayakant had sought to fashion himself as “Black MGR”. Even the BJP’s State unit sought to use MGR’s image for its recent ‘Vetrivel Yatra’. Congress MP S. Thirunavukkarasar, who served in MGR’s Ministry during 1980-87, said the AIADMK had not been projecting MGR to the extent that it does with Jayalalithaa. “The present government keeps calling itself Amma’s [Jayalalithaa] regime,” he said. This could be one of the reasons behind the attempts of actor-politicians to claim MGR’s legacy. As for the continuing relevance of MGR as a political factor, Mr. Thirunavukkarasar pointed out that even though the present youth might not have seen the former Chief Minister, his memory was being perpetuated through the conventional media and social media, which have been discussing about his role in the State’s politics. MNM vice-president R. Mahendran said the AIADMK had “gone astray” from MGR’s ideals and asserted that the former Chief Minister’s legacy “belonged to the people, and as a party, to us too.” His party, he said, had also been doing everything to preserve the memory of Mahatma Gandhi and Kamaraj. Former Minister and AIADMK organisation secretary C. Ponnaiyan denied the charge against the State government and his party. He said the present regime was formed by Jayalalithaa, who scored a “thumping victory” in the 2016 Assembly election. This was why Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, his colleagues and the party had been calling the government “ Amma ’s [Jayalalithaa’] government”, he said. “But you should not forget that she was the sole inheritor of MGR’s legacy, which belongs only to our party, the AIADMK. No one else can claim it,” he said, emphasising that Mr. Haasan and Mr. Rajinikanth had “no right” over the legacy. Tamil writer J. Ramki, who has been specialising on Rajinikanth, said as the term “MGR rule” connoted a regime that worked for the welfare of all sections of society, regardless of caste, language or region, the former Chief Minister continued to be relevant, politically.  But you should not forget that she [Jayalalithaa] was the sole inheritor of MGR’s legacy, which belongs only to our party, the AIADMK. No one else can claim it C. Ponnaiyan Former Minister and AIADMK organisation secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-continuing-political-relevance-of-mgr/article33341233.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Symbol allotment can be sought only after registration||With the Assembly election just a few months away, some of the registered but unrecognised political parties have been allotted symbols by the Election Commission of India (ECI). Others, including actor Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) and the proposed party of fellow film star Rajinikanth, would have to wait for the allotment of a symbol in Tamil Nadu. No political party can claim the allotment of a symbol even at the time of registration with the ECI, according to the legal provision and officials — serving and retired — dealing with election issues. Once registration is done, a new party can write to the panel, seeking the allotment of a specific symbol. Under para 10B of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968, which was amended through a June 2015 notification, a registered, unrecognised political party, during the Assembly election or the Lok Sabha poll, may be allotted a common symbol if it fields candidates in at least 5% of Assembly constituencies or in two Lok Sabha constituencies. For example, in Tamil Nadu, a party seeking a common symbol during the 2021 Assembly poll should field its nominees in a minimum of 12 constituencies. There are several other conditions too. It is under this clause that parties like the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), the MNM, the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) and six other outfits have been allotted common symbols for the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The MNM has been given its earlier symbol of ‘battery torch’ only for the Puducherry Assembly election, whereas the AMMK and the NTK have been given the common symbols of ‘pressure cooker’ and ‘ganna kisan’ for the elections in both T.N. and Puducherry. Two former Chief Election Commissioners, speaking on the condition of anonymity, explained that recognition does provide the parties certain privileges, but every registered party has the right to seek the allotment of a common symbol, subject to fulfilling the conditions laid down by the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/symbol-allotment-can-be-sought-only-after-registration/article33341240.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC warns Latha Rajinikanth of contempt proceedings||The Madras High Court on Monday warned Sree Raghavendra Educational Society, represented by its secretary Latha Rajinikanth, of being subjected to contempt of court proceedings if it does not vacate by April 30, 2021 the rented premises where The Ashram school was being run by it here. The court also restrained the society from admitting students at the rented premises from the academic year 2021-22. Justice N. Sathish Kumar passed the order on an application preferred by the society to extend the time for vacating the property till April 2021. The applicant’s counsel S. Elambharathi told the court that though the society and the landlords had entered into a compromise in August 3, 2018 and it was agreed to vacate the premises by April 30, 2020, the deadline could not be adhered to by the society due to COVID-19. He also said the monthly rent had been paid promptly to the landlords and that the Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) had also been remitted to the Income Tax Department. After recording his submission, the judge said the society should strictly adhere to the final deadline of April 30, 2021 for vacating the property and make sure that the school shifts to some other location. The application seeking extension of time was preferred as part of a civil suit that the landlords Ch. Venkateswarlu, Ch. Poornachandra Rao and others had filed in the High Court in 2014 for recovery of Rs. 1.99 crore of alleged rental dues till March 2013, along with interest at the rate of 18% per annum. The suit also sought for eviction and included actor Rajinikanth, too, as a defendant by claiming him to be the founder trustee of the society. However, when it was brought to his notice that Mr. Rajinikanth was in no way connected to the society, Justice Kumar struck down the actor’s name from the suit. He, however, decreed the suit against the society, represented by Ms. Rajinikanth, on August 3, 2018 on the basis of the compromise reached between the parties. According to the compromise memo, the society agreed to pay monthly rent of Rs. 8 lakh, inclusive of TDS. The society, further, agreed to vacate the property by April 30, 2020. In view of the compromise, the judge rejected the first prayer for recovery of alleged rental dues and decreed the suit only with respect to eviction. Nevertheless, since the school had to be shut down due to COVID-19, the society had moved the court seeking extension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-warning-to-latha-rajinikanth/article33341204.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC questions Theni govt. college on issue of transfer certificate||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Dean of the Government Medical College in Theni to report to the court about the manner in which a MBBS student, now under suspension after being accused of gaining admission through impersonation in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), could be relieved from the college. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh wanted the Dean to take into consideration the student’s willingness to pay Rs. 10 lakh towards the discontinuation fees, as per the 2019 admission norms, and inform the court whether he could be issued with a transfer certificate (TC). The judge wanted the information to be provided by December 21.  Criminal case The interim directions were issued on a writ petition filed by the student against the refusal of the Dean to issue the transfer certificate since he was facing a criminal case under investigation by the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department. He had also been arrested and released on bail thereafter. A Special Government Pleader told the court that the student had undergone the MBBS course last year for just one month and 10 days before being suspended due to the criminal case. However, the student’s counsel argued that his client could not be prevented from pursuing his education until the completion of the investigation. He said the transfer certificate was essential for the student to gain admission in other educational institutions and it was not proper on the part of the authorities to deny that to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-questions-theni-govt-college-on-issue-of-tc/article33341652.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After six months, active COVID-19 cases in State drop below the 10,000-mark||Tamil Nadu recorded 1,132 cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, even as the number of active cases fell below 10,000 after six months. As of Tuesday, 9,951 persons were undergoing treatment for COVID-19. The last time the State had less than 10,000 active cases was on May 31. At 3,122, Chennai accounted for the largest number of active cases, followed by Coimbatore (1,048), Tiruppur (541), Chengalpattu (490), Salem (481) and Tiruvallur (450). Perambalur had the least number of active cases, at five. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 8,01,161. As many as 1,210 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total figure to 7,79,291. The State reported 10 more deaths, taking the toll to 11,919. In Chennai, 359 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and five died of the infection. Coimbatore reported 117 cases, while Tiruppur and Tiruvallur had 69 and 62 cases, respectively. There were 59 cases in Chengalpattu. The remaining 32 districts had less than 50 cases each. Of them, 10 districts recorded new cases in single digits. They included Tenkasi (1), Perambalur (2), Ariyalur (2), Ranipet (7) and Cuddalore (9), among others. All 10 persons who died had co-morbidities and were aged above 60. They included a 90-year-old man from Namakkal, who had been admitted to the Erode Medical College Hospital, Perundurai, on December 9. He died on December 13 due to respiratory failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, metabolic encephalopathy and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Testing of samples A total of 66,213 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. With this, 1,30,86,807 samples have been tested till date. A private laboratory — Medivision Scan and Diagnostic Research Centre Pvt Ltd, Chennai — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. As of date, there are 232 testing facilities in the State, including 67 in the government sector and 165 in the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-six-months-active-covid-19-cases-in-state-drop-below-the-10000-mark/article33341228.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Consumers shocked by back-to-back LPG price hikes||With the prices of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders being revised upwards from Monday, consumers are shocked and are questioning the rationale behind the rise. This is the second hike this month and the total cost of a non-subsidised LPG cylinder has gone up by Rs. 100. A non-subsidised 14.2 kg cylinder now costs Rs. 710 in the city. Usually, prices are revised from the first of every month. K. Seshadri, a customer from Thirumudivakkam, said it was not fair that the government had hiked the price twice this month. “Consumers are already burdened by the price increase in other items such as petrol, cooking oil and other provisions,” he said. Unfair trade practices Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said it was an unfair trade practice that the company was taking additional cash from customers during delivery. “Some agencies are cancelling bookings and are asking consumers to make fresh bookings. And others are collecting additional cash from customers, who have paid the previous bill amount online. Both are very unfair practices when consumers are buying cylinders at non-subsidised rates,” he said. An oil industry source said that for the past six months, LPG prices had been retained with very minimal changes despite very high international prices. “The government did not want to burden consumers during the lockdown.” he said. Before the launch of direct transfer of subsidy amount to consumer accounts a few years ago, LPG prices were not revised every month. They were kept steady and almost never changed, recalled a retired official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumers-shocked-by-back-to-back-lpg-price-hikes/article33341646.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Is PM Modi aware of classical Tamil institute’s status, asks Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday wanted to know whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who quoted national poet Bharatiar on his birth anniversary, was aware of the status of the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT). “The Prime Minister said Bharatiar treated both Tamil and the country as his two eyes. Does he know the status of the CICT that was established to promote Tamil language,” he asked, addressing the Dindigul district unit of the party virtually. Ordinary department “What is its status today? There are reports that it will be annexed to the Bharathiya Basha Viswavidyalaya (BBV) to be created in Mysuru and will function as an ordinary department. Nothing could be more insulting or degrading to Tamil than this decision,” he said. Mr. Stalin said by denying adequate fund and research activities and without appointment of employees, the CICT had been forced to become non-functional. “The BJP government at the Centre and the AIADMK regime in Tamil Nadu should take responsibility for its present condition,” he said Reiterating that CICT should be based only in Chennai, Mr. Stalin said the DMK would oppose the decision to shift it from Chennai. “Why should the Prime Minister act as if he has love for Tamil? At least Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should have opposed the Centre’s decision,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/is-pm-modi-aware-of-classical-tamil-institutes-status-asks-stalin/article33341650.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri criticises Centre on rising fuel prices||TNCC president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday condemned the BJP government at the Centre over the continuous rise in fuel prices despite global crude oil prices trading around $48 per barrel. Mr. Alagiri slammed the Centre, claiming that the BJP government was levying excise duty of 820% on diesel and 258% on petrol. “When the Congress was in power, despite crude prices being at record highs, the government did not increase the prices of petrol, diesel or cooking gas. The excise duty on petrol was Rs. 9.48 and on diesel was Rs. 3.56. But today, the Centre is levying excise duty of Rs. 32.98 on petrol and Rs. 31.83 on diesel. In the last six years, the Centre filled the government coffers just through excise duty, netting Rs. 19 lakh crore,” he said. The TNCC leader said global crude prices were around $48. “On that basis, one litre of crude oil will be just Rs. 22.39. But petrol is being sold at Rs. 86 and diesel at Rs. 79, while cooking gas is being sold at Rs. 710. What right does the BJP have to torment the people of the country like this?” Mr. Alagiri asked. He also alleged that the Centre had not deposited the subsidy for cooking gas to beneficiaries since May. He said if the government proceeded with increasing the price of cooking gas to Rs. 1,000, it would have to face severe protests by the Tamil Nadu Mahila Congress on behalf of the women of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-slams-centre-on-rising-fuel-prices/article33341274.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A stone nagaswaram that is no less musical||The Thanumalayan temple at Suchindram in Kanniyakumari district, the Nellaiappar temple in Tirunelveli and the Polinthunindrapiran temple in Alwarthirunagari have stone pillars that can produce music. But the artisans of ancient Tamil Nadu went a step further and produced a nagaswaram made of stone. There are two such nagaswarams — one in the Adi Kumbeshwarar temple in Kumbakonam and another in the Alwarthirunagari temples. “We do not have details about when the instruments were made,” said historian Kudavasal Balasubramanian. The instrument is similar to the ‘timiri’, or the shorter version of the nagaswaram, that was used before Thiruvavaduthurai T.N. Rajarathinam Pillai designed the ‘paari’ version of the nagaswaram. “The uzhau — the middle pipe of the instrument — is made of stone. The front portion, known as the anusu or the volume enhancer, and the end portion where the reed is fit while playing are made of brass,” said Swaminthan, the nagaswaram player at the Kumbeshwaran temple. He also plays the stone nagaswaram. But unlike other nagaswarams, the stone nagaswaram only has six holes. “When we handle this instrument, we consciously choose particular scales and ragas conducive to its structure and body,” Mr. Swaminathan said. “For instance, we take time in the lower octaves and often choose ragas with the prati madhymam, or the sharper variant of the note ‘ma’, like in Kalyani , Shanmugapriya and Panthuvaralai, ” he added. Though it is a rare instrument, there is no particular occasion during which the instrument is played. “The last time I played the instrument was in 2017 during Saraswathi puja ,” said Mr. Swaminathan. “The actor Prabhu had once visited the temple and wanted to listen to the instrument as his father Sivaji Ganesan, a connoisseur of music, had told him about the instrument. I played it for him then,” said Mr. Swaminathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-stone-nagaswaram-that-is-no-less-musical/article33341207.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven IPS officers transferred||In a reshuffle, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday transferred seven IPS officers across the State. Braj Kishore Ravi, Director General of Police (DGP), on repatriation from Central deputation, has been posted as DGP, Vigilance, Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd., in place of A.K. Viswanathan, who was holding additional charge. S. Davidson Devasirvatham, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), Technical Services, has been posted as ADGP, Tamil Nadu Police Academy, Oonamanchery, in place of ADGP Amaresh Pujari, who has been transferred to Technical Services.  Sandeep Mittal, ADGP, on repatriation from Central deputation, has been posted as ADGP Establishment, in place of K. Joshi Nirmal Kumar, IG, Establishment. Mr. Kumar has been transferred as Inspector General of Police, Headquarters. N.K. Senthamaraikannan, Inspector General of Police, Headquarters, has been posted as Inspector General of Police, Enforcement, in the existing vacancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-ips-officers-transferred/article33341647.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin wonders if Modi is aware of CICT’s status||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday wanted to know whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who quoted national poet Bharathiar on his birth anniversary, was aware of the status of the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT). “The Prime Minister said Bharathiar treated both Tamil and the country as his two eyes. Does he know that the status of the CICT that was established to promote Tamil language,” he asked virtually addressing the Dindigul district unit of the party. “What is its status today? There are reports that it will be annexed to the Bharathiya Basha Viswavidyalaya (BBV) to be created in Mysore and will function as an ordinary department. Nothing could be more insulting or degrading to Tamil than this decision,” he said. Mr Stalin said by denying adequate fund and research activities and without appointment of employees the CICT had been forced to become non-functional. “The BJP government at the Centre and the AIADMK regime in Tamil Nadu should take responsibility for its present condition,” he said Reiterating that CICT should be based only in Chennai, Mr Stalin said the DMK would vehemently oppose the decision to shift it from Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-wonders-if-modi-is-aware-of-cicts-status/article33341277.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses case against Anna University V-C||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a writ petition filed by activist ‘Traffic’ K.R. Ramaswamy accusing Anna University Vice-Chancellor (V-C) M.K. Surappa of being ineligible to hold the post as per University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam dismissed the case at the admission stage without issuing notices to the government and the Vice-Chancellor. They said the prayer was highly misconceived and the petitioner had not substantiated his case. In his affidavit, the activist said Mr. Surappa had served as the Director of the Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar, for six years between 2009 and 2015 and as the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering at the Indian Institute of Science during 2016-17. Claiming that both these posts were equivalent to the post of a Vice-Chancellor, he said UGC regulations do not permit an individual to hold a post equivalent to that of a Vice-Chancellor for more than two terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-case-against-anna-university-v-c/article33341278.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Training for teachers from today||Teachers from elementary and secondary schools in Tamil Nadu will participate in a training programme initiated under the Samagra Shiksha scheme of the Department of School Education, which will focus on the safety and security of students with regard to COVID-19. The training for the teachers will be held online for teachers via the Tamil Nadu Teachers portal from December 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-teachers-from-today/article33341824.ece
16 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Gold, Rs. 1.37 crore in cash seized from govt. officer||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on Monday seized Rs. 1.37 crore in cash, huge quantities of gold and other valuables from the office/residential premises of a superintendent of the Environment Department in Chennai. Acting on a specific input, a special team conducted searches at the office of Pandian, the suspected official, at Panagal Maligai, and seized unaccounted for cash to the tune of Rs. 88,500. The police also searched his residence and found Rs. 1.37 crore in cash, 3.08 kg of gold jewellery, 3,343 g of silver and some diamonds. Besides Rs. 38.66 lakh in his bank account, the official had Rs. 37 lakh invested in fixed deposits, properties worth Rs. 7 crore and some movable assets, the agency said. Members of civil society, including environmental activists, on Tuesday alleged that Pandian, a Superintendent in the Environment Department, was instrument in preparing a “fraud map” that made “the Kosasthalaiyar river and its backwaters disappear.” In a letter to DVAC Director K. Jayanth Murali, they claimed that Pandian, was “a crucial player in the presentation and use of a fraudulent Coastal Zone Management Plan Map, covering the Ennore Wetlands in the north Chennai and Thiruvallur districts.” This fraud had effectively “legalised” the illegal conversion of over 2,000 acres of wetlands and lands on Kattupalli island into real estate. Falsified map The letter claimed that Mr. Pandian had produced a map in June 2017 wherein approximately 15,000 acres of Ennore wetlands, including the Kosasthalaiyar river and its backwaters have been shown as land. The letter was signed by Justice D. Hariparanthaman, former judge of the Madras HC; Nityanand Jayaraman, Chennai Solidarity Campaign; Pooja Kumar, Save Ennore Creek Campaign, Chennai; K. Saravanan, Save Ennore Creek Campaign, Chennai; G. Sundarrajan, Poovulagin Nanbargal; T.M. Krishna, singer/writer; and Dr. S. Janakarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-rs-137-crore-in-cash-seized-from-govt-officer/article33341225.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. school student challenges 7.5% quota||A private school student who could not get a government medical college seat, despite scoring 565 out of 720 marks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), has challenged the constitutional validity of the 7.5% horizontal reservation for State government school students. The petitioner, S. Pooja, 19, of Chennai, said the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on preferential basis to students of Government Schools Act of 2020 promotes mediocrity by reserving medical seats for those who score less in NEET. Claiming to be hailing from a lower middle-class family, Ms. Pooja said she had been trying to gain a government medical college seat since 2018, when she completed Class XII, scoring 1,113 out of 1,200 marks. But that year, she ended up scoring only 134 marks in NEET. She scored 420 marks in NEET in 2019, but did not succeed in getting a seat in a government medical college. This year, she scored 565 marks, but her hopes of getting a seat were dashed when the State government introduced the 7.5% quota. Stating that she belongs to a Backward Class community, she said it was unfair to reserve seats for government school students, who have scored much less marks than her, after the government undertaking to pay their entire expense from the public exchequer. She contended that the government’s decision was directly repugnant to the objective sought to be achieved by the introduction of NEET. A Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh admitted her writ petition and directed the government to file its counter affidavit by January 5. The judges said an interim order to reserve a seat until the disposal of the case could not be passed now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pvt-school-student-challenges-75-quota/article33341231.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wait for an official announcement: RMM||After widespread media speculation that actor Rajinikanth’s yet-to-be-launched party is called Makkal Sevai Katchi, Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), an outfit started by Mr. Rajinikanth in 2018, has asked its supporters to wait for an official announcement. In a statement, RMM manager V.M. Sudhakar acknowledged the speculation created by media reports that said the name of actor Rajinikanth’s party would be Makkal Sevai Katchi, and that the ‘auto rickshaw’ symbol had been allotted to it by the Election Commission of India based on an official release. The ECI on Monday allotted party symbols for unrecognised parties, in which Makkal Sevai Katchi had been listed and the ‘auto rickshaw’ symbol was allotted to it. The statement from RMM said: “Some media houses have reported that a party listed in the ECI statement and the symbol allotted to it is the name of the party and the symbol of Rajini Makkal Mandram. We request RMM members to wait for the official announcement from its leadership.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wait-for-an-official-announcement-rmm/article33341237.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers to be trained||Teachers from elementary and secondary schools in Tamil Nadu will participate in a training programme initiated under the Samagra Shiksha scheme, which will focus on the safety and security of students with regard to COVID-19. The training will be held online via T.N. Teachers portal from December 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-to-be-trained/article33341874.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain likely in 5 districts from today||After a hiatus, rain is set to return to the State from December 16. The Meteorological Department has predicted moderate rainfall over many places in the State till December 19. A cyclonic circulation over the southwest Bay of Bengal, off the Sri Lankan coast, would lead to scattered rainfall over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry till the weekend. However, there are no chances for the system to intensify further. Cold wind from the land may not allow it, noted officials. A few places over five districts — Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Pudukkottai — and Karaikal in the Union Territory of Puducherry may receive heavy rain up to 12 cm from Wednesday to Friday. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the system would initially impact the coastal areas with moderate rainfall. It will then move over to the interior areas and give light to moderate rain. It is expected to weaken afterwards.  Chennai may experience light to moderate rain in some areas for two days. The night temperature would be around 23 degree Celsius. The State has so far received 43.2 cm of rainfall, which is 4% more than the average 41.3 cm since October 1. This is considered normal rainfall for the northeast monsoon, he said. While coastal areas have either received normal or excess rain this season, some districts such Kanniyakumari, Erode, Namakkal and Tiruchi still remain rain deficit. Kanniyakumari is the worst-affected district, with a shortfall of nearly 38% for the season. “The system may bring light to moderate rain in many places. But it is unlikely for the weather system to wipe out whatever deficiency exists in rainfall,” Mr. Balachandran added.  The weather system would initially impact the coastal areas with moderate rainfall. It will then move over to the interior areas and give light to moderate rain.S. Balachandran Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-likely-in-five-districts-in-state/article33341205.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man dies of burns due to chemical fire||A 44-year-old man succumbed to burns after a chemical barrel caught fire in a factory near Red Hills on Monday. According to the police, Kanniappan, of Velachery, was working in a chemical factory in Vada Perumbakkam. On Monday, sparks from a welding machine fell on the chemicals and ignited them. Kanniappan sustained burns and was rushed to the Kilpauk Medical College hospital, where he later succumbed. The police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-of-burns-due-to-chemical-fire/article33341636.ece
16 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||2 women attempt to end lives near CM’s house||Two women tried to end their lives near Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s residence on Greenways Road on Tuesday. They were foiled by the police. They were identified as Krishnammal, 70, of Tiruchendur, and her daughter Jeyameenambika, 35. The two took the extreme step as they could not submit a petition requesting the Chief Minister to rescue Ms. Krishnammal’s elder daughter Shanmugasundari from her employer in Qatar.    (Those in need of counselling may contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-women-attempt-to-end-lives-near-cms-house/article33341649.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. appoints NGT expert members||Girija Vaidyanathan, former Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu, and K. Satyagopal, former additional Chief Secretary and principal secretary of the State Disaster Management Authority, have been appointed as expert members of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change made the announcement on Tuesday after the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved the proposal for naming expert members to the NGT. Arun Kumar Verma, an Indian Forest Service officer, has also been appointed an expert member. The notification of their appointment said they will hold the post for a period of four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-appoints-ngt-expert-members/article33341279.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Our first choice is the DMK alliance’||The State unit of the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen, led by Hyderabad-based leader Asaduddin Owaisi, on Tuesday made it clear that its first preference would be to join the DMK alliance. However, the party would not mind joining a ‘third front’, it said. The party has also opened channels of communication with smaller parties. Persons privy to initial conversations between the AIMIM and Kamal Haasan’s MNM, said “feelers” for an alliance, sent by AIMIM, were rebuffed by the latter. On reports that Mr. Owaisi had expressed willingness to form an alliance with MNM, Vakeel Ahmed, State president of AIMIM, said: “Our leader hasn’t spoken to anyone. When asked if he would join a third front if the first option doesn’t happen, he had said that we would consider joining it.” He said, “Our national leadership is speaking to the DMK. We have no problem aligning with it. Once it is finalised, we will announce it. Our leader has clearly pointed out that Muslims have been used only as a vote bank and have been denied political power.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/our-first-choice-is-the-dmk-alliance/article33341229.ece
16 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Micro and small-scale unit owners seek steps to control raw material prices||Micro and small-scale unit owners of nearly 19 industrial associations staged a protest here on Tuesday, demanding steps by the Central and State governments to control prices of raw materials used by these industries. J. James, co-ordinator of Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations, said nearly 700 people from different associations took part in the protest. The main demand was control of raw material prices. The protesters also demanded steps by the governments to address the challenges faced by the micro and small-scale units. They sought a separate loan policy by the banks for micro units. In a memorandum submitted later in the day to Collector K. Rajamani, the Federation said the additional credit extended by banks to help MSMEs tide over the challenges they faced because of the lockdown had been used to buy raw materials at high prices. The Centre should form a price monitoring committee, should stop export of steel and plastic, and remove the import duty on steel and copper. It should also re-open the SAIL yard here. The Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association said, in a press release, that its members would down shutters for a day in support of the strike by the foundries. The small foundries had announced indefinite strike from December 16, protesting against the spiralling prices. Over 50,000 micro and cottage industries in the district supply components to textile machinery, pumpset, railways, wet grinders, and automobile manufacturing units. These units source the raw materials - steel, copper and aluminium - from other States. These units also buy castings manufactured at over 600 foundries here. The foundries have seen raw material prices go up by nearly 15 % to 60 % in the last four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-and-small-scale-unit-owners-seek-steps-to-control-raw-material-prices/article33341662.ece
16 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to help traders go digital||The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, will initiate measures to help traders go digital. C. Balasubramanian, Managing Partner of Sivasakthi Paper Mart, who was elected president of the Chamber for 2020-22, told The Hindu digitalisation of trade was important and in another 10 years or so, trade and businesses would have to have a presence on the online platform. “We need to change. The Chamber will assist them (traders) with technology and resource persons. We start with facilitation work immediately,” he said. The Chamber had 96 associations as its members. It would start working closely with each of them as efforts such as going digital needed the support of all trades. Further, the Chamber would start focusing on agriculture, apart from trade, industry, and services. It would look at taking members to districts, States, and countries that focused on organic agriculture. Mr. Balasubramaniam added that a large number of women were managing trade or supporting their family in running the business. They would have larger representation in the Chamber and efforts would be made for empowering women in business. Two more areas that would be given more thrust were strengthening of international trade and arbitration system to settle disputes. In the long-term, the Chamber would look at promoting Coimbatore as a shopping destination and give a boost to medical tourism, he added. The Chamber decided to represent to the State government the infrastructure demands of Coimbatore district, including better rail and air connectivity, roads, water, and electricity. It also passed a resolution at the annual meeting held on Monday to represent to the State government on the need for organic agriculture policy and to set up farmer assist committees. Outgoing president V. Lakshminarayanasamy said the Chamber had been writing to the Central government to include Coimbatore International Airport in the Bilateral Air Services Agreement that would give better international connectivity to this region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-chamber-of-commerce-and-industry-to-help-traders-go-digital/article33341663.ece
16 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to remove 300 garbage bins in Central Zone||In an effort to prevent the piling up of garbage on streets, the Coimbatore Corporation will remove around 300 garbage bins within the limits of Central Zone and intensify door-to-door waste collection. Once the bins were removed, the Corporation workers would spread flowers and place banners requesting the public not to litter the place, said Zonal Sanitary Officer R. Radhakrishnan. “After four to five days, the public will stop throwing garbage where these flowers were spread,” he said. On Tuesday, the workers spread flowers at Ward No. 25 on R.G. Street, where garbage bins were placed earlier, as part of this initiative. Dumping of waste in and around the Corporation bins had caused much inconvenience to the public and this initiative by the Corporation was aimed at “bin-less wards” through door-to-door waste collection and ensuring source segregation, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Around 90 garbage bins had already been removed in the Central Zone limits, he said. With nearly 300 bins remaining, these would be removed in a phased manner “in the next two to three months,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-remove-300-garbage-bins-in-central-zone/article33341665.ece
16 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Shankar was listed as ‘brash’ tusker in elephant profiling||An elephant nicknamed ‘Shankar’ that killed a man and his son near Gudalur in the Nilgiris on Sunday was included in the category of ‘brash’ elephants in a profiling of the large mammals done by the Forest Department and Shola Trust in the region in 2016. Brash elephants were one of the four categories of elephants identified in the profiling exercise in which 150 elephants were photographed and profiles for 90 individuals were created in three years from 2015. Elephants in this category, constituting 10 % of the total population, were also identified as the ones that attack people and create damages. “They exhibit the ‘flight or fight’ behaviour. These elephants are known to move around human habitation and at the same time they are aggressive towards people who approach them,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle. The profile of Shankar created as part of the project in 2016 became handy for the Department in identifying the elephant when higher officials on Monday gave the nod to tranquilise it. Transient ones that stay for a very short time during migration season, residents that are shy and never come to human habitation, and highly habituated old animals that stay close to humans were the other three categories of elephants profiled in the Gudalur landscape which is a mix of forests, estates and small private lands. Unlike the other three category of elephants, brash elephants were assessed to exhibit the standard physiological response of ‘flight or fight’ as they are not comfortable around people. Shankar, aged around 50 and having single tusk, was camping at Kottamalai and three tracking teams of the Department from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve, the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) and the Gudalur Forest Division were observing its movements. The Department also used two drones to locate the elephant. “The elephant was named after a forest watcher named Shankar who found one of its broken tusks, which the animal had lost in a fight with another elephant. The elephant is also identified as ‘Cherambady broken tusker’ in Department records,” said Mr. Anwardeen. Veterinarians N.S. Manoharan, Regional Joint Director of Veterinary Services (retired), A. Sukumar, forest veterinary officer of Coimbatore Forest Division, and Rajesh Kumar, veterinary assistant surgeon of MTR were camping at Gudalur. On Tuesday, the Nilgiris district Collector J. Innocent Divya visited the kin of Anandaraj (49) and his son Prasath (29) from Kolapalli near Cherambadi who were killed by the tusker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shankar-was-listed-as-brash-tusker-in-elephant-profiling/article33341668.ece
16 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two women robbed of chains||Two-wheeler-borne miscreants snatched the chains of two women in Coimbatore city and rural on Monday. In the first incident, an unknown man snatched a five-sovereign chain from K. Rukumani (80) of Anna Street at Karamadai, when she was standing outside her house in the afternoon. The man approached the woman on the pretext of searching a house for rent, said the Karamadai police who have started investigation. In the second incident, a five-sovereign chain of S. Rithika (42) of Muthu Nagar at Eachanari was snatched by an unknown man when she was standing in a bus shelter on Monday. As per her complaint, the man came from behind and snatched her chain. He escaped on a two-wheeler kept standby by his accomplice, the complaint said. The Podanur police are investigating. Man held for cheating The Tiruppur City Police on Monday arrested a man on charges of cheating nearly Rs. 23 lakh by claiming to be the owner of a car agency. In a release, the police said R. Gokulakrishnan (32), who earlier worked as a manager in a private bank, took Rs. 22,94,500 from K. Suryaprakash claiming that he would share the profits of his car agency and had allegedly absconded. Based on Mr. Suryaprakash’s petition, the police registered a case. Gokulakrishnan was arrested by a special team at Ulundurpet in Kallakurichi district on Monday and was remanded in judicial custody, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-robbed-of-chains/article33341657.ece
16 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation conducts public hearing||The civic body on Tuesday conducted public hearing on the incomplete underground drainage works at three locations in the city. Officials said that the UGD works remained incomplete in Singanallur, Ondipudur and Peelamedu, and the newly-added areas such as Vadavalli, Veerakeralam, Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur were yet to see the installation of underground sewer lines. Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian took part. Phase-III UGD works will be carried out at Ganapathy, Ondipudur and Thaneerpandal through funds from the Asian Development Bank, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-conducts-public-hearing/article33341656.ece
16 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Smuggling of PDS rice foiled||The Anamalai police on Tuesday seized five tonnes of rice meant for distribution through the Public Distribution System (PDS) from a mini lorry that was heading to Kerala. According to the police, the rice was found in the mini lorry driven by Jeganathan (34) of Thathur near Anamalai. The smuggling attempt was foiled when a police team led by Anamalai inspector Ramesh Kannan stopped the vehicle near Sethumadai. The police handed over the rice and the vehicle to the Civil Supplies CID unit of the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smuggling-of-pds-rice-foiled/article33341255.ece
16 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in elephant attack||A 65-year-old woman was killed in the attack of a wild elephant in the Segur forest range in the buffer zone of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as M. Sarasu, a resident of Anaikatty tribal settlement. According to MTR officials, Sarasu went to the forest along with his son and sister to collect grass for cattle and they had an encounter with a female elephant which was foraging with its calf. The woman died after being trampled by the elephant. The incident took place at 1 p.m., around three km inside the reserve forest, officials said. Sarasu's son Balan (42) and sister Mathi (55) managed to escape without any injuries. The Forest Department informed the nearest police station about the elephant attack and the body of the woman was shifted for post-mortem. Relief given The officials said that an immediate relief of Rs. 50,000 would be handed over to the family of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-killed-in-elephant-attack/article33341669.ece
16 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas under Podanur sub-station from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on December 16 : Nanjundapuram, Vellalore, Konavaikkalpalayam, Sriram Nagar, Indira Nagar, Anbu Nagar, JJ Nagar, Annanapuram, Avvai Nagar, and Easwaran Nagar. Kurichi sub-station from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 17 : SIDCO, Podanur, Kurichi, Housing Unit, part of Madukkarai and MM Patty, Sundarapuram, Eachanari, and LIC Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33341659.ece
16 December 2020||COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan Navy arrests 36 Indian fishermen||Months after limiting the arrests of allegedly poaching Indian fishermen, fearing they could be carriers of COVID-19, the Sri Lankan Navy has “resumed its raids” in the seas, an official statement said on Tuesday. As many as 36 Indian fishermen were arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy on Tuesday, and five trawlers and fishing gear seized, following a special operation carried out by the Sri Lanka Navy and Coast Guard, a press statement issued by the Sri Lankan Navy said. The operations were conducted “adhering to the COVID-19 preventive guidelines”, officials said, adding that the apprehended Indian fishermen would be sent for quarantine for 14 days. “Although operations to prevent poaching by foreign fishermen in Sri Lankan waters have been restricted since March, due to COVID-19 concerns, the Navy resumed its raids on poaching, considering the impact of this wanton act on the livelihood of the local fishing community and to protect the fishing resource of the country, as a result of a surge in the arrival of foreign fishing trawlers in Sri Lankan waters,” the Navy said. Sections of Sri Lanka’s northern fishermen have recently raised concerns over the “return of” Indian trawlers, whose numbers had dropped in the last few years after Sri Lanka introduced stiffer fines and tougher laws. However, as the Navy reportedly relaxed its surveillance of the northern seas in the wake of COVID-19, the number of Indian trawlers spotted in Sri Lankan waters began increasing. In its recent resumed operation, the Northern Naval Command of Sri Lanka intercepted three Indian fishing trawlers and held 22 fishermen in the sea area off the Delft Island, while 14 other fishermen were arrested off Mannar, in Sri Lanka’s Northern Province. Indefinite strike Fishermen’s associations in Rameswaram on Tuesday said they would abstain from work, indefinitely, from Wednesday, if the Sri Lankan government failed to release the Indian fishermen. The associations have appealed to the Central and State governments to immediately take up the issue of the arrest of fishermen, along with their mechanised boats, by the Sri Lankan Navy on Monday, with their counterparts in the island nation, and set them free on humanitarian grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-navy-arrests-36-indian-fishermen/article33341239.ece
16 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||No compensation package yet for Nivar-hit Cuddalore farmers||Farmers in the tail-end Delta region of Cuddalore district affected by the fury of Cyclone Nivar and the torrential rains this north-east monsoon are in distress. The incessant heavy rains submerged large tracts of agricultural land inflicting damage and destroying their harvest, but there is, as yet, no compensation package in sight. The flood waters has receded in most of the areas but the woes of farmers continue to hold them to ransom. According to K.V. Elangeeran, president of Cauvery Delta Farmers Federation, “Most of the ryots are yet to recover from the shock following crop damages and the resultant financial loss. Barring an interim relief of Rs. 74 crore announced by the Chief Minister Edappadi during his visit to the district, there is no crop compensation package yet in sight. The delay in announcement of a relief package has added insult to injury.” The government goes by the rule book framed several years ago, instead o f taking a practical assessment of the damage, he said. S. Muthuramalingam, a farmer of Aranthangi village in Kattumannarkovil block, who had raised paddy crops on three acres, says that crops that had reached the grain formation stage were damaged owing to accumulation of water. “The entire cultivation has been damaged in the rains and we don’t know how to handle the loss. I had borrowed Rs. 60,000 to raise the crop this season and now I would not get even back the investment, let alone the profit.” ‘Not acceptable’ According to current guidelines, a farmer will only get Rs. 15,000 per hectare. “This is not acceptable. They should be compensated as per market rates. The government should give a compensation of at least Rs. 30,000 per acre to farmers who lost their crops,” Mr. Elangeeran added. According to official sources, the heavy rains played havoc in seven blocks — Chidambaram, Kattumannarkovil, Bhuvanagiri, Keerapalayam, Parangipettai, Kurunjipadi and Kumaratchi. K.S. Venkatesan, secretary of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry State Private Sugarmill Cane Growers Association said that crops including maize and pulses were severely damaged in the rains in several blocks in the district. A proper assessment should be made and there should be an upward revision of the scale of finance this year, he said. According to an official of the Agriculture Department, “The floodwater has receded in nearly 90 % of the affected areas and field workers were engaged in assessment of the damage. The actual picture of crop damage would be known only by Friday.” As per preliminary estimates, about 50,000 hectares of standing crops have been submerged. But these figures are just initial and the exact figures may be high or low when compared to this, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-compensation-package-yet-for-nivar-hit-cuddalore-farmers/article33341818.ece
16 December 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘Improve Thoppur ghat section’||Close on the heels of the pile-up on Thoppur ghat section that killed over four persons and injured as many during the weekend, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has been asked to explore the possibility of a detailed project report for alternative alignment to eliminate dangerous curvatures on the section. District Collector S.P. Karthika held a consultative and review meeting with officials from the NHAI and other line departments. The NHAI and the concessionaire L & T Transportation Infrastructure limited were instructed to create accident prevention infrastructure including installation of solar lights, solar blinkers, warning signs that alert drivers to the upcoming bends and curves, cautionary announcements among others on the Thoppur ghat section. Further, the NHAI authorities were directed to set up cameras at two junctions at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh to detect vehicles speeding on the highway. The existing stretch from the toll plaza via Vellakal, Kattamedu upto Thoppur should be strengthened, even before the six-laning work is taken up between Dharmapuri and Namakkal, she said. She also advised the Road Transport officials and the police department to intercept speeding and overloaded vehicles and impose fines. Superintendent of Police Pravesh Kumar, and Harur Sub-Collector Prathap were among the officials present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/improve-road-infrastructure-on-thoppur-ghat-section-collector/article33341257.ece
16 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||FSSAI launches project to convert used cooking oil into biodiesel||A project, Repurpose Used Cooking Oil (RUCO), where cooking oil used by food business operators (FOBs) are collected at Rs. 25 a litre by a private company and converted into biodiesel was launched here on Monday. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) have launched the project in the country and are being implemented in all the districts. Collector C. Kathiravan launched the project in the presence of District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha, Designated Food Safety Officer T. Kalaivani and food inspectors and officers. He launched the project with the theme, “Eat Right”, and handed over cheques to FBOs for procurement of the used oil. Officials said that oil is widely used in hotels, snack and sweet making units, eateries and other establishments for preparing food. Most of the used cooking oil was dumped in drains or reused again for preparing food which causes health issues. Hence, to prevent the oil from being reused and encourage FBOs to sell the used oil, the project was launched in the district. Initially, 1,020 litre of cooking oil will be procured everyday from 50 FBOs and spot payment will be made to them. They were given storage containers and it will be transported by the company to its plant, located at Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh. Mrs. Kalaivani told The Hindu that the department is planning to launch “Oil Bank” centres in the district where oil used by small eateries and units will be purchased and spot payments will be made. “These units will generate one to two litre of used cooking oil everyday and the centres will serve as collection point,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fssai-launches-project-to-convert-used-cooking-oil-into-biodiesel/article33341259.ece
16 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Gani market witnesses normal sales||Ahead of Christmas and New Year, sales were normal at the weekly retail shops at E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) here on Tuesday. About 370 daily and 730 weekly shops function on the market premises at Panneerselvam Park that is visited by merchants from across the State and from other States. The market that remained closed due to COVID-19 pandemic reopened and shops did brisk sales for Deepavali last month. But ahead of Christmas and New Year, sales volume was normal on Tuesday. “We know only normal sales will happen as people have just completed their purchases for Deepavali”, said S. Sakthivel, secretary, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Traders’ Association. He said that sales would have been good if there was no pandemic. Traders said that retail sales were as usual and they expect sales to pick up in the coming months. “We were without business for over six months and Deepavali sales helped us”, said a trader who expected brisk sales for Pongal and for Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gani-market-witnesses-normal-sales/article33341261.ece
16 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of elephant found||The carcass of a 20-year-old female elephant was found at Sathyamangalam Range here on Tuesday. A team, led by K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinarian of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), carried out a postmortem that revealed that the elephant died due to ulceration. Samples of vital organs were lifted and sent to laboratory analysis. After autopsy, the carcass was left to nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carcass-of-elephant-found/article33341262.ece
16 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||64-year-old man writes to President claiming threat to life||A 64-year-old paralysed man has sent a letter to President Ram Nath Govind claiming threat to his life from his family members in Gobichettipalayam here. He said that due to difference of opinion with his first wife, he got separated from her and married another woman for 25 years. He said that except for one property, he had transferred all the property to his first wife and son and daughters. However, they attempted to grab the property and assault him and based on a complaint, a case was registered by the police on June 25, 2020, he added. He claimed that on November 11, his first wife along with a few persons, entered his house and assaulted him and his second wife and chased her away. Though a complaint was lodged with the police, no action has been taken so far, he claimed. The letter claimed that his second wife was missing and he was confined to a room and assaulted by his first wife and others. Since he fears for his life, he is seeking police protection, the letter said. When contacted, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, said that he will conduct an inquiry and take appropriate action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/64-year-old-man-writes-to-president-claiming-threat-to-life/article33341263.ece
16 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||IT searches in construction company continue||Officials of the Income Tax Department continued searches at a construction company for the second consecutive day in Erode on Tuesday. Searches were carried at the offices of Sri Pathy Associates Private limited, located at Thangaperumal Street at Kallukadaimedu in the city and also at the residences of the three directors. The company is also a real estate developer, operates private buses, owns a marriage hall and operates quarries. The company had recently bagged contracts for constructing government medical colleges in many districts. Sources said that based on tax evasion complaints, searches were carried out, and unaccounted cash was also seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-searches-in-construction-company-continue/article33341271.ece
16 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the following areas:  Nadupalayam sub-station, December 16: Nadupalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Pasur, M.K. Pudur, Malayampalayam, Kombanai Pudur, P.K. Mangalam, Injampalli, Kolanalli, Karumandampalayam, Solangapalayam, Arampalayam, P.K. Palayam, Unjalur, Vengambur Railway Gate, Kasipalayam, Kalipalayam, Kolathupalayam, Semmandampalayam, Kuttapalayam, Vellottamparappu, Kilampadi and Vattakalvalasu.     Kavindapadi sub-station, December 17: Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velampalayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachipatti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadipudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttipalayam and Serayampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33341264.ece
16 December 2020||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal appeals to youth and women to strenghten MNM||Promising youth, women and housewives of providing corruption-free governance in Tamil Nadu, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday urged them to strengthen his hands. “Time has come for us to act and you should strengthen our hands for the development and creation of corruption-free and developed Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Haasan said at a meeting in Kovilpatti as part of his 2021 Assembly election campaign. He charged that successive governments had ignored the holistic development of Tamil Nadu for the past 50 years by not ensuring investments in small towns. This had resulted in crowding in the cities due to migration in search of livelihood. “Besides living in cramped spaces, you have lost your identity after the migration. While Ali Baba had only 40 thieves, these people have 234 persons to create hurdles for the good officials like Santhosh Babu (former civil servant) whenever they come out with proposals for the holistic development of the State,” he claimed. Everything – right from facilities to employment – should be created across the State even in a small town like Kovilpatti so that it will become a right place to live while ensuring good living for everyone. Claiming that even the most upright leaders were branded corrupt, he said the past 50 years had seen the polluting of rivers and the environment through wrong policies and rampant corruption. “Let those days go to hell… Sow the seeds for a change now so that the future generation will reap the fruits. I believe in action for change and development which has already been put in motion by me and my friends. We promise you that we will bring the change you want and propose,” he said. Mr. Haasan added that if his MLAs failed to deliver, they would resign. Not ‘Team B’ He insisted that the MNM was not ‘Team B’ of the BJP, as being portrayed. ‘Team A’ is the ‘Team of Mahatma’ as MNM believes in inclusive and all-round development of Tamil Nadu without corruption.“We lost the previous election by a whisker in several places. We will bring you a bright future as you like if you join hands with us without taking cash for votes,” he said.  While Ali Baba had only 40 thieves, these people have 234 persons to create hurdles for good officials   Kamal Haasan Founder of Makkal Needhi Maiam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strenghten-mnm-kamal-tells-youth/article33341201.ece
16 December 2020||Kovilpatti/Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Open to joining hands with Rajini for State’s welfare: Kamal||Insisting that he and co-star Rajinikanth wanted to change everything in Tamil Nadu, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday reiterated that the two could come together for the welfare of the State. Asked about the possibility of MNM tying up with Rajinikanth’s proposed party, Mr. Haasan said: “Both of us are a phone call away. Both of us want to change everything here in Tamil Nadu. If our policies are acceptable to each other, we, without any ego, will join hands for the welfare of Tamil Nadu.” On the party being denied the ‘battery torch’ symbol for the Assembly election, he said the Election Commission of India (ECI), which is supposed to help parties, should act as per the law. He told journalists in Kovilpatti that the real question was who was behind MNM being denied the symbol on which it contested last year’s Lok Sabha polls. “We believe and wish that everything should happen as per law,” he said. On the selection of candidates for the election, he said MNM’s contestants would be educationally qualified and determined to serve the people, under all circumstances. Earlier in Sivakasi, he said Tamils would never compromise on their unique identity and self respect, and Tamil Nadu would not play second fiddle to anyone, but would choose a path different from other States. “Tamil Nadu will give a fitting reply to those who try to smash the pluralistic fabric of India in the name of caste and community,” he said without referring to any party. Addressing entrepreneurs of the fireworks town, as part of his early election campaign, he said, “Tamils have a unique identity and self respect. Tamil Nadu will give a unique verdict. Even as all [States] are playing second fiddle, Tamil Nadu will continue to chart its path.” Mr. Haasan recalled the recent appeal to the people, against the bursting of crackers during Deepavali. “The national capital has become a place unworthy to live in, so much so that a leader [Sonia Gandhi] had to leave Delhi for Goa [due to pollution]. Those who cannot keep even the national capital clean are making tall claims,” he said. Reiterating that the founder of AIADMK, M.G. Ramachandran, did not belong to any particular party, he said the former Chief Minister remained Makkal Thilagam (people’s leader). “While many Ministers in the present cabinet have not even seen MGR’s face, I have sat on his lap,” Mr. Haasan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-to-joining-hands-with-rajini-for-states-welfare-kamal/article33341235.ece
16 December 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Farmers court arrest in Krishnagiri||The sit-in protests organised by the All India Kisan Struggle Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) jointly with the Tamil nadu Vivasayigal Sangam continued for the second day with farmers courting arrest here on Tuesday. The protesters affiliated to the AIKSCC staged their protests on Monday outside the Collectorate to protest against the three farm laws in support of the farmers in Delhi. The AIKSCC-led farmers condemned the BJP-led Central government alleging that the laws were conceived to benefit big corporates and leaving farmers at the mercy of capital. The laws that passed during the pandemic was slammed by a united opposition that alleged that COVID 19 lockdown was used as a ruse to pass laws that were detrimental to the people.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  In Salem, protest by farmers’ associations and various political parties against the farm laws continued for the second consecutive day here on Tuesday. Various farmers’ associations under the banner AIKSCC began the protest on a private vacant land located on Perundurai Road on Monday. Protesters wanted the three laws to be repealed as it will benefit corporate companies and not the farmers and the people. They said that the electricity bill would withdraw all the subsidies which will adversely affect farmers, power looms and the public and urged the government not to pass the bill. Since the police denied permission for indefinite protest, the protest was held from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. everyday after which farmers leave the venue and gather again, the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-court-arrest-in-krishnagiri/article33341273.ece
16 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC shocked over bail to harassment case accused||After it was informed that the man who was caught harassing a woman at Sankarankoil bus stand managed to get bail, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday expressed shock over how lightly the case was dealt with. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi was hearing suo motu proceedings initiated based on media reports of a Tenkasi man misbehaving with a woman in an inebriated state. The court sought details in the case that included the proceedings before the Sankarankoil Judicial Magistrate. The court wondered how the man managed to get bail even after he was booked for a non-bailable offence. The judges asked whether the public prosecutor and the police had opposed the grant of bail to the man. An affidavit had to be filed to this effect from the arrest of the man till his release, the court said. The case was adjourned till December 18. During the course of the hearing, Tenkasi Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh informed the court that the man was no longer in the police force and was a deserter. The police had booked the man prior to the court taking suo motu cognisance of the incident, he submitted. The judges also sought a response from the State government with regard to establishing special committees comprising members from each department to take cognisance of news reports and act on them immediately. Earlier, the court had observed that this incident should be an eye-opener. Not in all cases could the police wait for complaints to be filed. Instead, authorities could rely upon media reports and swing into action. The court said the mechanism could be extended to address civic issues too. The committee should look into the issues that were being highlighted in the media and take immediate steps to address them, the judges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-shocked-over-bail-to-harassment-case-accused/article33341745.ece
16 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Re-introduce passenger trains, says Madurai MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has appealed to Southern Railway to re-introduce passenger trains that were cancelled after the outbreak of COVID-19. In a memorandum submitted to Madurai Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin here on Tuesday, Mr. Venkatesan said that the viral infection has come down to a significant extent and the Centre has relaxed the lockdown conditions. “Even after the State Government having given permission for operation of passenger trains, the railway administration has not come forward to operate passenger trains,” he said. He recalled that three pairs of passenger trains were being operated between Madurai and Rameswaram before the lockdown. Similarly, Rameswaram-Kanniyakumari tri-weekly express trains were also operated earlier. “As all these trains have not been operated between Madurai and Rameswaram, passengers were put to a lot of suffering,” he said. Similarly, three pairs of passenger trains that were operated on Madurai-Shencottah section have not been re-introduced which has put passengers of Virudhunagar, Sivakasi, Srivilliputtur, Rajapalayam, Sankarankoil, Kadayanallur and Tenkasi passengers to lot of inconvenience. The MP also wanted the Railways to roll back its decision of converting passenger trains that were run for more than 200 km into express trains. Stating that lot of workers employed in big and small industrial units in Madurai were making use of the passenger trains for their daily commuting. Similarly, small traders and students were making use of season tickets. However, in the absence of trains, these people had to shell out at least 25% of their wages on their travel. The MP also said that the practice of allowing only reserved passengers to travel in all trains should be withdrawn. The ladies compartment have been converted into general compartment in trains and concession for various categories, including senior citizens, have been denied, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/re-introduce-passenger-trains/article33341250.ece
16 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Attempt on life of two murder case accused||Tirumangalam Taluk police are on the lookout for an armed gang that tried to bump off two brothers, accused in the murder of a minor girl, on Tirumangalam-Usilampatti Road on Monday afternoon. The police said that A. Madhu (27) and A. Mathivanan (27), twin brothers, were arrested in connection with a rape and murder of the girl. When the duo were coming back after attending a court hearing, a car knocked down their bike near Kandukulam bridge. Even as they fell down, an armed gang tried to attack them. While one of them escaped from the scene, Madhu was attacked with sharp weapons. He has been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital. The police said that the cousin of the murder case victim, Kasi, had attacked the brothers with his associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attempt-on-life-of-two-murder-case-accused/article33341871.ece
16 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea seeks uploading of Kudimaramathu work details on website||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the State government in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the authorities to display details of kudimaramathu works in the website of district administrations. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered notice in the petition filed by advocate R.M. Anbunithi of Madurai. The petitioner said that details pertaining to the extent of waterbodies and expenditure of the kudimaramathu works should be uploaded. He said that through this information the general public, local villagers and social activists will come to know if the kudimaramathu works achieved their real purpose or if there were any irregularities in their implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-seeks-uploading-of-kudimaramathu-work-details-on-website/article33341742.ece
16 December 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Students writing exam in the open causes stir||The convergence of a large number of students in groups in the vicinity of Government Arts and Science College at Kurumbalur in the district on Tuesday, purportedly to write the ‘online exam' of Bharathidasan University, caused unsavoury moments for authorities of the institution. Visuals aired in television channels and social media depicting a section of students writing the exam from inside a bus shelter and under roadside trees outside the college left the authorities red-faced.  Instructions In its instructions to the college heads, the university had mentioned that the question papers would be sent by email to the principals at 9 a.m., and that the same would also be uploaded in the university portal at 10 a.m. The principals of respective colleges were designated as exam superintendents for receiving the answer scripts from the students. The students were instructed to either submit the answer script in person as soon as possible if they lived near by or send it by post on the same day to their respective principals if they were in far-off locations. “We never asked the students to come to the college for writing the exam. The crowding of students for submitting the answer scripts was the cause for such a perception to gain ground” Princial in-Charge of the college, P. Sivanesan said, adding that the students had come of their own volition. University sources said that when the two internal exams were conducted in recent months, the students were permitted to submit the answer scripts to any of the nearest affiliated colleges. According to some of the students, they thought it fit to come over to the college since they were given to understand that the university, this time, was particular about students submitting answer scripts in their respective colleges. If not for this emphasis, the necessity for students to come over to the college would not have arisen, say teachers. Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar said the college heads had been told that the students living in far away locations could submit the answer scripts to heads of the nearest affiliated colleges as was done in the internal exams. “The onus was on the college heads to make things clear to the students,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-writing-exam-in-the-open-causes-stir/article33341202.ece
16 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Take measures to curtail increase in raw materials price: industry body||The Consortium of Puducherry Industries Association has urged the Centre to take measures to arrest the increase in price of raw materials. Secretary of the association M. Nandakumar in a press release, said Micro Small and Medium Enterprises have been suffering due to the impact of COVID-19. Now, the rise in raw material price has hit the industry badly. The increase in price of raw materials had led to the cancellation of orders, uncertainty of consumption in the market and decline in exports. The price of steel and other foundry products such as coke, pig iron, cast iron, copper, brass, aluminium and steel scrap have increased by 30 % to 40 % in the last few months. There was also shortage of certain raw materials, he said in the release. The impact of a rise in the price of raw materials on the overall cost of products was about 20%. Consequently, the working capital requirement had increased, and more capital was required to cope with the situation. The MSME sector would “cease to exist” if the Ministry of Finance failed to look into the current rise in price of raw materials, the release said. The Centre should stop imposing barriers such as anti-dumping and mandatory BIS standard, as demand for several polymers exceed domestic demand. The government should also consider an immediate ban on export of raw materials to ease domestic supply and check price rise, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-measures-to-curtail-increase-in-raw-materials-price-industry-body/article33341816.ece
16 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Active cases drop below the 300-mark in Puducherry||Puducherry recorded one COVID-19 death that raised the toll to 621 on Tuesday as active cases dropped below the 300-mark with 38 new cases and 47 recoveries registered in the last 24 hours. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a press conference that the government sought to hire health manpower on a contract basis at least for another three months. After consultations with Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, the file regarding this had been forwarded to the Lt. Governor, he said. Of the Rs. 3 crore earmarked for this, a sum of Rs. 77 lakh has so far been spent, he added. Meanwhile, the death of a 72-year-old man with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, in Puducherry took the Covid-19 death count in the capital alone to 508 followed by Karaikal (60), Yanam (45) and Mahe (eight). Puducherry accounted for 24 of the fresh cases, Karaikal seven, Mahe six and Yanam one. The test positivity rate was 1.11%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.56% After the transfer of one case to Tamil Nadu, the Union Territory had 296 active cases. Of this, 197 were in hospitals and 99 in home isolation. The cumulative total stood at 37,550 cases and recoveries at 36,633 patients. The Health Department has to date carried out 4.37 lakh tests of which 3.95 lakh were negative.  Cuddalore district Cuddalore district reported nine fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 24,454. While 24,089 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 45. In Villupuram district, 11 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 14,807. Kallakurichi district reported three positive cases, taking the overall tally to 10,737.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-drop-below-the-300-mark-in-puducherry/article33341821.ece
16 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Withhold counselling to 60 MBBS seats’||The Pondicherry State Students and Parents Welfare Association has called for withholding the counselling for admission to about 60 MBBS seats until the judiciary rules on an appeal proposed to be filed by the government against the recent Madras High Court ruling against reserving 50% seats for State quota in private self financing medical colleges. In an appeal to Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, V. Bala Balasubramanian, the Association president sought expediting the process of appeal as the High Court was expected to close for vacation from December 21. The Association said going by the seat matrix and the break-up of management (281 seats) and government (169 seats) quotas in three private medical colleges, admission to a pool of about 60 seats could be put on hold pending a court order. The Association has also urged the National Medical Commission to extend the last date for completion of counselling given that the new academic session for MBBS had been scheduled only on February 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withhold-counselling-to-60-mbbs-seats/article33341819.ece
16 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||More OP services at JIPMER||Jipmer is expanding its non-Covid outpatients medical services in a graded manner to benefit a larger number of patients against the backdrop of a decline in the COVID-19 caseload of late. A Jipmer press note said that the regulations that were enforced for out-patient services of Jipmer, Puducherry to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic were being systematically relaxed since October 28. While earlier, patients shortlisted during tele-consulation for in-person OP visits was capped at 25 for each department, that number has been increased to 100 patients per specialty per day. Besides, in some of the larger departments, such as medicine, surgery and obstetrics and gynaecology, the number of patients called for physical evaluation in person has been increased to around 250 out-patients per day. The department of medical, surgical and radiation oncology are handling over 400 out-patients per day. Thus, at the moment, over 3,000 patients are availing elective out-patient services in various non-Covid related specialties every day, Jipmer said. 400 emergency patients In addition, on an average 400 emergency patients are being attended to by various emergency departments, such as trauma, cardiology, neurosurgery, obstetrics and gynaecology and child health, including all medical and surgical branches. At the same, the Covid block of Jipmer has seen a decrease in the number of patients reporting for emergency or elective consultation from around 600 per day during August-September 2020 to an average of 300 patients per day now. Jipmer has also restarted all its elective surgeries and patients needing surgeries are being prioritised based on their disease progression and clinical condition. More than 50% of the hospital bed-strength is occupied as on date, with over 1,200 patients admitted in various departments and units in the Institute. However, in view of the risk of transmission due to overall relaxations in the community as well as in the hospital, Jipmer will continue to carefully regulate the OPD services, Jipmer Director Rakesh Aggarwal said. This means use of measures such as universal use of masks by all patients and attenders, visits by prior appointment and tele-consultation before physical visits that allows one attender per patient. These are important to ensure proper physical distance between people attending the outpatient services, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-op-services-at-jipmer/article33341822.ece
16 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Case filed against cadre of CPI(M), VCK||The Grand Bazaar police have registered cases against five cadre belonging to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi for trying to burn an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi while staging a protest in front of the office of a private telecom major on Monday. A case has been registered against S. Ramesh, V. Veera Ilanthamizh, M. Kuppusamy, Mathivanan and V. Perumal under Sections 143, 341 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Pondicherry Police Act. They have been booked for unlawful assembly, wrongfully restraining of people and trying to burn effigy of PM, police said. The workers of both the parties, after taking out a procession in support of farmers protest, gathered near the telecom office and raised slogans against PM and corporates for enacting “anti-farmer” legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-filed-against-cpim-vck-workers/article33341823.ece
16 December 2020||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Residents struggle with no transport facilities||Thanks to lack of proper connectivity from Chitteri, many residents have vacated their houses and shifted to Arakonnam, claim residents. They want improvement in train and bus connectivity and want season tickets to be provided to Chitteri Railway Station. There are more than 10 villages around the Chitteri Railway Station, including Asamandhur, Melkandigai, Keezhkandigai, Gandhi Nagar, Vedal and Thandalam. Residents mainly depend on train to travel to and from Arakkonam. S. Dhanapalu, a resident of Asamandhur said that he took a house on rent in Arakkonam a few years ago. "This is because there was no proper transport connectivity and my children were finding it hard to go to school. However my house and farm land is still there in Asamandhur," he said. Many residents like him are suffering due to poor transport connectivity. "Earlier we had six services. Now we have one special service running between Jolarpet to Arakonnam. It reaches Chitteri at 8.10 a.m. and in the evening it stops around 6 p.m. when it operates back to Jolarpet," said G. Kumar, secretary, Chitteri to the Central Railway Station Passengers Association. Expensive rides Due to this residents are put to hardship. "Autorickshaws charge a bomb to travel from Chitteri to Arakkonam and bus services are also erratic. So people have started leaving this village and staying for rent in Arakkonam for ease of travel," said S. Annadurai, president of the association. No season tickets He claimed that the season ticket is also not being provided to Chitteri Railway station. "I travel to Ambattur for work. Until last month I was able to get it, it suddenly stopped. The railway officials told me that there are not sufficient trains, hence the issuance of season tickets to Chitteri has been stopped. So I have to get down at Arakkonam and spend Rs. 200 to reach Chitteri village," said Mr. Kumar. The Southern Railways has started train service to Kancheepuram and Tirutanni, so they should start the six services to Katpadi and Jolarpet, demand passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-struggle-with-no-transport-facilities/article33341873.ece
16 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Two dead, over 10 injured in road accident||Two persons were killed and over 10 others were injured in a road accident at Omalur on Salem-Bengaluru Highway here on Tuesday when the mini van in which they were travelling turned turtle when the driver was suspected to have lost control of it. According to police, the deceased were identified as Manikandan (4) and Meyvel (60) from Edappadi. Police said the accident occurred when over 20 persons were travelling in a mini van to Theevetipatti for construction works from Edappadi. While the vehicle was proceeding near Kuppur Pirivu Road, the mini van driven by Palaniswami was suspected to have lost control while trying to avoid a motorcyclist. It turned turtle across the median on the opposite side of the road and hit a truck that was moving towards Dharmapuri. The two persons died on the spot. The injured were rushed to Omalur government hospital and Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger visited the accident spot and inquired with officials. Dr. Ganiger said that necessary measures have been advised to prevent further accidents at the place and it would be implemented at the earliest. District Collector S.A. Raman met the injured persons at GMKMCH. Omalur police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-dead-over-10-injured-in-road-accident/article33341269.ece
16 December 2020||salem,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam park reopened after nine months||The Mettur dam park resumed operations on Monday and it was reopened to the public and tourists. The park is a major attraction to visitors to Mettur dam and temples. As part of COVID-19 restrictions, the park was closed in March.  Safety protocols According to officials from Public Works Department, visitors to the park have been advised to follow COVID-19 safety protocols. All visitors are mandated to wear masks and maintain physical distancing norms. Authorities have arranged facilities for hand sanitation at the entry point to the park. The 33-acre park has several amenities, including a children play area and large lawn areas. On Monday, 2,739 persons visited the park and Rs. 15,045 was collected. With good storage of water at the dam, authorities are hoping that the footfall would increase in upcoming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-dam-park-reopened-after-nine-months/article33341267.ece
16 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Murugan: false propaganda on farm laws has failed||BJP State president L. Murugan on Tuesday said “false propaganda” by the DMK, the Left and the Congress had failed, and farmers in Tamil Nadu had given their full support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The farmers have not fallen to the false propaganda, and Tamil Nadu farmers have given their full support to Mr. Modi. That is why the bandh call given by them failed in Tamil Nadu,” he said in Salem.. He said DMK functionaries forcefully shut shops in several areas during the Bharath bandh, and it showed their failure. The BJP will conduct 1,000 meetings in the State, between December 16 and 21, under Vivasayigalin Nanban Modi, to explain to the farmers the benefits of the farm laws. He added that Union Ministers were expected to participate. The BJP is ready for the Assembly election, and plans will ould be prepared as per directions from the party’s Central leadership, Mr. Murugan said. As part of preparations for the Assembly election, the party has formed 25-member booth committees, he said. C.T. Ravi, State in-charge and national general secretary, said the Opposition was supporting middlemen, and that it had misguided people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murugan-false-propaganda-on-farm-laws-has-failed/article33341230.ece
16 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Courtallam comes back to life||Courtallam, a popular haunt of tourists, is alive again after remaining a ‘ghost town’ for the past eight-and-a-half months owing to COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. The town has started receiving visitors from Tuesday after the government allowed people to take bath in the waterfalls. When the lockdown was clamped, Courtallam lost its sheen; it was not even open for tourists during the ‘annual season’ between June and August. With the number of fresh infections coming down, the restrictions have been relaxed and the district administration decided to open Courtallam also for visitors. Bathing is allowed between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. People in groups of 20 are allowed to take bath for 20 minutes, to prevent jostling. People from Rajapalayam, Sivakasi and Virudhunagar arrived on Tuesday morning itself. The duration was reduced to 15 minutes when the crowd swelled a bit. There were some Ayyappa devotees who were on their way to Sabraimala in Kerala. Though bathing was allowed in Main Falls and Five Falls, Old Courtallam Falls remained out of bounds as damage caused by the recent floods in the bathing area and the approach path are yet to be set right. “Since the damaged portions might cause injuries, visitors were not allowed. Once the work is over in a week, they will be allowed,” an official said. Teams of officials from police, revenue, Courtallam town panchayat, public health and horticulture are present in the waterfalls area to regulate crowd and send them in small groups to take bath. Parking fee is being collected by the town panchayat as auction did not take place because of the lockdown. Collector G. S. Sameeran inspected the Main Falls in the afternoon to check whether the regulations were followed. ‘Second season’ now Barring small eateries, teashops and a couple of petty shops, other establishments such as lodges, hotels and fruit stalls remained in a place which would otherwise be enjoying the ‘second season’ this time of the year. “If the nature is gracious enough to bless Courtallam with a few more rounds of showers along the Western Ghats, number of visitors coming to Courtallam will go up sharply as Christmas and Pongal holidays are nearing. At least everyone who has relied upon Courtallam for their living can make some money after completely losing the season,” said Senthurpandian of Courtallam, who suffered a hefty loss as he had taken on contract the children park near the town panchayat office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/courtallam-comes-back-to-life/article33341245.ece
16 December 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Courtallam opened for tourists||Courtallam, which was a ‘ghost town’ for the past eight-and-a-half months owing to the lockdown, finally saw the return of tourists, this week. The tourist spot was opened during the annual season between June and August. With the number of fresh infections coming down, the restrictions have been relaxed and the district administration decided to open the waterfalls for the visitors. On Tuesday, the tourists were allowed to take bath in small groups after a simple puja was performed. People from Rajapalayam, Sivakasi and Virudhunagar arrived here on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/courtallam-opened-for-tourists/article33341651.ece
16 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Life term for murder||A court here on Tuesday has awarded life imprisonment to a man for murdering a youth. According to prosecution, Chandrasekar alias Panju, 35, of Manthiyoor under Kadayam police station limits had a fight with Murugan, 40, of the same place during a temple festival. Consequent to this, Murugan, two of his brothers and six others murdered Chandrasekar on July 25, 2011. The Kadayam police arrested Murugan and eight others, all from Manthiyoor. Third Additional District Sessions Judge Ravishankar, while sentencing Murugan to life imprisonment and slapping a fine of Rs. 1,000, awarded five-year rigorous imprisonment to Kalidas. The Judge also awarded one year imprisonment to Mari Raj, Ganapathi, Ramesh, Chellappa, Sankarammal, Rajkumar and Thangadurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-term-for-murder/article33341866.ece
16 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver murdered||An autorickshaw driver, Esakkidurai, 37, was murdered at Reddiyarpatti near Alangulam on Tuesday. Ooththumalai police sent the body for a post-mortem and have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-driver-murdered/article33341867.ece
16 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Student stabbed||A 20-year-old undergraduate student was slashed with a knife on her throat in Thanjavur on Tuesday. The incident took place when the woman, a final year B.Sc student, was travelling in a town bus to a private college in Thanjavur. The assailant, R. Ajit, 24, was arrested later. The student and the accused belonged to the same community and were from Nadu Cauvery in Tiruvaiyaru taluk. Police sources said the two were in love with each other a couple of years ago. However, the woman stopped speaking with Ajit on coming to know that he was an alcoholic. She also turned down Ajit’s demand that she marry him. On Tuesday, she was on her way to college in a town bus when Ajit, who travelled in the same vehicle, allegedly slashed her throat with a knife and attempted to escape when it slowed down at Ramanathan roundabout. On hearing the cries of the co-passengers, the public caught Ajit and handed him over to Thanjavur Town South police station. The victim was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Thanjavur Town South police registered a case under IPC sections including 307 (attempt to murder) and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-student-stabbed-in-bus-in-thanjavur/article33341215.ece
16 December 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Death penalty to man for killing pregnant wife||The Additional Sessions Fast Track Court judge A Abdul Kadhar on Tuesday awarded death sentence to a man, who had murdered his wife suspecting fidelity. According to the prosecution, Suresh, 31, of Gandhi Nagar Colony at Chinnamanur married Karpagavalli, 19, in 2015. The couple had two girl children. When she was pregnant for the third time, Suresh suspected the fidelity of his wife and strangled her with her ‘mangalsutra.’ The post-mortem reports revealed that he had hurt her with cigarette butts on her chest and injured her abdominal parts in which she had suffered multiple injuries. The police registered cases under IPC Sections 302 and 316. According to the Additional Public Prosecutor A Vellaichami, 20 witnesses were examined. Since the heinous crime was reported within seven years of marriage, the investigation was entrusted with a DSP rank officer, said Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi. The judge observed that the victim had not only suffered mental and physical torture in the hands of her husband but also died while carrying a foetus. To put an end to such a cruelty, the Supreme Court had delivered capital punishment. The Bodinayakkanur subdivision DSP Parthiban, who was the investigation officer, said the police took Suresh to the Madurai Central Prison, soon after the judgement was pronounced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-penalty-to-man-for-killing-wife/article33341246.ece
16 December 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Water released from dam||Collector M Pallavi Baldev released the water for irrigation from the Shanmuganadhi dam at Rayapanpatti for the benefit of farmers in eight revenue villages in the Uthamapalayam block on Tuesday. According to a press release, the Chief Minister had directed the authorities to release water after considering the storage level in the reservoir following representations from farmers and water users’ association. As many as 1640 acres of land would benefit from the water to be released. The Public Works Department officials said they would release 14.47 mcft of water for the next 50 days. Theni MP O P Raveendranath Kumar and other senior officers from the revenue, PWD and agriculture departments were present. Officials said the water release would benefit Rayapanpatti, Malingapuram, Chinna Ovulapuram, Veera Sakti Nayakanoor, Kanniservaipatti, Alagapuri, Vellayamalpuram and Odaipatti revenue villages. The local people submitted a petition seeking basic amenities to devotees visiting the Shanmuganathan Temple in the locality so that the Collector inspected the spot trekking for about three kilometres and promised action, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-for-irrigation-released-from-dam/article33341248.ece
16 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||GHs will get a facelift: MNM||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday said if his party was voted to power, government hospitals would get a facelift. Addressing a party meeting in Thoothukudi, he said those who wanted to experience the hell should get admitted in the unclean government hospitals. The MNM would soon set up a fishermen’s wing. Safety equipment of international standard would be given to fishermen if he formed the government next year, he said. The MNM would also fight for justice to those killed in the anti-Sterlite agitation. While batting for the restricted working hours for the policemen, the actor-politician said the law-enforcers would also behave humanely if they were not stretched beyond their capacity. He visited poet Subramania Bharathi’s house at Ettaiyapuram while on his way from Kovilpatti to Thoothukudi and said the memorial was in bad shape and remarked. “I think I have belatedly entered politics,” he added. He hoped the ECI would allot a common symbol to his party in Tamil Nadu “after dragging the issue for a few more days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ghs-will-get-a-facelift/article33341743.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Expansion work begins at IT Park in Navalpattu||Work on expansion of Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (ELCOT) IT Park at Navalpattu in Tiruchi has begun with Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami laying foundation for the project remotely from Chennai recently. The IT Park is being expanded as 100% occupancy has been achieved in rental space offered there now. The existing building with 59,960 sq ft of space is occupied by six private companies. Besides, the Tamil Nadu Disaster Recovery Centre is also situated here. As many as 1,535 employees work in the building. With more companies reportedly expressing interest in renting out space at the IT Park, the State government decided to go for expansion. An additional block will come up adjacent to the existing one and offer over one lakh sq ft of office space on ground plus four floors. The project has been sanctioned at an estimated cost of about Rs. 48.10 crore, sources said. The additional space is expected to generate direct employment for 10,000 persons and indirect employment for another 20,000. The Public Works Department is executing the project, which is expected to be completed within 18 months. Preliminary works for construction of the new building has already begun at the site. The IT Park is spread over 147.61 acres land, including 123.23 acres of Special Economic Zone, off Tiruchi-Pudukottai Highway. About nine companies have also been allotted land in the IT Park so far. Its proximity to Tiruchi airport, excellent road connectivity and availability of other infrastructure are considered major advantages. Officials believe the additional built-up space will find ready takers as there have been enquiries already.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expansion-work-begins-at-it-park-in-navalpattu/article33341219.ece
16 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Peafowls found dead||Six peacocks and a peahen were found dead on a plot of patta land in Vengaikurichi village near Manapparai in Tiruchi on Monday, prompting the Forest Department to launch a probe.  Samples lifted from the carcasses would be sent to the Advanced Institute For Wildlife Conservation at Vandalur for examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/peafowls-found-dead/article33341872.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gang attacks advocate||An advocate was attacked with sharp weapons by a gang that came in a car near Thennur here on Tuesday. The victim, G. Chandhar, 35, of Allithurai on the city’s outskirts, sustained multiple injuries and was admitted to a private hospital here. Police sources said the advocate was riding a two-wheeler and stopped midway to speak on his mobile phone when a four-member gang that came in a car attacked him on his head and hand with sharp weapons and escaped after the advocate took to his heels. Thillai Nagar Police are investigating the gang attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-attacks-advocate/article33341216.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Six peafowls found dead near Manapparai||Six peacocks and a peahen were found dead on a plot of patta land in Vengaikurichi village near Manapparai in Tiruchi on Monday, prompting the Forest Department to launch a probe. Local residents noticed the carcass of six birds and another bird battling for life at the spot, which died moments later. Village residents immediately alerted the Forest Department and a team of officials visited the spot and conducted enquiries. A Forest Department official said the dead birds were brought to the Forest Range Office at Manapparai where a veterinarian conducted post-mortems on them. Samples lifted from the carcasses would be sent to the Advanced Institute For Wildlife Conservation at Vandalur near Chennai for examination. The official said a case has been registered under Section 9 of the The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and an investigation has begun. The probe would try to find out whether the birds were poisoned or if they had consumed pesticides sprayed in the nearby farm lands and died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-peafowls-found-dead-near-manapparai/article33341209.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Website for start-ups||Young Indians (Yi) Tiruchi, a part of the Confederation of Indian Industry, launched its YUTRY Website on Tuesday to foster start-ups and attract investments, riding on emerging signs of economic recovery after the lockdown phase. Working on three areas, Youth Leadership, Nation Building and Thought Leadership, Yi Tiruchi intends to ignite entrepreneurial spark in young minds and guide them on their entrepreneurial journey, thereby restoring to people their lost jobs. The platform, YUTRY(https://yutry.in), will connect potential start-ups with domain/industry experts to proofread and pivot the idea with the right business model. It will also attract new investments to the city, D. Senguttuvan, Vice Chairman, CII Tiruchi Zone and Executive Director, Kauvery Hospital, Tiruchi, said. He launched the website in the presence of Ketan J Vora, Chair, Yi Tiruchi Chapter; Kaveri Annamalai, Co-Chair; Karthikeyan, Chair, Entrepreneurship vertical; and Rajesh, Co-Chair, Entrepreneurship vertical. The initiative will help prevent migration of people, investments, jobs and talent to other cities by improving the entrepreneurial ecosystem, ease of doing business, employability, work culture, entertainment and tourism, Dr. Senguttuvan said. The website will prepare potential entrepreneurs to transform ideas to business plans, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/website-for-start-ups/article33341210.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Agitations against farm laws continue for second day in central region||For the second day, waiting agitations organised by Akhila Indhiya Vivasayigal Poratta Orunginaippu Kuzhu were conducted at various places in the central region on Tuesday. They were backed by Opposition parties demanding repeal of the new farm laws and expressing solidarity with farmers staging a protest in Delhi. The agitation in Tiruchi city was organised near old Collectorate headed by the Kuzhu’s district coordinator Ayilai Sivasuriyan. Members of the two Left parties, Congress, DMK, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and Makkal Adhigaram participated in the waiting agitation that concluded in the evening. In Pudukottai Town, the waiting agitation was organised some distance away from the Collectorate led by Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam district secretary Somaiya. The participants dispersed in the evening. In Thanjavur Town, the agitation was organised near Panagal building and led by Kuzhu district coordinator N.V. Kannan. In Perambalur Town, the agitation was organised at Palakkarai led by Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam district president Selladurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agitations-against-farm-laws-continue-for-second-day-in-central-region/article33341212.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaikunda Ekadasi festival gets under way at Srirangam temple||ThePagal pathuof the 22-dayVaikunda Ekadasifestival started at Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple on Tuesday. The processional deity, Namperumal, was taken from the sanctum sanctrum to Arjunamandapam  in the morning. In view of COVID-19 pandemic, devotees were not allowed during thepurapaadu. They were allowed to worship after the deity reached Arjunamandapam. TheVaikunda Ekadasifestival commenced withThirunedunthaandakamon Monday. The annual festival which is celebrated asPagal PathuandRaa Pathufor 10 days each will culminate withNammazhwar Mokshamon January 4. The highlight of the festival is the opening of theParamapadavaasalin the early hours on December 25. In connection with the opening of theParamapadavaasal, devotees would not be allowed from 6 p.m. on December 24 to 8 a.m. on December 25, an official release said. They would be allowed after 8 a.m. on December 25 once the processional deity reached the Thirumamani Mandapam. The city police have drafted a security scheme forPagal Pathuand another forRaa Pathufestivities at the temple . An exhaustive security plan would be drafted separately onVaikunda Ekadasiwhen theParampadavaasal is opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaikunda-ekadasi-festival-gets-under-way-at-srirangam-temple/article33341214.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No drinking water supply in parts of Tiruchi today||Drinking water supply will remain suspended in the following areas in the city on Wednesday due to power shutdown announced by Tangedco for maintenance work at Srirangam sub-station: Srirangam, Sanjeevi Nagar, Devadhanam, Viragupettai, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Nehruji Nagar, Ariyamangalam Ukkadai, Ariyamangalam, Jaganathapuram, Malaiyappa Nagar, Rail Nagar, Senthaneerpuram, Sangiliandapuram, Defence Colony, Vivekananda Nagar, J.K.Nagar, Mela Kalkandarkottai, Ponneripuram, Kallukuzhi, Ponmalaipatti, Central Prison, Subramaniapuram, Airport, Kamaraj Nagar, Sembattu, Khaja Nagar, Khajamalai, K.K.Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Anand Nagar, Sathyavani Muthu Nagar, Ayyappa Nagar, Woraiyur, Mangala Nagar, Fathima Nagar, Siva Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Selva Nagar, Anandam Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Puthur, Edamalaipattipudur, K.Sathanur, Anbu Nagar, Krishnamurthy Nagar, Thondaiman Nagar and Crawford. Regular supply will resume on Thursday, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-drinking-water-supply-in-parts-of-tiruchi-today/article33341203.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||81 more test positive for COVID-19 in delta districts||The daily count of fresh cases of COVID-19 continued to remain below 100 in the central region on Tuesday with 81 persons testing positive for the virus. No death was recorded in the region as per the bulletin of the Health Department. Three districts – Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai – reported new cases in single digits. Thanjavur continued to report the maximum number of new positive cases among the eight central districts with 22 persons testing positive in the district. Tiruchi was next with 15 new cases followed by Nagapattinam with 13 cases. Karur and Tiruvarur reported 10 new cases each and Pudukottai seven. Ariyalur and Perambalur registered two positive cases each.  Under treatment As on Tuesday, 159 positive persons were under treatment, including home treatment, in Tiruchi district, 158 in Thanjavur,124 in Nagapattinam district, 120 in Tiruvarur, 97 in Karur, 77 in Pudukottai, 21 in Ariyalur and five in Perambalur, according to the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/81-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-delta-districts/article33341223.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Credit plan for Tirunelveli pegged at Rs. 6,248 crore||The Potential-linked Credit Plan released for the district by Collector V. Vishnu on Monday for the year 2021-22 envisages credit flow of Rs. 6,248.09 crore for agriculture, service and industries sectors. Of this, agriculture, the predominant vocation of Tirunelveli, takes the lion’s share of Rs. 2,786.63 crore while the agro-allied and food processing industries collectively got Rs. 1,600.56 crore. The proposal envisages sanctioning of loans to the extent of Rs. 542.15 crore for the industries sector, which is witnessing a stunted growth despite having immense potential with land, quality power, water and cheap but qualified and skilled workforce in the district. Other important features of the proposals are: education loan to be given to the students during this period is Rs. 234.75 crore, and housing loan is Rs. 256.32 crore. Mr. Vishnu, while releasing the proposal, appealed to the bankers to achieve the targets by giving loans to qualified applicants so as to achieve the target of doubling the farmers’ income by 2022. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, Joint Director of Agriculture Gajendra Pandian, Lead District Manager Saravanan and Regional Manager of NABARD Saleema were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-6248-cr-credit-plan-for-tirunelveli/article33341249.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 140.20 feet (permissible level is 143 ft.), with an inflow of 880.81 cusecs and no discharge. The level in Manimuthar dam was 105.45 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 438 cusecs and a discharge of 480 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33341870.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Five including two sub-registrars suspended||The Registration Department on Tuesday placed under suspension five officials, including two Sub-Registrars in Tiruppur, on charges of misappropriation of funds. Deputy Inspector General of Registration (Coimbatore Zone) M. Jagadeesan said that Joint-I Sub-Registrar Vijayashanthi, Joint-II Sub-Registrar Muthukannan, two Assistants Shankar and Panneerselvam who were employed at Sub-Registrar Office (Joint-I) in Postal Colony and Sub-Registrar Office in Thottipalayam respectively and one Junior Assistant Monisha from Sub-Registrar Office (Joint-II) were placed under suspension until further orders. The two Assistants allegedly revoked and reused some of the stamp duty challans issued during the registration of documents in an attempt to misappropriate the money, he said. Tiruppur District Registrar Ramasamy reported the irregularities to Mr. Jagadeesan, who conducted inquiries in Tiruppur on December 11. Mr. Jagadeesan said that he reported this to Inspector General of Registration P. Shankar, who initiated action against the five officials on Tuesday. “The charges are yet to be framed,” he said. The total misappropriated amount was yet to be ascertained, based on which the charges would be framed and further disciplinary proceedings initiated, according to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-including-two-sub-registrars-suspended/article33341254.ece
16 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Protests against farm laws continue||Members of the CPI (M) and the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) staged demonstrations in Tiruppur demanding the repeal of farm laws. The police said the AIKSCC continued the sit-in protest in front of the Collectorate for the second day on Tuesday. Similarly, CPI (M) members staged a demonstration outside a Reliance-owned outlet in Anupparpalayam. The protesters were kept in private halls and released in the evening. In Coimbatore, members of the Left parties staged a protest in front of the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-against-farm-laws-continue/article33341666.ece
16 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||DMK functionary arrested for defamatory post against Minister||The Udumalpet police on Tuesday arrested a DMK IT Wing functionary on charges of allegedly posting defamatory comments against Udumalpet MLA and Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan on social media platforms. E. Balakumar (36), Tiruppur south district deputy organiser of DMK IT Wing, allegedly posted defamatory content against Mr. Radhakrishnan on Facebook and WhatsApp, the police said. A. Ramamoorthi, in-charge of the Udumalpet MLA’s office, in his complaint to the police, claimed that the accused threatened him when asked about the social media post. The accused was booked under Sections 294(b) (Uttering obscenities), 505(1)(c) (Statements conducing public mischief) and 506(1) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code along with section 67 (Punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-functionary-arrested-for-defamatory-post-against-minister/article33341276.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 117 new cases||Erode reported 40 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,127. While 43 persons were discharged, 348 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem saw 34 new cases on Tuesday, the lowest in the district in recent times. According to health officials, all cases are indigenous. Namakkal district reported 25 new cases, all indigenous. Krishnagiri recorded 18 new cases, taking the tally so far to 7,672 cases. Twenty-two persons got discharged on Tuesday, and the number of active cases is 154. Dharmapuri reported 10 new cases, raising the district’s tally to 6,262. The number of active cases is 108, and 23 persons got discharged on Tuesday. A total of 117 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The Health Department said the district had 1,048 active cases as on Tuesday and 106 persons were discharged from treatment centres after recovering from the disease. The Nilgiris district reported 16 new cases, while 28 people recovered from the infection and got discharged on Tuesday. A total of 134 persons are under treatment. Tiruppur district reported 69 fresh cases, taking the district’s overall tally to 16,322. So far, 15,569 patients have recovered from the infection in the district and 541 are active cases. Thirty-four patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-lowest-number-of-cases-in-recent-times/article33341266.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||I-T searches yield Rs. 23 cr. in unaccounted money||There were also “indications of capitation fee receipts for medical admissions to postgraduate programmes”. Details of financial transactions between the group in question and another group for the sale of three infrastructure facilities at various ports were found during the searches. Complex financial arrangements creating bogus liabilities from their own concerns were also said to have been made, ostensibly to reduce the capital gains arising out of the transfer. Capital gains of approximately Rs. 280 crore have been established. Huge capital introduction through a web of bogus inter-corporate transactions within the group is also under the scanner. A large number of lockers belonging to the group has been identified, which will be operated in due course. Investigation on The search operation has concluded for the time being, and an investigation is ongoing. While the I-T Department did not mention the name of the group, sources indicated that the raids were carried out on the premises of the Chettinad Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-searches-yield-rs-23-cr-in-unaccounted-money/article33341634.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘2.65 lakh ha damaged in cyclone’||Standing crop on about 2.65 lakh hectares (ha) in the State have been damaged due to heavy rainfall triggered by Cyclone Burevi as per tentative estimates, said Director of Agriculture V. Dakshinamoorthy here on Tuesday. “About 3.05 lakh ha were inundated due to heavy rain triggered by cCclone Burevi. Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur were among the badly affected districts,” he said after inspecting some rain-affected areas in Thanjavur. “An village-wise enumeration is under way by officials of Agriculture and Revenue departments to assess the exact extent of damage. About 50% of the enumeration has been completed in all affected districts and we will submit a report to the government in a couple of days,” Mr. Dakshinamoorthy added. Another 12,911 ha were affected in the State due to the earlier cyclone Nivar. Steps were being taken to expedite sanction of compensation under the crop insurance too. The government would also take a decision on sanction of relief to farmers, whose crops had suffered more than 33% damage from the State Disaster Relief Fund. Standing paddy crop on about 1,17,300 hectares were affected due to the rain in Thanjavur district.Sambaandthaladicrop had been raised on 1.35 lakh ha in the district against the targetted 1.26 lakh ha. Ninety per cent of the crop was insured. Accompanied by Collector Govinda Rao, Joint Director of Agriculture A. Justin and other officials of the Agriculture Department, Mr. Dakshinamoorthy inspected some of the affected fields in the district. He also chaired a meeting with officials to review the progress of enumeration in the district and complete the exercise expeditiously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/265-lakh-ha-damaged-in-cyclone/article33341221.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Christmas expo at Poompuhar||Poompuhar has organised an exhibition-cum-sale till December 30 at its outlet here for Christmas and New Year. With five stalls put up by local artisans, the highlight this year is the additional service offered. Poompuhar will set up and decorate the cribs and Christmas trees at institutions, if needed. There are cribs of different sizes and customers can also avail of the installation and decoration service, says C. Ronald Selvestin, manager of the outlet. Since the expo is for New Year too, the stalls have gift articles. Poompuhar is looking at sales worth Rs. 10 lakh through this special sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/christmas-expo-at-poompuhar/article33341658.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Religion||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Trust: Thirupaavai recital, Sri Venugopal Perumal, Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple, Kovaipudur, 5.20 a.m.     Adithya School of Business Management: MBA Executive Preparatory Programme online, 11 a.m.  Assistant Commissioner of Customs and the Officers of CPU: Inauguration of CPU office, Nethaji Nagar, Ramanathapuram, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/religion/article33341660.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. set to recommence Vidyagama, this time in schools||The State government is set to restart the Vidyagama scheme in a new format and with more safety measures. Instead of teachers visiting students in their neighbourhoods and conducting classes in small batches, the initiative will now take place in government, aided and private schools. In a press release, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar said students, after approval from parents, can come to the school premises to attend Vidyagama classes in small batches. They will have to wear masks and maintain social distance. Classes will be held in batches of 15 to 20 depending on the availability of teachers and infrastructure at the school. They will be taken in shifts comprising three classes of 45 minutes each in the morning and afternoon. In a day, students will be asked to come in seven to eight batches, said the press release. Safety measures Children will be subjected to thermal screening; those who have symptoms of COVID-19 will not be allowed to attend. For standard 10, classes will be conducted in the first shift daily. The guidelines state that for students of standard 8 and 9, classes would be conducted on alternate days between 2 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. For grade 1 to 5, classes will be on alternate days. The government stopped Vidyagama in October this year after reports of students and teachers contracting COVID-19. However, with a drop in number of cases, there has been a growing demand among students in government schools to re-initiate the scheme as a majority do not have access to Internet or smartphones and laptops. The Minister said the scheme would be implemented in the new format with safety measures as per the High Court’s advice. Local body institutions have been assigned to take on sanitisation work. The government has directed the CEO of the zilla panchayat of each district to supervise the implementation of Vidyagama. Mr. Kumar maintained that the scheme should not be considered as a full-scale opening of schools. The new format has been introduced as per advice from local students and their families. “Vidyagama will help children who have been deprived of online education,” he said in the release. Ongoing online classes and those being telecast on TV will continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-set-to-recommence-vidyagama-this-time-in-schools/article33341310.ece
16 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ball in Governor’s court as BJP, JD(S) seek his intervention||The matter of the ruling BJP’s initiative to move a no-confidence motion against the Chairman of the Legislative Council and the unruly episode that unfolded in the Upper House on Tuesday is now in the court of Governor Vajubhai Vala, with BJP members, accompanied by a few JD(S) MLCs, seeking his intervention. A delegation of BJP and JD(S) MLCs, led by Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, sought the Governor’s intervention to resolve the deadlock and take to a logical end their notice for allowing a motion of no confidence against Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty. They went to Raj Bhavan after the Upper House was adjourned sine die. In their petition, the BJP members maintained that as per Article 182, the Chairman is supposed to have taken up their no-confidence motion initiated during the previous session as the 14-day notice period was completed. Arguing that the article did not provide for the Chairman to preside over a session if a no-confidence motion was initiated against him, they contended that he had not only presided over the session, but also the business advisory meetings of the Upper House. Taking exception to the Chairman’s communication to members in which he stated that the no-confidence motion was rejected as it did not mention the reasons for making such a move, the BJP members said the communication was “illegal” as the rules did not insist on the reasons being mentioned. Also, the earlier no-confidence motion moved against the then Chairman D.H. Shankaramurthy by the Congress too had not mentioned any reasons, they argued. Maintaining that the Chairman was not allowed to decide the correctness of a no-confidence motion initiated against him, the BJP members said it was the Deputy Chairman who had to take a call on the issue. However,when the Deputy Chairman was presiding, Congress members Narayanaswamy and Naseer Ahmed “assaulted” him, the delegation of leaders alleged. They appealed to Mr. Vala to direct the Chairman to convene a session to decide on the no-confidence motion. They also appealed to him to ensure that the House was conducted as per the provisions of Article 182. Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said the Governor promised to look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ball-in-governors-court-as-bjp-jds-seek-his-intervention/article33341445.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC upholds ED’s actions against firms, individuals in money laundering probes||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the actions initiated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under the Prevention of Money Laundering (PML) Act in different cases against various companies, financial institutions and individuals, and dismissed the petitions filed by them challenging the legality of ED’s proceedings. The High Court held that the provisions of the PML Act that allows attachment of properties till the final outcome of the trial are constitutionally valid while also holding that it is not necessary in law that a person will have to be an accused in a scheduled offence for proceedings against him under the PML Act. Petitions dismissed Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order while dismissing petitions filed by companies such as JSW Steel Ltd. and Devas Multimedia Pvt. Ltd., certain individuals linked to the former Minister Katta Subramanya Naidu, and others, who were connected to persons against whom offences under Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Acts were registered. The provisional attachment of the properties and their confirmation does not deprive right, title, and interest of its owner over the property but only the beneficial enjoyment of the property by the owner or the occupier is taken away till the trial court gives finding on whether properties are proceeds of money laundering and if they have to be confiscated. The petitioners had questioned the ED’s actions such as provisionally attaching properties, freezing bank accounts, information sought from banks and financial institutions, confirmation of provisionally attached properties, initiation of proceedings under PML Act despite petitioners not being accused in any of scheduled offences under the Act, etc. With this order, the stay granted against further proceedings against them by the Enforcement Directorate stands vacated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-upholds-eds-actions-against-firms-individuals-in-money-laundering-probes/article33341312.ece
16 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Going for Ordinance?||With the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, which was passed by the Assembly, not securing the Council nod, the government is likely to now promulgate an Ordinance. A senior member in the Council said that since both the Congress and JD(S) had expressed opposition, there were chances that the two parties together, commanding majority in the Council, could have pressed for a joint select committee. “In that scenario, the government could not promulgate the Ordinance and would have to wait for the committee report.With no deadline for submission, the governmentalso feared the Bill could be delayed,” the member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/going-for-ordinance/article33341447.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Look into overcharging by private hospitals, HC directs govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to ensure that private hospitals designated to treat COVID-19 patients display the rates fixed by the State government in June 2020 and look into the allegation that some private hospitals are charging higher rates to treat COVID-19 patients. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order while hearing a PIL petition complaining about irregularities in selection of private hospital for COVID-19 treatment. The Bench also directed the government to ensure that the designated private hospitals do not make COVID-19 patients, referred by the public authorities, pay any charges, including for PPE kits and other consumables, and ensure that the hospitals display availability of this facility. The government has been directed to make available a grievance redressal mechanism for COVID-19 patients for complaining about charging excess rates. The Bench also asked the government to inform the court the mechanism for reimbursing the claims of charges by the private hospitals for treating the patients. The Bench also asked the government to file an affidavit giving the time schedule and quantity of foodgrains to be supplied to students in lieu of the midday meal.  The Bench directed the government to ensure that the hospitals do not make COVID-19 patients pay any charges, including for PPE kits and other consumables||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-look-into-overcharging-by-private-hospitals-hc-directs-govt/article33341304.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 1,185 new cases, 11 deaths reported in State||As many as 1,185 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Tuesday, taking the total positive cases to 9.03 lakh. The total recoveries on Tuesday were 1,594, adding up to 8.75 lakh. Out of the total 15,645 active cases in the State, 253 patients are admitted in ICUs. As many as 11 persons died over 24 hours, taking the total toll to 11,965. The positivity rate for the day was 1.32% and case fatality rate was 0.92 %. As many as 89,530 tests were conducted on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-1185-new-cases-11-deaths-reported-in-state/article33341307.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CHRIST (Deemed to be University) bags 4 awards||CHRIST (Deemed-to-be University) bagged four awards at the first-ever CIMA Excellence Awards virtual ceremony on December 11, 2020. It won The Asia Pacific Champion 2020, CIMA Prize-Winner Excellence Award, CIMA Global Excellence Award and the CGMA Campus of the Year Award. The CIMA Prize-Winner Excellence Award recognises university partners with top-performing CIMA students in Case Study exams. CIMA Global Excellence Award recognises university partners that achieved the highest pass rates for CIMA exams. Andrew Harding, FCMA, CGMA, Chief Executive – Management Accounting at The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, said: “The CIMA Excellence Awards honour institutions and individuals who have made outstanding contributions to the accounting profession and worked tirelessly to enrich their students, providing them with the best possible education and prepare the next generation of accounting professionals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/christ-deemed-to-be-university-bags-4-awards/article33341621.ece
16 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Who can officiate?||The Legislative Council has a panel of members who can officiate the House proceedings in the absence of the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman. Four senior members — K.C. Kondaiah (Congress), Aiyanur Manjunath (BJP), Basavaraj Horatti, and Marithibbe Gowda (JD-S) are the chosen members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/who-can-officiate/article33341446.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Techtonic’ to address waste management||Sweden-based H&M Foundation and Social Alpha have joined hands to launch “Techtonic – Innovations in Waste Management”, a nationwide challenge to identify locally designed, disruptive innovations addressing problems in waste management and improving the livelihoods of waste pickers. The aim is to create an enabling ecosystem stack for innovators and entrepreneurs developing waste management solutions. Apply by January 31 onhttps://www.socialalpha.org/techtonic-innovations-in- waste-management/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/techtonic-to-address-waste-management/article33341302.ece
16 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Reimbursement of RTE fee||A sum of Rs. 550 crore has been allocated during 2020–21 for reimbursement of fee of children admitted under section 12 (1) (c) of the RTE Act in private unaided institutions. According to an official release, Rs. 412.5 crore was released from the government till December 1, 2020. The amount has been reimbursed to the institutions. Further, the release stated that the final instalment of Rs. 137.5 crore was received from the government on December 10 and it has been released to all the districts with an instruction to immediately release it to eligible institutions, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reimbursement-of-rte-fee/article33341311.ece
16 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||No candidates for 139 GP seats of Chikkamagaluru district||There are no candidates for 139 seats of gram panchayats in Chikkamagaluru district, going for polls on December 22. Among the 2,139 total seats of 209 gram panchayats, elections will be held for 1,893 seats. Representatives have been elected unopposed for 107 seats. In response to Karnataka Growers’ Federation’s call to boycott the elections opposing the implementation of Dr. K. Kasturirangan’s report on the Western Ghats, residents of many panchayats in Chikkamagaluru, N.R.Pura, Mudigere taluks are not taking part. Among the seats for which there are no contenders, 70 are in Chikkamagaluru taluk, 33 in Mudigere and 28 in N.R. Pura taluk. The farming community took out a protest in Chikkamagaluru town on Tuesday opposing the implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-candidates-for-139-gp-seats-of-chikkamagaluru-district/article33341439.ece
16 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Representatives for 197 seats elected||In the first phase of gram panchayat elections in Hassan, Arkalgud, Channarayapatna and Sakleshpur taluks of Hassan district, representatives have been elected for 197 seats unopposed, while there are no contenders for 34 seats. Deputy Commissioner of Hassan R. Girish, at a press conference in Hassan on Tuesday, said elections will be held for 1,472 seats on December 22. There are 3,867 contenders in the fray. Among the seats for which there were no contenders for 33 are in Sakleshpur taluk. The Karnataka Growers’ Federation, opposing the implementation of Dr. K. Kasturirangan’s report on the Western Ghats, had called for boycotting the election to put pressure on the governments on this issue. “Our officers had visited the places and cleared the confusion over the impact of the report. However, people have not come forward to contest the elections in three panchayats – Hettur, Heggadde and Hongadahalla. Similarly, those people, who had filed nomination papers of Devaladakere, also withdrew them on Monday,” he said. The officer said he had spoken to representatives of Karnataka Growers’ Federation and warned them of legal action for the boycott call. “We have told them to give in writing if they had any worries about the Kasturirangan’s report. The State government has also given assurance that nobody would be evicted from their place,” he said.  Holenarasipur, Arasikere, Belur and Alur taluk GPs will go for the polls in the second phase. Till Monday evening, there were no nomination papers for 354 seats in these taluks. “Wednesday is the last day to file papers for the polls in the second phase,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/representatives-for-197-seats-elected/article33341440.ece
16 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ten held on murder charge||The Channarayapatna police have arrested 10 people in connection with the murder of a history-sheeter at his farmhouse in Kamarahalli of Channarayapatna taluk. Lingaraju, a history-sheeter, who was employed in real estate in Bengaluru, was murdered by a group on December 8. He was allegedly involved in four murders reported in Bengaluru. R. Srinivasa Gowda, Hassan SP, had constituted a team under the leadership of B.B. Lakshme Gowda, Dy.SP. The team succeeded in identifying the involvement of 16 people in the murder. Among them, 10 have been arrested. The accused They are Mohan, Nanjappa, Nagaraj, Naveen Kumar, Pradeep, Sunil Kumar, Parthiban, Kannan, Velu, and Suresh, all residents of Bengaluru. In a press release, the SP said the enmity between two rowdy groups was the reason behind the murder. The police seized nine hatchets, two cars, and one bike from the accused. The SP congratulated the police team for the arrests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ten-held-on-murder-charge/article33341301.ece
16 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Encroachment case filed||The Sringeri police have registered a case against BJP member of Chikkamagaluru ZP on charge of encroaching upon government land in Sringeri town. The case was registered by the police recently based on a complaint filed by Sringeri Tahsildar R. Ambuja. B. Shivashankar, former president and ZP member, had been accused of encroaching upon two guntas of land in survey number 215 in Sringeri. The land belonged to government offices including a taluk office, court and judges official quarters. He allegedly encroached upon it in December 2018. The police have booked the case under the provisions of the Karnataka Land Grabbing Prohibition Act, 2011, besides other IPC sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/encroachment-case-filed/article33341431.ece
16 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Round-the-clock 112 helpline services in Hubballi-Dharwad||Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissioner Labhu Ram has said that emergency response vehicles had been provided to each one of the 15 police stations under the Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissionerate and they would be available round the clock. He was speaking to presspersons at the Suburban Police Station in Hubballi after launching Hoysala patrol vehicles under the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) with helpline number 112 at Kittur Chennamma Circle on Tuesday. Mr. Labhu Ram said that helpline 112 had been launched in Hubballi-Dharwad limits and people could call the phone number for contacting the Fire and Emergency Services, the police and ambulance services. “Phone calls made to helpline 112 will be received within 15 seconds and the general public will receive police assistance within 10 minutes. I appeal to residents to make use of the service,” he said. App The Police Commissioner said that the ERSS (112) was also available through mobile application. Mobile users could download the mobile application 112 India Mobile App from Google Play Store. A police team would immediately rush to the spot and extend necessary help, he said. This apart, residents could send mails to 112hubdwd@gmail.com to register their complaints or air their grievances, he said. Deputy Commissioners of Police R.D. Basaragi and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/round-the-clock-112-helpline-services-in-hubballi-dharwad/article33341293.ece
16 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Street plays and folk songs to help voters become aware of significance of voting||With polling for gram panchayats scheduled to take place on December 22 and 25, the Dharwad district administration has employed artistes to sensitise voters through street plays and folk songs on the significance of exercising one’s franchise during the elections and also on COVID-19 guidelines. Such awareness programmes aimed at increasing the polling percentage were held at Kandli and Dimbuvalli villages of Kalghatgi taluk of Dharwad district on Tuesday. The Department of Information and Publicity is conducting these programmes for voter awareness on polling and COVID-19. Artists from CYCD Kala Tanda from Harlapur of Kundgol taluk and Janapada Foundation from Sultanpur presented street plays and folk songs. Through the street plays and folk songs, the artistes conveyed that as every citizen had a right to vote, he should make his choice without coming under the influence of money power or any other gifts. The artistes also told the people to wear masks, maintain physical distance while casting their votes during the elections. Several people who witnessed the street plays appreciated the initiative by the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/street-plays-and-folk-songs-to-help-voters-become-aware-of-significance-of-voting/article33341298.ece
16 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hubballi hosts football event||Various football teams from the twin cities participated in the "Recognition Cup 2K20 in Hubballi recently. In the event organised by Sorting Hubli Football Academy in association with Sportstar, matches were held in the Under-12 and Under-14 categories. Several teams, including like Regen FC, Bapuji Juniors and Sporting Hubli, participated in the event. In the Under-12 category, teams of Sporting Hubli took both the winner and runner-up trophies, while Regen FC emerged the winner in the Under-14 category by defeating Sporting Hubli. A demonstration match was also played between the senior team of Sporting Hubli and Bapuji Juniors and it was won by Bapuji Juniors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-hosts-football-event/article33341297.ece
16 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Assistant Returning Officer dies on his way to duty in Hubballi||A Physical Education Instructor who had been deputed as Assistant Returning Officer for elections to the Noolvi Gram Panchayat died while proceeding for duty on Tuesday. R.H. Rathod, who was serving as Physical Education Instructor at Anand Nagar Government High School, was deputed as Assistant Election Officer to Noolvi Gram Panchayat. He reportedly fell unconscious near the Unkal Bus Station in Hubballi while proceeding to Noolvi for work. Although he was immediately rushed to KIMS Hospital, he breathed his last midway. Election Officer for Noolvi Gram Panchayat Ashok S. Gadad communicated this message to Hubballi Rural Tahsildar Prakash Naashi. On being alerted, Mr. Nashi and Hubballi Urban Tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal visited KIMS Hospital and consoled the family members. Subsequently, another Physical Education Instructor Rajesab Nadaf has been appointed as Assistant Returning Officer for the elections to Noolvi Gram Panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assistant-returning-officer-dies-on-his-way-to-duty-in-hubballi/article33341295.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Legal Services Authority team visits Kudupu Mandara||Gopala Rukmini shows the bucket full of water she is using for washing utensils. “This is part of the water supplied today. We have to sparingly use water that is supplied once in two days,” said Ms. Rukmini, who is among the members of seven families staying in the Kudupu Mandara area that was ravaged by garbage slip from the Pachchanady landfill site in August 2019. Ms. Rukmini's neighbour Gopala Mandara said that water is supplied for an hour in the morning on alternate days. “If we need more water, we pool in money to get a water tanker for Rs. 1,100 that serves only two houses. We have to make our own arrangements for tanker supply. The Mangaluru City Corporation does not provide it,” he said. Ms. Rukmini and Mr. Mandara were among the residents of Kudupu Mandara who shared their feelings before Shilpa A.G, Member Secretary of Dakshina Kannada District Legal Services Authority (DKDLSA), during her visit to the area on Tuesday. Ms. Shilpa and a team of advocates on the panel of DKDLSA visited the area after a direction from the High Court of Karnataka to file a report whether the city corporation has provided water supply to Mandara residents and made alternative arrangements in case of water scarcity. In the affidavit filed by the city corporation in the public interest litigation petition in connection with the garbage slip issue before the court, the city corporation has said that it has made provision for water supply to the seven families staying in Mandara, where the groundwater source is polluted due to the garbage slip. The city corporation has also said that it has made arrangements for supply of water in tankers. Another resident Nagaraj said that he receives water every day as his house comes under the Pachchanady ward. The remaining six houses in the Kudupu ward receive water on alternate days, he added. Yet another resident Karunakara, who is among the members of 18 families that have been rehabilitated in a residential apartment in Kulashekara, said that he visits his ancestral farmland every day and carries out farming during the day. He showed Ms. Shilpa one of the two wells on his land where water has become contaminated. He uses water from another well and also sources water from a nearby pond. To prevent skin irritation from exposure to groundwater, he is forced to take up farming using gloves and gumboots. Umesh K. said that because of the ongoing litigation in the High Court, the city corporation is delaying payment of compensation for the loss of crops. Rajesh Bhat Mandara, a relative of Mandara Keshava Bhat, author of Tulu Mandara Ramayana, whose ancestral house is among the ones that bore the brunt of the garbage slip, sought DKDLSA’s help in getting compensation for residents who are really affected because of the garbage slip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legal-services-authority-team-visits-kudupu-mandara/article33341764.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||RSIV disease reported again in cage farming in Kundapur||The outbreak of Red Sea Bream Iridovirous (RSIV) disease in cage farming resulting in the death of fish has been reported again from Kundapur in Udupi district. It had been reported earlier during the winter season of 2018 and 2019. Scientists from the Department of Aquatic Animal Health Management, College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, who visited Thallur estuary, near Kundapur, on Sunday, reported that there is a danger of the disease spreading in the estuarine and coastal waters thereby not only affecting cultured fish but also the other fish. As there is no cure for RSIV, diseased and dead fish should be immediately cleared and buried or burnt in a safe location. The spread of the virus in the waters is difficult to control as the water is free flowing, the college said. Dean of the college A. Senthil Vel said in a release here on Tuesday that a team comprising Assistant Professor Girisha S.K. and research staff Nithin, Kushala K.B. and Soundarya, visited the site on Sunday and observed large-scale death of sea bass in one particular cage and infected fish in the other cage. They held discussions with the Fisheries Department officials and collected water samples in and around the floating fish cages. “Dead, moribund and apparently healthy fish samples were collected and brought to the college laboratory for microbial and viral testing. Based on the analysis, it was found that around 2,000 fish of 40-60 grams each in two cages were infected or dead on account of RSIV,” Prof. Vel said and added that internal organ analysis of these dead fish showed enlarged spleen and dull coloration of skin. The release said that the State government should make it mandatory that fish seeds procured by farmers are only from certified fish seed sellers. “The possible spread of the virus in these cage culture farms may be on account of high stocking density. Proper housekeeping, sanitation, disease control measures, monitoring needs to be undertaken,” Prof. Vel said. The release said that apart from high stocking density, cages, during low tide, have very little depth of water thereby increasing stress in fish. The high stocking density and low water-levels during low tide lead to stress thereby becoming a fertile ground for such virus activation. “The cultured sea bass are highly carnivorous and are fed with trash fish. If proper care is not taken and infected feed is given, chances of such infection with RSIV increases. It is advised that authenticated commercial feed may be provided to these fish,” he said. The release said that during discussions with fish farmers it was mentioned that the water has high load of pollution level mainly from sewage. As it had been reported in the winter during the last two years, stocking of seeds can be avoided during these winter months and they can be stocked from late February as this virus subsides during the summer months, the college said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rsiv-disease-reported-again-in-cage-farming-in-kundapur/article33341762.ece
16 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t criminalise first-time drug users’||Asking police not to criminalise first-time drug consumers, Mahabhala Shetty, professor, Department of Forensic Science, K.S. Hegde Medical Academy, said on Monday that arresting drug users on the first instance will lead to them turning into addicts. Speaking at the anti-drug drive programme held at the office of the Police Commissioner, Mr. Shetty said consuming narcotic drugs is a disease. On the first instance of drugs consumption, the consumer should be sent to rehabilitation centre where the disease can be treated. Mr. Shetty said its in the adolescent age that children pick up alcohol, smoking and other addictions that lead to consumption of narcotic and psychotropic substances. The drive, he said, will be effective if authorities focus on children from class 6 onwards and make them aware of harms of drug consumption. Mr. Shetty said the city police should conduct weekly drives to book those who smoke in public places, under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-criminalise-first-time-drug-users/article33341769.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hegde visiting Udupi||Chairperson of Karnataka State Permanent Backward Classes Commission K. Jayaprakash Hegde is in Udupi district on December 17 and 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hegde-visiting-udupi/article33341757.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Candidates in 50 GP segments elected unopposed||Among the candidates contesting in the first phase of elections to gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada on December 22, contestants in 50 constituencies have been elected unopposed. Now, the elections will be conducted in 1,631 constituencies under 106 panchayats on Tuesday next. Of these, 37 panchayats are in Mangaluru taluk, 12 in Moodbidri taluk and 57 panchayats are in Bantwal taluk. As many as 3,854 candidates are left in the fray, after withdrawal of nomination papers. Of these 2,217 are from the general category, 958 candidates from Backward Class A, 226 from Backward Class B, 238 from Scheduled Castes and 215 candidates are from Scheduled Tribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/candidates-in-50-gp-segments-elected-unopposed/article33341760.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||3 found dead||A 36-year-old man, his wife and daughter were found dead in their house at Bollayuru of Kallapu village in Mulky police station limits on Monday. The police said it appeared Vinod Saliyan had administered poison to Rachana, and Saadhya before ending his life. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-found-dead/article33341766.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi district gets 1,260 protection gear kits||The State Election Commission has provided COVID-19 protection gear to personnel working for the elections to 153 gram panchayats in Udupi district. A press release here said that 1,260 kits comprising protection gear and 620 thermal scanners were provided to the district. Each one of the kits include four sanitiser bottles of 500 ml, six sanitiser bottles of 100 ml, 20 triple layer surgical masks, six face shields, six hand gloves, and one bio-medical waste disposal bag. These would be provided to 5,030 polling personnel. The release said that every polling booth would have four polling personnel. Voters have to cast their votes maintaining social distancing. Anganwadi workers would screen voters with the thermal scanners. The release said voters should compulsorily wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-district-gets-1260-protection-gear-kits/article33341767.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Find suitable locations for cage farming’||The College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, said on Tuesday that the Fisheries Department in consultation with the college should identify suitable locations in the estuarine and backwater area for cage farming. It should be based on the depth (during high tide and low tide), flow of dynamic sub water, water quality parameters, pollution load and available natural food, including local bio-diversity, Dean of the college A. Senthil Vel said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/find-suitable-locations-for-cage-farming/article33341763.ece
16 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested||The Sullia Police arrested Anil Ambekal, administrator of a private school in Yelimale of Devachalla village in Sullia, for allegedly sexually harassing an eight-year-old girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested/article33341765.ece
16 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||PWD conducts survey to build new steps to Chamundi Hills from Uttanahalli||Devotees and fitness enthusiasts who climb Chamundi Hills via the steps that start from the foothills near Suttur Mutt may soon have another option – the renovated stairway from Uttanahalli. Based on a proposal from Chamundeshwari Temple that comes under the Muzrai Department, the Public Works Department (PWD) has carried out a survey to rebuild the steps from Uttanahalli village situated on the southeastern side of the hill till Veera Madakari Nayaka Beedi atop. The existing stone steps built during the days of the Maharajas are now in ruins, covered by shrubs and vegetation, making it difficult for people to use. The PWD, after carrying out a survey earlier this month, submitted an estimate of Rs. 99.5 lakh for laying a total of 1,034 steps from the foothills near Uttanahalli to the hill-top - a distance of around 625 metres. The work can be taken up after Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri approves the estimate and permits invitation of tenders. Since the work is to be carried out along the slopes of the hill, where the construction material is to be transported through manual labour, it would require about four to five months to complete, PWD Engineer N. Raghu told The Hindu. There will be no need for any additional land acquisition for the purpose, he said. Unlike the steps from the northern side of the Chamundi Hills, which are uneven in height, width and depth, making the task of climbing difficult for the elderly, Mr. Raghu said the proposed steps from Uttanahalli will have a uniform height of 6 inches, width of 10 feet and depth of 18 inches. The stairway will have railings on both sides, lights for illumination at night. The steps will give devotees visiting the hills by steps the option to visit the Jwalamukhi Tripura Sundari Temple at Uttanahalli by alighting from the steps. Also, fitness enthusiasts, who crowd the steps on weekends and holidays, will get an alternative route, Mr. Raghu added. Adventure sports enthusiast D.S.D. Solanki, who conducts treks for students, youth and others, questioned the need for a second stairway. The proposed stairway will likely disturb the leopard habitat, besides destroying vegetation on the slopes. Instead of building this, the authorities should take steps to clear the garbage dumped along the steps that are proposed to be renovated. Whenever adventure enthusiasts climb the hill from Uttanahalli side or not, they encounter not only heaps of garbage near the hill-top, but also leaking sewage lines, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pwd-conducts-survey-to-build-new-steps-to-chamundi-hills-from-uttanahalli/article33341433.ece
16 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC loses Rs. 3 crore in Mysuru over staff strike||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation’s two divisions in Mysuru incurred a collective revenue loss of nearly Rs. 3 crore following the strike by the employees that was withdrawn on Monday. The buses were off roads for four days causing hardships to passengers, who largely depend on the State transport buses. The inter and intra-city operations had come to a halt. Though the services resumed on Monday, normal operations were restored only from Tuesday with all the striking employees returning to work making way for running all scheduled operations and trips. The Mysuru Rural division operates inter-city and State services. Nearly 600-700 trips are operated daily from this division alone. All these were withdrawn with the staff going on strike. Though the division tried to run limited services with some staff on day one, it did not help. These too got withdrawn following incidents of stone-pelting. The buses on the Mysuru-Bengaluru route have maximum patronage. Passenger traffic on this route had seen improvement post-COVID-19 but was badly hit in the strike. More than 150 trips were operated between two cities post-COVID-19 and the services included Sarige, Airavata and Rajahamsa. KSRTC officials told The Hindu that the rural division alone suffered a revenue loss of Rs. 2 crore. This is a large sum considering the revenue scenario of the corporation since buses had gone off roads during the lockdown causing huge losses. Also, the corporation continued to suffer losses with limited passenger movement till recently over the pandemic scare and curbs on carrying passengers to the full capacity of the buses. RTCs had to avail funds from the government to pay salaries. In the case of urban division which operates nearly 600 trips daily, the loss is estimated at Rs. 80 lakh. The KSRTC slowly regained its ground after the impact from the lockdown. Prior to COVID-19, the Mysuru division revenue alone was Rs. 24 crore a month. Besides improvement in passenger traffic on the intra-district and inter-district traffic, the response between Mysuru and Bengaluru was better in the absence of many trains. Passenger traffic was gloomy when the State transport was permitted to resume operations after travel curbs were lifted. The traffic, however, improved with the fall in COVID-19 cases. Also, the number of trips between Mysuru and Bengaluru improved to over 150. However, this is almost half of the trips the KSRTC used to operate between the cities before the pandemic. Over 300 daily trips, including in AC buses, used to be operated between the two cities. After the KSRTC was permitted to fill all seats in the bus to meet operational costs, the overheads were decreased. The frequency of AC bus services between Bengaluru and Mysuru has also improved though it does not match the pre-COVID-19 days. Employees from the IT sector used to make use of AC services. Nearly 25-30 AC buses were operated on the route earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-loses-rs-3-crore-in-mysuru-over-staff-strike/article33341435.ece
16 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||State farmers’ indefinite stir in Bengaluru from today||Farmers from across the State will hold an indefinite agitation in support of farmers who have been staging protests near Delhi for the past three weeks, at Maurya Circle in Bengaluru from Wednesday. State Sugarcane Growers’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar, who, after a chairing a meeting of farmers here on Tuesday, said the Centre was delaying resolving the issues raised by farmers in Delhi in spite of the protests being staged for 19 days now and as many as 14 farmers even losing their lives during the course of the protests. Unmindful of the biting cold in Delhi, farmers from various northern States were protesting seeking fulfilment of their demands. “But the Centre was trying to mislead them. The Karnataka farmers - on behalf of the farmers in Delhi - will be staging the agitation indefinitely in Bengaluru until demands are met,” he said. Mr. Shanthakumar said the Centre was arguing that the new laws had been brought in for farmers. “When the farmers’ stir intensified, it came forward to make changes. This shows the gaps in the law,” he said in a statement here. He feared that the agriculture sector may also be privatized like others. Therefore, farmers in the country must become thoughtful and this was why the farmers from the north have hit the streets in Delhi protesting the laws, he said. “If the Opposition parties support the farmers, why is the Centre taking exception to this,” he said, adding that the farmers, Dalits’ and other organisations must come together in large numbers to save agriculture from going into the hands of the corporates. He, however, clarified that the farmers’ protests in Bengaluru will not cause any disruptions to life in general. The farmers have had to take this route to highlight their plight, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-farmers-indefinite-stir-in-bengaluru-from-today/article33341438.ece
16 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Now, call 112 for emergencies||As part of the Union government’s initiative to have a single emergency number – 112, Mysuru City Police Commissioner Chandragupta on Monday evening launched the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) in the city. Mr. Chandragupta flagged off 20 police patrol vehicles to mark the launch of the ERSS in Mysuru. People in distress can henceforth call 112 to contact the police, fire or for any other emergencies. All the calls made through ERSS will be handled by the Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP), established in all State capitals and Union Territories. The PSAPs will track the location of the caller and alert the nearest ERSS vehicle through the district or city control room so that help is rushed to callers through GPS, said a statement by the Mysuru city police. Also, the caller will receive an acknowledgement and the number of the ERSS vehicle though SMS. A total of 20 ERSS vehicles have been earmarked for emergencies in Mysuru and each vehicle will have an official of the rank of Assistant Sub Inspector or Head Constable. The PSAP and the District of City Control rooms will function 24/7 and the public can contact 112 for emergencies at any time of the day. Apart from making telephone calls to 112, the general public can even send SMS to 112, email to erss112ktk@ksp.gov.in, log on to www.ka.ners.in, besides sending a request through 112 India mobile app. To activate a panic call, one should click on the power button on the smart phone three times or five times in quick succession. In a feature phone, the callers should long press keys 5 or 9 to activate the panic alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-call-112-for-emergencies/article33341430.ece
16 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Railway pension adalat disposes of 37 cases||As per Railway Board directives, South Western Railway, Mysuru division, conducted Pan India – All India Pension Adalat on Tuesday at the Divisional Railway Manager’s office here. Devasahayam, Additional Divisional Railway Manager I, Mysuru division, chaired it. A total of 25 pensioners attended. As many as 43 cases were represented by them. Of this, 37 had been disposed of and the others would be redressed suitably.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-pension-adalat-disposes-of-37-cases/article33341436.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Civic body issues notices to 3.9 lakh property owners over tax||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has found that many property owners, in connivance with officials, have submitted incorrect information about the tax zone under which their property falls in an attempt to pay less tax. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told reporters on Tuesday that 3.9 lakh such cases have been detected. The civic body is issuing notices to owners of all these properties. They will have to pay additional tax with penal interest. Under the Self Assessment Scheme, citizens and officials have the option to indicate the tax zone and compute the property tax. There are six tax zones in BBMP limits. “Officials have been found to be changing zones to favour some property owners and compute less tax,” said Mr. Prasad. To prevent this from recurring, the BBMP has adopted a new system under which all properties within its jurisdiction have been mapped with the guidance value. The Department of Stamps and Registration uses guidance value as a baseline to charge stamp duty for property transactions. “By mapping this information to the property tax system, we will be able to get the value of each property, which is then used for property tax collection. This way, neither citizens nor officials will be able to change the zones. The system will automatically pop up the zone information,” he added. The BBMP has identified over one lakh buildings that were being used for commercial purposes though property owners were paying tax claiming use for residential purposes. Mr. Prasad said notices will be issued to owners of such properties as well, and added that both measures will help augment the BBMP’s property tax collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-issues-notices-to-39-lakh-property-owners-over-tax/article33341624.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP proposes to increase building bylaw deviation limit from 5% to 15%||In a move that will bring relief to thousands of property owners in the city, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has proposed to increase the building bylaw deviation limit from the current five to 15%. A proposal is likely to be sent to the government soon. If the civic body gets its way, it will allow more property owners to be eligible for Occupancy Certificates (OCs). BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that building bylaws allow deviations up to 5% on the approved building plan. For buildings with less than 5% deviations, property owners can obtain Occupancy Certificate by paying the requisite fine. An OC is not issued to buildings that have more than 5% deviation, which may include not leaving much setback or violating the Floor Area Ratio. “We have found that the number of buildings with more than 5% deviations has increased in the city. We have now proposed to increase the deviation limit from 5% to 15%. A proposal is pending before the Administrator, who will soon be sending the same to the government for approval,” he said and added that once approved by the government, requisite amendments will be made in the building bylaws. Quantum of fine Mr. Prasad said that the civic body had also proposed to increase the quantum of fines to be levied for each violations. “This way, apart from garnering revenue, we will be regularising the buildings that have deviations ranging between 6% and 15%,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-proposes-to-increase-building-bylaw-deviation-limit-from-5-to-15/article33341622.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Fresh inquiry to be conducted against health and family welfare director’||The State government on Tuesday told the High Court of Karnataka that a fresh inquiry would be conducted against the director, Health and Family Welfare Services, by appointing a senior officer, for allowing private advertisements in COVID-19 awareness hoardings in violation of the court’s order. An assurance on behalf of the government was given after a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj said that the inquiry was not conducted in terms of the court’s September 25 directions. While declining to accept the manner of inquiry conducted by the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, to whom the government had entrusted the task, the inquiry report had given clean chit to the director without conducting the inquiry as per court order. Observing that the director had started deliberations with a private advertising agency early in July much before the government had approached the court seeking permission to put up COVID-19 hoardings in the city, the Bench asked the government to inform the court the terms of reference of fresh inquiry to be conducted against the director. The court on July 15 had given permission to the government to put up COVID-19 awareness hoardings sans private advertisement and revoked the permission on September 25 after it found that hoardings were put up with advertisements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-inquiry-to-be-conducted-against-health-and-family-welfare-director/article33341305.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A colourful morning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-colourful-morning/article33341300.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man held for raping minor||The Madanayakanahalli police on Monday arrested a habitual offender for allegedly raping a minor in Alur a few months ago. The accused, Ravi Kiran, is a 26-year-old taxi driver. The girl would visit his house for tuitions from his wife. “The victim was studying for her SSLC exams. On one occasion, she came to the house when his wife was away shopping,” said a police officer. Kiran allegedly dragged her inside a room and raped her. The girl revealed what had happened to her parents. “But they didn’t initially inform the police and also told the girl not to tell anyone,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-raping-minor/article33341625.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Innovation centre to help entrepreneurs||Narayana Health, in association with Mazumdar Shaw Medical Foundation, launched a physical incubator called Mazumdar Shaw Medical Foundation (MSMF) MedTech Innovation Centre-BIRAC BIONEST. A press release stated that the centre, with a dedicated space of around 8,000 sqft, will help MedTech entrepreneurs who are looking to address affordability, access and innovation challenges in the healthcare ecosystem. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, chairperson of Biocon, said, “Through the centre, we aim to fill the gap in healthcare innovation to have a single platform for entrepreneurs to co-create and identify clinical challenges in conjunction with doctors, scientists and technology enthusiasts. Data generated at Narayana Health will provide a translational science model, accelerating the lab to market journey of innovative and promising solutions developed at the centre.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/innovation-centre-to-help-entrepreneurs/article33341308.ece
16 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad all set for counting of votes||All arrangements are in place for the counting of votes in Wayanad, District Collector and District Election Officer Adeela Abdulla has said. The counting will begin at 8 a.m. on Wednesday. It is expected that the first results will be announced by 9 a.m. The counting of votes in grama panchayats under the Mananthavady block will be held at St. Patrick’s School, Mananthavady; under the Sulthan Bathery block panchayat at Assumption High School, Sulthan Bathery; under the Panamaram block panchayat at Government Higher Secondary School, Panamaram, and under the Kalpetta block at SKMJ High School. The counting of votes in Kalpetta, Sulthan Bathery and Mananthavady municipalities will be held at SDM Lower Primary School, Assumption U.P. School, Sulthan Bathery, and Government Higher Secondary School, Mananthavady, respectively. 1,300 officials As many as 1,300 trained officials had been deployed for vote counting, said Ms. Abdulla. Postal votes will be counted at the mini conference hall at the Collectorate here. As many as 138 tables have been arranged for counting votes in those centres and each table will be managed by three officials. All the counting centres were disinfected on Tuesday, she added. Ms. Abdulla visited all the centres and assessed the arrangements there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-all-set-for-counting-of-votes/article33341325.ece
16 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Anthoor witnesses a break with past||Unlike in the past, Anthoor Municipality witnessed a tough contest in 22 of the 28 wards in the local body election conducted on Monday. The municipality was the talking point when the LDF won all the seats of the municipality in 2015 even before the first vote was cast. Fourteen nominees were elected unopposed while the remaining candidates of the LDF won in the contest, making the municipality without an opposition. Anthoor was back in the news in 2019 after the suicide of a non-resident Indian businessman, Sajan Parayil, after he had reportedly failed to get clearance for his convention centre from the municipality officials. The BJP and UDF had been accusing the LDF, which has an upper hand here, of unleashing violence and threatening the candidates in the municipality. However, this time around, the UDF decided to take on the LDF in 18 wards while the BJP fielded 22 contestants. The LDF, UDF and BJP were engaged in three-way contests in eight wards. While the UDF took on the LDF directly in 10 wards, four wards witnessed a straight fight between the BJP and LDF. The CPI(M) contested in all wards except in the one allotted to its alliance partner, the Communist Party of India (CPI). However, unlike in the past, the nominees in only six wards have managed to win unopposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anthoor-witnesses-a-break-with-past/article33341322.ece
16 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||After Supreme Court dismissal of govt. plea, CBI starts reinvestigation in Periye twin murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has begun a reinvestigation in the Periye twin murder case in which Youth Congress activists Sarath Lal and Kripesh were hacked to death allegedly by Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers on February 17, 2019. A team of CBI officials arrived at Periye on Tuesday. The Kerala government had moved the Supreme Court against a CBI inquiry ordered by the Kerala High Court in the case. However, the SC rejected the appeal and allowed an inquiry in the case as demanded by the parents of the victims. The CBI, after reaching the spot of crime, summoned eyewitnesses and re-enacted the incident with the help of a few youths. The victims were found lying on the Koorangara road by their relatives. Sarath Lal was rushed to hospital in a jeep. The jeep was also brought to the spot by the CBI team. The CBI officials also spoke to the relatives of the victims. A team led by Thiruvananthapuram unit Superintendent Nandakumaran Nair was at Periye. A team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thiruvananthapuram unit, T.P. Ananthakrishnan is in charge of the investigation. The CBI is probing the conspiracy behind the murders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbi-starts-reinvestigation-into-periye-murders/article33341421.ece
16 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Counting to be held in 28 centres in district||A picture about who will come to power in the civic bodies in Ernakulam will be clear by around 12 noon on Wednesday as the counting of votes will begin at 28 centres across the district at 8 a.m. All arrangements have been made for a smooth counting of votes, said District Collector S. Suhas after reviewing preparations at the counting centre at Union Christian College, Aluva, on Tuesday. “Police deployment will be in place at all centres where votes cast in sensitive booths will be counted. We have also posted additional staff of the Revenue Department in such centres,” he said. Postal ballots will be counted first by returning officers responsible for grama, block and district panchayats. They need to ensure the safe custody of documents associated with special postal ballots. The counting of postal ballots for the district panchayat will be held at the District Collectorate. About 21,146 ballots were distributed under the jurisdiction of the district panchayat. The progress of counting will be uploaded live on the Trend software of the State Election Commission. The counting of votes for three-tier panchayats will be held at the block-level distribution and receiving centres of electronic voting machines. There will be separate counting halls for grama panchayats coming under the block panchayat. Each returning officer in municipalities and the corporation will have a separate counting hall. The counting of votes will begin from the first ward and proceed further in that order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/counting-to-be-held-in-28-centres-in-district/article33341741.ece
16 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Making online classes stress-free||Parents and teachers have a key role to play in ensuring that online education in the time of the pandemic does not trigger mental and health issues among children, according to experts. The recommendation figures top among the guidelines on online education in COVID-19 times framed by the Kerala chapter of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and the Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (IMHANS), Kozhikode. Teachers need to encourage children to talk about their problems and help find solutions. They have to make children understand that they are not alone and teachers are with them to provide help and support. “Teachers should also make sure that online classes are accessible to all children. Instead of continuous live online classes stretching for hours, they could consider having more recorded sessions. They can schedule classes for 30-40 minute duration so that the child can sustain attention,” said M. Narayanan, president of IAP, Kerala. The report urged parents and teachers not to review children’s performance in open forums. “It is also advisable not to provide home work in addition to the ongoing live and recorded sessions as it will add to the burden of students,” it said. Dr. Narayanan pointed out that parents need not attend online classes along with children. “Care should be taken not to compare your child with other children about their capability of attending online classes or their reading and writing skills. Every child need not be a technology expert. Always try to restrict screen time and promote outdoor play maintaining the pandemic guidelines,” he said. Media plan The guidelines suggested that parents can have a family media plan and limit media use according to the plan. The plan should find time for online classes as well as time for rest, exercise and leisure. “Identify a media-free area at home (e.g. dining room, bed room etc.) and media-free time (like eating time, before sleep, family gatherings) so that screen time is limited. Parents should be aware of social media use by children and discuss with them about the dangers of social media misuse,” it said. Informal learning Academics should be made as stress free as possible amidst the pandemic crisis, according to the guidelines issued by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics. It appears prudent to involve students in something that is attractive and engaging yet enriching for them. Easing out on formal learning and emphasising on informal co-curricular learning remain key to achieving this goal, it said. The report said that students are more likely to find such contents of learning interesting and easy to follow through. This will increase their chances of continuing in the educational stream and reduce dropouts. Lessons learnt through informal, need-based learning will equip them with abilities to fight their current and future psycho-social issues. Empowering them with age-appropriate daily life skills and vocational training will go a long way in making them competent to face their future productively, the report said. Experts suggested holding periodical training sessions for teachers and parents to help children during the pandemic and how to identify children with psychological problems. Youth from the community should be trained in giving educational, psycho-social, informational and referral support to students and their families. They could act as one-point service resource for all COVID-19 related daily life problems of the community, it said.  Identify a media-free area at home and media-free time so that screen time is limited||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-online-classes-stress-free/article33341731.ece
16 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cancer Centre may miss February deadline||The construction of the new Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) buildings at Kalamassery is likely to miss its February 2021 deadline for the first phase of the project with officials citing shortage of labour for the slow pace of work. “We hope to complete two blocks by July and all four by September. The February deadline was difficult to meet since we did not anticipate the problems caused by the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Dr. Moni Kuriakose, director, CCRC. Only 34.3% of the entire structure has been completed so far after construction began in July 2018. The first phase of the project comprises two buildings, one of which will accommodate operation theatres, consultation rooms and inpatient and outpatient facilities. Work was completely stalled between March and May. When it resumed, it got off to a slow start with several workers who arrived from outside the State testing positive for the novel coronavirus, said an official working with INKEL, the special purpose vehicle executing the project. Work on plumbing and electrification was yet to be tendered, but would be tendered by January, the official said. After the Government Medical College Hospital was turned into an exclusive COVID-19 care facility in March, the CCRC began functioning from the General Hospital. With the General Hospital being short on space, surgeries are performed at the Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital. “We are hoping to be able to shift back to the MCH in January,” Dr. Kuriakose said. Cancer care was hit as a result of the pandemic, just like it took a beating across the country, he said. The centre had treated around 12,000 patients in 2019 and this number fell by half, to around 6,000 this year with several patients being wary of contracting the infection, Dr. Kuriakose said. “The General Hospital is a crowded space compared to our previous facility at the MCH. That has definitely affected cancer care,” he said. But screening for cancer, which has been happening at the primary health centres close to the patient’s home, has not been hit by the pandemic, Dr. Kuriakose said. The district cancer control programme, which was launched in December 2019 after six months of training, has meant that patients no longer need to visit large hospitals like the General Hospital for screening. In December 2019, 21 biopsies were carried out. This number went up to 108 in February, followed by 100 in March. From March to October, an average of 75 biopsies were done every month. “We saw a small dip between March and July, but now the numbers have picked up. Screening was not affected because of the distributed programme of screening at PHCs, followed by a biopsy at the taluk hospitals where surgeons were trained to do biopsies on suspected cancer patients,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cancer-centre-may-miss-february-deadline/article33341729.ece
16 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New booking system leaves gas consumers confused||The change in Indian Oil Corporation’s (IOC) Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) for booking LPG cylinder refills seems to have left large sections of its consumers confused. The IOC changed its region-specific IVRS refill booking number (99618 24365) to a nationwide uniform number (77189 55555) on November 1. Besides, refill booking is now restricted to only one registered number linked to the consumer ID unlike in the past when it was possible from any mobile phone or landline number. ‘‘Though the move had the good intention of ensuring that the cylinder reached the targeted beneficiary, the sweeping changes have served as a double whammy. The sudden change in booking number that has been ingrained in consumers' memory coupled with the restrictions on booking of refill to one registered mobile number has left many consumers, especially the aged, panicky," observes Jogesh Joseph, manager of an Indane gas agency here. OTP-based registration Many consumers who do not have a mobile number registered against their consumer ID could not book refills. The consumers either have to do online the One Time Password-based registration of the mobile phone or do that with the help of the agency, making a mobile phone a prerequisite for access to cooking gas. The booking could be disrupted if the consumer's registered number is not functioning. A senior IOC official says refill is not being denied on account of not registering the mobile number. "We are allowing spot booking as a stopgap solution while the delivery boy with the help of a mobile app maps the mobile number instantaneously." The new system also spawns many unintended complications like the registered phone number being shown in the name of a person other than the consumer.  Four-digit DAC "This could happen either because the refill was booked in the past from a different number and thus got automatically registered against that consumer ID or because the number was previously used by someone else and was surrendered only for the service provider to reissue it," says Mr. Joseph. Under the revised system, the consumer also needs to share a four-digit Delivery Authentication Code (DAC) received as SMS with the delivery boy, and only once this code is entered in the system does the transaction gets completed. Delivery boys "However, we have specifically asked our delivery boys not to insist on DAC at households where only the aged are present," says Sunil Abdulrahman, manager of a Tripunithura-based gas agency. In city limits "The system has more or less settled in the city limits unlike in the rural and high range areas where some problem still persists. However, it will be normalised in another month or so."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-booking-system-leaves-gas-consumers-confused/article33341415.ece
16 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||617 infections, 416 recoveries in district||Nine health workers were among the 617 who tested positive for SARS-CoV2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday while 416 patients recovered from the disease. The source of infection of 165 patients remained unknown. Thrikkakara recorded 34 new cases while Payipra and Piravom had 21 each. Kothamangalam had 20, Chittattukara 19 while Mattancherry had 16 new patients. There were three police personnel and four migrant workers among the infected. There were 29,188 people under observation for the disease in the district, with 1,015 added to the list on Tuesday. New admissions to hospital/FLTCs stood at 77 and the total number of patients in the district was 7,789. A total of 7,085 samples were sent from the district on Tuesday for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/617-infections-416-recoveries-in-district/article33341734.ece
16 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Village officer held on charge of taking bribe||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) arrested a village officer and his accomplice while they were allegedly receiving a bribe of Rs. 1 lakh. The arrested were identified as Sajesh, 45, Elamkulam village officer in Kanayannur taluk, and his friend Varghese of Elamakkara. The VACB said that the village officer had sought a bribe from one Antro of Elamkulam who had applied for the transfer of registry of four cents belonging to his late mother in July last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/village-officer-held-on-charge-of-taking-bribe/article33341733.ece
16 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Fronts keep their fingers crossed in corporation||Is the fall in voting figures of Kochi Corporation, when compared to 2015, holding any clue to the poll outcome? In whose favour did Kochi voters think when they went to polling booths six days ago? The answer to the question will be known on Wednesday when the counting of votes will be held at the Ernakulam Maharaja’s College at 8 a.m. When compared to 2015, there has been a drop in polling figures this time as only 62.04% of the Kochi voters chose to exercise their franchise. Last time, 69.2% of the electorate queued up before polling stations to elect their civic representatives. The drop in figures may come as a solace for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) as it is generally believed that low voter turn out would turn the poll results in favour of the front. The common notion that the LDF machinery will ensure that its votes are polled in a systematic manner during the initial hours of polling adds credence to the theory. At least in some divisions, a significant number of United Democratic Front (UDF) votes were not polled as corona scare forced voters to stay indoors. “If not for the scare, these voters would have happily voted for UDF candidates. It is to be seen how the reluctance of a section of the voters would impact the results,” said a Congress councillor who was in the fray. While LDF leaders were finding solace in their assessment that political controversies that were raging in the State were not widely discussed in the civic polls and the focus was on the welfare initiatives of the State government, the UDF camp refused to buy that theory. The anti-incumbency factor against the State government would earn the Congress rich dividends in the polls as political issues had weighed high in the minds of voters, he said. At the same time, an LDF leader was quick to point out that the anti-incumbency factor, which he believed, would work against the outgoing Congress-led regime in the local body, would earn the front a few seats in the 74-member strong council. Congress leaders were apprehensive about the role of V4 Kochi, the non-political formation, which had fielded candidates in a few divisions. If the formation succeeds in swaying away a section of the traditional Congress voters in its favour, at least a few UDF candidates may bite the dust, feared a senior Congress councillor. Now, over to the counting station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-keep-their-fingers-crossed-in-corporation/article33341737.ece
16 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Raveendran moves HC for stay on summons||C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Tuesday approached the Kerala High Court seeking to stay the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) directing him to appear on December 17 at its office in Kochi as part of a probe into the money laundering case linked with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. Mr. Raveendran said he was yet to recover from his post-COVID illness. He feared that the ED would detain him for long hours. In fact, he was not aware of the particulars of the case under investigation, for which his presence was required. Besides, he further feared that that he would be coerced and compelled to make statements which were untrue and against his will. He also sought to allow him to have the presence of a legal practitioner of his choice during his appearance. In fact, the Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act did not empower the investigation officer to interrogate a person for long duration who appeared before the ED in response to a summon if such a person was not an accused, he contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raveendran-moves-hc-for-stay-on-summons/article33341406.ece
16 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Counting centres to go green||After trying out polling booths with a “green theme,” Suchitwa Mission and Haritha Keralam Mission have joined hands to put up “green counting centres” in the district. Haritha Karma Sena members of local bodies and National Service Scheme volunteers had been drafted in to convert several polling stations into green ones on the polling day on December 10. Following its success, a plan was prepared to have green counting stations at the municipal town hall, Kalamassery, municipal office, Angamaly, Guardian Angels School, Manjummal, and Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara. Suchitwa Mission and Haritha Keralam Mission coordinators in the district urged everyone to observe green protocol in all the 28 counting centres in Ernakulam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-counting-centres-in-ernakulam-go-green/article33341736.ece
16 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Death of maid: allegations of discrepancies in FIR denied||The police have shot down the allegation that they were trying to sabotage the case related to the death of the domestic help in the city by not including the name of the accused in the First Information Report (FIR). Social media has been rife with allegations that the police were trying to protect the accused by giving his name as ‘unknown’ in the FIR registered based on a petition by the husband of the deceased, Sreenivasan. Even the likes of CPI leader Benoy Viswam had criticised the police through his Facebook page. On their part, the police said that the allegation was borne out of ignorance about criminal procedures. “For one, the accused has not be regarded as ‘unknown’ in the FIR but as the ‘owner of the flat’ and that was simply because the petitioner didn’t know his name. One must realise that FIR is registered solely based on the information given by the petitioner in his statement. All that the police did were to record it in a genuine manner. It is immaterial whether the police or the whole world know the name of the accused so long as the petitioner does not mention it,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-maid-allegations-of-discrepancies-denied/article33341336.ece
16 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Entrance opened||With the introduction of additional train services, the entrance to platform No. 6 at the Ernakulam South Junction will be open for passengers from 10 a.m. on Wednesday. Entry for all passengers and exit for intrastate passengers will be allowed through the entrance. To ensure compliance of COVID-19 guidelines, passengers arriving by train from other States should leave the station only through the main entrance, close to the first platform. As per the COVID-19 protocol, only passengers with confirmed reservation tickets will be allowed to enter the station. Platform tickets will not be issued. All are to wear face masks properly and maintain hand hygiene and avoid crowding, the Railways said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-entrance-to-south-station-opened/article33341735.ece
16 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Navy to release music video||To mark the beginning of the golden jubilee celebrations of the victory of Indian armed forces in the 1971 war, the Southern Naval Command is set to release a music video to pay homage to all the soldiers, sailors and airmen who took part in the war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. The video with music was composed by the internationally renowned composer and musician, Tao Issaro from Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-to-release-music-video/article33341728.ece
16 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Resume classes at MCH’||The Ernakulam unit of the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) has issued a statement that says that the State government must take necessary steps to open up the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) at Kalamassery to non-COVID patients and resume classes for medical students at the institution. The Kerala University of Health Sciences had issued a circular suggesting that classes for final-year students could begin from December 15 and for first-year students from December 28 onwards, said Dr. Unmesh A. K., president, Ernakulam unit, KGMCTA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-resume-classes-at-mch/article33341732.ece
16 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Customs seeks remand extension of accused||The involvement of more persons in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case cannot be ruled out considering the influence of the accused in the echelons of power, according to the Customs. It was while seeking the extension of remand of the accused P.S. Sarith, K.T. Ramees, Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair, A.M. Jalal and Mohammed Shafi for 14 days more on Tuesday that the agency hinted at the possible involvement of more people in the case. Efforts were still on through diplomatic channels to bring back Faisal Fareed, who is at large in the UAE. The Customs, National Investigation Agency, and the Enforcement Directorate have unearthed more evidence in the case. Meanwhile, District Police Chief (Kochi City) Vijay Sakhare has absolved the police of any wrongdoing in the alleged leak of a telephonic conversation of Swapna. Mr. Sakhare said an internal probe did not substantiate the allegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-seeks-remand-extension-of-accused/article33341407.ece
16 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||5,717 await people’s mandate||A total of 5,717 candidates in the district await people’s verdict as the results of local body polls will be declared on Wednesday. Though the election in the Parambilmukku and the Chola wards in the Panmana grama panchayat have been postponed following the death of candidates, the voters could cast their votes for the block panchayat ward and the district panchayt division. Kollam has a total of 1,598 wards and 1,596 among them will get new representatives. According to officials, all provisions are in place for the smooth counting of votes that begins at 8 a.m. Postal ballots first Postal ballots and special postal ballots will be counted first. After that votes recorded in the electronic voting machines will be counted. The Department of Posts has made elaborate arrangements to collect the ballots and deliver them at various counting stations. Postal ballots that reach the department till 6 a.m. will be handed over to officials at the counting centres concerned. In the district, all 11 block panchayats, four municipalities and the Kollam Corporation have counting centres and the results will be made available to the public at the earliest. Apart from the 16 counting centres, arrangements have been made at the Kollam Collectorate to count postal ballots for the district panchayat. Other than the candidate and the chief election agent, only one agent will be allowed near the counting table. Persons who do not produce identity proof will be denied entry to counting stations. 73.8% voting In Kollam, 73.8% of the voters had exercised their franchise during the polls held on December 8. The 26 divisions of the district panchayat saw a total of 107 candidates, including 51 women and 56 men. The Kollam Corporation with 55 divisions had 231 contestants. The total number of candidates in the 11 block panchayats is 528. The four municipalities in Kollam have 131 divisions and the number of candidates is 445. While the number of candidates in 152 block panchayats is 528, a total of 4,406 persons contested in the 1,232 wards of the 68 grama panchayats in Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5717-await-peoples-mandate/article33341396.ece
16 December 2020||Kollam,KERALA||MCom course||The College of Applied Science, Elimullumplackal, under IHRD, invites application for MCom Finance and Taxation. Call: 0468-2382280, 85470 05074||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mcom-course/article33341397.ece
16 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||419 cases, five deaths in Kollam||The district reported 419 new cases of COVID-19, five deaths and 863 recoveries on Tuesday. Among the patients are 413 contact cases, one NRI, one person from another State, one health worker and three cases with no known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 66-year-old Karungappally resident, 74-year-old Chavara resident, 68-year-old Kilikolloor resident, 78-year-old Kallada resident and 69-year-old Paravur resident are due to COVID-19. A 40-year-old Pattathanam resident is the health worker who tested positive. Cases with no known source have been reported from Kulakkada, Kollam and Neendakara. The district currently has 14,266 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,16,550. While 1,404 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 1,27,847 primary and 11,592 secondary contacts of the positive cases. The number of active cases at present is 2,839.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/419-cases-five-deaths-in-kollam/article33341391.ece
16 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Club reopened||The Quilon Athletic Club, which was sealed by the Revenue Department, reopened after the club gave a DD for Rs. 62.9 lakh towards lease arrears on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/club-reopened/article33341389.ece
16 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Panel worried over putting off of cases||State Women’s Commission chairperson M.C. Josephine has observed that the number of cases not attended by both complainants and respondents during hearings are on the rise. She pointed this out after a mega adalat held at Jawahar Bala Bhavan on Tuesday when 78 cases from the district were considered. Among the cases, 12 were settled while three were sent for police reports. The commission had to postpone 60 cases to the next hearing due to various reasons, including the absence of respondents. “The majority of complaints were cases related to property rights and the women involved in such cases have to suffer great physical and emotional distress,” she said. Apart from the chairperson, members M.S. Thara, E.M. Radha, Shiji Sivaji, Shahida Kamal, and Suresh Kumar also attended the adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-worried-over-putting-off-of-cases/article33341390.ece
16 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||At 758, a spike in Kottayam||Raising concerns of a major COVID-19 outbreak in Kottayam, as many as 758 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The fresh cases, the highest number reported on any single day, comes close on the heels of the local body elections last week. According to officials, 756 out of the total cases contracted the virus through contact. The test positivity rate (TPR) too stood at a high level of 13.73%. Kottayam municipality continued to report the highest number of cases in the district with 64 fresh cases. Meanwhile, a rapid surge in fresh cases has brought Kidangoor panchayat in the second position with 40 new cases. Several other local bodies, including Changanassery municipality (33), Vazhappally(26), Thalayolaparambu and Madappally (24 each), Thrikkodithanam and Vechoor (22 each), Chirakkadavu, Pala and Kurichi (20 each), Aymanam (19), Veliannoor (18), Kangazha (16), T V Puram and Mundakkayam (15 each), and Meenachil, Kanjirapally, Ettumanoor and Pallikkathodu (14 each) too have emerged as high risk zones. With 440 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,403 active cases. In Pathanamthitta As many as 404 persons tested positive in Pathanamthitta on the day. Of the fresh cases, 372 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 69 cases is yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Vadasserikkara reported 25 cases, followed by Thiruvalla municipality with 22 cases. Ranni-Perinad, which encompasses the Sabarimala pilgrimage zone, reported 12 cases. Meanwhile, the disease claimed four more lives, taking the total number of deaths to 145. The deceased were identified as a 60year old Ranni-Pazhavangadi native, 45-year-old Thiruvalla native, 71-year-old woman from Mallappally and a 59-year-old woman from Kottangal. With 237 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,780 active cases. (With contributions from Pathanamthitta bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-758-a-spike-in-kottayam/article33341394.ece
16 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Probe launched into death of woman, daughter||The police have launched a probe into an incident in which the dead bodies of a 59-year-old woman and her 37-year-old daughter were recovered from an abandoned quarry near Panchikkadu. The deceased were identified as Valsamma, 59, and Dhanya, 37, both natives of Panchikkadu. They had been missing from their house since Monday. Preliminary investigation suggested that the duo had committed suicide following financial issues. According to officials, the body of Valsamma was found floating on the water-filled gorge on Tuesday morning while that of Dhanya was recovered from the same spot during a follow-up search. The Chingavanam police have registered a case for unnatural death. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-launched-into-death-of-woman-daughter/article33341392.ece
16 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Wait for results to be over today||The anxious wait for the results of a high-stakes battle between the Kerala Congress (M) splinter groups is finally set to be out. Counting of votes for the local body polls in Kottayam will begin at 17 centres across the district at 8 a.m. on Wednesday. Arrangements have been also made at the District Panchayat Hall for counting the postal votes polled in the district panchayat divisions. The proceedings will be led by District Collector M. Anjana. The Collector will declare the results in all divisions of the local body and issue certificates. Meanwhile, postal votes and special postal votes polled in the block panchayats, grama panchayats and municipalities will be counted at the respective counting centres under the leadership of the Electoral Officers. Disinfection drives The authorities on Tuesday carried out disinfection drives at all counting centres. As per the estimates by the State Election Commission (SEC), the district recorded a voter turnout of 73.95% in the elections held on December 10 as against 79.04% recorded in 2015. The sharp difference in the overall voter turnout, which stands around 5.09 percentage points, has left all three major coalitions baffled. They, however, count on the latest trend to work to their advantage . While the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front are confident of winning a majority in the 22-member district panchayat, the National Democratic Alliance is hopeful of making a huge progress in several panchayats, besides the Kottayam municipality. Considering its ramifications in the Assembly elections due next year, the outcome of the local body polls in Kottayam has become so crucial for the splinter groups of the KC(M), which are pitted against one another in several seats. The group led by Jose K. Mani has fielded candidates in 424 seats, including 327 panchayat and 41 municipal wards. The P.J. Joseph faction contests from 320 seats, including 242 panchayat and 33 municipal wards. The Kerala Janapaksham led by P.C. George, MLA, is hopeful about playing the kingmaker’s role in the Erattupetta municipality, besides winning a couple of district panchayat divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wait-for-results-to-be-over-today/article33341398.ece
16 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fronts keep their fingers crossed||All three fronts — the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), and the BJP-led National Democratic Front (NDA) — are hoping that the results of the three-tier local body polls will favour them when they are declared on Wednesday. The district, which went to the polls on Monday, recorded an estimated voter turnout of 79.23% as per the revised figure released by the District Election Office. The voter turnout in the district in the 2015 polls was 80.10%. The polling percentage of the Kozhikode Corporation was 70.49. Among the municipalities, Koyilandy recorded a turnout of 81.46 %, Vadakara 78.64%, Payyoli 80.09%, Ramanattukara 81.91%, Koduvally 81.06%, Mukkom 81.27%, and Feroke 79.81%. Among the 12 block panchayats, Kunnamangalam, Perambra and Chelanoor recorded 83.32 %, 83.14 % and 83.14 % respectively. The elections were held to 91 local bodies — Kozhikode Corporation, seven municipalities, 70 grama panchayats, 12 block panchayats and district panchayat. In the 2015 polls, the LDF had secured two-third majority in the Kozhikode Corporation and the district panchayat. The Left coalition had emerged victorious in Vadakara, Koyilandy, Feroke, Mukkom, Payyoli and Ramanattukara municipalities. It had lost the Koduvally municipality to the Congress-Indian Union Muslim League combine. In the case of the grama panchayats, the LDF swept the polls — winning 10 out of the 12 block panchayats and 48 out of the 70 grama panchayats. The CPI(M) is hopeful of defending its bases by banking on the development schemes initiated in the past five years despite strong undercurrents and the anti-incumbency against the State government. Politically, LDF leaders said that its alliance with the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the Indian National League (INL) would work in its favour. However, at the same time, the new-found electoral tie-up has not found excitement with its existing ally, the Janata Dal (Secular). On the other hand, the UDF leaders said the coalition would upset the apple cart of the LDF. Its electoral understanding with the Welfare Party of India of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind would alter the power equations in many municipalities and grama panchayats. The UDF would capture the Kozhikode Corporation and the district panchayat, they said. As for the BJP, it is expecting to spring a surprise in the Kozhikode Corporation. In the 2015 polls, the party won seven divisions. This time, its nominees are giving a tough fight for both the fronts in 45 divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-keep-their-fingers-crossed/article33341329.ece
16 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Justice denied to suspected Maoist, say rights activists||Human rights activists have accused the authorities of denying natural justice to Rajan Chittilappilly, a suspected Maoist activist, who was arrested by the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of the Kerala Police from a Thrissur hospital last week. Janakeeya Manushyavakasa Prasthanam secretary C.P. Rasheed claimed on Tuesday that Mr. Rajan had been denied the services of a lawyer and the permission to meet his relatives. Mr. Rajan was arrested when he was undergoing treatment for the severe injuries he suffered in a road accident. He was presented in the District and Sessions Court, Manjeri, Malappuram, through video conference, which remanded him in judicial custody till January 8. The police questioned him for five days. Shifted to prison Though Mr. Rajan was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, for treatment, he was taken to the high security prison at Viyyur in Thrissur after five days, Mr. Rasheed said. “Is it appropriate to allow the police to question someone whose health condition is bad?” he asked. Mr. Rasheed said that Mr. Rajan had been denied medical care despite his inability to perform personal chores on his own. He had been reportedly lodged in a cell on the top floor of the jail building though people with health issues are generally permitted to occupy rooms on the ground floor, Mr. Rasheed said. Mr. Rajan is reported to be a member of the Western Ghats Special Zonal Committee of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). He had been booked by the Edakkara police in Malappuram in 2016 on the charge of participating in a meeting of the CPI (Maoist) in the Nilambur jungles, raising a red flag, and receiving salutes from the party cadre. The meeting was believed to have been held in 2015. This was revealed after video recordings were recovered from the site where Maoist leaders Kuppu Devaraj and Ajitha were gunned down in an alleged encounter in 2016. Mr. Rajan had been in hiding for over one-and-a-half-decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/justice-denied-to-maoist-suspect-say-rights-activists/article33341323.ece
16 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Arrangements ready for counting||All arrangements have been completed for the counting of votes polled in the local body elections held on Monday. The counting will start at the 20 designated counting centres at 8 a.m. on Wednesday. Initial trends will be available from 8.15 a.m. and the results of some local bodies with less number of wards will be available by 9 a.m. Most results are expected to be revealed by noon. There are counting centres for each of the 12 blocks, seven municipalities and the municipal corporation in the district. The counting centre for Kozhikode Corporation will be at the Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Nadakkavu. The Farook College Auditorium will be the centre for Ramanattukara municipality; the Feroke Town Hall for Feroke municipality; Government Higher Secondary School, Neeleswaram, for Mukkam municipality; Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Koyilandy for Koyilandy municipality; Technical School, Payyoli, for Payyoli municipality; the Vadakara Town Hall for Vadakara municipality and Government Higher Secondary School, Koduvally, for Koduvally municipality. The counting for grama panchayats coming under Balussery Block Panchayat will be held at Vocational Higher Secondary School, Balussery. Government Polytechnic, West Hill (Chelannur block); Malabar Christian College (Kunnamangalam block); Zamorin’s Higher Secondary School (Kozhikode block); CKG Memorial Government College, Perambra (Perambra block); St. Antony’s Girls Higher Secondary School, Vadakara (Thodannur block); Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Payyoli (Meladi block); Government Mappila Vocational Higher Secondary School, Koyilandy (Panthalayani block); Madappally College (Vadakara block); Kadathanad Rajas Higher Secondary School, Purameri (Thuneri block); National Higher Secondary School, Vattoli (Kunnummal block) and KMO Higher Secondary School, Koduvally (Koduvally block) are the other counting centres for grama panchayats. As many as 1,500 officials have been deployed for counting. Counting for all polling stations in a ward will be done at the same table. The postal ballots received till 8 a.m. on Wednesday will be counted while the ones that come later will be sealed and kept aside. Only counting officers, Returning Officers, Assistant Returning Officers, photographers and camerapersons with passes from the State Election Commission, candidates, and counting agents with passes will be allowed inside the centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrangements-ready-for-counting/article33341331.ece
16 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Low voting in some wards brings down Corpn.’s average rate||While most wards in the Kozhikode Corporation had very high polling rate, some above 80%, the drastically low voting rate in a few wards has brought down the overall polling rate in the civic body. At 70.49%, the Corporation’s polling rate is the lowest among local bodies in the district and much lower than the State’s average rate. Contrary to popular expectations, Nadakkavu (Ward 65), Eranhipalam (Ward 64) and Valiyangadi (Ward 61) registered voting rates below 60%. Nadakkavu had the lowest polling rate at 54.99% while Valiyangadi recorded 55.43% and Eranhipalam 57.1%. Other wards such as Athanikkal (71), Karapparamba (69), Moonnalinkal (62), Chalappuram (59), Kuttichira (58), Medical College (19) and Chevayur (21) had polling rates below 65%. On the other hand, Puthiyappa ward had the highest polling rate at 83.97%. Polling in the rest of the wards was much closer to the average polling rate of the district. The trend in Valiyangadi, Chevayur and Athanikkal has appalled all political fronts as they had fielded strong candidates in those wards. Valiyangadi had two experienced leaders pitted against each other — Thomas Mathew of Loktantrik Janata Dal and A.K. Aboobakkar of Congress. Mohammed Shuhaib, the Revolutionary Marxist Party candidate, was an unexpected entry in the ward. In Chevayur, the United Democratic Front had fielded one of its mayoral candidates, P.N. Ajitha, against sitting councillor Anitha Rajan of the Nationalist Congress Party. Athanikkal too had two former councillors Asha Sasahankan of the Communist Party of India (CPI) and C.S. Sathyabhama of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the fray.  Poll trend Nadakkavu had the lowest polling rate at 54.99% while Valiyangadi recorded 55.43% and Eranhipalam 57.1%  Puthiyappa ward had the highest polling rate at 83.97%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-voting-in-some-wards-brings-down-corpns-average-rate/article33341332.ece
16 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Active caseload falls to 6,182 in Kozhikode||The active COVID-19 case load in Kozhikode district fell to 6,182 on Tuesday against the backdrop of a fall in fresh cases that resulted from reduced number of tests. According to the District Medical Officer, only 276 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on the day, of whom 258 acquired the infection through local transmission. Only 3,904 lab tests were performed and the daily test positivity rate is 7.07%. There were 487 recoveries. Kozhikode Corporation was the biggest cluster of infection from where 103 cases were reported. Meanwhile, six deaths owing to COVID-19 were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Monday. In Wayanad As many as 281 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Tuesday. Of the new cases 279 patients, including one health worker, were infected through local contact. The district has so far reported 13,708 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 11,616 have recovered from the disease, including 162 persons on the day. The total number of active cases as on date is 2,011 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-caseload-falls-to-6182-in-kozhikode/article33341327.ece
16 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Prohibitory orders in sensitive areas till Thursday evening||Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are in force within the limits of Vadakara, Nadapuram, Valayam, Kuttiyadi, and Perambra police station limits in Kozhikode district between 6 p.m. on Tuesday and 6 p.m. on Thursday. According to sources, the move is to ward off any possibility of violence in view of the counting of votes for the local body polls scheduled for Wednesday. There is a chance of proliferation of COVID-19 cases as well if the crowding of persons is not controlled. Assembling of over five persons, carrying of deadly weapons and any attempt to disrupt peace will not be allowed during the period. Meanwhile, assembling of more than five persons has also been banned in a 500-metre radius of the counting centres under the Kozhikode Rural Police. The order issued by the district administration said that victory processions should be limited to ward or division and participation should be limited to 20 persons in the rural limits. The administration claimed that most of the places within Kozhikode Rural Police limits were politically sensitive and there were chances of clashes between political party activists, which might turn communal later. There were reports that law and order incidents were reported from various parts of police stations in Vadakara, Kuttiyadi Town, Perambra Town, Perambra and Valayam during the culmination of campaigning for the local body polls, after which people belonging to different political parties were hospitalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prohibitory-orders-in-sensitive-areas-till-thursday-evening/article33341330.ece
16 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||12 counting centres in Pathanamthitta||The counting of votes polled in elections to various local bodies in Pathanamthitta will be held at 12 centres across the district on Thursday. According to District Collector P.B. Noohu, extensive arrangements have been put in place at the eight counting centres in the eight blocks and the four centres in the four municipalities. The counting will begin at 8 a.m. with the counting of postal and special postal votes. The counting of postal ballots in the district panchayat will take place at the Collectorate. The final results of the district panchayat will be declared by the District Collector.  The final results of the respective wards will be announced by the respective Returning Officers. Meanwhile, elaborate security arrangements have been put in place for the counting process. As part of it, Deputy Police Superintendents and Circle Inspectors have been tasked for coordinating the security at the municipal and block levels respectively. The services of the Bomb Detection Squad and the Dog Squad have been ensured. A striking force of 72 police officers under the direct control of the District Police Chief and 11 striking forces under each sub-division have been deployed to deal with any situation. 3,698 candidates As many as 3,698 candidates are in the fray for the three-tier local body election in Pathanamthitta, the polling for which was held on December 8. As per estimates by the State Election Commission, the district recorded an overall polling percentage of 69.72 as against 72.8 in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-counting-centres-in-pathanamthitta/article33341400.ece
16 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Case against man for killing neighbour’s dog||The Thiruvalla police on Tuesday booked a man for allegedly killing his neighbour’s pet dog. The three-year-old canine sustained fatal injuries all over its body during an attack that took place on Monday evening. The injured animal was taken to a veterinary clinic, but it died on Tuesday morning. Officials said the dog’s internal organs would be sent for a chemical examination. Based on a complaint lodged by the dog owner, a case has been lodged under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act against the youth, who was identified as Anoop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-man-for-killing-neighbours-dog/article33341401.ece
16 December 2020||S. Anil RadhakrishnanTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State gets Rs. 956.04 crore as GST compensation||Kerala has received Rs. 956.04 crore from the Centre’s seventh weekly instalment of Rs. 6,000 crore to 23 States and three Union territories to meet the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation shortfall. For the State, reeling under a severe financial crisis due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, this will be a big relief as it is the second instalment in the past eight days. The amount released on December 14 has been taken as loan through the Special Window of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at an interest rate of 5.13%. The Union government had set up a special borrowing window in October 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore in revenue arising on account of the implementation of the GST. A sum of Rs. 42,000 crore has been borrowed by the Centre through the special borrowing window for the States and UTs at an average interest rate of 4.77%. This is in addition to additional borrowing permission of Rs. 1,06,830 crore granted to the States. As per Option 1 For Kerala, this is the third instalment of the dues after accepting Option I put forward by the Centre for meeting the GST compensation cess shortfall. On December 7, the State had received Rs. 642.12 crore, taken as loan by the Union government through the Special Window of the RBI at an interest of 4.20%. The State missed out the first four instalments released on October 23, November 2, November 9, November, 23, and December 1 following the delay in joining the twin options mooted by the Centre for settling the dues. A sum of Rs. 328.2 crore was earlier received in the State as GST compensation dues. The Centre has already granted an additional borrowing permission of Rs. 4,522 crore to Kerala (0.5% of the State’s GSDP), according to the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-gets-rs-95604-crore-as-gst-compensation/article33341419.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Airport: security clearance for Adani||The Centre has made clear its intention to go ahead with the handing over of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd (AEL) of the Adani Group, which won the bid to manage and operate the airport for 50 years, by issuing security clearance. Along with the airport here, the Centre has also given security clearance to the AEL for facilitating the takeover of airports in Guwahati and Jaipur. The decision comes amidst the Kerala government and the Airport Authority Employees Union (AAEU) approaching the Supreme Court again against the handover of the airport to the AEL. LOA issued The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had already issued the Letter of Award (LOA) based on the August 19 Union Cabinet decision to hand over the 88-year-old airport to the AEL. The LOA was issued even as the State stepped up pressure to retain the airport in the public sector. Adani Trivandrum International Airport Ltd (ATIAL) of the Adani Group is learnt to be gearing up to take over the airport from the AAI as part of executing the 50-year lease pact between the AAI and the ATIAL. With the Assembly elections early next year, the Supreme Court decision and the next move of the State government are being keenly watched. The State will have to sign a State support agreement to hand over the airport and the stance is crucial. The government has already hinted that it will back out from the acquisition of eight ha needed from Vallakkadavu-Vayyamoola area for a Rs. 600-crore integrated terminal on the city side. With the security clearance, the hurdles for executing the lease agreement is over. After signing the pact, the ATIAL will have to submit the performance bank guarantee to the AAI. ATIAL personnel will fly down to the capital and observe airport operations for two months as it did in case of other airports that it took over. After the observation period, the ATIAL will take over the commercial operations as per the commercial operation date. Branch secretary of the AAEU S.Ajith Kumar said the union would step up its stir in the wake of the security clearance given by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airport-security-clearance-for-adani/article33341854.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Counting of votes in local body polls today||The stage is set for the counting of votes polled in the 2020 edition of the local body elections held in three phases in the State. Counting will begin at 244 centres at 8 a.m. on Wednesday and the results are expected to be out by noon. Given the COVID-19 situation in the State, the State Election Commission has urged political parties to tone down their victory celebrations. COVID protocols The COVID-19 protocols will be strictly followed at the counting centres also. Postal ballots, including the special postal ballots issued to COVID-19 patients and quarantined voters, will be counted first. Postal votes received by returning officers till 8 a.m. on Wednesday will be admissible for counting. This will be followed by the counting of votes recorded in the electronic voting machines. The results of the grama panchayat elections are expected to be declared by 11 a.m. Full results The full results for all local bodies, according to the commission, will be out by noon. The public can keep track of the election trends ontrend.kerala.gov.in. Ernakulam has 28 counting centres, the highest in the State, followed by Malappuram (27), Thrissur (24) and Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur, which have 20 each. Alappuzha has 18, Kottayam 17 and Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, 16 each. Pathanamthitta has 12 centres, Idukki, 10, Kasaragod nine and Wayanad seven. All counting centres were disinfected on Tuesday and counting officials have been directed to wear protective gear, including face shields, during the exercise. The local body elections were conducted in three phases on December 8 (Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki), December 10 (Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Wayanad and Palakkad) and December 14 (Kannur, Kasaragod, Malappuram and Kozhikode). Phase I had recorded a voter turnout of 73.12%, Phase II 76.78% and the third phase - as per the latest update - 78.64%. The swearing-in ceremony of the newly elected members will be held on December 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/counting-of-votes-in-local-body-polls-today-results-likely-by-noon/article33341319.ece
16 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree on election map||Shinija N.V. of Pattiam grama panchayat in Kannur joined the Kudumbashree Mission 18 years ago. She was soon made secretary of her neighbourhood self-help group. She rose through the ranks to become the Kudumbashree area development society (ADS) secretary and then community development society (CDS) member. In 2010, Shinija contested the local body elections, won, and went on to become the development standing committee chairperson. Ten years later, she is standing for the elections again - from the 12th ward of the panchayat. Like Shinija, 16,864 other Kudumbashree women are eagerly awaiting the results of the local body elections on Wednesday. Kudumbashree women, in fact, form a good chunk of the 36,305 women candidates (46.5%) in the fray. An increasing number of women from Kudumbashree are coming forward to participate in grassroots governance since the State reserved 50% of the seats in local bodies for women. In 2015, 15,863 Kudumbashree women contested the elections, and of them 7,376 won (46.5%). In Kannur itself, 23 CDS chairpersons are in the fray this time, not to mention hundreds of other Kudumbashree women. Kudumbashree, Shinija says, has changed the lives of many. Shinija herself was an introvert when young and depended on her husband or family for everything. It was the Kudumbashree mission that made sure that she did not end up an unknown woman whose world was the four walls of her house. “The change in me has been huge. I wanted to do all I could for the organisation and work for the people. Today, I can go anywhere, interact with anyone, and get things done.” Kudumbashree Executive Director Harikishore S. says Kudumbashree women’s increasing representation in governance is a recognition for their work, commitment, and competence. It is also indicative of women empowerment, he says. “Women come to leadership positions in the Kudumbashree network and from there move to broader leadership roles, motivating many others in the process.”  Lots of exposure Planning Board member Mridul Eapen says the Kudumbashree three-tier network gives the women lots of exposure. For one, they are much more able to understand local problems and collective needs of the people. The organisational abilities they pick up while in Kudumbashree — how to work in a group, accommodate various viewpoints, take decisions, and keep the team together — give them confidence and help them perform effectively. If they do good work in their neighbourhood, it gives them social capital that puts them in an advantageous position while governing at the local level. It also aids in empowering women, for they are able to articulate their thoughts. From the individual, these women progress to the large public domain where they can raise their voice. It helps that the Kudumbashree has grown organically in the past two decades, rather than be imposed from the top. “Kudumbashree has created an enabling environment for more and more women to participate in local governance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-on-election-map/article33341811.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Caution urged in victory celebrations||Victory celebrations involving large crowds and vehicle rallies should be avoided once the results of the local body polls are out on Wednesday, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. The votes polled in the district will be counted at 16 centres. The COVID-19 protocol should be strictly followed in the victory celebrations. The celebrations should not feature more than 50 people. Processions and vehicle rallies, especially those involving two-wheelers, also should be avoided, the Collector said on Tuesday. No crowding Crowding outside the counting centres should be avoided. Physical distance should be maintained when receiving the victorious candidates. Receptions involving garlands, currency note garlands, bouquets, and shawls should be avoided. Political parties also should take care to refrain from using loudspeakers which may cause inconvenience to the public, Ms. Khosa said. The 16 counting centres in the district were disinfected on Tuesday. Apart from the candidate and the election agent, only one counting agent will be allowed inside the counting hall. They should mandatorily use gloves, masks, and sanitiser. Counting officials also have been directed to use protective gear. Security has been beefed up in the district in view of the counting of votes. There are two counting centres in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits. Sarvodaya Vidyalaya ICSE School at Nalanchira where the votes polled in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation will be counted and Government HSS, Kazhakuttam, where the votes polled in the Pothencode block will be counted. In all, 700 police personnel have been deployed in the region. The 14 counting centres outside the city limits also are under tight security blanket, the Collector said. An officer of the rank of DySP is in charge of each centre. Entry to the counting centres is restricted by passes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caution-urged-in-victory-celebrations/article33341862.ece
16 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No First Bell classes from Dec. 25 to 27||There will be classes only on two days from December 18 to 27 for Plus Two students as part of the First Bell digital classes owing to Plus One improvement examinations for them. The Plus Two classes will be telecast on December 20 and 24. Class 10 students For class 10 students, there will be no classes from December 24 to 27. An additional class will be telecast for them from December 18. For classes 1 to 9, there will be no telecast after December 18 till January 4. Plus One students too will have additional classes from December 18 to 23. The classes for them will resume only on January 4. There will be no classes for anyone from December 25 to 27. Extra classes Extra classes will be telecast for class 10 and 12 students in the week beginning December 28, KITE chief executive officer K. Anvar Sadath said in a statement here on Tuesday. The classes and schedules will be available onfirstbell.kite.kerala.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-first-bell-classes-from-dec-25-to-27/article33341326.ece
16 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Opposing fronts confident of making rich dividends||The opposing political fronts in Kerala have exuded confidence that the rollout of the results of the local body elections would bring them cheer on Wednesday. The Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front, the Congress-led United Democratic Front and Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance had fought the local body polls with an eye on the Assembly elections in 2021. A period of bitter recriminations marked electioneering. The State had held the polls in the middle of a crippling pandemic that had scant effect on the poll percentage surprisingly.  No mere triangular fight The polls were no forthright triangular electoral battle. National and State politics had dominated electioneering alongside provincial matters and livelihood issues — rumours of possible cross-voting vexed alliances equally. A BJP surge, if at all, in the keenly contested Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur Municipal Corporations could arguably signal a remarkable inversion of traditional coalition politics in Kerala.  LDF claim Notably, the results would test the Left Democratic Front (LDF) claim that it would coast to victory despite the myriad scandals that had bedevilled the Pinarayi Vijayan government since the gold smuggling case broke in July. The ruling front had banked heavily on the social security benefits doled out to a large section of the population and creation of health and education infrastructure to help maintain its hold on power. The political alliances viewed the elections as a verifiable microcosm of Kerala and a reversal of the fortunes of the LDF at the hustings would echo strongly in the Assembly elections next year.  UDF aspirations The UDF felt that the “anti-government sentiment” would work to its advantage and not that of the NDA given its brand of majoritarian politics. It hoped to cement its victory in Kannur and hold on to the Kochi Corporation. The NDA perceived that the “wrongdoings” of the government and a “weakened” UDF had accorded the coalition an unprecedented opportunity to register emphatic wins in the polls. In 2015, the LDF and UDF had split the 15 district panchayats almost evenly among them with the ruling coalition holding to an extra one. The LDF won in 45 municipalities and UDF in 40 that year.  The State held the polls in the middle of a crippling pandemic, but it had scant effect on polling percentage||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposing-fronts-confident-of-making-rich-dividends/article33341408.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||At 430, district reports a surge in caseload||Posing concerns for the district administration, Thiruvananthapuram witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday with 430 cases. While there were 290 recoveries, the number of active cases stood at 3,365. The district last recorded over 400 cases nearly two weeks ago when the caseload was 424 on December 3. Maintaining that it was too early to suspect a possible resurgence, health authorities said the spike was along expected lines in the aftermath of the local body elections. The COVID-19 toll jumped to 602 with seven more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The dead included an 84-year-old man from Vellanad, a 58-year-old man from Andoorkonam, a 78-year-old man from Kappil, a 72-year-old man from Chittattumukku, a 61-year-old man from Madavoor, a 76-year-old woman from Pappanamcode, and a 56-year-old woman from Marayamuttom. The death toll in the district is twice that of Thrissur (301) that ranks second. Thiruvananthapuram also has the highest case fatality ratio (CFR 0.78) in the State. Kannur is second with CFR of 0.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-430-district-reports-a-surge-in-caseload/article33341859.ece
16 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hints of a surge in COVID graph||There are ample indications suggesting an imminent rise in the State’s COVID-19 epidemic curve in the coming days as cases are on the rise in many districts that had hitherto been showing a decreasing trend. Cases are rising steadily in Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur. Test positivity rate has been steady between 9% and 11%, indicating a consistent rate of disease transmission, while there has been no let-up in COVID mortality either. According to the Health Department’s epidemiological analysis, new cases which had dipped by over 16% in November second week showed a rising trend in December first week by over 5.6%. Case doubling time fell significantly in Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod during December first week, in comparison to the previous week. On Tuesday, the State reported 5,218 new cases when 56,453 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate stood at 9.24%. With 5,066 recoveries being reported, the active caseload in the State stands at 57,757. The addition of 33 new deaths to the official COVID-19 death list has taken the cumulative toll to 2,680. Of the new cases reported, 5,146 are contact cases and 46 cases are among health-care workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hints-of-a-surge-in-covid-graph/article33341413.ece
16 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Health dept. not for more pilgrims at Sabarimala||The Health Department, in its revised advisory on the Sabarimala pilgrimage on Tuesday, recommended that the number of pilgrims allowed to visit Sabarimala daily be not allowed to go above the current number. Increasing the number of pilgrims will lead to increased interaction and crowding among the pilgrims, leading to a spurt in infection, the advisory cautioned. Epidemiologists have reported that there is a 31% increase in new cases at Pathanamthitta and an 11% increase in Kottayam and there is every likelihood that cases will go further in the coming days, given the manner in which people have been mixing during the local body election campaign. At least till the Mandala puja, the number of pilgrims visiting Sabarimala should be kept restricted. Pilgrims are advised to avoid the pilgrimage if they experience any symptoms such as fever, cough, respiratory symptoms, or loss of smell. The department has advised that pilgrims and officials undergo the RT-PCR test rather than the antigen tests. This has been made necessary as many officials at Sabarimala have turned out to be COVID-positive even though they were deployed after testing. (Antigen testing has a higher probability of giving false negatives.) After Mandala puja on December 26, the pilgrims will have to produce COVID-negative certificate, with RT-PCR test done within 24 hours of reaching Nilackal. In High Court The State informed the High Court that the revised advisory of the COVID-19 Outbreak Control and Prevention State Cell had recommended against raising the number of pilgrims till the Mandala puja. The submission was made when petitions seeking a directive to the government to increase number of devotees was taken up. The State said the cell had advised that a decision could be taken after Mandala puja and analysing the situation. However, the Travancore Devaswom Board submitted the number could be increased to 10,000, as there would be space to accommodate all adhering to the COVID protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-dept-not-for-more-pilgrims-at-sabarimala/article33341412.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KFC to disburse another Rs. 1,000 crore||The Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) is disbursing new loans of Rs. 1,000 crore to revive the industrial sector in the State in the current financial year. The initiative is in addition to the Rs. 2,450 crore already disbursed by the KFC this year so far. With this, the loan disbursement of this year will touch Rs. 3,450 crore against the Rs. 1,446 crore disbursed last year. The decision comes in the wake of the reluctance of banks and other financial institutions to generously lend in the wake of COVID-19, Tomin J. Thachankari, chairman and managing director, KFC, said on Tuesday. When banks insist on collateral security in addition to the primary, the KFC has taken a generous approach for entrepreneurs with low security to get loans. Entrepreneurs who do not own property can now also provide third party security at the KFC to avail loans. The KFC provides loans of up to Rs.1 lakh under the Entrepreneurship Development Scheme without any collateral. Over 10,000 applications have been received so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kfc-to-disburse-another-rs-1000-crore/article33341420.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lorry driver arrested in journalist death case||The City police on Tuesday arrested a 60-year-old lorry driver in connection with a hit-and-run case that had led to the death of visual and digital media journalist S.V. Pradeep at Karakkamandapam a day ago. The Nemom police recorded the arrest of Joy Francis of Manikanteswaram, who drove the lorry that allegedly knocked down Pradeep’s scooter while he was passing along NH-66 at Karakkamandapam. The journalist, who hailed from Pallichal, was killed after he was run over by the vehicle apparently transporting manufactured sand from Cheriyakonam to Vellayani. Assistant Commissioner, Fort, R. Prathapan Nair, who is leading the investigation, said the lorry was seized near Enchakkal after the police tracked its movements using visuals from CCTV cameras. During questioning, the driver claimed he sped away after the collision fearing reprisal of passers-by and motorists. The police had booked a murder case following a complaint submitted by Pradeep’s mother Vasanthakumari, who alleged that her son had received threats on social media. Forensic experts collected evidence from the accident spot as well as the vehicle. The police also summoned the vehicle owner, Vijayakumar of Peroorkada, who is believed to have been present during the accident. Following post-mortem examination at the Government Medical College Hospital, Pradeep’s body was taken to the Thiruvananthapuram Press Club for the public to pay homage. The mortal remains were cremated at the Shanti Kavadom at Thycaud. The deceased is survived by his wife and a son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lorry-driver-arrested-in-journalist-death-case/article33341860.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Revised entry, exit plan at Central station||The Railways have revised the entry and exit plan for passengers at the Thiruvananthapuram Central railway station in view of the introduction of additional special trains and consequent increase in passengers. As per the revised plan, the Thampanoor main portico, the first entry, will be open only for entry of passengers arriving to board trains. Those arriving by trains should exit from the station through the passages adjacent to the veg refreshment room (VRR)/ escalators and the old prepaid auto taxi centre. The second entry to the station on Power House Road, which had been closed following suspension of trains following the lockdown, will be open for entry and exit of passengers. As per the COVID-19 protocol, only passengers with confirmed reservation tickets will be allowed to enter the station. Platform tickets will not be issued and, hence, those coming to receive/ see off passengers will not be able to step into the station building. All passengers should wear face masks, maintain hand hygiene, physical distance, and avoid crowding on railway premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revised-entry-exit-plan-at-central-station/article33341850.ece
16 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Power supply disruption||Electrical supply to some areas in the Peroorkada and Kudappanakkunnu electrical section limits will be disrupted from 8.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday on account of maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-supply-disruption/article33341851.ece
16 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Corpn. sees bid to torpedo water booking system||The city Corporation has asked the people to remain vigilant against the attempts by certain private tanker owners who monopolise the business of drinking water distribution to torpedo the online mechanism launched by the civic body for water distribution through tankers. In a statement here on Sunday, Corporation secretary K.U. Bini said that to get drinking water through tankers, people could register on the city Corporation’s Smart Trivandrum mobile app or the portalwww.smarttvm.corporation oftrivandrum.in. Helpdesk A 24-hour help desk (Phone: 94964 34488) too had been set up to facilitate this. However, some private tanker owners were selling water on the black market by approaching apartments and commercial establishments in the city and receiving bookings and then using the city Corporation mechanism to supply water. It had also come to the civic body’s attention that water collected from unsafe sources was being distributed. The Corporation has filed a complaint with the police in this connection. The people should make use of the city Corporation’s mechanism to get safe and quality drinking water and be on the alert against black marketeers, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-sees-bid-to-torpedo-water-booking-system/article33341855.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||4 arrested on assault charge||The Kovalam police on Tuesday arrested four youths accused of manhandling a homemaker and another person in separate cases reported in Vellar recently. Those arrested were identified as Vimal Mithra, alias Kaattile Kannan, 20, Amal, alias Amalunni, 22, both hailing from Vellar, Ajith, 20, and Akash, 18, both from Vazhamuttom. The gang is accused of attacking one Sujith, who resides near Vellar Mahadeva Temple, in whose house they had gone for painting. Sujith had suffered significant injuries in the attack. On the same day, the gang assaulted a homemaker, who hails from Vedar Colony in Vellar, whose son they suspected of informing the police about them smoking ganja in a forested area near their house. A team led by Kovalam station house officer P. Anil Kumar nabbed the youths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-arrested-on-assault-charge/article33341856.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Held for abandoning children||The Medical College police have arrested a woman who allegedly abandoned her two minor daughters and eloped with a friend. The police arrested the woman and her friend Saju, 39, both hailing from Akkulam, after booking them under provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, for abandoning her daughters aged 7 and 15. They were traced after the woman’s mother filed a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-for-abandoning-children/article33341857.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Demonstration||Several students and parents gathered outside the Kerala University headquarters on Tuesday to protest against the alleged delay in permitting private registration for courses. The demonstration, organised by the Private Registration Vidyarthi Samithi (Students’ Forum), was inaugurated by its coordinator Adhithi Binukumar. She blamed the university for denying several aspirants the opportunity to enrol for higher education courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demonstration/article33341852.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Interim relief for KSRTC staff||All 26,819 personnel on rolls in the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation are to get an interim relief of Rs. 1,500 monthly from this November. The interim relief would be disbursed along with the December salary and it would continue till the salary revision was implemented in the KSRTC, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran said on Tuesday. The steps to revise the salary with the recognised unions would commence after the forthcoming referendum being held in the KSRTC this month, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interim-relief-for-ksrtc-staff/article33341853.ece
16 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IIST convocation today||The eighth convocation of the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST), Valiamala, will be held on Wednesday. Shekhar C. Mande, Director General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, will deliver convocation address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iist-convocation-today/article33341416.ece
16 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||712 new cases in Thrissur||There were 712 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Tuesday while 706 people recovered from the disease on the day. There are 5,625 active cases in the district and 132 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment at hospitals in various other districts. So far, 66,605 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 60,485 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 689 people, including nine health workers, contracted the disease through local contact. Of them, 100 patients are above the age of 60 and 44 are below the age of 10. In all, 3,614 patients are in home observation. In all, 128 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment on Tuesday. As many as 6,911 samples were collected for tests on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/712-new-cases-in-thrissur/article33341810.ece
16 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Collector to examine complaint||District Collector S. Shanavas has ensured inquiry into the allegation of irregularities in connection with postal ballots. No complaints were received on irregularities in the issue of special ballots. That too would be looked into once the complaint was received, he said. Special ballots for former Minister K.P. Viswanathan should be allotted by Ernakulam District Collector as he was under treatment in Ernakulam district. Special ballots for him could be allotted only with the direction of Ernakulam Collector, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-to-examine-complaint/article33341808.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||People’s verdict to bring more clarity on State polity||With all political fronts keeping their fingers crossed, the results of the three-tier local body polls in the State, to be declared on Wednesday, are certainly going to be a template for the Assembly polls due in another four months. The turnout of the electorate in the polls conducted in three phases at 78.64% reveals that the voters defied the COVID-19 pandemic, the lockdown and an unprecedented economic crisis. That the pandemic did not alter the political consciousness of the Keralite voter. Incidentally, all coalitions -- the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front, Congress-led United Democratic Front and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance -- faced the elections in an ambience of political chaos. Whatever be the outcome, it will bring more clarity on the three political formations. Tri-cornered contest A heightened electioneering has shown that from now onwards a tri-cornered contest would become a reality in the State. The multipolar divide will set off the future elections in the State. For the LDF, even if with its rainbow coalition comprising the new entrants Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the faction led by Jose K. Mani of the Kerala Congress (M) it manages to secure 50% of the seats, it means that the anti-incumbency factor has worked against the State government. In 2015, the LDF almost swept the local body polls. Outcome Undoubtedly, the outcome will also sound the alarm bells for the CPI(M) ahead of the Assembly polls. And the journey will be uphill unlike the downhill that happened in the 2016 Assembly polls. UDF position For the UDF, the Lok Sabha polls last year gave the coalition the hope of a comeback after it failed to weather the onslaught it experienced in the 2015 local body polls. Its performance in the Assembly polls in 2016 caused dismay for various reasons. However, it remains to be seen whether the UDF can take the positive effect of the results of the polls to the next level of electoral politics, specifically the Assembly polls. For a party starting from a low base, the BJP may be breaching enviable cosy turfs of both the fronts in the local body polls. Its flanking strategies to take both of them in a bipolar polity however will be tested in a bigger electoral space, in the Assembly elections. At the same time, no Kerala voter will want to witness a hung Assembly, when a three-cornered contest takes off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/peoples-verdict-to-bring-more-clarity-on-state-polity/article33341404.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In safe custody||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-safe-custody/article33341335.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Camaraderie with farmers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/camaraderie-with-farmers/article33341418.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A task completed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-task-completed/article33341423.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unsafe practice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unsafe-practice/article33341739.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Reining in water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reining-in-water/article33341864.ece
16 December 2020||BALLARI / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P.-Karnataka border demarcation issue will be resolved soon: official||Andhra Pradesh is hopeful of resolving the inter-State border demarcation issue at the earliest as there is confusion only with regard to six out of the 76 border reference points on the 15-km border in the Bellary Reserve Forest, where mining leases have been given to several persons by both Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Even if the points are deviated by a few meters, a large area will go out of the purview of the leaseholder and the mining done so far will become illegal. Losing a mineral-rich patch of land or hillock is not agreeable to the contesting parties. This is where people like Tapal Ganesh, one of the leaseholders in some patches, have approached the court, or have impleaded themselves in some of the cases of the Obulapuram Mining Company. “The Karnataka side has asked for the exact geographical coordinates of the six points, which will be provided to them soon. The entire process of demarcation of the inter-State border will be concluded very soon,” Nishant Kumar, Anantapur Joint Collector, who looks after the land and revenue issues, told The Hindu . When asked about the doubts raised by Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul with regard to the map containing mutually-agreed points, Mr. Nishant Kumar said, “The Commissioners of Land Administration of both the States may have to sit and iron out the differences.” A similar view was expressed by Mr. Nakul on Monday. ‘Huge deviation’ Meanwhile, Mr. Ganesh, who holds a mining lease at Malapamgudi and Siddapuram in Andhra Pradesh and at Tumti in the adjoining Karnataka, shows the tri-junction point of the three villages marked on a rock in August 2018 during the survey conducted by the Deepak Sharma Committee, which has not been taken into consideration now. The border deviates by a large extent during the current demarcation exercise, he says. “All hill contour tops are the reference points for village boundaries. The maps are available with respective governments and in the sketches attached to the mining leases given based on the village maps. But these have not been referred to,” Mr. Ganesh says. The deviations are clearly visible and the issue can be ironed out at the district officers’ level, he adds. “Digitised maps brought by the Survey of India are hybrid maps and slight deviations / changes in longitude and latitude are visible, which should be avoided,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-pradesh-karnataka-border-demarcation-issue-will-be-resolved-soon/article33341289.ece
16 December 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patients’ statements taken as Eluru returns to normal||Eluru town returned to normal on Tuesday, as no more cases were reported of the undiagnosed illness that has sent the State into a tizzy. Four patients with neurotoxicity symptoms are admitted at the Vijayawada Government General Hospital. District Coordinator of Hospital Services (DCHS) Dr. A.V.R. Mohan said patients who were discharged are doing well. Meanwhile, the High-Level Committee headed by Chief Secretary Nilaw Sawhney met the patients at the hospital and recorded their statements. They met patients who were admitted to the Eluru Government General Hospital (GGH) with neurotoxicity symptoms. The doctors enquired whether they had suffered epilepsy earlier, or if there was any history of epilepsy in their families, and what they had eaten on the two days preceding the sudden illness, and whether they had gone to any private hospital before coming to the Government Hospital. The committee members called on the patients and enquired about their source of drinking water. “We are waiting for the lab reports from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) and Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). The results are expected in a day or two,” a committee member told The Hindu on Tuesday. Scientists from various State and Central institutes collected blood, water, urine and Cerebral Spinal Fluid (CSF) samples as well as food samples from affected areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patients-statements-taken-as-eluru-returns-to-normal/article33341889.ece
16 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reach out to Nivar-hit farmers: JSP||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan on Tuesday called upon party leaders to submit memoranda to the District Collectors on December 28 seeking support to the farmers who had incurred losses due to Nivar cyclone and other natural calamities. Mr. Pawan Kalyan, during a teleconference with the Political Affairs Committee (PAC) members, said he too would participate in the programme. PAC chairman Nadendla Manohar highlighted the issue of suicide by two more debt-ridden farmers in the aftermath of the cyclone. “Farmers of five districts have incurred heavy losses due to the cyclone, and no assistance has been given to them so far by the government. The situation of tenant farmers is far more worse. In line with the demand put before the government during the tour of the cyclone-hit areas seeking a financial assistance of Rs. 35,000 per acre and Rs. 10,000 as immediate relief to the farmers, it has been decided to submit memoranda to the District Collectors on December 28,” he said. About 9 lakh farmers were affected after damage to standing crops in about 19 lakh acres due to the cyclone, he said. ‘Tenant farmers worst-hit’ “The meagre financial aid given by the government will reach the land-holding farmers, but the condition of tenant farmers is pitiful. The government is not taking care of them. Hence, we have taken up the programme titled Jai Kisan for the benefit of the tenant farmers, that is, tose who till the land. Jai Kisan will be a continuous programme aimed at extending the party’s support to the farming community,” Mr. Manohar said. “People of the State are deprived of basic infrastructure. Roads are in a bad shape. I have personally witnessed how worse the situation is at the villages during the tour of the four cyclone-hit districts,” said Mr. Pawan Kalyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reach-out-to-nivar-hit-farmers-jsp/article33341795.ece
16 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ward, village secretariats to be built by March 31: Minister||Minister for Housing and district in-charge Minister Ch. Ranganatha Raju has said that the construction of the buildings of ward and village secretariats and Rythu Bharosa Kendras will be completed by March 31. Speaking to reporters after chairing the District Development Review Committee meeting here, Mr. Raju said the district administration was working to ensure that all construction works were complete. The DDRC meeting was held in-camera. The distribution of house sites would also commence on December 25 and house site pattas for 1.63 lakh houses would be distributed in all constituencies. The Minister said that he would discuss the issue of pending UGD works with Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana. On sand availability, the Minister said that there were 10 sand reaches and 21 more sand reaches would be made available soon. MLAs and MLCs were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ward-village-secretariats-to-be-built-by-march-31-minister/article33341173.ece
16 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Holding local body polls not possible in Feb., State tells HC||The State government on Tuesday submitted an affidavit before the High Court that it was not possible to hold local body elections in February as the government machinery would be busy in administering vaccine for COVID-19. In an affidavit filed before the court, the government said the Centre had already issued guidelines to the State Government on the procedures to be followed in administering COVID-19 vaccine. The revenue, police and health department personnel would be busy in the vaccine administering procedure covering the population of the State in a phased manner. The issue of holding local body elections had become contentious with the State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar stating that the SEC would hold local body polls in February. He had even met Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan on the issue. The State Government stuck to its guns maintaining that it was not possible to hold local body polls in February. The High Court posted the matter to next Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/holding-local-body-polls-not-possible-in-feb-state-tells-hc/article33341798.ece
16 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Demand rising for ready-to-eat foods’||There is a growing demand for ready-to-eat foods due to changing lifestyle, according to Ch. Vasudevappa, Vice-Chancellor of National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management. Addressing a conference on ‘Science, technology and innovation for sustainable food system’ at Vignan University, Dr. Vasudevappa said changing lifestyles and work ethics created a demand for ready-to-eat foods. “There is a high demand for food science and food processing technology courses and these help in preservation of food.” Scientist of DFRL-DRDO R. Kumar said that the world would face a food crisis in the next 50 years and hence the agriculture sector was of utmost importance. Students should focus on food science and food processing sectors, he said. University V-C M.Y.S. Prasad and Head of Food Technology Department M. Ramesh Naidu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demand-growing-for-ready-to-eat-foods/article33341170.ece
16 December 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC starts using recycled sewage water at fountains||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is recycling sewage water and using it at water fountains at three major junctions in the city. The corporation has plans to extend the same at a few more fountains. According to GVMC Superintending Engineer (Water Supply & UGD) S. Venugopal Rao, water is being recycled at the Sewage Treatment plant (STP) at Appughar and is used in these fountains. The treated water is being shifted in tankers to the fountains every day, he said. “Earlier, these fountains used to be managed with regular water. But now, about 30 KL of treated water is being used at these fountains every day,” he added. Mr. Venugopal said that as of now the recycled sewage water is being used at Siripuram Circle, Children’s Arena and Jagadamba Junction. “We are planning to implement the same at two more fountains at Gajuwaka area very soon,” the SE added. According to the UGD officials, the GVMC has five STPs — Appughar (25 MLD), Lakshmi Talkies (38 MLD), Mudasarlova (13 MLD), Narava (108 MLD – 54 MLD yet to be upgraded) and Anakapalle (15 MLD). The civic body is receiving about 107 MLD sewage water every day. The GVMC has planned either to sell treated water or use it for various purposes to reduce wastewater being pumped into the sea. The GVMC is selling about 70 MLD treated water to a couple of PSUs from Narava STP and seven MLD treated water from Mudasarlova STP to a club at Mudasarlova, which is being used for gardening and landscaping works. Similarly, five MLD of treated water is being sold to Port Trust officials for sprinkling purpose. “In future, there will be no wastewater. We will reuse it. We either sell or use the treated water for industries, agriculture, horticulture, watering medians or other purposes,” said Mr. Venugopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-starts-using-recycled-sewage-water-at-fountains/article33341895.ece
16 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||7 hired on compensatory grounds||Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop, Rajya Sabha Member P. Subhash Chandrabose and East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday handed over employment letters to the kin of those murdered in various cases in the district since 2013, on compensatory grounds. East Godavari SC and ST Vigilance and Monitoring Committee headed by Mr. Muralidhar on Tuesday reviewed status of the cases registered under the SC, ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 in the district between 2013-20. East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi and other district officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-hired-on-compensatory-grounds/article33341171.ece
16 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa police win three trophies||The Kadapa district police bagged three trophies for winning in scientific investigation, anti-sabotage check, and dog squad events, while Kurnool district police won in photography, videography, and computer events at the Kurnool Range Duty Meet 2020 that concluded here on Tuesday. While Kurnool Range DIG P. Venkatarami Reddy gave away prizes, Kurnool SP Fakkeerappa Kaginelli and Kadapa SP K.K. Amburajan attended as special invitees. In all 17 gold, 19 silver, and 18 bronze medals were presented to the winners, and certificates of appreciation were handed over to the meritorious officers. Those winning at the duty meet will get entry into the State Police Duty Meet to be organised in Tirupati in the first week of January 2021. Additional SP in-charge of Special Enforcement Bureau Gautami Shali and Homeguards Commandant U. Rammohan attended the function, where the police personnel conducted a marchpast also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadapa-police-win-3-trophies/article33341169.ece
16 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIKMS activists perform skit to highlight impact of farm laws||Members of the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sangh(AIKMS) staged a novel protest here on Tuesday to press the demand for unconditional withdrawal of the three ‘corporate-friendly’ farm Acts enacted by the Central government. Defying police curbs, activists led by AIKMS State general secretary Ch.Venkateswarlu shouted slogans against the Union government for delivering a ‘death blow’ to the farmers, especially small and marginal farmers, through the three farm Acts coupled with Electricity Amendment Bill. Expressing solidarity with protesting farmers across the nation, they then performed a skit to highlight how the three pieces of legislation paved the way for the corporate sector to have a vice-like grip over the Rs. 62 lakh crore farm produce. Joined by members of CPI(ML) New Democracy-led cultural wing Arunodaya, they urged the Centre to withdraw immediately the three Farm Acts instead of buying time by way of talks and causing agony to the farming community. The big corporates would dictate the prices of farm produce much against the interests of consumers on the one hand and denying a remunerative price for farmers following an amendment to the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, said AIKMS district secretary K. Nancharlu while addressing the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/activists-perform-skit-to-highlight-farmers-woes/article33341786.ece
16 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karthika masam fete ends with ‘Poli Swargam’||The biting cold was no deterrent for determined devotees who performed special rituals to mark ‘Poli Swargam’, bringing the curtain down on the month-long festivities of Karthika masam. Observing social etiquette of COVID-19 times, a large number of devotees made a beeline to water bodies, including the summer storage tanks, brimming with Krishna water, seeking health, wealth and prosperity for themselves and their family members. Wearing face masks, they lit oil lamps and released them into water bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karthika-masam-fete-ends-with-poli-swargam/article33341784.ece
16 December 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll goes up to 1,082 in South Coastal A.P.||One more patient succumbed to COVID-19 in SPSR Nellore district taking the death toll marginally higher to 1,082 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. With this, the toll edged up to 504 in SPSR Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Tuesday night. The toll remained unchanged at 578 in Prakasam district. The number of fresh cases fell below the 50-mark in the two districts, where the overall coronavirus cases count reached 1,25,227. With 75 patients getting cured of the disease during the period, the number of active cases declined to 866 in the region. The recovery rate improved further to 98.84% as 1,23,783 have so far recovered in the region. Zero deaths were reported in Prakasam district in the last one week. The number of active cases dropped to 262 as the number of patients cured of the disease outnumbered fresh cases by six. The number of patients requiring hospitalization stood at about 120. As many as 14 patients were provided with oxygen/ventilator support in the district while other positive persons were given treatment at home. The total number of positive cases rose to 63,397 in SPSR Nellore district with 22 persons testing positive for the disease. 37 recovered The caseload declined further to 604 with 37 patients recovering from the disease during the period. So far, 62,793 patients have won the battle against the viral disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-goes-up-to-1082-in-south-coastal-ap/article33341785.ece
16 December 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NCPCR member expresses concern over rise in trafficking||National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) member Pragna Parande has expressed concern over the increase in trafficking cases during COVID-19 period. She observed that many child marriage cases have been reported during the pandemic, and asked the officials concerned to create awareness about the issue. Speaking to The Hindu on Tuesday, the NCPCR member, who toured the State, said the commission observed that traffickers from different parts of the country had become active during COVID-19, and minors from different places had been allegedly trafficked. “The Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW), Juvenile Welfare, Police and other departments personnel prevented trafficking and booked cases against the traffickers,” she said and stressed the need for better coordination among various government departments. Ms. Pragna said many marriages of minors were stopped and the girls rescued. She asked the District Child Protection Units (DCPUs) of WD&CW department to explain the consequences of child marriages, Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, and the action as per law. “Some children were slogging in the Child Care Institutions (CCIs) though they have parents, guardians and blood relatives to take care of them. During COVID-19, the actual number of orphan children and Child in Need of Care and Protection (CNCP) has come out, and many children were reunited with their parents,” the NCPCR member said. Ms. Pragna said that foster care and adoptions should be encouraged and children should brought up in a family life, which was the right of a child, and paved for their all round development. Operation Muskaan On ‘Operation Muskaan’ in the State, in which about 25,000 children of different States were rescued recently, Ms. Pragna expressed shock over the huge number of children rescued. She said the government should prepare a data and analyse the cases related to child labour, trafficking, street children, abandoned, bonded labour and child beggars separately and prepare an action plan to protect child rights in the State. Later, she met Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and took stock of the situation in Krishna district. National Child Labour Project (NCLP) district coordinator B. Prasanna explained that vocational training was being provided in different trades to the students in the 16 NCLP Schools (Special Training Centres), being run in the district. Ms. Pragna enquired with officials about the functioning of the Child Care Institutions and Observation Homes in the district. She enquired about compensation being provided to victims in sexual assault and acid attack cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncpcr-member-expresses-concern-over-rise-in-trafficking/article33341181.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP Tourism focusses on major revenue earners||Even as the latest COVID-19 guidelines ensure opening up of the travel and tourism sectors albeit with safety measures, Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) has set its sights on the untapped potential in the sector. While transportation of pilgrims is a major revenue earner, the corporation eagerly awaits the TTD nod for re-issue of 2,500 special entry tickets (Rs. 300) a day, in order to make a fast buck. The response to this tourism package from tourists in Bengaluru, Chennai and cities down south is huge, as it involves to and fro travel, refreshment and darshan, all rolled into one. The corporation used to earn a whopping Rs. 2 crore every month from this package. Similarly, Horsley Hills near Madanapalle is another major revenue-getter, thanks to its Ooty-like climate in the otherwise arid region. “We are trying to cash in on its proximity to Bengaluru,” said M. Giridhar Reddy, who took over as AP Tourism Divisional Manager (Tirupati) on Tuesday. The corporation has launched two travel packages from Tirupati viz., Srikalahasti and local temples (Rs. 250 and Rs. 350 for non-AC and AC buses) and Kanipakam and local temples (Rs. 300 and Rs. 450), which are much cheaper compared to private taxi fare. The buses are sanitised after every trip. “We are catering to the increased tourist footfall by maintaining the sanitisation measures and are leaving nothing to chance,” he added. One can call 98480 07033 or 0877-2289123 for package details. Haritha Srinivasam The corporation formally launched its ‘Haritha Srinivasam’ hotel atop Tirumala hills (near SV Museum) in November, but it fell short of making a mark, thanks to COVID-19. “Our hotel is affordable and has more facilities compared to private hotels,” said Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-tourism-focusses-on-major-revenue-earners/article33341175.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD conducts ritual to tide over COVID-induced financial crisis||Even as the world is trying to wriggle out of the financial crisis triggered by the COVID pandemic, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Tuesday performed a ritual for everyone’s well-being. The ritual, ‘Dhanaprada Sri Maha Vishnu Yagam’, which is believed to ward off misfortune and bestow wealth to mankind, was held on the TTD-run Sri Venkateswara Vedic University (SVVU) campus. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy participated in the special ritual along with and other senior officials. “Even Tirumala temple remained closed for three months due to the impact of COVID-19 and had to face a financial crisis of its own,” Dr. Jawahar Reddy recalled. “The Yagam finds mention in Narada Purana, narrated by sage Sanatana Maharshi to Narada”, said SVVU Vice-Chancellor Sannidhanam Sudarsana Sharma. ‘Tulasi Bilwa Kamala Dalarchanam’ (offering of bael, basil leaves and lotus flowers) was performed amid chanting of hymns as part of the event to the deities of Sri Venkateswara and His consorts Sridevi and Bhudevi. Lord Vishnu and Lord Siva are worshipped with Tulasi and Bilwa leaves respectively, but it is only in this auspicious month of ‘Dhanurmasam’ starting Tuesday that both the leaves are offered to Maha Vishnu, observed Dr. Sudarsana Sharma, calling it yet another significance of the event. Priests chanted Sri Venkateswara Dasa Nama Stotram and Sri Venkateswara Mahishi Mahalakshmi Stotram on the occasion. Ever since COVID started spreading across the world, the TTD started organising spiritual programmes like Parayanam (recitation) of Sundarakanda, Dhanwantari Mahamantra, Yoga Vasishtyam, Bhagavadgita, Virata Parvam among others. Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer O. Balaji, Chief Accounts Officer Sesha Sailendra, Devasthanam Educational Officer Ramana Prasad, SVBC Chief Executive Officer Suresh Kumar and Vedic scholar Pavanakumar Sharma and faculty and students participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-conducts-ritual-to-tide-over-crisis-induced-by-covid/article33341721.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Explain to people about welfare agenda of Congress: Tulasi Reddy||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) working president N. Thulasi Reddy formally launched the State-level training classes for the Youth Congress here on Tuesday, by garlanding the portrait of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in the presence of AICC Secretaries Meiyappan, Christopher, State general secretary D. Rambhupal Reddy, AICC member K.Prameelamma and APYC President Rakesh Reddy. Mr. Reddy said he believed in the power of youth to usher in change in the country. “The Youth Congress members should shoulder the responsibility of shattering the myths of BJP, TDP and YSR Congress and reinvigorate people’s hopes on the party,” he said. The aura built around the ruling dispensation at the Centre and in the State had been shattered by the spate of anti-people activities in the last one year. “It is the responsibility of young ambassadors like you to disseminate the information among the public and explain to them the welfare agenda of the Congress,” Mr. Tulasi Reddy noted. Training in-charge Sitaram Lamba, Moinuddin, Naushad, National Youth Congress Secretary Swetha were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-launches-training-classes-for-party-youth/article33341787.ece
16 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVVU takes measures to root out foot rot disease||Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University (SVVU), Tirupati, has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with Hyderabad-based Indian Immunological Limited (IIL) towards transfer of technology for production of trivalent vaccine on a commercial scale. SVVU has not only done extensive research work on ‘Foot rot disease’ caused by Dichelobacter nodosus bacteria, but has also developed the protocol for developing the vaccine at the laboratory-level. The MoU was signed by the varsity’s Registrar T. Madhava Rao and IIL Managing Director Anand Kumar, in the presence of Vice-Chancellor V. Padmanabha Reddy, Director of Research P.Eswara Prasad and IIL R&D head Rajendra. Foot rot, a highly contagious disease observed in ruminants, especially sheep and goats, is characterised by an exudative inflammation followed by necrosis of the epidermal tissues of the skin and hoof matrix. The animal affected by this disease exhibits lameness, loss of body condition, reduced wool and meat production and decreased fertility. The globally-distributed disease has been reported from Australia, Britain, Canada, Denmark, France, India, Malaysia, Nepal, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain and the United States. In India, foot rot is prevalent in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, though the first confirmed outbreak was in Jammu and Kashmir. The vaccine will benefit lakhs of farmers in the country as the prevalence of the disease is pegged at 15-16% of sheep and goat population with mortality rate of around 3%. Administering the vaccine will also augment the productivity of the ruminant population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svvu-takes-measures-to-root-out-foot-rot-disease/article33341804.ece
16 December 2020||TUNI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Sujala Sravanthi project report sent for judicial panel’s review||The Polavaram Irrigation Project Left Main Canal Circle (PIPLMC - Tuni) has sent the final project report to the Judicial Preview Commission for its approval to invite tenders for the Rs. 5,134.50-crore Babu Jagjivan Ram Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi project (Stage II). Three stages It consists of construction of the Papayyapalem Lift Irrigation scheme (Package II) in Visakhapatnam district, formation of main canal from 40 km to 102 km in the the north Andhra Pradesh region. Administrative sanction had been given in 2009 for the Rs. 7,214-crore project designed to be complete in three stages. It was aimed at irrigating eight lakh acres of land in the upland areas in the north Andhra Pradesh region that comprised of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts It was also aimed at providing water for the industries and drinking water to 1,200 villages covering 30 lakh population in the region. Of the total ayucut of eight lakh acres, 3.94 lakh acres would be irrigated in Vizianagaram district, 3.21 lakh acres in Visakhapatnam, and 85,000 acres in Srikakulam district. It was designed to draw 63.2 tmcft of flood waters from the Godavari through the Polavaram Left Main Canal to realise the goals of the project through four reservoirs and two lift schemes, which included the Papayyapalem facility. “We have submitted the final report of the project that is estimated to cost Rs. 5,134.50 crore to the Judicial Preview Commission for its approval for inviting tenders. The project includes detailed investigation, formation of main canal from KM 40 to 102, formation of branch canals and distributary network, and Package II,” B.S.S. Srinivasa Yadav, PIPLMC-Tuni Circle Superintendent Engineer, told The Hindu . Tenders The estimated cost of the Ramayyapalem lift scheme, including allied component works, alone is Rs. 3,080 crore. “The final cost and works are being reviewed by the Judicial Preview Commission and the related documents are available on the commission’s website (https://judicialpreview.ap.gov.in/). The contractors, prospective bidders, academicians and public can raise objection if any on the project details and cost, and submit their suggestions till December 22. The tenders will be invited after the project is approved by the commission,” said Mr. Srinivasa Yadav. The commission’s approval was made mandatory for any public project costing above Rs. 100 crore to ensure transparency in the tendering exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sujala-sravanthi-project-report-sent-for-judicial-panels-review/article33341797.ece
16 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more succumb to virus||The State witnessed five more COVID-19 deaths and 500 new infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. While the death toll increased to 7,064, the infection tally reached 8,76,336. The mortality and recovery rates remained at 0.81% and 98.66% respectively. As many as 563 patients recovered during the period, pushing the total number of recoveries to 8,64,612 and leaving only 4,660 patients under treatment at various hospitals and in home isolation. The five deaths were reported in Krishna (2) and Chittoor, Guntur and Nellore (one each). The positivity rate of the 61,452 samples tested in the last one day was 0.81%, and the overall positivity rate of the 1.09 crore samples tested was 8.01%. The tests per million ratio further increased to 2,04,820. While all the districts reported less than one hundred new infections, Chittoor topped among them with 88 cases. It was followed by Krishna (77), West Godavari (63), Guntur (55), East Godavari (47), Kadapa (34), Prakasam (26), Nellore (22), Srikakulam (21), Visakhpatnam (20), Anantapur (19), Vizianagaram (19) and Kurnool (9). The overall tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,23,063), West Godavari (93,460), Chittoor (84,977), Guntur (74,023), Anantapur (67,033), Nellore (61,831), Prakasam (61,830), Kurnool (60,425), Visakhapatnam (58,675), Kadapa (54,687), Krishna (46,798), Srikakulam (45,744) and Vizianagaram (40,895).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-more-succumb-to-virus/article33341790.ece
16 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP misleading teachers on transfers, says Minister||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday accused Telugu Desam Party leaders of misleading teachers on their transfer issue. He said unlike in the TDP rule when the entire exercise of teacher transfers was replete with irregularities, complete transparency was maintained in the ongoing teacher transfer process. Referring to the blocking of vacant posts, the Minister said it was a usual practice. “We are not hiding anything. Details of the blocked vacant posts is being made public,” he said, informing that 16,008 vacant posts had been blocked in four categories. A total of 32,889 vacant posts were available to teachers to exercise their options for transfers. He said the issue had been discussed with various teacher organisations and their suggestions had been taken into consideration. Financial aid Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will distribute the financial assistance to the beneficiaries of Jagananna Amma Vodi on January 9, said Mr. Suresh, adding that the list of beneficiaries would be displayed on Wednesday (December 16) in village and ward secretariats. He said in the first phase, more than 43,54,600 beneficiaries were paid a sum of Rs. 6.336 crore. The objective of the programme was to enable the economically weaker sections also to educate their children. The State would deposit Rs. 15,000 per annum in the bank account of the mother who sends her children to school, he said. Assuring that the whole exercise was being carried out in a transparent way, the Minister said the list of beneficiaries for the second phase of the programme was ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-misleading-teachers-on-transfers-says-minister/article33341801.ece
16 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Global meet on fluid dynamics concludes||Fluid dynamics is changing our world, says R. Paneer Selvam from the University of Arkansas, USA. He went on to highlight the important challenges a fluid dynamic researcher has to counter in future for advancements in this area. He was addressing the valedictory session of a three-day international conference in the area of Applications of Fluid Dynamics (ICAFD)- 2020, organised by the VIT-AP University, in virtual mode. It was the fifth international conference in a series to establish an international forum and bring on a common platform the scientists, engineers and industrial experts to highlight the latest developments in the areas of applied mathematics and mechnanics, discuss threadbare the path-breaking developments and find a way forward. The conference was a result of long collaborative efforts between the School of Mechanical Engineering, VIT-AP and the Department of Mechanical Engineering Science, University of Johannesburg, South Africa. Resource persons from the US, Australia, UAE, Singapor and South Africa and institutions like IIT, NIT, VIT and Central Universities in the country shared their views. Chairperson of the conference Pankaj Tambe said that of the 175 participants, 25 of the 100 delegates who presented papers, were from countries like the US, Canada, South Africa, Kenya, Nigeria, Malaysia, UAE, Singapore, West Indies, and Australia. VIT Chancellor G. Viswanathan, co-chair and convenor of the conference S. Srinivas, Registrar C.L.V. Sivakumar and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/global-meet-on-fluid-dynamics-concludes/article33341885.ece
16 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BC corpn. chairpersons to be sworn in tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will take part in the swearing-in ceremony of BC corporation chairpersons and members on December 17 at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium in the city, said BC Welfare minister Ch. Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna. Mr. Krishna along with BC Welfare Department Principal Secretary K. Praveen Kumar, Secretary B. Ramarao, CM’s programme coordinator T. Raghuram and Collector A.Md. Imtiaz inspected the stadium premises on Tuesday. Mr. Krishna said that for the first time representatives of 139 BC communities would be brought under one roof, and Mr. Jagan would attend the programme to witness all of them taking oath of office. Mr. Imtiaz said the programme named “BCs Sankranti” would begin at 10 a.m. and end in two hours. He said all arrangements in compliance with COVID protocols were being made and each chairperson would be given 10 passes and each director would be given four passes for the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bc-corpn-chairpersons-to-be-sworn-in-tomorrow/article33341792.ece
16 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP alleges fake agitation favouring three capitals||TDP general secretary P. Anuradha has accused the YSRCP MLAs of sponsoring a fake agitation in favour of the three Capitals. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Ms. Anuradha said that the ruling party leaders brought the three- capital plan to the fore only to divert the attention of the people from their corrupt deeds. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s plan affected not only Amaravati but also the entire State, she said. The decision sounded a death knell on Amaravati, which had the potential to create a golden future for the people, she said. “The government has been persecuting the women agitators for the last one year,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-alleges-fake-agitation-favouring-three-capitals/article33341802.ece
16 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu pays tribute to Potti Sriramulu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday paid rich tributes to Amarajeevi Potti Sriramulu on the occasion of his death anniversary. Mr. Naidu recalled how Potti Sriramulu had fought against injustice meted out to the Telugu people prior to the formation of Andhra State. He called upon the people in the State to follow in the footsteps of Potti Sriramulu and prepare to make any sacrifice in the agitation against what he called the ‘atrocious’ YSR Congress Party regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-pays-tribute-to-potti-sriramulu/article33341176.ece
16 December 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP Police bags second rank at national meet||The Andhra Pradesh Police Department stood second in the implementation of Inter Operable Criminal Justice System (ICJS). The award was presented by the Central government. Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang received the award from Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy through a virtual meeting on Tuesday. While Maharashtra stood top, Telangana occupied the third place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-police-bags-second-rank-at-national-meet/article33341886.ece
16 December 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP launches ‘anti-drug’ drive, releases posters||Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang flagged off the ‘Anti Drug Drive’ through webinar, and released the posters at the AP Police Headquarters on Tuesday. As part of the programme, the police would take out rallies, organise sensitisation programmes and take up enforcement drives up to December 22, Mr. Sawang told mediapersons. Additional DG (CID) P.V. Sunil Kumar and DIGs Sunil Kumar Naik and Hari Krishna, and other officers participated. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP-2) Vikrant Patil, DCP-1 V. Harshavardhan Raju and DCP (Administration) Mary Prasanthi participated in the rally that was simultaneously organised in Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-launches-anti-drug-drive-releases-posters/article33341887.ece
16 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Test price slashed to Rs. 499||The State government has revised and reduced the price for COVID-19 testing at private labs approved by NABL and ICMR to Rs. 499 for citizens per kit. The price for the samples sent by the government has been fixed at Rs. 475. The price charged by the private labs will include the cost of testing, Viral Transport Media (VTM) and PPE, according to a GO issued by Principal Secretary, Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department, Anil Kumar Singhal on Tuesday. The previous price fixed by the government after the revision was Rs. 1,000 for citizens and Rs. 800 for the government per test. The price has been reduced considering the availability of testing kits widely in the market and also as more firms began manufacturing RNA extraction kits and RT-PCR kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/test-price-slashed-to-rs-499/article33341791.ece
16 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) leader placed under house arrest||CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao and others were placed under house arrest on Tuesday as a preventive measure in view of the construction workers’ agitation. “Construction workers have lost their livelihood due to sand scarcity. They are committing suicide. The government has promised to pay them Rs. 10,000, but failed to do so. A sum of Rs. 42,000 crore is laying in the welfare fund in the country. About Rs. 1,500 crore is lying with the State. But not a penny is spent on their welfare,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-leader-placed-under-house-arrest/article33341799.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anti-Maoist sentiments rise after villager’s killing||On the night of December 13, at around 11.30 p.m., when 20 fully-armed PLGA (People’s Liberation Guerilla Army) members of Pedabayalu and Korukonda area committee of the CPI (Maoist) trooped into Vakapalli village in G. Madugula mandal in Visakha Agency and dragged Gemmili Krishna Rao (32) by his hair out of his house, the calm of the sleepy little village was broken by the piercing shrieks of his wife Sirso (25). Carrying a toddler in her arms and with two other little children in tow, the woman pleaded with the ultras to at least ensure that her husband, who was being accused by the Maoists of being a police informer, was tried by a ‘Praja Court’ first. However, her pleas fell on deaf ears as the Maoists dragged her husband to the village outskirts and hacked him to death in front of his wife and other villagers. The manner of Krishna Rao’s execution was different from the Maoists’ usual practice of shooting their victims at point-blank range. Police officials say this could be because the sound of a gunshot would have alerted police parties patrolling nearby, especially with the Nurmati Armed Police Outpost less than 3 km away. Background Tribals being killed by Maoists after being branded police informers has been a common tactic employed by the Left-Wing Extremists in Visakha Agency. Though this is the first such killing this year, they had killed five tribals last year, and in the last 15 years, over 60 tribals were killed. The Vakapalli killing, however, appears to have a very strong motive. This village was once the stronghold of the Maoists and had produced many hardcore cadres, including Pangi Daya, who was killed in an exchange of fire at Digujanaba under Annavaram police station limits, last July. But after the establishment of the AOP at Nurmati and laying a connecting road that touches the village, things began to change. The district police organised a mega community lunch and a two-day volleyball festival last year. It was during this festival that the villagers had approached the police asking for clean potable drinking water. Police, with the help of CSR funds from some industries, set up a few water purifiers with a capacity of 1,000 litres. “For the first time in decades, no one fell sick this year during the monsoon and winter, as we now have clean drinking water,” said a tribal from the village. Changing trend Moreover, ever since road connectivity was established a couple of years ago, youth from the village have taken up education and one youth has been enrolled at a private engineering college. Many have also got jobs in the plains, locals said. With the development, the tribals have slowly started to join the mainstream and the tide is turning towards the administration, including towards the police. “This has not gone down well with the Maoists, and the killing appears to be a ploy to create a fear psychosis among the villagers. This has been a common counter-offensive measure of the Maoists, wherever and whenever they feel threatened,” said Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. For the Maoists, Vakapalli is of strategic importance as this is where 11 Adivasi women were allegedly gang-raped by a team of AP Special Police on August 20, 2007. And in the letter, written by Maoists, which was found at the crime scene, they claimed that the deceased was trying to dilute the gang-rape case by threatening victims and witnesses. It may be remembered that two tribals were killed when they stepped on a landmine allegedly planted by Maoists near Chintalaveedhi village in Jamiguda panchayat of Pedabayalu mandal, in August this year. According to the SP, due to such violence, resentment against the Maoist has been growing across Visakha Agency, except for a few pockets in the cut-off region in the mandals of Pedabayalu, Munchingput and Chintapalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anti-maoist-sentiments-rise-after-villagers-killing/article33341806.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Margasira Masotsavam gets off to a colourful start||Margasira Masotsavam at Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi Temple at Burujupeta in the Old Town area got off to a colourful start amid religious fervour. The number of devotees for the darshan was also limited keeping in view the COVID-19 situation. The officials allowed only devotees who had booked ‘darshan’ slot on the first day of the auspicious festival and also ensured that people do not enter the queue lines without masks. Visakhapatnam (South) MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar inaugurated the festival by lighting a lamp at 10.10 a.m. Earlier, the presiding deity was offered special prayers by the priests. People barely maintained distance in the queue line. Officials reminded some devotees to properly wear masks. They made elaborate arrangements right from queue lines to decoration and illumination. “Every year, we come here on the first day of the Utsavam. Though we had a good darshan, I am a bit disappointed, as the devotees were not allowed to offer milk, flowers and others puja items directly to the deity, which we usually do. The arrangements were also good,” said M. Sujatha, a resident of MVP Colony. Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi said that ‘Swarna Pushpa archana’ with 108 flowers made of gold was conducted at 7 a.m. apart from other special prayers. She said that advance slots need to be booked for all the darshan tickets, including free ones. “We are only allowing devotees with advance slot slips. The demand for the slips is steadily rising,” she said. Huge police force was deployed to maintain law and order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/margasira-masotsavam-gets-off-to-a-colourful-start/article33341901.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||60 kg ganja seized||Officials from Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested two persons Sufal Jha (21) and Ansu Jha (19) of West Bengal and took one juvenile into their custody, while they allegedly procured 60 kg ganja and trying to shift it to other places, here on Tuesday. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (SEB- Visakhapatnam City) V. Ajitha said that Sufal and Ansu are natives of West Bengal, while the juvenile is from Bihar. In another case, the Special Branch teams as well as local police conducted raids at three houses and arrested three persons and found banned ghutka, pan masala and other chewing tobacco products worth Rs. 1.15 lakh. The seized products were sent to lab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/60-kg-ganja-seized/article33341830.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rural police condemn killing of tribal by Maoists||The district police condemned the killing of tribal Gemmeli Krishna Rao by the banned CPI (M) Maoists, after branding him as a police informer. The police alleged that the incident should be an eye-opener for the tribals that the Maoists are against them. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Paderu Sub-division) B. Raj Kamal said that after Armed Outpost was set up at Nurmati, tribals were getting closer to the police personnel. Local youth have not only started to involve in development programmes, but also questioning the Maoists. Unable to bear this and due to fear of losing grip on Vakapalle, the extremists have eliminated Krishna Rao, who was one of the youth to question the Maoist atrocities. To get rid of him they branded him as a police informer, he said. The DSP also appealed to the tribals not to believe the Maoists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rural-police-condemn-killing-of-tribal-by-maoists/article33341892.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for house site distribution programme, Minister tells officials||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao along with District Collector V. Vinay Chand conducted a review meet with officials from various departments on the house site distribution programme scheduled to be held on December 25. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao asked the officials to ensure all the beneficiaries are included. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will start the programme on December 25 and the local MLAs will take it forward in all the constituencies,” the Minister said. Mr. Vinay Chand said that they have arranged 900 layouts for the distribution of house site pattas. In the first phase of distribution, 1,16,357 pattas in rural areas, 26,438 TIDCO houses and 50,000 houses from VMRDA limits were sanctioned. He said that special officers were appointed for every constituency to look after the programme. MLAs Adeep Raju, Gudivada Amarnath, T. Nagi Reddy, Karanam Dharmasri, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-for-house-site-distribution-programme-minister-tells-officials/article33341899.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists condemn ‘encounter deaths’||The CPI (Maoist)’s Malkangiri Divisional Committee secretary Kailasam alleged that Maoist cadres Mallesh and Santhamma were killed in fake encounters on December 13, by the Odisha Police. In an audio clip released here on Tuesday, he alleged that both Mallesh and Santhamma were arrested by members of the Special Operations Group (SOG) and DVF (District Voluntary Force) of Odisha and BSF, and were tortured and killed in cold blood. He also alleged that two more cadres are in the custody of the SOG. The Maoist leader claimed that the Centre and the State government were establishing camps and armed outposts in the tribal areas, to the disadvantage of the adivasis. He also alleged that Maoist leader Kishore, who was allegedly killed during an exchange of fire on November 26, with security forces at Jantri forest in Odisha’s Malkangiri district, was also captured and killed in cold blood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-condemn-encounter-deaths/article33341291.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M): scrap G.O. 89 on bauxite mining||CPI(M) district secretary K. Lokanadham on Tuesday urged the State government to do away with G.O. 89 it issued on December 9 on bauxite mining. In a statement released here on Tuesday, Mr. Lokanadham also demanded cancellation of a six- member committee constituted on bauxite mining in the district. He said the committee was formed to suggest options for facilitating the supply of bauxite ore to the ANRAK refinery project and to chalk out possibilities of operating ANRAK Refinery Project. Mr. Lokanadham said any move to launch bauxite mining will be resisted as bauxite mining will affect the environment in the agency area. He said there were agitations earlier against bauxite mining and bowing to agitations the then governments went back on mining. The YSRCP government after coming to power cancelled the GO 97 but it was now trying to restart mining so as to benefit the ANRAK company, he alleged. He said that the previous TDP government had suggested to the Centre that private companies are not to be allowed to mine in the scheduled areas as per the AP Government’s Land Transfer Regulation Act 1 of 1970 or popularly known as 1/70 Act. CAG had also found fault with an agreement reached with Ras-Al-Khaimah, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-scrap-go-89-on-bauxite-mining/article33341905.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 20 new cases||No COVID-19 deaths were reported for the third day in a row in Visakhapatnam district. This scenario happened for the second time this month. The death toll stands at 516. The bulletin said that as many as 20 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 59,187, on Tuesday night. Twenty-one persons undergoing treatment for the coronavirus have recovered in the same period. The active cases and recoveries were 215 and 58,456 respectively, as on Tuesday. Out of the total active cases, about 100 patients are being treated in hospitals while the rest have availed option of home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-20-new-cases/article33341903.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed||A rare case of Chorioangioma of the placenta insertion of cord, presented in the 12th week of pregnancy, was treated in a 25-year-old woman, and the baby was successfully delivered at MediCover Hospitals here. The patient expressed gratitude for the care, planning, and timely intervention by the teamwork of Medicover gynaecologist B. Sowdamini, fetal medicine specialist Madhuri and neonatologist Sai Sunil Kishore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delicate-surgery-performed/article33341891.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PKS State joint secretary arrested||The district police on Tuesday arrested A. Annapurna alias Anita, State joint secretary of Pragathisheela Karmika Samakhya (PKS), for her alleged links with the CPI (Maoists). A few weeks ago, the police arrested one Pangi Naganna of Pedabayalu and Guntur Police had arrested one K. Chaitanya, for their links with the Maoists. In the FIRs, both had allegedly mentioned the name of Annapurna and her alleged links with the party leaders. According to Narsipatnam OSD Satish Kumar, the PKS joint secretary was arrested under various sections, including UAPA, and will be sent in remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pks-state-joint-secretary-arrested/article33341831.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Burglars decamp with ornaments worth Rs. 13 lakh||Unidentified persons allegedly made good with about 45 tolas of gold ornaments, one-and-a-half kg silver from a house at 80-foot road at Akkayyapalem area under the IV Town police station limits here on Monday evening. The incident came to light after police registered a case on Monday night based on a complaint from the inmates. According to police, J. Bangarraju, who runs a general store, left to the shop along with his wife at around 5.30 p.m. on Monday by locking the house. When they returned home at around 9.30 p.m., they found that the lock was broken. They realised that unidentified persons broke in and made good with gold and silver ornaments, all worth about Rs. 13 lakh, from the almirah. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu and officials from the crime wing have inspected the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/burglars-decamp-with-ornaments-worth-rs-13-lakh/article33341896.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division to organise adalat on compassionate appointments on Dec. 29||An Adalat will be held by the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) to take up grievances about their pending compassionate appointment cases, at the office of the Senior Divisional Personnel Officer at the DRM Office complex, at Dondaparthi from 11 a.m. on December 29. For details like application format, documents to be enclosed please visitwww.eastcoastrail. indianrailways.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-to-organise-adalat-on-compassionate-appointments-on-dec-29/article33341893.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop on ‘Scour and Erosion’ today||International Society for Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering (ISSMGE) and Indian Geotechnical Society (IGS) in association with Department of Civil Engineering, Andhra University College of Engineering, Visakhapatnam, are organising an international workshop on ‘Scour and Erosion’ in online mode on December 16. AU Vice-Chancellor P. V. G. D. Prasad Reddy will inaugurate the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-on-scour-and-erosion-today/article33341897.ece
16 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held on charge of duping youth||The Gajuwaka police arrested one K. Nageswara Rao for allegedly duping a number of youth by collecting money after promising to provide jobs in railways, here on Tuesday. After being ignored by the accused for some time, the youth realised that they were cheated and approached police. The accused had reportedly collected Rs. 6 lakh from the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-on-charge-of-duping-youth/article33341904.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Early bird catches the worm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/early-bird-catches-the-worm/article33341833.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Showing solidarity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/showing-solidarity/article33341908.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hungry bite||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hungry-bite/article33341884.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enduring tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enduring-tradition/article33341178.ece
16 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||3-day volleyball tourney begins in Agency area||A three-day mandal-level volleyball tournament for tribal youth, being organised by the Charla police, began in the mandal headquarters town of Charla on Tuesday. The tournament was inaugurated by Bhadrachalam Assistant Superintendent of Police G Vineeth. The police embarked on the people-friendly policing initiative to promote sports among tribal youth of the Agency mandal to build bonds through sports, police sources said. Adivasi youth from different corners of the border mandal in Telangana’s tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam Agency thronged the venue to exhibit their sporting talent at the mandal level tourney. Several teams comprising a total of 200 players are participating in the tournament. The police planned another sports tournament in Dummugudem mandal of Bhadrachalam Agency, which shares a long border with Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar division, the hotbed of Maoist activity, soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-day-volleyball-tourney-begins-in-agency-area/article33341727.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Photo ID must for COVID-19 vaccination||The procedure for receiving COVID-19 vaccination dose in phase-I will be similar to the kind followed for voting in elections. Those on the priority list of the immunisation drive will have to furnish a photo identity card before entering the vaccination booth. Before the vaccination, those on the list will receive a text message on their registered phone numbers with details about the location of the vaccination centre, the time slot and and identity of the vaccinator. Most of the vaccination centres will be hospitals. After reaching the centre, they have to show any one of the nine government-issued photo ID cards as proof of identity. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said four groups will be immunised in the first phase — healthcare workers, frontline workers such as municipal and sanitation workers, people above the age of 50 years irrespective of their medical condition and people under 50 years with co-morbidities. There are 80 lakh people in the four groups, whose information will be fed into CO-WIN software. Information in the software will serve the same function as electoral rolls. A three-step procedure is to be at the vaccination centre. After one’s identity is verified, he/she will be administered a dose in the vaccine booth. Thereafter, the vaccine receiver’s condition will be monitored by medical staff for half hour in the observation room. A vaccine receiver can go home if there are no Adverse Effects Following Immunisation (AEFI). Dr Srinivasa Rao said that the medical staff present at the booth will attend minor issues. “In case of serious reaction, the person will be shifted to a major hospital,” he said. Ambulances would be placed in strategic locations. Hospitals to attend AEFI cases have been identified. Asked when those not included in phase-I will receive the vaccine, Dr Srinivasa Rao said directions for that are yet to be issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/photo-id-must-for-covid-19-vaccination/article33341689.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lake in Alwal dies a slow death||Lakes turning violent against the encroaching residents was the dominant narrative during October floods which played havoc with the lives of city residents. A few lakes, however, exacted their revenge by remaining stoical! Stench and sludge is all that remains of the Chinnarayauni Cheruvu in Alwal, even after the tumultuous floods that washed away stagnation in several other lakes. Notwithstanding the tall promises made by leaders and government officials one after the other, there is little change in the status quo with regard to the lake, which continues to make life miserable for the teeming residential colonies surrounding it. Anand Rao Nagar, Janaki Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Bheem Rao Nagar, MES Colony, Sai Nagar, Dinakar Nagar, Ram Nagar and Temple Alwal are a few of the several localities which are bearing the brunt of the sewage-filled lake.  Notified Chinnarayauni Cheruvu, also known as Old Alwal Cheruvu, was notified by HMDA in 2016, three years after it was surveyed and FTL boundaries were marked. By then, however, several structures rose, within the full tank level of the lake and also blocking the inlet channels, reducing its capacity to receive and hold flood water. As a result, the lake had not received much inflow even while the whole city was drowning during heavy rains in October this year. Instead, the colonies upstream received the brunt, as the surplus water from the Alwal Cheruvu which ought to have found its way to this lake, drowned colonies such as Srinivasa Nagar enroute. The lake remains receptacle of sewage from all the surrounding localities, which has resulted in stagnant water thick with stench, sludge and pollution. Weed growth has occupied a large portion of the lake, making it a breeding hub of mosquitoes. “The lake stinks, and we have the chronic scourge of mosquitoes too. It has become unbearable and several petitions to the government, legislator, GHMC Commissioner, and corporator have remained futile,” says N.S.Srinivasa Rao, resident of MES Colony. Madhukar Mane, secretary of the MES Colony Welfare Association, who has stayed here for the previous 40 years, remembers the lake as huge. It had a sprawl of 28 to 30 acres, before it was encroached upon. Now, it has been reduced to about 13 to 14 acres, he says. “We have seen three municipal commissioners promising lake development, but nothing has been done so far,” Mr.Madhukar says. Two and a half years ago, Rs. 1.25 crore was sanctioned for the lake’s development under the Urban Mission Kakatiya programme, but nothing was done except removal of water hyacinth weed. The funds proved to have been ill spent, with the weed growing back in no time. “Big promises of establishing sewage treatment plant have never been fulfilled. They could have simply diverted the sewage, which was not done,” Mr.Madhukar says. The welfare association has undertaken lake cleaning operations six to seven times, and removed plastic and other waste from it, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lake-in-alwal-dies-a-slow-death/article33341290.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Teething problems affect registration process||Claims of the State government on hassle-free registrations notwithstanding, resumption of transactions of non-agricultural lands encountered several teething problems that refuse to subside. While several interested parties lamented that they could not book slots after repeated attempts, questions are being raised on the government’s insistence on entering the Telangana Property Identification Number (TPIN) or Property Tax Identification Number (PTIN). Confusion prevails over the methodology through which PTIN should be generated as a section of officials assert that the number could be generated from the Citizens Login window in the registration portal while some others said that they should be obtained by submission of applications to the local bodies concerned. Though the government announced that people without PTIN can apply to the respective local bodies assuring that they would be given the same within two days, buyers/sellers are expressing concern that such instructions were yet to reach the local bodies concerned. Buyers/sellers are also complaining that the portal was not accepting names of multiple buyers/sellers and this was leading to problems in transactions pertaining to group housing and apartment registrations. A section of real estate dealers staged protest at the Uppal sub registrar office demanding that the government revert to the old system (Computer Aided Registration of Documents) for speedy registration of properties. Representatives of the Builders’ Associations are wondering how the government had introduced new system while submitting to the High Court that old system of registrations would be followed. The government introduced the new system with good intentions. But, it should give some time for resolution of the problems and ensuring its effective implementation, representatives of builders’ associations said. Cabinet sub-committee chairman Vemula Prashanth Reddy however said that steps had been taken to allow registration with multiple names and the complaint had been adequately addressed. On the other grievances, he said necessary changes in the software had been made to allow registration through the deeds prepared by buyers/sellers not just confining to the templates that were hosted on the portal. Teething problems were bound to crop up whenever a new system was introduced and the government was committed to resolve these issues in the coming few days for ensuring registration of properties in a seamless manner, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teething-problems-hamper-process/article33341719.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Science and tech key to self-reliance’||Science & technology has a significant role to play in achieving the aim of self-reliant India with the Central government, too, according it priority. CSIR scientists, in particular, have been playing a key role not only in combating COVID-19 but also in space research, development of indelible ink, drugs, pheromone application technology and White Revolution, said M. Chandrasekharam, senior principal scientist, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) on Tuesday. Delivering the keynote address of the webinar on ‘Globalisation-self reliant India - The need, the transformation and the way forward’ organised by the Press Information Bureau and the Regional Outreach Bureau of the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, he said scientists and researchers are playing their role in making India self-reliant in all fields. CSIR contributions towards ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ also includes development of PPE kits, ventilators, sanitisers, testing, repurposing of drugs like Favipiravir, Remdesvir etc. The paper-based diagnostic technology ‘Feluda’ has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India, he pointed out. CSIR-IICT had also developed technology for non-clinical masks under a project funded by Cipla Foundation for distribution of one lakh masks to the under-privileged sections to prevent spread of the disease, he pointed out. “India is no longer only a ‘consumer of knowledge’ adopting all best practices developed in other countries and but has now emerged as producer of knowledge,” Dr. Chandrasekharam added. Precursor to IISCF The webinar is being organised as a pre-cursor to the India International Science Festival (IISCF)-2020 from December 22-25, said PIB director Shruti Patil. ROB assistant director M. Krishnakanth also spoke. Students, officers and staff of various media units of the I&BMinistry, scientists and researchers from IICT participated, a press release said.  India is no longer only a ‘consumer of knowledge’ adopting all best practices developed in other countries and but has emerged as producer of knowledge. M. Chandrasekharam, Senior principal scientist, IICT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/science-and-tech-key-to-self-reliance/article33341697.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister inspects lakes||Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali, along with Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan and legislator B.Subash Reddy, on Tuesday inspected two lakes in the Uppal Assembly constituency. The Ramantapur Pedda Cheruvu and Kapra Cheruvu were being inspected as part of the Strategic Nala Development Programme for widening of the storm water drains, Mr.Mahmood Ali said. Mr.Ram Mohan said about 30 to 40 hot spots were identified in the city, where inundation had taken place due to encroachment of nalas. Later, he conducted a review meeting on the developmental works in the constituency. A statement from GHMC informed, that the Mayor had also conducted a review meeting on the modernisation of 17 garbage transfer stations in the city. So far, works pertaining to seven transfer stations have been completed, including the ones at Imliban, Kaitalapur, Sanjeevaiah Park, Mallapur, Amberpet, and Katedan. Of these, the stations at Sanjeevaiah Park, Mallapur, Katedan and Amberpet have started functioning with full capacity, he informed. Mr.Ram Mohan said the city has been sanctioned 650 more Swachh Autos with enhanced capacity, of which 150 autos with 4.5 tonne capacity are going to arrive soon.   Each zone will receive 25 of these vehicles, for use in the commercial areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-inspects-lakes/article33341707.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR’s Delhi visit had political agenda: Jagga Reddy||Congress party has accused Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) of conspiring together to decimate it (Congress) in Telangana and further their political interests. Speaking to newspersons here on Tuesday, Sangareddy legislator T. Jayaprakash (Jagga) Reddy said the three parties were working only for political gains while the Congress party alone was working towards resolving people’s problems. On Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s recent Delhi visit, he observed that his meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah had political connotations as Mr. Rao called on Mr. Shah in spite of no law and order problem in the State. Besides, State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar went to Delhi immediately after the Chief Minister’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, making it clear that there were political reasons behind the meet. Speaking to media in Delhi, Mr. Sanjay had repeatedly stated that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao would be put behind bars for large-scale corruption in his rule, Mr. Jagga Reddy said. The Congress leader sought to know from Mr. Sanjay by when Mr. Rao would be sent to jail, in case there was any truth behind his statement. He alleged that the tacit understanding between TRS and BJP. was proved time and again and that was the reason why they were fighting in the State and were friends at the Centre. The TRS had supported BJP on many occasions in Parliament, when the latter needed it most, Mr. Jagga Reddy pointed out.  Tuglaq act Meanwhile, in a statement, Congress MP from Bhongir Komatireddy Venkat Reddy termed the State government’s misadventure on the property registrations as a Tuglaq act. The registrations were stopped for three months and when they were resumed recently in a new system (Dharani), people were being put to hardships as it had too many technical glitches. The Congress MP demanded the that State government scrap the land regularisation scheme (LRS) since it had become a huge burden on people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcrs-delhi-visit-had-political-agenda/article33341715.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||491 new coronavirus cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded 491 COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total number of infections in the State to 2,78,599. While 48,005 samples were put to test, results of 587 were awaited. Three more COVID patients died on Monday. The new 491 cases include 102 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 35 from Rangareddy, 33 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 29 from Karimnagar and 28 from Warangal Urban. From March 2 till December 14, a total of 62,05,688 samples were put to test, leading to the detection of 2.78 lakh-plus positives. Of the total cases, 7,272 were active and 2,69,828 have recovered while the death toll stands at 1,499 as on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/491-new-coronavirus-cases-in-telangana/article33341691.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bandi poses questions to Chief Minister||Telangana BJP president and Member of Parliament from Karimnagar Bandi Sanjay Kumar questioned why Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao did not bother to meet or greet the protesting farmers in Delhi during his recent visit after participating in the ‘Bharat Bandh’ to shed “crocodile tears” for the farmers’ welfare on Tuesday. “Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao only wanted to divert the people’s attention from the BJP’s victorious performance in the GHMC polls. He is all fire and brimstone here but bows down in Delhi,” he ridiculed referring to the Chief Minister’s recent visit to the capital and meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP leader, addressing a training programme for cadre at Ghatkesar, underscored the need to ensure that citizens of Telangana should be enlightened that the party was not just an alternative to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) but was also sure to be elected to power in the next elections by defeating it. The cadre should accommodate various sections of society, including freedom fighters and intellectuals. “We should make every effort to bring all the aggreived sections in the KCR rule come to our side. There are going to be only two political fronts here, one pro-BJP and another anti-BJP which has TRS, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, Congress and even the Communist Parties in one block. This has become apparent during the recent bandh,” he maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-poses-questions-to-chief-minister/article33341716.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad man is World Quizzing champion||Ravi Avva, who hails from Hyderabad, has won the World Quizzing Champion (WQC)-2020. Presently, he lives in Singapore with his wife and two sons, where he works for Stryker, a multinational medical technology company. Mr. Ravi studied at Hyderabad Public School, I.I.T. Madras, I.I.M. Ahmedabad and Columbia University. He has been active in the quizzing circuit for the past 25 years, including topping the WQC standings in the Asia-Pacific region in 2018 and 2019. His favourite quizzing topics include sports (where he was placed second on the Brain of Football earlier this year), anything ancient, art and comics/graphic novels. He played for the Singapore Merlions in the Quizzing World Cup. He is the eldest son of A.P.V.N. Sarma, a former adviser to Governor of Telangana, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-man-is-world-quizzing-champion/article33341693.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Green’ award for RGIA||GMR-led Hyderabad International Airport has won the prestigious CII-Green Power Performance Excellence Awards 2020 in the ‘Ground Mounted Solar’ category. The award was virtually presented during an event organised by the Renewable Energy (RE) Council of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) – Godrej Green Business Centre recently. The award came as a recognition for the excellent initiatives taken by the airport in generating solar energy at its 5 MW solar plant. “This recognition reaffirms our commitment towards green energy. Reduce, reuse and recycle are the mantras when it comes to the conservation of natural resources,” said airport CEO Pradeep Panicker following receipt of the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-award-for-rgia/article33341695.ece
16 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cyber complaint on MLC voter data leak||A day after widespread reports of Member of Legislative Council voter data leak in Telangana, a cyber complaint about data breach has been filed by independent researcher Srinivas Kodali. He filed a complaint with the Election Commission of India. “There has been a data breach of MLC voter data either through a malicious cyber incident or administrative lapse or an BJP MLC has obtained this data using fraudulent means,” states the complaint. On Monday, a number of citizens who registered for the Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad graduates constituency of Telangana Legislative Council, received similar SMSes soliciting support for the candidate who is currently the BJP floor leader in the TSLC. One of the recipients of the message was surprised that the candidate got the information about his successful registration while he was waiting for official intimation. “Na information ela telsindi bayataki (How did my information come out)? Is it legal to know who all applied along with phone numbers,” wrote Navneeth Reddy on Twitter, tagging the message from the MLC. “This is a breach of privacy. I registered with the election commission expecting that the data will be secure and confidential. I didn’t expect it to end up with a party or an individual,” said another voter, who didn’t know his registration has been successful till he got the message from BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyber-complaint-on-mlc-voter-data-leak/article33341704.ece
16 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS-iPass to give push to State’s tourism||TS-iPass, which has helped catapult Telangana to one of the top states in the ease of doing business, is being deployed by the state to help its tourism sector. “We hope tourism gets the same kind of investment as industries got when we created the single window online process for approval,” said Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary, Industry and Commerce, who has been part of the initial confabulations with industry right from the beginning. TS-iPass was launched in 2014 and deployed in 2016 and has helped Telangana get about 14224 industries in the State. With tourism being added to the portal, the registration of hotels, resorts, service apartments, lodges, wayside amenities, convention centres and even tourism events will get the same online treatment. But can the State afford to give up the civic oversight when it involves food safety, fire safety and pollution norms for boosting tourism? “The safety norms are not being given the go-by. The online form has to be filled in full. The pollution certification and food safety certifications will be there but will be online,” said B. Manohar Rao, Managing Director of Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation. Last year, many city restaurants were sealed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation for not having in-house dry and wet waste disposal facilities. Some of them had to stay shut for a few days and were allowed to reopen only after showing the waste disposal machines installed in the premises. A chunk of food safety is already under the ambit of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (Fssai) limiting the role of the food inspectors of the civic body. “Even for renewals, travel and tourism entrepreneurs have to submit the online application with fewer columns than that the application,” said Mr. Rao. While a self-certification is part of the combined application form, the potential applicant has to fill in 55 columns ranging from latitude and longitude of the site to Aadhaar number to a sketch of the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-ipass-to-give-push-to-tourism/article33341705.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS hits back at BJP chief||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has criticised State president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Bandi Sanjay Kumar for questioning the motive behind Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s recent New Delhi visit. Government Whip Balka Suman and legislators C. Kranti Kiran, P. Rohith Reddy and M. Srinivas Reddy on Tuesday sought to know from Mr. Sanjay whether he was not aware why chief ministers go to the national capital and meet the functionaries of the Union government. Suggesting that he improve his awareness on the Centre-State relations in a federal system, the TRS leaders said the Chief Minister had visited Delhi only as part of such a relation. Asking Mr. Sanjay whether he was not aware as to what happened during the Chief Minister’s visit to Delhi, the TRS leaders said Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao went to Delhi to meet the functionaries on the Union government on the pending release of funds and devolution of tax receipts to the State from the Centre. “As a Member of Parliament, that too of the ruling party, Mr. Sanjay should be aware of every development that takes place at the Centre with regard to Telangana government,” they said. Mr. Suman suggested to the BJP MP to keep his tongue in control while criticising the political adversaries otherwise he too would face similar or worse music. The TRS leader said people would teach a fitting lesson to the BJP MP if he failed to mend his ways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-hits-back-at-bjp-chief/article33341713.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water for seven wettings in Yasangi under NSP ayacut||The irrigation authorities have released the water release schedule for the cultivation of Yasangi (rabi) crops in 2020-21 under Nagarjunasagar project (NSP). Water for seven wettings would be released in the on and off method from December 15 to April 13. According to the authorities of Nagarjunasagar project, a total of 55 tmc ft water would be released for the 6.3 lakh acres ayacut with the first wetting period stretching for 30 days between December 15 and January 13 and the requirement of water is assessed at 23.33 tmc ft at the rate of 9,000 cusecs discharge at the canal head. Second wetting After the closure of the canal (off) from January 14 to 19, the second wetting would begin from January 20 and would continue up to January 28. During the nine days of water release at 7,000 cusecs, the requirement would be about 5.44 tmc ft and the water release would be off during the January 29 and February 3 period.Water for the third wetting would be given from February 4 to 12 with a total release of 5.21 tmc ft at the rate of 6,700 cusecs. Water release would be stopped from February 13 to 18 and it would resumed for the fourth wetting from February 19 to 27. About 5.44 tmc ft water would be released during the nine-day period at 7,000 cusecs and would be closed again from February 28 to March 5.  Water availability Similarly, about 5.29 tmc ft water each would be released for the fifth and sixth wettings from March 6 to 13 and March 21 to 29, respectively, with the discharge of 6,800 cusecs. Water release would be stopped from March 15 to 20 after the fifth wetting and from March 30 to April 4 after the sixth wetting. For the seventh and last wetting, about 5 tmc ft water would be released from April 5 to 13 with 6,430 cusecs discharge at canal head. However, the authorities have stated that the schedule fixed is tentative and is subject to change based on rainfall, water availability and necessity at field level. Water from Musi Meanwhile, about 3.475 tmc ft water would be given to 30,000 acres ayacut under the Musi project in Nalgonda district for four wettings in the on and off method from December 15 to April 9. Water release for the first wetting would be from December 15 to January 9, for second wetting from January 24 to February 8, for third wetting from February 23 to March 10 and for fourth wetting from March 25 to April 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-for-seven-wettings-in-yasangi-under-nsp-ayacut/article33341842.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Finger print identification system getting ready||A National Automated Finger Print Identification System (NAFIS) to automate collection, storage and matching of fingerprints for expeditious identification of suspects is under implementation. “It will provide the much-needed unique identifier for every arrested person in the CCTNS - Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems database as both are connected at the backend,” said National Crime Records Bureau director Ram Phal Pawar on Tuesday. An updated version of CCTNS (State) application was released to Haryana and Chhattisgarh on pilot basis and soon it will be released to all other States, he disclosed at the two-day conference on ‘Good practices’ organised by the NCRB. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, who delivered the inaugural address virtually. said the two key Rs. 2,000 crore modernisation programmes taken up in a mission mode like CCTNS and the Interoperable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) have led to effective law enforcement and proved to be force multipliers. “It has revolutionized investigation and policing with its massive reach and has managed to connect the police stations to the most far-flung areas,” pointed out the Minister. Since crime does not follow jurisdictional boundaries, response to crime should also not be restricted by boundaries, therefore, immediate recording of crime and the access of the information to all stakeholders is a key aspect of any effective law enforcement operation, he said. Data sharing ICJS concept takes data sharing to a higher level and ensures a single source of truth between law enforcement and judicial systems. Quoting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Minister said ‘New India’ needs to be a combination of ancient wisdom and modern technology. Several path-breaking steps to modernise the criminal justice system were taken up under his visionary leadership and that of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Out of the total of 16,098 police stations in the country, CCTNS software is being used in over 95% stations, connectivity is available at 97% stations and 93% stations are entering 100% FIRs through it. Two new institutes, Rashtriya Raksha University and National Forensic Science University, have been instituted with the vision to promote an objective and scientific approach in the criminal justice system, he said. Mr. Reddy said States too are being helped to modernise police forces with funds for acquisition of latest weaponry, training gadgets, advanced communication and forensic equipment etc. including IT systems. The “Digital police portal” connects all the CCTNS based services and different apps. The Minister lauded NCRB for implementation of the latest project. and for putting together best practices in the form of a compendium. CCTNS data is being consumed electronically in courts in 28 States/UTs and in prisons in 32 States/UTs. Reverse transfer of court data into CCTNS has also started in nine States/Union Territories, he said. Officers were felicitated for their efforts towards CCTNS usage in their States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/finger-print-identification-system-getting-ready/article33341703.ece
16 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Page 3 Artisan Grade-II in ACB net||Anti Corruption Bureau officials caught an artisan Grade-II employee in the TSSPDCL, Jeedimetla, when he allegedly demanded and accepted Rs. 8000 bribe, on Tuesday. The ACB said Munjam Tukaram accepted the bribe to process already completed electric pole, and to shift another electric pole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-artisan-grade-ii-in-acb-net/article33341699.ece
16 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Sky cycling facility gathering dust||The coronavirus-induced crisis has dealt a blow to the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC)'s plan to promote adventure sports at the scenic Lakaram tank bund in the town with the sky cycling facility introduced at the site earlier this year continues to remain unused. The sky cycling sporting facility was inaugurated at the park beside the picturesque 2.6 km-long Lakaram tank bund in the first week of March this year much to the delight of the adventure sports lovers. The facility was thrown open for the public to provide a thrilling experience of sky cycling against the backdrop of the enchanting Lakaram tank bund amid lush green environs. Trained personnel were roped in to run the facility in adherence to safety precautions as part of the KMC's grand plan to make the site adventure-based recreation centre in association with the Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation (TSTDC). A proposal for setting up mini-Shilparamam to showcase the rich craftsmanship of the artisans of the State was also mooted as part of the ambitious plan. However, the plan hit an unexpected obstacle in the form of the coronavirus outbreak in mid-March. Despite easing of the COVID-19-led restrictions in a phased manner, the sky cycling facility continues to remain idle. Sources in the civic body said the facility at the Lakaram park is ready for use and efforts are on to operate it in conformity to the COVID-19 safety protocols soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sky-cycling-facility-gathering-dust/article33341725.ece
16 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda native shines in North America’s Forbes list||A native of Nalgonda, Sandeep Konam, earned a place in the annual ‘30 under-30’ list of entrepreneurs in North America, published by Forbes earlier this month. “I feel honoured to be on the list,” Mr. Konam said in an e-mail to The Hindu , informing of his recognition on Monday. Forbes, one of the leading American-based business magazines, published the 2021 ‘30 under 30’ lists across 20 categories, and Mr. Konam made it to the list in healthcare category for his phone-based application — Abridge — which he co-founded with Shivdev Rao. Using artificial intelligence, Abridge records and transcribes conversations between a patient and doctor. Since every conversation is recorded, the patient has a deeper understanding of one’s health and treatment, and a transcript summary of the same can be securely shared with friends and family, Mr. Konam, who leads Abridge’s machine learning team, explained. The 25-year-old has a Master’s degree in Robotics from the Carnegie Mellon University. In the past, Mr. Konam built phone applications to aid low-vision patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-native-shines-in-north-americas-forbes-list/article33341712.ece
16 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Centre must stop branding farmer protests’||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State leader and former MLA Julakanti Ranga Reddy said the Centre “must stop its conspiracies to suppress and disintegrate protests by farmers in Delhi.” He said the Union government was pretending to be hearing and visually impaired with respect to the protesters and their demands. Groups of protesters from the CPI (M), CPI and their affiliate organisations staged a protest, in solidarity with protesting farmers, outside the District Collectorate here. They knelt down with eyes and ears closed, “to describe the Centre’s pose.” Mr. Ranga Reddy gave a call to boycott products of Reliance and Adani Group, whose owners are the alleged supporters of the farm legislation and the Union government. In Suryapet, several party activists staged a sit-in and shouted slogans outside a clothing store of Reliance Industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-must-stop-branding-farmer-protests/article33341841.ece
16 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Body partly eaten by pigs||In a shocking incident, body of a man who was suspected to be murdered, was eaten away by pigs. The incident took place at Narayanakhed on Tuesday. According to police, one 25-year-old Vadde Raju was murdered by some unidentified persons and his body thrown into the bushes. Some pigs had eaten parts of it and passersby noticed the mutilated body in the morning. It was suspected that his head was smashed with a boulder and his private parts were cut. Narayanakhed police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/body-partly-eaten-by-pigs/article33341848.ece
16 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Officials visit Etigaddakishtapur||As promised, revenue officials arrived at the village on Tuesday and started collecting data on missing payments for oustees of Etigaddakishtapur in Toguta mandal. Revenue Divisional Officer K Ananta Reddy had already visited the village on Monday and interacted with the villagers and promised to pay them all the pending amounts within one week. This is one of the villages to submerged in Malllannasagar. Officials are said to be visiting every house and asking them about the payments received and pending. Many complained that they were yet to receive payment for bores and some structures. Some old people and youth complained that they had not received the package. “We started work in the morning and about 45 houses were completed. All the houses will be completed in the next few days. Payments will be made within a couple of weeks, once approval was accorded by higher officials,” said an officer, on condition of anonymity, involved in the process. Meanwhile, Collector P Vankatarami Reddy held a review meeting with officials and directed them to complete works of 1,500 houses at Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony at Mutrajpally. “As many as 2,250 houses will be constructed in the R&R colony. Officials were instructed to complete septic tank works by the month-end.,” said Mr. Venkatarami Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-visit-etigaddakishtapur/article33341840.ece
16 December 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Four booked on charge of abduction||The Suryapet town police on Tuesday arrested two siblings along with their sons, allegedly for insulting their parents and kidnapping the father for distribution of property. According to the petition by Nune Saroja, her two sons and two grandchildren kidnapped her husband, Sanjeev Rao, a retired Revenue officer, on Monday afternoon. They had also garlanded the portrait with slippers and took pictures, to force distribution of property, she said. Police said both the sons, N. Ravinder, 54, and N. Dayakar, 46, were government employees. Ravinder and his two sons Prashant and Bhaskar, both students, were arrested at their residence at Tirumala Nagar in the town, and Dayakar was arrested in Miryalaguda. Police said investigation had revealed that the siblings had forced transfer of property from their father. All the four were booked for abduction, and under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-booked-on-charge-of-abduction/article33341836.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Protest for houses||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-for-houses/article33341838.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Colours of life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/colours-of-life/article33341845.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chill fails to dampen protest spirit||Early morning temperature in the national capital on Tuesday dropped to a bone-chilling 4 degree Celsius, but the farmers protesting at the Singhu border were not just unperturbed by the dip in mercury but in fact their determination was at a peak. “Back in our villages, we are immersed in water during the chilly months. Punjab is always colder than Delhi. This is nothing for us,” said Gurbir Singh (40), resident of Patiala. Explaining the use of water in this season, Mr. Gurbir said this is the time when the fields are watered every few days. “We get electricity in the fields around 10 p.m. and that’s when we start watering the fields. The process usually lasts the entire night and we stay awake drenched in water all night,” he said. Back home, this is what the families are doing while the farmers hold fort in the Capital. “My 12-year-old son is now watering the fields. He and my wife also cut fodder for our cattle. They call and ask us not to come till we have won the battle,” he said. Jagtar Singh added that his three-year-old daughter also calls him every day and asks him: “Did [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi meet you? If not, should I come?”. The protesting farmers, including many elderly one, beat the cold tucked in their blankets inside the tractors and trolleys at night. “We wear sweaters and jackets. Inside the tractor, there are layers of mattress and blanket,” said Mr. Gurbir. Sitting next to him, exhuming passion, 62-year-old Naib Singh said: “We will not leave no matter how cold it gets. We will win this fight. There are so many people that some of us take only one blanket at night.” Walking without socks in his black juttis, 73-year-old Karnail Singh from Sangrur held a pair of socks in his hands. “A kind girl just gave it to me and asked me to wear it fearing I’ll fall sick,” he said, adding that he will remain at the protest till the three farm laws are repealed. Inside the tractor, his friend Sohan Singh, 60, was lying tucked inside a thick blanket. He has had a fever and a stomachache since Monday night. “A doctor has seen him and given medicines. He has caught a cold. It will take two days for him to go back home. We will wait and see if he gets better here,” Mr Karnail said. Protesters use plastic sheets to cover the gap between the road and the edge of the truck to prevent any cold drafts. Beating the cold In addition to warm clothes and blankets, the farmers eat dry fruits and drink hot milk mixed with ghee, honey, dates and almonds. “ Punjabiyon ko zyada thand nahin lagti. Aur log AC rooms aur heaters main rehte hain, thand unhe lagti hai [Punjabis don’t feel cold. Those who use ACs and heaters, feel cold],” said 76-year-old Maan Singh.  Back in our villages, we are immersed in water during the chilly months. Punjab is always colder than Delhi. This is nothing for us Gurbir Singh Protester from Patiala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chill-fails-to-dampen-protest-spirit/article33341457.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cold wave sweeps the Capital||The minimum temperature in the city on Tuesday fell to 4.1 degrees Celsius, which is the lowest this season, leading the Meteorological Department Department to declare a cold wave. The minimum was five degrees colder than normal for this season, and a fall from the 8.4 degrees Celsius recorded on Monday. A western disturbance brought light rain to the national capital over the weekend after which temperatures started falling. The first half of December was warmer than usual after October and November recorded colder than normal temperatures. The Met department said the cold wave is likely to continue as chilly winds are blowing towards Delhi from the Himalayas where there has been fresh snowfall.  Maximum temperature The maximum temperature on Tuesday dipped to 18.5 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal and the coldest maximum temperature for the season. In Delhi, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. The Met department’s forecast for Wednesday reads: “Mainly clear sky with cold day and cold wave conditions at few places. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle around 19 and 3 degrees Celsius, respectively. The cold wave is likely to continue till December 18 with clear sky and minimum temperatures under five degrees Celsius. After this, the skies are likely to become party cloudy.” Last year, the mercury fell to 2.4 degrees Celsius on December 28. The coldest ever minimum temperature recorded in Delhi was on December 27, 1930, when it touched 0 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cold-wave-sweeps-delhi-mercury-dips-to-41c/article33341459.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Mini Chandigarh’ at Singhu border||At a fair distance away from the stage set up at Singhu border protest site, neon green ropes adorn an enclosure that reminds one of the Capital city of Punjab. This ‘mini Chandigarh’ has been created with the efforts of a group of youths, who say that a fleet of fancy cars sparked the thought. At the enclosure, a signboard made with brown cardboard written in Punjabi reads: “PB 23 & PB 31, Singhu-Kundli, Sector 17’. Navjyot Singh (28), a resident of Mansa, explains that ‘PB 23’ is the State Transport Code for Fatehgarh Sahib while ‘PB 31’ is the code for Mansa district, and the protest site is Delhi’s Singhu and Haryana’s Kundli making the area Singhu-Kundli. “Sector 17 is inspired by Chandigarh’s popular jazzy market,” he says. Rajdeep Singh Bains (31), from Fatehgarh Sahib, says that inside the enclosure where the tractor and trollies are neatly parked facing each other with a small area in the middle where protesting farmers sit on roads and inside two camps installed next to each other. Farmers from both Haryana and Punjab are lodged in this enclosure. Why Sector 17? “The reason why we named it Sector 17 is because of the kind of luxury cars parked right outside the enclosure with a street for walking in the middle. This gives ‘Chandigarh feels’,” says Mr. Navjyot, adding that the area is as clean as the famous market. “We sweep it every few hours.” They say the area is used by residents of both Haryana and Punjab and Chandigarh is their Capital. Taking puffs from a hukkah while playing cards, Jai Kishan from Sonipat says, “If the government doesn’t listen to us, we will make this our permanent home and start farming.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mini-chandigarh-comes-alive-at-singhu-border-protest-site/article33341450.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Cong. protests for repeal of new farm laws||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday protested in front of the BJP HQ at DDU Marg, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws passed by the Central government. Party workers detained Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ch. Anil Kumar led the protest, which was stopped by the police. Party workers were also detained.   Mr. Kumar said the three anti-farmer laws will crush the farming sector across and was detrimental to the farmers’ interest. He added that that the laws in their present form, will hand over the farm sector to PM Narendra Modi’s rich corporate friends on a platter. “The insensitivity of the Modi government towards the farmers is clearly evident from the fact that despite the death of several farmers, the Centre was unmoved by their [farmers’] plight,” Mr. Kumar said.  Despite the death of several farmers, the Centre was unmoved by their [farmers’] plight Ch. Anil Kumar Delhi Congress president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-cong-protests-for-repeal-of-new-farm-laws/article33341453.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Farmers thankful to PM for the laws, claims BJP||The farm laws against which lakhs of farmers are protesting across the country have been drafted in their interest but the political opposition is misleading them through propaganda, the BJP claimed at a Kisan Mahapanchayat here on Tuesday. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, LoP Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, BJP MP Pravesh Sahib Singh and State Kisan Morcha president Vinod Sehrawat, who addressed the Mahapanchayat in Najafgarh, said the farmers support the laws and also are thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the same. “The Modi government has enacted the farm laws in the interests of farmers; it also implemented the suggestions of the Dr. Swaminathan Commission Report, brought Fasal Beema Yojana, Kisan Credit Card Yojana, Soil Health Card Yojana and many schemes for the development of farmers, which are benefitting crores of them in the country today,” Mr. Gupta said. “The direction as well as the condition of farmers will improve with the laws. The MSP system will not end, the AMPC mandis will not be closed,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-thankful-to-pm-for-the-laws-claims-bjp/article33341454.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘More answer scripts being uploaded to exam portal’||As the open book examinations (OBE) in Delhi University entered its fourth day, officials said the number of students emailing the answer scripts had reduced from 3,800 on the first day to 1,000 on the third. Many face server issues However, several students on Tuesday complained that they were unable to upload answer sheets on the portal due to server issues. Initially, the university had announced that students would only be allowed to upload their answer sheets on the OBE portal. Later, the officials said the students could email their answer scripts to nodal officers of the respective colleges. Dean of Examinations D.S. Rawat said: “The number of students emailing their answer scripts is gradually decreasing, which means that they are able to upload them on the OBE portal itself. On the first day, we received 3,800 emails followed by 1,200 scripts on Sunday and 1,000 on Monday.” Dean on complaints Responding to complaints of question papers not being available to some students, Mr. Rawat said: “We received some complaints about students not being able to access the question papers but that was because they had not filled the forms correctly. Also, the paper code is something that the respective colleges should have verified. However, in such cases, we facilitated the students to appear for the correct papers. By and large, the process is running smoothly.” The examination department has also sent around 1.5 lakh emails to students to familiarise them with the process, officials added. This is the second time that the OBE is being conducted in DU where second and third-year undergraduate students and final-year post-graduate students are taking the exams. In August this year, DU had conducted OBE for terminal-year students during which several complaints were raised by the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/despite-complaints-of-glitches-du-says-more-answer-sheets-uploaded-on-portal/article33341452.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air in ‘poor’ category, likely to deteriorate today||The air quality of Delhi and Noida deteriorated to the “poor” category on Tuesday and Gurugram’s remained in the “moderate” category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air quality of the national capital is  likely to deteriorate slightly on Wednesday. “Though the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to fall, better ventilation conditions are forecasted for the next 72 hrs, due to high winds and deepen nocturnal boundary layer height. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate today to the ‘poor’ category and likely to improve on December 16 and 17,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency, SAFAR. The AQI of Delhi was 230 on Tuesday. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 184 and 243 respectively. The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality was low on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-air-in-poor-category-likely-to-deteriorate-today/article33341448.ece
16 December 2020||Mumbai,||Metro car shed will surely be completed, but not at cost of environment: CM||Notwithstanding the Bombay High Court’s comments on the Maharashtra government for shifting the Metro car shed from Aarey colony to Kanjur Marg, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said that the State is committed to development but not at the cost of environment. “Even the High Court has said that more than who owns the land, the beneficiaries of the project are important. I again request all parties to not spoil the interests of Mumbai. We will complete the project for sure and not at the cost of environment,” Mr. Thackeray said while addressing the Assembly on the last day of the winter session of the legislature. “When the bullet train project was planned, which is now being executed, Maharashtra’s consent was not taken. What is the benefit to Maharashtra from that project? But have we stopped that project by claiming ownership of the land used for it? Then why is politics being played over this land?” the CM asked. Earlier, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis claimed that the State government’s insistence on shifting the car shed to Kanjur Marg would lead to a delay in the project and also no permissions from the Centre and the funding agency were obtained before moving ahead. Maratha reservation  Assuring that the State will ensure quota for the Maratha community, Mr. Thackeray said that while giving reservation to Marathas, no other communities would lose their rightful quota. “There are some sick minds which are planning and plotting to pitch OBCs against Marathas. We will not let that happen,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/metro-car-shed-will-surely-be-completed-but-not-at-cost-of-environment-cm/article33341379.ece
16 December 2020||Mumbai,||NCPA-Citibank offer music scholarships||The National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) in partnership with Citibank has offered scholarships for vocal and percussion musicians. Candidates in the 18 to 35 age group can apply till January 15, 2021. “We hope to help the younger generation in their musical pursuit. We are looking forward to entries in large numbers from across the country” said Dr. Suvarnalata Rao, head, programming, Indian Music, NCPA. Candidates who are beneficiaries of other music scholarship/grant during April 2021 to March 2022 will not be eligible to apply. Candidates have been asked to send their applications via email to ncpascholarships@gmail.com. For more details they can call up 8591064547 (Monday to Friday 10.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ncpa-citibank-offer-music-scholarships/article33341380.ece
16 December 2020||Mumbai,||Aaditya unveils sculpture at Worli||Maharashtra Minister for Tourism and Environment Aaditya Thackeray on Sunday unveiled Life Vest Under Our Seat, a sculpture, at the Late Shri. Bindumadhav Thackeray Chowk at Worli. The sculpture, commissioned by Sangita Jindal, chairperson, JSW Foundation, is an artwork by Siddharth Somaiya in dedication to the Koli community. “The installation presents a young man on the cusp of an exciting but ambiguous future. He hears echoes from the past but also sees the promise that the future holds,” the JSW Foundation said. Ms. Jindal said that in a world divided by disease and despair, art offers hope and solace. “As we get back on our feet after the coronavirus onslaught, it is a pleasure to gift our city Mr. Somaiya’s Life Vest Under Our Seat .” Mr. Somaiya, Ms. Jindal said, believes in bringing art closer to people, making art accessible to the common man. “I would like to thank the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for allowing us to realise this dream project and Mr. Thackeray for identifying this apt location to start this conversation,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aaditya-unveils-sculpture-at-worli/article33341381.ece
16 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Mahape-based mask manufacturing firm booked for cheating||The Turbhe MIDC police have booked a Mahape-based mask manufacturing company for allegedly cheating a Spain-based company of Rs. 6.80 crore. According to the police, Flagship Biotech International Private Limited in Mahape MIDC had in November 2019 contacted Iran-based company Arikeh Tejarat Vista Co for exporting three-ply surgical masks. Hasan Zade from the Iran firm told Amit Date, business development in-charge of the Mahape company, that they were associated with Spain-based firm Mana Pharma SL. Mr. Zade further said that Mr. Date should contact Mana Pharma SL from whom they would purchase the mask. Jesuvin Cherian of Flagship Biotech International Private Limited then got in touch with Mana Pharma SL and struck a deal of despatching 50 lakh three-ply surgical masks. On March 3, 2020, the Mahape firm sent an invoice of 8 lakh euros. But after the money was paid, the Mahape company increased the amount to 9 lakh euros citing that due to the pandemic, the raw material charges had shot up. The Spain company paid the excess amount as well, confirmed a police officer. Meanwhile, after the Indian government banned the export of masks on March 19, the Spain company tried to get in touch with the Mahape firm, which replied on March 26 via email attaching a packing list that showed that it had 43.47 lakh masks ready as of March 13. Further, the Mahape firm mentioned that it would not be able to send the masks as there was a ban on their export. The Spain firm then asked it to cancel the deal and refund the money which the Mahape company did not do. “The Indian representatives of the Spain-based firm filed a complaint with us for cheating and criminal breach of trust. The case has now been transferred to the Economic Offences Wing, unit I,” senior police inspector Rajendra Avhad from Turbhe MIDC police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mahape-based-mask-manufacturing-firm-booked-for-cheating/article33341382.ece
16 December 2020||Patna,||Cabinet expansion after BJP’s proposal: Nitish||Amid a raging speculation over the delay in Cabinet expansion, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said it would be done after BJP’s proposal, which had not been received yet. “When BJP would propose for the Cabinet expansion, we’ll think over it but no such proposal has been received yet,” he told mediapersons “Presently, we’re busy with moving forward of our blueprint for the development of the State for next five years.” The Cabinet now has 14 members, including Mr. Kumar. In the 243-member Assembly, it could have a maximum of 36 members. The speculation arose as JD(U) has been reportedly insisting on having equal number of berths to that of BJP. BJP has seven members, including its Deputy Chief Ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, while JD(U) has five and the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and the Vikasheel Insaan Party one each. BJP sources told The Hindu that since the party had got the maximum number of seats (74) among the NDA constituents, it should get more berths in the Cabinet than JD(U), which had got only 43 seats. However, JD(U) leaders have been claiming that the party suffered because of another NDA constituent, the Lok Janshakti Party, which had put up candidates against them. Meanwhile, prospects of several State BJP leaders and long-time Ministers in previous the NDA governments like Nand Kishore Yadav, Prem Kumar and others to become Ministers again appeared to be less as they were recently appointed chairpersons of different committees of the Assembly. Names of some young party MLAs like Nitin Navin, Sanjiv Chaurasia and others have been doing rounds in political circles as possible Ministers in the next Cabinet expansion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cabinet-expansion-after-bjps-proposal-nitish/article33341778.ece
16 December 2020||Pune,||Farmers’ agitation: stop behaving like another Stalin, Shetti tells PM||Stating that 14 farmers had died in different incidents in the last three weeks during the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti on Tuesday warned the Narendra Modi government that any further attempts to repress the protests by force would have serious repercussions across India. Mr. Shetti urged the Prime Minister to accede to the farmers’ demands and to stop behaving like another Joseph Stalin, while reminding him of the horrific consequences of the Soviet dictator’s infamous ‘terror-famine’ of 1932-33 which had resulted in the deaths of millions of farmers in Ukraine. “At least 14 farmers have died in the last 20 days since the agitation kicked off. Two died on Monday in an accident. The protesting farmers and their families have been braving the elements. Local farmers in Delhi have aided their brethren. I feel it is high time the Centre showed some magnanimity and accept their demands,” Mr. Shetti said in Kolhapur. While the Centre may have directed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled States to stop farmers from proceeding towards Delhi, the former MP and farmer leader said that the unrest among farmers had spread in the South, especially in Telangana and Tamil Nadu. “Even those who are not directly affected are supporting this agitation. While the farmers themselves had never demanded these new laws, yet the bills were steamrolled through Parliament without the slightest regard for due process,” Mr. Shetti, who had just returned from Delhi, said. He pointed out that whenever a new legislation of this kind was mooted, parleys were held by Central ministers with the affected sections. “Ideally, there are talks and a standing committee is constituted. The deliberations take at least four-six months. But in the agrarian reform Bills, an ordinance was suddenly issued by the Modi government during the lockdown and the laws were so swiftly passed that the farmers had no chance to express their opinions. Furthermore, the Opposition’s requests for a debate on the Bills were quashed by the ruling BJP at the Centre,” Mr. Shetti said. He said that the Centre’s claims about the beneficent nature of the laws belied the hurried manner in which the Bills were passed in Parliament. “Whatever the alleged benefits to farmers of these laws as claimed by the Modi government, the Bills were passed by a mere voice vote in Parliament… the way in which these Bills were mooted and passed adds to the suspicion that the only beneficiaries are to be an Adani or an Ambani, and the objective is to make good the losses suffered by multinational companies during the pandemic by getting corporates to venture into agriculture,” Mr. Shetti alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-agitation-stop-behaving-like-another-stalin-shetti-tells-pm/article33341384.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||American democracy proved to be resilient, says Joe Biden||Speaking at Wilmington, Delaware, after the Electoral College had officially given him enough votes to be declared President, Democratic candidate Joe Biden said American democracy had been tested and had proved to be strong. He described at length the Trump campaign’s legal challenges to the November 3 presidential election results and criticised Republican lawmakers and officials who had joined a Texas lawsuit to overturn the results of the vote in key battleground States that he had won. “And once again in America, the rule of law, our Constitution, and the will of the people have prevailed. Our democracy — pushed, tested, threatened — proved to be resilient, true, and strong,” Mr. Biden said. “In America, politicians don't take power. People grant power to them. The flame of democracy was lit in this nation a long time ago. We now know nothing — not even a pandemic or an abuse of power — can extinguish that flame.” Mr. Biden called “unconscionable” the threats made to those overseeing the election process. “While we all wish that our fellow Americans in these positions will always show such courage and commitment to free and fair elections, it is my sincere hope that we never again see anyone subjected to the kind of threats and abuse we saw in this election,” Mr. Biden said. “It is unconscionable.” The President-elect said Mr. Trump had called his 2016 victory — where the President had won 306 votes — a landslide and the same applied to Mr. Biden’s own victory this year. “By his own standards, these numbers represent a clear victory then and I respectfully suggest they do so now.” “In America, when questions are raised about the legitimacy of any election, those questions are resolved through a legal process. And that is precisely what happened here. The Trump campaign brought dozens and dozens and dozens of legal challenges to test the results. They were heard. And they were found to be without merit,” Mr. Biden said. On GOP Attorneys General and lawmakers joining the Texas lawsuit that sought to reject vote counts in key battleground States, he said: “It’s a position so extreme we’ve never seen it before. A position that refused to respect the will of the people, refused to respect the rule of law, and refused to honour our Constitution.” “And I am pleased — but not surprised — that a number of my former Republican colleagues in the Senate have acknowledged the results of the Electoral College. I thank them,” Mr. Biden said. A number of GOP Senators who had refrained from acknowledging Mr. Biden’s win and calling out Mr. Trump’s attempts to overturn the results of the election changed tack after the Electoral College results came in. “ I am convinced we can work together for the good of the nation,” Mr. Biden said of these GOP Senators. ‘Time to unite’ “The integrity of our elections remains intact. Now it is time to turn the page as we’ve done throughout our history. To unite. To heal. As I said through this campaign, I will be a President for all Americans,” Mr. Biden said. The President-elect said urgent work had to be done in getting people vaccinated and delivering economic relief so the economy could be built back. He noted that the U.S. death toll from the pandemic had crossed the 300,00 mark. “My heart goes out to all of you in this dark winter of the pandemic about to spend the holidays and the new year with a black hole in your hearts and without the ones you love by your side, he said, adding the country will get through its current difficulties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/american-democracy-proved-to-be-resilient-says-joe-biden/article33341068.ece
16 December 2020||Kabul,||Bomb kills Deputy Governor in Kabul||A Deputy Governor of Kabul province and his aide were killed on Tuesday by a bomb in the Afghan capital, officials said, the latest in a wave of targeted killings in the country. Mahbobullah Mohebi died when a bomb attached to his vehicle detonated while he was on his way to his office, the Interior Ministry said. Mr. Mohebi’s secretary, who was travelling with him, was also killed, and two bodyguards were wounded. Another official killed Hours later, in the central province of Ghor, a similar bomb killed Abdul Rahman Akshan, the deputy chief of the provincial council. Mr. Akshan was killed and his two bodyguards were wounded when a “sticky bomb” attached to his vehicle detonated in the city of Feroz Koh, an official said. Violence has raged across the country since the Taliban and the Afghan government launched peace talks in Qatar in September. Afghanistan — and especially Kabul — has seen a spate of murders of prominent figures, including journalists, clerics, politicians and rights activists. Last week a woman news anchor was shot dead in the eastern city of Jalalabad, the second journalist to be murdered in less than a month. Kabul has been hit by rockets twice this month and recently battled major attacks on educational centres, including a massacre of students on a university campus. In a separate attack in Kabul on Tuesday, a policeman was killed and two others wounded when gunmen attacked their checkpoint, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bomb-kills-deputy-governor-in-kabul/article33341059.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. imposes CAATSA sanctions on Turkey over S-400 purchase||The U.S. has imposed sanctions on NATO-ally Turkey for its purchase of Russia’s S-400 missile defence system, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced on Monday. The issue of sanctions under Section 231 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for purchase of Russian arms is of particular interest to New Delhi, which is also in the process of buying the S-400 from Moscow. “Today’s action sends a clear signal that the United States will fully implement CAATSA Section 231 and will not tolerate significant transactions with Russia’s defense and intelligence sectors,” Mr. Pompeo said on Monday. Sanctions were imposed on Turkey’s main defence procurement agency, the Presidency of Defense Industries (SSB) for “ knowingly engaging in a significant transaction with Rosoboronexport (ROE), Russia’s main arms export entity” the office of the U.S. State Department spokesperson said in a statement. Ban on loans These SSB sanctions comprise a ban on granting specific U.S. export licences and authorisations for any goods or technology, a ban on loans or credits by U.S. financial institutions totalling more than $10 million in any 12-month period, a ban on U.S. Export-Import Bank assistance for exports and mandated U.S. opposition to loans by international financial organisations to SSB. Additionally, sanctions will include full blocking sanctions and visa restrictions on SSB president Ismail Demir and other officials. “We very much regret that this has been necessary, and we very much hope that Turkey will work with us to resolve the S-400 problem as quickly as possible,” said the State Department’s Christopher Ford, who is in charge of security and non-proliferation. “The United States made clear to Turkey at the highest levels and on numerous occasions that its purchase of the S-400 system would endanger the security of U.S. military technology and personnel and provide substantial funds to Russia’s defense sector, as well as Russian access to the Turkish armed forces and defense industry,” Mr. Pompeo said. “Turkey nevertheless decided to move ahead with the procurement and testing of the S-400, despite the availability of alternative, NATO-interoperable systems to meet its defense requirements. This decision resulted in Turkey’s suspension and pending removal from the global F-35 Joint Strike Fighter partnership,” he said.  Concerns over system Last year, the U.S. had removed Turkey from its F-35 jet programme over concerns that sensitive information could be accessed by Russia if Turkey used Russian systems along with U.S. jets. U.S. President Donald Trump and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan have an apparently close relationship and Mr. Trump has pushed back on Congressional demands for sanctions against Turkey. The administration has now had to face a $740 million National Defense Authorization Bill (NDAA) 2021 from the U.S. Congress, which mandates sanctions against Turkey within 30 days of the bill’s passage (December 11). Mr. Trump has threatened to veto the Bill. “The biggest winner of our new defense Bill is China! I will veto!”' Mr. Trump had tweeted days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-imposes-caatsa-sanctions-on-turkey-over-s-400-purchase/article33341066.ece
16 December 2020||Riyadh,||Riyadh announces three-phase roll-out of COVID-19 vaccine||Saudi Arabia on Tuesday announced a three-phase COVID-19 vaccination programme as it began registering citizens and foreign residents after approving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. People aged over 65 as well as those with chronic ailments or those at a high risk of infection will receive the vaccine in the first stage, and those aged over 50 in the second, the official Saudi Press Agency said. Everyone else will be vaccinated in the third stage, SPA said citing the Health Ministry, without specifying the dates for each phase or how long the mass campaign would take. The Gulf kingdom has a population of more than 34 million, according to official figures. The Ministry opened registration for the vaccination campaign through an online application called “Sehaty”, and said the vaccine would be “free for all citizens and residents”. Last week, the kingdom approved the use of the vaccine developed by U.S. pharmaceuticals giant Pfizer and its German partner BioNTec, becoming the second Gulf country after Bahrain to green-light the drug. Saudi Arabia has recorded more than 360,000 novel coronavirus cases, including more than 6,000 deaths -- the highest in the Gulf. But the kingdom has also reported a high recovery rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/riyadh-announces-three-phase-roll-out-of-covid-19-vaccine/article33341063.ece
16 December 2020||Kano,||Boko Haram claims kidnapping||Boko Haram on Tuesday claimed it was behind the abduction of hundreds of students in northwestern Nigeria, in what appears to be a major expansion of the jihadist group’s activities into new areas. At least 333 students are still missing since the attack late on Friday on the all-boys Government Science Secondary School in Katsina State — hundreds of kilometres from Boko Haram’s stronghold in northeastern Nigeria. “I am Abubakar Shekau and our brothers are behind the kidnapping in Katsina,” the leader of Boko Haram said in a voice message. More than 100 gunmen on motorcycles stormed the rural school, forcing students to flee and hide in the surrounding bush. A number of boys were able to escape, but many were captured, split into groups and taken away, residents said. #BringBackOurBoys has been trending on social media since the weekend in reference to a similar hashtag used after Boko Haram abducted 276 girls in 2014 in Chibok, in northeastern Nigeria. The army has said it has located the hideout of the “bandits”, and that a military operation was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/boko-haram-claims-kidnapping/article33341058.ece
16 December 2020||Beijing,||‘Over 5 lakh Uighurs involved in Xinjiang cotton coerced labour’||Hundreds of thousands of ethnic minority labourers in China’s northwestern Xinjiang region are being forced to pick cotton through a coercive state-run scheme, a report has said. The research published on Monday by Washington-based think tank the Center for Global Policy is likely to heap more pressure on global brands such as Nike, Gap and Adidas, which have been accused of using Uighur forced labour in their textile supply chains. Rights activists have said Xinjiang is home to a vast network of extrajudicial internment camps that have imprisoned at least one million people, which China has defended as vocational training centres to counter extremism. The report — which referenced online government documents — said the total number involved in three majority-Uighur regions exceeds a 2018 estimate of 5,17,000 people forced to pick cotton as part of the scheme by hundreds of thousands. Researchers warned of the “potentially drastic consequences” for global cotton supply chains, with Xinjiang producing more than 20% of the world’s cotton and around a fifth of the yarn used in the United States coming from the region.  Strict surveillance Beijing said that all detainees have “graduated” from the centres, but reports have suggested that many former inmates have been transferred to low-skilled manufacturing factory jobs, often linked to the camps. But the report said labour transfer scheme participants were heavily surveilled by the police, with point-to-point transfers, “military-style management” and ideological training. “It is clear that labour transfers for cotton-picking involve a very high risk of forced labour,” Adrian Zenz, who uncovered the documents, wrote.  Responding to the report, Beijing on Tuesday said workers “of all ethnicities in Xinjiang sign labour contracts with enterprises based on their own voluntary choice of occupation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/over-5-lakh-uighurs-involved-in-xinjiang-cotton-coerced-labour/article33341061.ece
16 December 2020||Tokyo,||Japan’s ‘Twitter killer’ sentenced to death for nine murders||A Japanese man dubbed the ‘Twitter killer’ was sentenced to death by a Tokyo court on Tuesday for murdering and dismembering nine people he met on the social media platform. Takahiro Shiraishi, 30, admitted killing and butchering his young victims, all but one of whom were women. Shiraishi targeted social media users who posted about taking their own lives, telling them he could help them in their plans — or even die alongside them. His lawyers argued that he should receive a prison sentence rather than be executed because his victims, aged between 15 and 26, had expressed suicidal thoughts on social media and so had consented to die. But a judge dismissed that argument and handed down the death penalty over the 2017 crimes, which he called “cunning and cruel,” public broadcaster NHK said. “None of the nine victims consented to be killed, including silent consent,” NHK quoted the judge as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/japans-twitter-killer-sentenced-to-death-for-nine-murders/article33341057.ece
16 December 2020||Moscow,||Ready for collaboration: Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday congratulated Joe Biden on winning the U.S. presidential election in November, saying he hoped the countries could set aside their differences to promote global security. Mr. Putin wished the U.S. president-elect every success and said that, “for my part, I am ready for collaboration and contacts with you”, according to a Kremlin statement.  In his congratulatory telegram to Mr. Biden, Mr. Putin said that their countries “bear special responsibility for global security and stability.” He said he was confident that Russia and the U.S. could, “despite their differences, really contribute to solving many problems and challenges that the world is currently facing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ready-for-collaboration-putin/article33341062.ece
16 December 2020||Washington,||Trump says Barr has quit, will leave by Christmas||Attorney General William Barr, one of President Donald Trump’s staunchest allies, is departing amid lingering tension over the President’s baseless claims of election fraud and the investigation into President-elect Joe Biden’s son. Mr. Barr went on Monday to the White House, where Mr. Trump said the Attorney General submitted his letter of resignation. “As per letter, Bill will be leaving just before Christmas to spend the holidays with his family,” Mr. Trump tweeted. Mr. Trump has publicly expressed his anger about Mr. Barr’s statement earlier this month that the Justice Department had found no widespread fraud that would change the outcome of the election. Mr. Trump has also been angry that the Justice Department did not publicly announce it was investigating Hunter Biden ahead of the election, despite department policy against such a pronouncement.  Mr. Barr’s resignation throws into question Justice Department investigations, especially the probe into Hunter Biden’s taxes. In his resignation letter, Mr. Barr said he updated Mr. Trump on the department’s “review of voter fraud allegations in the 2020 election and how these allegations will continue to be pursued”. He added that his last day on the job would be December 23. Mr. Trump said Deputy Attorney General Jeff Rosen, whom he labeled “an outstanding person”, will become the acting Attorney General.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-says-barr-has-quit-will-leave-by-christmas/article33341064.ece
16 December 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, Dec 15, 2020 (AFP) -||Fire erupted in a retirement home in central Russia overnight, killing 11 people who were trapped as the blaze swept through the small wooden building, investigators said on Tuesday. A probe into possible negligence has begun.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-dec-15-2020-afp/article33341056.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Punjab, Haryana need to look beyond MSP crops||The region comprising Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, was an early adopter of Green Revolution technology. It was also a major beneficiary of various policies adopted to spread modern agriculture technology in the country. The package of technology and policies produced quick results which enabled India to move from a country facing a severe shortage of staple food to becoming a nation close to self-sufficiency in just 15 years. The rice and wheat focus Procurement of marketed surplus of paddy (rice) and wheat at Minimum Support Price (MSP) completely insulated farmers against any price or market risks. And, at the same time, it ensured a reasonably stable flow of income from these two crops. Over time, the technological advantage of rice and wheat over other competing crops further increased as public sector agriculture research and development allocated their best resources and scientific manpower to these two crops. Other public and private investments in water and land and input subsidies were the other favourable factors. Thus, wheat in rabi and paddy in kharif turned out to be the best in terms of productivity, income, price and yield risk and ease of cultivation among all the field crops (cereals, pulses, oilseeds). It is no surprise then that the area share of rice and wheat in the total cropped area rose from 48% in Punjab and 29% in Haryana in the early 1970s to 84% and 60%, respectively in recent years. While wheat was being cultivated in this region since long, paddy cultivation was totally new for most farmers in Punjab and Haryana. The progress and specialisation towards these two crops served the great national goal of securing the food security of the country. During the mid-1980s, some inimical trends related to the rice-wheat crop system in general and paddy cultivation in particular surfaced followed by serious second generation problems of the Green Revolution. Some experts foresaw the serious consequences of continuation of paddy cultivation in the region and suggested diversification away from the rice-wheat system in the mid-1980s. Since then a large number of reports and policy documents have been prepared to develop alternative options to reduce the area under paddy — necessitated by its adverse effect on natural resources, the ecology, the environment, and fiscal resources. Serious concerns have also been expressed about plateauing productivity and stagnant income from rice-wheat cultivation. However, the area under these two crops has only increased rather than fallen. In order to develop viable options to infuse dynamism in the agriculture economy of this Green Revolution belt, there is a need to understand: what attracts farmers to rice-wheat crops, why it needs to be changed, and how it can be changed. Punjab, Haryana vs. States High productivity, assured MSP which is often above open market price, free power, and fertilizer subsidy underlie the higher income per unit area from wheat and paddy cultivation. Land-labour ratio is also very favourable in Punjab when compared to other States; on an average a farmer owns and cultivates 2.14 hectares net sown area as against 1.42 hectares in Haryana and 1.17 hectares at the national level. An estimate of income (derived from National Accounts Statistics) shows that all agriculture activities taken together generate an annual net income of Rs. 5.31 lakh per cultivator in Punjab; it is Rs. 3.44 lakh in Haryana while the all-India average is Rs. 1.7 lakh (reference year, 2017-18). A question often asked is that if per farmer agriculture incomes in Haryana and Punjab are two to three times more than the national average, then why is there so much talk of farmers’ distress in these two States? The reasons seem to be the loss of growth momentum in the income from the agriculture sector, which has fallen to 1% in Haryana and 0.6% in Punjab after 2011-12. This is quite low by any standard and not keeping in pace with an increase in households’ expenditure. The prospects of further growth in agricultural income from the crop sector dominated by rice and wheat are very dim. With the productivity of rice and wheat reaching a plateau, there is pressure to seek an increase in MSP to increase income. However, demand and supply do not favour an increase in MSP in real terms. In India, the per capita intake of rice and wheat is declining and consumers’ preference is shifting towards other foods. It may look strange that the average spending by urban consumers is more on beverage and spices than on all cereals. On the supply side, rice production is rising at the rate of 14% per year in Madhya Pradesh, 10% in Jharkhand and 7% in Bihar. Obviously, the advantage of rice production is shifting towards these States. This will further increase pressure on the procurement and buffer stock of rice. Rice and wheat procurement in the country has more than doubled after 2006-07 and buffer stocks have swelled to an all time high. The country does not find an easy way to dispose of such large stocks and they are creating stress on the fiscal resources of the government. The implication of all these changes is that farmers in the region will find it difficult to increase their income from rice-wheat cultivation and they must be provided alternative choices to keep their income growing. Procurement of almost the entire market arrivals of rice and wheat at MSP for more than 50 years has affected the entrepreneurial skills of farmers to sell their produce in a competitive market where prices are determined by demand and supply and competition. Thus, to enable Punjab and Haryana farmers to move toward high-paying horticulture crops requires institutional arrangements on price assurance such as contract farming. Environmental issues, jobs The biggest casualty of paddy cultivation and the policy of free power for pumping out groundwater for irrigation is this: the depletion of groundwater resources. In the last decade, the water table has shown a decline in 84% observation wells in Punjab and 75% in Haryana. It is feared that Punjab and Haryana will run out of groundwater after some years if the current rate of overexploitation of water is not reversed. In the last couple of years, the burning of paddy stubble and straw has become another serious environmental and health hazard in the whole region. Another rather more serious challenge for the two States is to provide attractive employment to rural youths. As it is well known, most of the farm work in these two States is undertaken by migrant labour. The younger generation is not willing to do manual work in agriculture and looks for better paying salaried jobs in non-farm occupations. Government jobs are few and far less than the number of job seekers. Thus, the option left is to create jobs in the private industry and the services sector. This requires private investments in suitable areas. Punjab has witnessed a flight of private capital from the State during the rise of militancy which hurt the State economy, employment and the revenues of the State. This setback has pushed the rank of the State in per capita income from number one in the 1970s and the early 1980s to number 13 among the major States of the country. For further progress and to meet the aspirations of rural youth to get satisfactory employment, the State needs large-scale private investments in modern industry, services, and commerce besides agriculture. The solution to the ecological, environmental and economic challenges facing agriculture in the traditional Green Revolution States is not in legalising MSP but to shift from MSP crops to high value crops and in the promotion of non-farm activities. Rather than focusing on a few enterprises, Punjab and Haryana should look at a large number of area-specific enterprises to avoid gluts. This will require a mechanism to cover price and market risks. Farmers’ groups and farmer producer organisations can play a significant role in the direct marketing of their produce. Agricultural specificities Both Punjab and Haryana need to promote economic activities with strong links with agriculture tailored to State specificities. Some options for this are: promotion of food processing in formal and informal sectors; a big push to post-harvest value addition and modern value chains; a network of agro- and agri-input industries; high-tech agriculture; and a direct link of production and producers to consumption and consumers without involving intermediaries. The traditional Green Revolution States of Punjab and Haryana would need to shed “business as usual” approach and embrace an innovative development strategy in agriculture and non-agriculture to secure and improve the future of farming and rural youth. Ramesh Chand and Jaspal Singh are with NITI Aayog, New Delhi as Member and Consultant, respectively. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/punjab-haryana-need-to-look-beyond-msp-crops/article33341041.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Why Jawaharlal Nehru University matters||A nation is a people in continuing conversation. I’m sure there are other places in the country where the Indian nation is forged daily. But for me, JNU was the pre-eminent site where this happened. A microcosm of India In my early education in Delhi, I encountered students and teachers largely from Punjab and U.P. and occasionally from West Bengal, Tamil Nadu or Maharashtra. But in JNU, every living minute of my years as a teacher between 1980 and 2005, I encountered scores of people from every nook and cranny of India. A university, by definition, is an ecumenical, all-inclusive institution but how many universities manage to attain this ideal? JNU was able to do this by being hospitable to women and minorities and because of its sensitive admission policy that inducted candidates from virtually every region of India, aspiring men and women from economically deprived areas, and those historically disadvantaged by their place in the caste hierarchy. JNU was a microcosm of India with all its beauty and warts. An equally attractive feature of JNU was its democratic culture. Where in India would you find a university in which student union elections were held with only hand painted posters, and no money power? Political talk from one side was countered with more talk from the other. These often turned into verbal duels and intellectual fisticuffs but never physically violent. JNU elections were a lively festival of discussion, argument, polemic and discursive contestation that harvested alert, engaged citizens many of whom found a home in national politics and went on to become public officials committed to the Constitution. But perhaps the most enticing feature of the university was its academic programme. Teaching was a serious undertaking; no teacher dared miss a class. Classrooms overflowed with students, many of whom came voluntarily from multiple departments, across disciplines. Large M.A. classes could last up to two hours with students concentrating on every word uttered by the teacher. Yet, if a point needed clarification or an argument some elaboration, a raised hand could gently, uninhibitedly interrupt the lecture. Then the class would join in an exciting, unexpected conversation. The art of listening, conversing, discussing and debating would be taken to new heights. In smaller M.Phil classes, neither the teacher nor students would want to leave the classroom until the caretaker arrived to lock up the building. Even as some discussants left for home or the hostel, others would trundle down to a nearby dhaba to try and unravel the mysteries of the social and political universe. I reckon most teachers earned the respect and affection of their students who, without being overawed, looked up to them for intellectual guidance. Perhaps I am overstating my case and should nuance it. Undeniably, many students in their first semester were intimidated by students from metropolitan cities, fluent in English and with superior academic preparation. How much more anxious and daunted they must be in the presence of highly qualified teachers? This must be particularly true for Dalits and students from ‘backward regions’ who barely spoke English and when they did, spoke with a heavy local tint. These students, struggling to keep their head above water, could manage a grade no higher than B Minus. However, by the end of the second semester they grew in confidence, spoke up in class and improved their grades. Their transformation was exhilarating, a teacher’s triumph no doubt, but also a victory of the culture of the university that encouraged learning from peers. In the school and college where I studied, the brightest students were seen to produce results without hard work, as if by innate ideas or else by tuning into a satellite of knowledge from which ideas beamed directly to their brain at the speed of light! But in reality, knowledge production and acquisition are qualitatively different. Real ideas grow and are learnt with patience, hard work and commitment. Books and journal articles have to be read over and over again. One has to sweat it out in the library. The engagement with ideas has to move beyond the library and the classroom into small, intensive, friendly groups. Then, a retreat into monkish solitude is needed for transcribing research, and to learn to throw away more words than one eventually keeps. A coherent piece of writing emerges after years of arduous labour. In the best universities of the world, scholars win respect and admiration by this dedicated effort. JNU competed with the best in the world because it taught everyone the value of such intellectual toil. Original ideas germinate when research and teaching are creatively connected, when teachers test their burgeoning ideas on young productive minds that, untamed by disciplinary protocols, raise adventurous, hitherto unasked questions. For this cutting-edge research, teachers need the freedom to design and restructure their courses every other year. JNU gave us this opportunity. Moreover, impartiality was not conflated with impersonality. Anonymity was set aside and question papers were set and marked by the same teacher who taught the course — a new form taken by the guru-shishya parampara . In JNU, learning occurred in creative in-between spaces where a complex dialectic was at play between formality and informality, equality and legitimate hierarchy, friendship and civility, unilateral instruction and unregulated discussion. Shortcomings Of course, JNU had its share of weaknesses too. First, an unwholesome reliance by some on jargon, abstraction, and ideology. Theoretical abstraction counted for more than lived experience; seductive ideologies mattered more than what the eyes could see and the ears could hear. What I say might ring untrue in the face of stories by JNU students on how they learnt the tools to grasp the social, political, economic and historical reality of their country. Yet, a tearing hurry to connect ideas to interests of social groups, as if they are born to serve only one or another class, marred their understanding. Very often this led, on the one hand, to a failure to detect multiple possibilities in ideas and on the other, to a disconnection from the real world. To be sure, good academic research requires a degree of disconnection from the world — at least in phases. But eventually researchers must find a way to reconnect. This is one of the big mysteries of JNU: how could this happen simultaneously — the connect and disconnect with reality? And while the production of knowledge is accompanied with intellectual waste, to have grounded a painfully self-righteous and incestuous politics on this undigested excess of abstractions was self-indulgent, delusional and exclusionary, unworthy of a great centre of learning. My second issue is with the mindset behind a glaring omission. It took JNU 40 years to launch a Department of Philosophy, usually the mainstay of universities around the world. I guess this was due to the pervasive social scientism in the 1960s, when JNU was established. Equally disturbing is the absence of a deeper collective study of Indian religions. We may more easily omit the teaching of what is called religion in the West but not what is ‘religion’ in India. For good or for bad, multiple religious cultures partly constitute social reality in India. A refusal to engage with them is to get a partial, distorted picture of Indian reality. This only plays into the hands of those who wilfully manipulate these profoundly plural religious experiences for their own nefarious political benefit. Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, CSDS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-jawaharlal-nehru-university-matters/article33341053.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||From a digital India to a digital Bharat||̥The term ‘game changer’ is sometimes used too freely in the context of conversations related to policy, especially when it comes to government policy initiatives. It is not always true, and can come across as hyperbole, and a marketing term to make the potential impact of certain initiatives seem larger than they actually are. However, there are times when the term is appropriate, and can be seen as an accurate reflection of the capability of an initiative to change the status quo . The Prime Minister’s Wi-Fi Access Network Interface, or PM WANI (https://bit.ly/3nrxtDe) announced on December 9 fits the ‘game changer’ tag. This provides for “Public Wi-Fi Networks by Public Data Office Aggregators (PDOAs) to provide public Wi-Fi service through Public Data Offices (PDOs) spread across [the] length and breadth of the country to accelerate proliferation of Broadband Internet services through Public Wi-Fi network in the country”. What the data shows Essentially, this would mean the ability to connect to a Wi-Fi broadband connection almost anywhere. This can help to bridge the increasing digital divide in India. Recently, the NITI Aayog chief executive officer had said that India can create $1 trillion of economic value using digital technology by 2025. However, as per the latest Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) data, about 54% of India’s population has access to the Internet. The 75th round of the National Statistical Organisation survey shows that only 20% of the population has the ability to use the Internet. The India Internet 2019 report shows that rural India has half the Internet penetration as urban, and twice as many users who access the Internet less than once a week. To illustrate this point, let us look at the Umang App (Unified Mobile Application for New-age Governance), which allows access to 2,084 services, across 194 government departments, across themes such as education, health, finance, social security, etc. The ability to access and utilise the app enhances an individual’s capabilities to benefit from services that they are entitled to. With each move towards digitisation, we are threatening to leave behind a large part of our population to suffer in digital poverty. It is clear that the focus is on last mile delivery, especially when you see how the Telecom Minister has compared it to the public call office model of past decades. This is what the government is trying to achieve with PM-WANI, where anyone living in their house, a paan shop owner or a tea seller can all provide public Wi-Fi hot posts, and where anyone within range can access it. This will also help to reduce the pressure on mobile Internet in India. Going back to the India Internet report, it shows that 99% of all users in India access the Internet on mobile, and about 88% are connected on the 4G network. This leads to a situation where everyone is connected to a limited network, which is getting overloaded and resulting in bad speed and quality of Internet access. Key links There are three important actors here. First is the Public Data Office (PDO). The PDO can be anyone, and it is clear that along with Internet infrastructure, the government also sees this as a way to generate revenue for individuals and small shopkeepers. It is important to note that PDOs will not require registration of any kind, thus easing the regulatory burden on them. Next, is the PDOA, who is basically the aggregator who will buy bandwidth from Internet service provider (ISPs) and telecom companies and sell it to PDOs, while also accounting for data used by all PDOs. Finally, you have the app provider, who will create an app through which users can access and discover the Wi-Fi access points. Further details can be found in the report by TRAI on a public open Wi-Fi (https://bit.ly/2ITLHO4). Two pillars have been given as a baseline for public Wi-Fi. The first is interoperability, where the user will be required to login only once and stay connected across access points. The second is multiple payment options, allowing the user to pay both online and offline. The report also talks about how products should start from low denominations, starting with Rs. 2. It is suggested in the report that the requirement of authentication through a one-time password for each instance of access may be cumbersome and automatic authentication through stored e-know your customer (KYC) is encouraged, which inevitably means a linking with Aadhaar. Aiding rural connectivity The PM-WANI has the potential to change the fortunes of Bharat Net as well. Bharat Net envisions broadband connectivity in all villages in India. The project has missed multiple deadlines, and even where the infrastructure has been created, usage data is not enough to incentivise ISPs to use Bharat Net infra to provide services. One of the reasons for the lack of demand is the deficit in digital literacy in India. The other reason is simply the lack of last mile availability of the Internet. In terms of digital literacy, it is not enough to look at digital literacy as a set of specific skills, because the skills required to navigate technology keep changing. A more appropriate framework (https://bit.ly/3h16jAJ) is to see it as an evolving decentralised concept, which depends on how people interact with technology in other aspects of their life, and is influenced by local social and cultural factors. The PM-WANI seems to fit within this framework, simply because it seeks to make accessing the Internet as easy as having tea at a chai shop. This is not a substitute for the abysmal digital literacy efforts of the government, but will definitely help. Security, privacy issues There are some concerns, mainly with respect to security and privacy. A large-scale study (https://bit.ly/3oXTJVB) conducted at public Wi-Fi spots in 15 airports across the United States, Germany, Australia, and India discovered that two thirds of users leak private information whilst accessing the Internet. Further, the TRAI report recommends that ‘community interest’ data be stored locally, raising questions about data protection in a scenario where the country currently does not have a data protection law in place. These are however, problems of regulation, state capacity and awareness and do not directly affect the framework for this scheme. With the PM-WANI, the state is expanding the reach of digital transformation to those who have been excluded till now. It is a game-changer because it has the potential to move Digital India to Digital Bharat. Sumeysh Srivastava is an Internet access researcher working at Nyaaya, an open-access platform that provides simple and actionable legal information||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/from-a-digital-india-to-a-digital-bharat/article33341045.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Law and disorder||In the TV series, The Crown, a dismayed Queen Elizabeth II seeks to understand from Prime Minister Harold Wilson why the public has such a negative perception of the royalty. She points out that the royalty is composed of normal people leading normal lives and doing normal jobs. Wilson haltingly says that the people don’t expect the royalty to be normal, but to be “ideal”. “But,” the Queen bleats, “nobody is ideal.” Today, the Supreme Court finds itself in a similar predicament. The citizens of the country expect the institution and its constituents to be ideal, and the challenge of the Supreme Court is to come to terms with that reality. However, it is not the Supreme Court alone that matters in the justice delivery system. As a result of the unrelenting focus on the anguished knocks at the doors of the highest court, the other inadequacies of the system don’t get as much public attention. A few important ones are dealt with below. Spending on judiciary Most often, the issue of spending on judiciary is equated with a call for increasing the salaries of judges and providing better court infrastructure. Such perceptions are unfortunate. India has one of the most comprehensive legal aid programmes in the world, the Legal Services Authority Act of 1987. Under this law, all women, irrespective of their financial status, are entitled to free legal aid. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and children too are entitled to free legal aid. This means that a significant proportion of the population falls — or is supposed to fall — under a free legal aid regime. However, in reality, this law is a dead letter. There has been little effort on the part of successive governments to provide a task force of carefully selected, well-trained and reasonably paid advocates to provide these services. In comparison, the system of legal aid in the U.K. identifies and funds several independent solicitor offices to provide such services. If support is withdrawn, many solicitor offices that provide these invaluable services would collapse and with that, the rule of law. India is yet to put in place anything similar to this. Poor judge-population ratio The judge-population ratio provides one of the most important yardsticks to measure the health of the legal system. The U.S. has about 100 judges per million population. Canada has about 75 and the U.K. has about 50. India, on the other hand, has only 19 judges per million population. Of these, at any given point, at least one-fourth is always vacant. While much is written on vacancies to the Supreme Court and the High Courts, hardly any attention is focused on this gaping inadequacy in lower courts which is where the common man first comes into contact (or at least should) with the justice delivery system. These inadequacies are far more important to the common man than the issues relating to the apex court that are frequently highlighted in the public space. In All India Judges Association v. Union of India (2001), the Supreme Court had directed the Government of India to increase the judge-population ratio to at least 50 per million population within five years from the date of the judgment. This has not been implemented. Access to justice Though ‘access to justice’ has not been specifically spelt out as a fundamental right in the Constitution, it has always been treated as such by Indian courts. In Anita Kushwaha v. Pushpa Sadan (2016), the Supreme Court held unambiguously that if “life” implies not only life in the physical sense but a bundle of rights that make life worth living, there is no justice or other basis for holding that denial of “access to justice” will not affect the quality of human life. It was for the first time that the Supreme Court had attempted a near-exhaustive definition of what “access to justice” actually means. Further, the court pointed out four important components of access to justice. It pointed out the need for adjudicatory mechanisms. It said that the mechanism must be conveniently accessible in terms of distance and that the process of adjudication must be speedy and affordable to the disputants. It is of course a paradox that this judgment, which emphasises the concept of speedy justice, was passed in 2016 in a batch of transfer petitions that were filed between 2008 to 2014. The state in all its glorious manifestations — the executive, judiciary and the legislature — is yet to draw out a national policy and road map for clearing backlogs and making these concepts real. These are just a few of the issues crying for attention. A disproportionate amount of attention that is given to the functioning of the Supreme Court, important as it is, distracts from these and similar issues. Let us assume that the apex court achieves the distinction of being “ideal” in the near future, of being all things to all people. Still, a fine mind alone is of little avail if the rest of the body lies disabled, as the justice delivery system is today. N.L. Rajah is Senior Advocate, Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/law-and-disorder/article33341049.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A test for Ghana||Ghana, which has just concluded its eighth successive general election since the end of military rule in 1992, is regarded a kind of gold standard for political stability in the region. The election commission took justified pride when it announced that this would be the first election that would be financed without external assistance. The country was the earliest in Sub-Saharan Africa to win freedom from colonial rule in 1957, when the nation’s first Prime Minister and President Kwame Nkrumah championed the cause of pan-African unity. That vision has since enlarged into the current African Union of 55 member states, which recently launched a fledgling free trade area across the continent. The heralding of multi-party democracy in the country, alongside other nations in the continent in more recent years, has been described as Africa’s second liberation. Smooth handover of power The largely peaceful general election, held on December 7, could, however, begin to test Accra’s growing reputation for a free and fair poll and a smooth handover of power. President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, who was lucky in the 2016 race after contesting unsuccessfully twice earlier, won a re-election in a high turnout contest, heading the centre-right New Patriotic Party (NPP). In a similarly narrow race, the parliamentary polls have produced a hung legislature, with the National Democratic Congress (NDC), which has its roots in the military-backed Provisional National Defence Council in the 1980s, within touching distance of the NPP. The NDC leader, John Dramani Mahama, who, before the results were declared, had alleged that the vote was rigged, has vowed to mount a legal challenge over the outcome. Accusations of foul play, even if they did not descend into bitter and bloody acrimony earlier, are not entirely absent in Ghanaian elections. The difference on this occasion is that the two leaders who signed a pledge to abjure violence right through the electoral process were both, paradoxically, involved in a stand-off following the 2012 polls. Back then, as opposition leader, Mr. Akufo-Addo had alleged fraud and the NPP had boycotted Mr. Mahama’s inauguration in January 2013. The widely televised legal battle dragged on for nearly eight months until the Supreme Court upheld the original result. At the time, there was huge relief that the country was spared the kind of bloody mayhem witnessed in the aftermath of the 2007 Kenyan polls, besides more blatant attempts to circumvent the electoral process in a few other African states. Shift in the landscape There are few indications that the current dispute could escalate into a full-blown controversy. All the same, Mr. Mahama’s stance and the previous legal tangle show signs of an apparent shift in the landscape of Ghanaian politics. Former military leader and two-term President Jerry Rawlings, who passed away in November, voluntarily relinquished office in 2000. Another instance of a smooth and seamless succession is the one which followed the sudden demise in 2012 of former President John Evans Atta Mills. Mr. Mahama, then Vice-President, was elevated to the presidency and subsequently confirmed in the elections later that year. Observers point to strains in Ghana’s two-party system — in part from the competition for control of oil revenues from 2010, in addition to the country’s traditional dominance in cocoa and gold. For a leader whose main plank in the 2016 election was to combat the rampant corruption of the previous government, Mr. Akufo-Addo’s jumbo-sized cabinet was criticised as one intended to reward loyalists. The ex-foreign minister will begin his second term by attempting to redeem his pledge to build a factory for each of Ghana’s 216 districts, a dam in every village in the country’s north, and provide a million dollars for every electoral constituency. That is a tall order at the best of times. During the current pandemic, it seems rather unrealistic. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-test-for-ghana/article33341050.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Mild moderation||Retail inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) is estimated to have moderated in November to a provisional 6.93%, from the previous month’s 7.61%, official data released on Monday showed. On the face of it, the moderation in price gains ought to be welcome news. A closer look shows that the 68 basis points easing in the headline level of inflation has been helped largely by a 140 basis points slowing in price gains in the food and beverages basket, which with a weight of almost 46 is the single biggest index constituent and driver of retail inflation. The RBI had in its monetary policy announcement earlier this month flagged an expected softening in the prices of perishables in the winter months. Predictably, increased market arrivals of vegetables — the third-largest weight within the basket — led to a sharp deceleration in price gains for this key food item. Inflation for vegetables slid 688 basis points to 15.63% last month, from 22.51% in October. Cereals, the food category with the largest weight, saw inflation slow to 2.32%, from 3.39%, reflecting the bumper kharif harvests and confirming the trend that the central bank had spoken of. And though the prices of other food categories too softened in November, out of the basket of 12 items, inflation still remained in the double digits in the case of six, excluding vegetables. Key protein sources including pulses, eggs and meat and fish continued to register worryingly high levels of inflation that surely cannot bode well for the wider population’s nutritional well-being. Disconcertingly, inflation in the key transport and communication category that includes petrol and diesel eased by a marginal 10 basis points to 11.06%. With oil marketing companies continuing to raise pump prices of these crucial transportation fuels, as crude oil extends its recovery from April’s pandemic-induced lows, it is hard to foresee any further appreciable softening in food prices in December given the high costs of transporting farm produce from the agrarian hinterland. This would, in turn, put the RBI’s forecast for average fiscal third-quarter inflation of 6.8% in jeopardy, as the headline figure would now need to moderate by at least 107 basis points to about 5.86% for this month. Its November survey of households’ inflation expectations also offers little room for comfort. With more households expecting general prices to rise over the ‘next three months’ and ‘one year ahead’ horizons than the number of respondents concerned about such a price trend in the September survey, policymakers must guard against easing vigilance on prices while considering growth-supportive measures. Price stability, for all the growing calls to downplay its centrality in the RBI’s policy mandate, must remain the monetary authority’s primary target: unchecked inflation poses manifold risks to the nascent economic recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mild-moderation/article33341034.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Vaccine drive||Fine theories and good policies are often frustrated in their encounter with facts and implementation processes in the field. India’s COVID-19 vaccine policy, recently unveiled, must take care not to head that way, and make adequate allowances for ground realities that could render naught well-laid plans. With a definitive cure not yet available for COVID-19, vaccines present the world with the best strategy to slow the virus down in its tracks along with a measure of vested herd immunity, as SARS-CoV-2 rampages on. While it may not be the magic wand, vaccinating people will be the only known way of slowing the march of the virus, and every country, down to each county, must prepare for this massive exercise. As the U.K. and the U.S. began vaccinating their people, India has announced its plan and proposed line-up for COVID-19 vaccination, shortly after the Union Health Minister denied that the government had ever committed to COVID vaccination for all in the country. As per the government’s strategy, the vaccination is to be given first to health-care workers and then to people over the age of 50, with those over 60 given priority, based on the situation. This will amount to about 30 crore people. The voters’ list for the Lok Sabha and Assembly election polls has been set as the verifying document for the process. A new digital platform, Co-WIN, will be used for COVID-19 vaccination delivery, and about 1.54 lakh Auxiliary Nurse Midwives working on Universal Immunisation Programmes will be roped in as vaccinators, with more such field staff to be mobilised in collaboration with the States. Cold chain systems are to be strengthened across the country to deliver multiple doses. As governments beef up the vaccination drive, they need to clear the fog on vaccine safety and efficacy among the people. With passing days, it will not be too much to expect from the government a detailed plan for vaccinating children and a break down of tasks down to the lowest governance rung, as counties in the U.S. have been doing. Unless the latter is done, a proper estimate of the true challenges of administering vaccines in the field will not be available, and being unprepared is a guarantee to coming undone. Vaccine hesitancy is a reality and the only way to counter that is to be open and honest about adverse effects and post-vaccination sequelae, if any, and make available relevant information in the public realm. In the past, in some States, vaccination programmes have suffered temporarily because of misinformation about adverse events following shots. In addition, in this case, long-term follow up of all who receive the vaccine is absolutely essential. For, therein lies the assurance that every one in the global line list is waiting for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vaccine-drive/article33341035.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||President’s order on princes illegal||A Special Bench of the Supreme Court, by a majority of nine to two, to-day [New Delhi, Dec. 15] held that the order issued by the President on September 6, derecognising the rulers was ultra vires of the Constitution and hence illegal and imperative. Allowing a batch of eight writ petitions filed by some ex-rulers with costs, the three majority judgments declared that “the petitioners will be entitled to all their pre-existing rights and privileges, including the right to privy purse, as if the order had not been made.” The Special Bench delivered five separate judgments — three judgments declaring the impugned Presidential order ultra vires, and two dissenting judgments dismissing the writ petitions. The majority judgment was given by Mr. Justice Shah, with whom Mr. Justice Sikri, Mr. Justice Shelat, Mr. Justice Bhargava, Mr. Justice Vaidyalingam, Mr. Justice Grover and Mr. Justice Dua agreed. The Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Hidayatullah and Mr. Justice Hegde delivered separate judgments holding the impugned Presidential order unconstitutional. Mr. Justice Mitter and Mr. Justice Ray, however, delivered separate dissenting judgments dismissing the writ petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/presidents-order-on-princes-illegal/article33341047.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Police shooting||Under the auspices of the Provincial Congress Committee, a public meeting of the citizens of Madras was held last evening [Dec. 15] at 5-45 at the Beach opposite the Presidency College to protest against the unjustifiable police shooting on the 9th December 1920 at Perambur on defence-less crowds without notice or warning while the police were helping the Bukingham mill authorities by taking workmen to the mills, which shooting resulted in the death of two innocent boys and seriously injured many others. The meeting was very largely attended. Among those present were Messrs. S. Kasturiranga Aiyangar, B.P. Wadia, S. Guruswami Chetti, T.V. Gopalaswami Mudaliar, Dr. N. Subramania Aiyar, E.L. Aiyar, C.S. Govindaraja Mudaliar, A. Kumaraswami Chetti, C. Rajagopalachariar, V.L. Sastri, V. Venkateswarulu, S. Duraiswamy Aiyar and Dewan Bahadur P. Kesava Pillai. Many labourers were also present. Mr. Gopalaswami Mudaliar proposed Mr. Kasturiranga Aiyangar to the Chair. Mr. C.S. Govindaraja Mudaliar seconded the motion which was carried by acclamation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/police-shooting/article33341046.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Insurers, pension funds must be tapped for infra, says Khara||India needs to direct more insurance and pension savings into bond markets and encourage greater foreign participation in debt in order to finance its infrastructure building plans, said State Bank of India chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara. “The long-term liabilities with the insurance and pension sector can be channelised into the capital markets,” he said. “As of now, they are [investing] only in ‘AA’ and AAA-grade paper. But they can also be made available to lower-grade paper,” Mr. Khara added. “That should make the debt market more vibrant and is perhaps the need of the hour. If at all we have to create infrastructure, we have to make sure this money flows into infrastructure,” he said, adding that the funding requirements of the economy, including Rs. 100 lakh crore of infrastructure investments, can only be met if capital markets are opened up further. “We have started seeing some foreign participation in debt instruments in the current year as a lot of steps were taken to shore up international investors’ confidence. But this is a beginning and we have a long way to cover,” the SBI chief said at a CII event on Tuesday. Also, even a new development finance institution (DFI) would need more international funds, Mr. Khara said. “The earlier avatar of DFIs, got most funds from government... it was essentially domestic” savings, he said, adding that alone would be inadequate now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/insurers-pension-funds-must-be-tapped-for-infra-says-khara/article33341022.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. must unveil stimulus to spur demand: MPs’ panel||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Industry has asked the government to announce a stimulus package focused on generating demand, stressing that its responses so far have focused only on the supply side. The panel has also asked for GST rates levied on automobiles to be rationalised from the present 28% tax rate with an additional compensation cess ranging from 1-22%, to 18%, to spur demand for new vehicles and help the sector overcome the present slump. In its report on ‘Downturn in Automobile Sector – Its Impact and Measures for Revival’ submitted on Tuesday, the committee headed by Rajya Sabha MP K. Keshava Rao, pointed out that the cost of BS-VI vehicles was expected to be 10-15% higher due to upgraded technology, which could be mitigated by reducing the GST rate to 18% from 28%. “The increased sale due to the reduction in GST rate, will cover up the loss in GST revenue,” the committee noted, adding that a similar reduction in the GST levied on used car sales from 12%-18% to a flat 4% would help make the segment become more organised. “Further, the committee recommends that the government may consider rationalisation in GST rates on internal combustion engine vehicles based on their size, CC, price brackets, seating capacity, etc., rather than having a fixed slab on all categories without distinction of standard, popular, luxury etc., in order to raise the demand for newer vehicles,” the committee said. While the stimulus package announced by the Centre had ‘infused a fresh lease of life amid the gloom’, the committee stressed that it fell short of addressing the auto industry’s concerns as the measures were aimed at boosting only the supply side of the economy. ‘Allow BS-IV sales’ The panel also suggested that the government request the Supreme Court to allow sales of BS-IV vehicles that couldn’t be sold due to the pandemic and lockdown. The committee suggested that the Department of Heavy Industries must impress upon the SC that the scrappage policy for the NCR, applicable on diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years, must be revisited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-must-unveil-stimulus-to-spur-demand-mps-panel/article33341023.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||SIP inflows hit 31-month low at Rs. 7,302 crore in November||Investment in mutual funds through systematic investment plans dropped to a 31-month low of Rs. 7,302 crore in November amid a challenging economic environment. However, investment through Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) had risen in October after six months of continuous decline. The 44-player mutual fund industry witnessed an inflow to the tune of Rs. 7,302 crore through SIPs in November compared with Rs. 7,800 crore in the preceding month, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India showed. This was the lowest since April 2018, when investments via SIPs clocked Rs. 6,690 crore. Net addition of SIP accounts stood at 3.39 lakh in November. Fund collection through SIPs was Rs. 7,788 crore in September and Rs. 7,791 crore in August. It had dropped below the Rs. 8,000 crore-mark in June to Rs. 7,917 crore. Marketmen said SIP investments had fallen because investors wanted to maintain some liquidity as the situation was uncertain when it came to their jobs and businesses. Equity mutual funds, which mainly depend on SIPs for flows, saw outflow of Rs. 12,917 crore in November, making it the fifth straight month of withdrawal as investors booked profit amid higher market valuations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sip-inflows-hit-31-month-low-at-rs-7302-crore-in-november/article33341025.ece
16 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Scrappage policy should include govt. vehicles too’||India’s proposed scrappage policy should not distinguish between private and government vehicles as any such exclusion will fail its meaningful implementation, global consulting firm Arthur D. Little said. “Also, the policy should focus more on incentivisation and less on enforcement,” said Barnik Chitran Maitra, managing partner & CEO, Arthur D. Little, India & South Asia. With the economy rebounding, ADL was optimistic about vehicle sales next year, Mr. Maitra said. “Unless there are any future lockdowns, next year, the sector should get back to the levels of FY19, he said. On the impact of the work-from-home regime on mobility, he said WFH had no doubt reduced the travel needs of people. However, the new normal had only increased the need for own vehicles. According to Mr. Maitra, automobile leasing is catching up globally and it is a suitable model for India as tax saving is one of the most critical trends in the car leasing model, as compared to purchasing a car on EMI. “In India, we anticipate the car leasing market to grow at 15-20% annually for the next 3-5 years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/scrappage-policy-should-include-govt-vehicles-too/article33341016.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC compares politics, corporate governance||The Supreme Court on Tuesday drew a parallel between politics and corporate governance when minority shareholder Shapoorji Pallonji complained of undue interference from Tata trustees in the running of Tata Sons, giving the board hardly any independence. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde said the situation was akin to a Chief Minister opting to consult his party colleagues before a Cabinet meeting. Senior advocate C.A. Sundaram, for Shapoorji Pallonji Group, alleged interference by the stakeholder trustee-directors in the running of Tata Sons. “Let us take the case of a Chief Minister who before the Cabinet meeting consults some party colleagues on what to do and what not to do. Will you say he has lost his independence?” Justice Bobde asked. Mr. Sundaram said politics was different from corporate governance. “In the commercial world, money is equivalent to power. Money is a kind of power. If in order to preserve money in a company, somebody seeks assistance from someone outside respected by him or a former chairman, does it amount to loss of independence of board,” the Bench asked again. “Yes, it does. In fact, in politics, majoritarianism accounts for everything. This is not the case under the Companies Act,” Mr. Sundaram responded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-compares-politics-corporate-governance/article33341020.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Budget: FSDC mulls steps to hasten growth||The high-level FSDC headed by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday discussed additional measures that could be taken by the government in the next Budget to accelerate growth while maintaining financial stability. The meeting noted there was a need to keep continuous vigil by the government and all regulators on financial conditions that could expose financial vulnerabilities. The Budget will spell out the growth strategy for the next fiscal. As per various estimates, India is expected to grow 8% in FY22. The Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) is the apex body of sectoral regulators, headed by the Finance Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/budget-fsdc-mulls-steps-to-hasten-growth/article33341027.ece
16 December 2020||new delhi,||Exports fall 8.7%; trade deficit shrinks||Declining for the second straight month, India’s exports dipped 8.7% in November to $23.52 billion on account of contraction in shipments at key sectors like petroleum, engineering, chemicals and gems and jewellery, even as the trade deficit narrowed to $9.87 billion. Imports declined for the ninth month in a row, slipping 13.3% to $33.39 billion, government data showed. Although the trade deficit narrowed from $12.75 billion in November 2019, the deficit widened from $8.78 billion in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-fall-87-trade-deficit-shrinks/article33341028.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Flipkart Internet sees losses widen to Rs 1,950 cr in FY20||Flipkart Internet, which operates the online marketplace, saw its consolidated loss widen to Rs. 1,950.5 crore for the year ended March 2020. Revenue grew 32% to Rs. 6,318.7 crore, as per regulatory documents. The firm’s consolidated loss had stood at Rs. 1,625.7 crore in FY19, according to an ROC filing, shared by market intelligence firm Tofler.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/flipkart-internet-sees-losses-widen-to-rs-1950-cr-in-fy20/article33341606.ece
16 December 2020||Mumbai,||upGrad acquires Rekrut||upGrad, which is into online technology for higher education has acquired 100% stake in Rekrut India, a recruitment and staffing solutions company for an unspecified amount. “Rekrut will now open the floodgate of career opportunities for upGrad learners,” upGrad co-founders Ronnie Screwvala, Mayank Kumar and Phalgun Kompalli said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/upgrad-acquires-rekrut/article33341019.ece
16 December 2020||New delhi,||BPCL may buy out Oman Oil in Bina project||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL) said that on Thursday its board would consider buying out Oman Oil Company in the Bina refinery project in Madhya Pradesh. It would also consider merging Bharat Gas Resources with itself, the company said in a filing on Tuesday. BPCL holds 63.68% in Bharat Oman Refineries which operates the 7.8 MT oil refinery at Bina in M.P.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bpcl-may-buy-out-oman-oil-in-bina-project/article33341026.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Mahindra to hike prices of passenger, commercial vehicles from January||Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) on Tuesday said it will raise prices of its entire range of passenger and commercial vehicles from next month in order to partially offset the impact of rise in input costs. Effective January 1, the company will increase the price of its range of passenger and commercial vehicles, across models, the Mumbai-based automaker said in a statement.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mahindra-to-hike-prices-of-passenger-commercial-vehicles-from-january/article33341030.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||SAT stays Sebi’s Rs 6-crore fine on NSE||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has stayed the Rs. 6-crore penalty that markets regulator SEBI had imposed on NSE for allegedly investing in firms unrelated to the stock exchange business. The six entities are: CAMS, Power Exchange India Ltd., NSEIT Ltd., NSDL E-Governance Infrastructure Ltd., Market Simplified India Ltd. and Receivables Exchange of India Ltd.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sat-stays-sebis-rs-6-crore-fine-on-nse/article33341031.ece
16 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Rahane mindful of the perils of twilight zone in series-opener||While a journalist was sorting out a technical glitch during Ajinkya Rahane’s virtual interaction on Tuesday, the India vice-captain turned to team manager Girish Dongre and muttered in Marathi (rough translation): “Doesn’t feel like I’m addressing a press conference, feels like I am talking to myself”. Forced to live in a biosecure bubble for the last five months, Rahane may have started feeling the heat, especially since his family has returned to Mumbai from Sydney. However, as he has displayed during the two warm-up games, the bubble hasn’t deterred him from entering the zone that every batsman desires to be in ahead of a big series. In his element Less than 48 hours before the start of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy, Rahane was in his element, even off the field. A master of dead-batting questions, he didn’t spell out any details about India’s combination, be it the opener’s slot or the wicketkeeper’s. He stuck to “taking one game at a time” and “not looking too far ahead” cliches when asked about the bigger role of leading the side for the last three Tests of the series, but opened up about the challenges posed by the pink ball. He stressed that the most testing phase for a batsman during the series-opener, which begins in Adelaide on Thursday, would be the twilight period. “The pace of the red ball stays the same throughout the day. With the pink ball, the pace changes completely in those 40-50 minutes. “Of course, the new ball moves a little for a while but it gets easy to bat after that,” Rahane said. “Then the twilight period can be challenging because the pace of the ball increases. Both off the wicket and in the air. “If we focus hard during this period, it can get slightly easy again. It behaves differently during the day and behaves differently once the lights are on, so that is a challenge. “As a batsman, focus will be the key. As long as you can focus and concentrate, communication will be the key among the two batsmen. Batting in twilight, those 40-50 minutes is the key. If you bat well in that period, it becomes really good.” Although Rahane will not be leading the side in Adelaide, it will hold him and the team in good stead were he to see off the twilight zone, especially since he is expected to assume the mantle of captaincy from Virat Kohli after the first Test.  If we focus hard during the twilight period, it can get slightly easy again||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahane-mindful-of-the-perils-of-twilight-zone-in-series-opener/article33341149.ece
16 December 2020||DUBAI,||2022 women’s WC dates announced||India will open its campaign in the rescheduled women’s ODI World Cup against a qualifier on March 6 at Tauranga’s Bay Oval in New Zealand, according to the 31-match schedule announced by the ICC on Tuesday. India has two more matches against qualifiers on March 12 and March 22 at Seddon Park, Hamilton, in the eight-team round-robin format event.  Among the marquee games, Tauranga will host the rematch of the 2017 Women’s World Cup final at Lord’s with India taking on England on March 16. India will then face Australia at Eden Park, Auckland on March 19, before locking horns with South Africa on March 27 at Hagley Oval, Christchurch. Same venues The tournament, which was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic from its original window in February-March 2021, will be held between March 4 and April 3, 2022, at the same six host cities and venues as planned earlier. The first global women’s cricket event after the T20 World Cup in Australia in March this year will feature eight of the world’s top nations going head-to-head across Auckland, Tauranga, Hamilton, Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin. “We have all been through a very difficult year and are happy to be getting back at playing the game we all love,” India captain Mithali Raj said in an ICC release. “India has been doing very well at ICC tournaments in the past three or four years, whether you talk about the (ODI) World Cup or the T20 World Cup. “If we manage to win the tournament in 2022, it will be a massive inspiration for the next generation of girls, as the 50-over format, is considered the pinnacle for any cricketer. I can assure you that the team and I are looking forward to it,” added Mithali. According to the schedule, the Basin Reserve in Wellington and the Hagley Oval in Christchurch will host the semifinals with the latter also set to to host the final under lights on April 3. Qualifying tournament New Zealand, Australia, England and South Africa have qualified for the World Cup apart from India. The three remaining teams will emerge from the ICC qualifying tournament which will be held from June 26 to July 10 in Sri Lanka next year. The 2022 women’s ODI World Cup will be the first of two major cricket tournaments across the globe in 2022, the other being the Commonwealth Games in England. “This schedule takes the world’s best cricketers across New Zealand and can help inspire a generation of girls and boys to take up the sport,” said Manu Sawhney, ICC CEO. The prize money for the showpiece will total NZ$ 5.5 million, an increase of almost 60% from 2017 and more than 1000% compared to 2013. Star India’s live telecast All matches will be broadcast live to a huge global audience. “The last five years have seen significant progress in women’s cricket and the recent success of the women’s T20 Challenge is an indicator,” said Sanjog Gupta, Head of Star India which will broadcast the event. “The broadcast of the ICC women’s World Cup has grown by leaps and bounds. The 2017 ICC women’s World Cup final, one of the highest-rated sporting events of that year with a cumulative reach of 95 million, is testament to the growing fanbase for women’s cricket in India,” he added.  We have all been through a very difficult year and are happy to be getting back at playing the game we all love Mithali Raj,India’s ODI captain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/2022-womens-wc-dates-announced/article33341194.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Bumrah and company will hope history repeats itself Down Under||In Johannesburg three years ago, India did something that was so startling, so historically unexpected that for many it overshadowed the result of the Test match. India beat South Africa, but what stood out was their bowling line-up. They went into the match with five fast bowlers, and nary a spinner in sight. Jasprit Bumrah, the spearhead then (as now) turned 27 this month, and might wonder what the fuss is all about. After all, he leads an attack capable of crossing the 140kmph mark consistently, But consider this: India’s ‘tearaways’ who have opened the bowling include Sunil Gavaskar, Ajit Wadekar, Tiger Pataudi, and even wicketkeeper Budhi Kunderan. There is a generation in India who will find it difficult to believe that India’s fast bowling attack, if not the best in the world, can match the best. Up against Pat Cummings, Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazelwood are Bumrah, Mohammed Shami, and possibly Umesh Yadav. Except for the fact that one set is playing at home, there isn’t much to choose between them. When India won the last series there, Bumrah, Shami, Ishant Sharma claimed 48 wickets. They finished 2018 with 130 wickets together, equalling the record of Holding-Marshall-Garner in 1984 when the West Indies ruled the world. As another series begins, the question is, can the Indian bowlers repeat their success? A larger question is, how did India, for so long the land of spin and gentle surprises become home to some of the fastest men in the business? Why, for years did Kapil Dev, Javagal Srinath and Zaheer Khan (who had 981 Test wickets among them over three generations) have to go it largely alone? It wasn’t always like this. India went into their inaugural Test in 1932 with Mohammed Nissar, as quick as Harold Larwood of Bodyline fame, and Amar Singh who, in the words of the English batsman Walter Hammond, “came off the pitch like the crack of doom.” Birth of spin tradition In the first post-War series, left arm spinner Vinoo Mankad made his debut; he was joined a couple of seasons later by off spinner Ghulam Ahmed and then by leg spinner Subhash Gupte. The first great Indian spin trio was born, as was an Indian tradition (although individual spinners had made their mark earlier). The affinity between Indians and slow bowling has been commented on for decades. Perhaps it had something to do with the climate and a certain philosophical detachment. Perhaps it was a manifestation of a non-violent form of attack. Whatever the reason (and there were many theories), spin was seen as India’s thing, to use a modern idiom. Nearly six decades ago, when Tiger Pataudi took over as captain, he soon had some of the greatest spinners — Prasanna, Chandrasekhar, Venkatraghavan, Bedi — in his side, and looked no further for bowling resources. The odd medium pacer who came along, Subroto Guha for example, was seen as an anomaly. Pataudi was a pragmatic man, and it is possible that he destroyed pace bowling in India, convinced it could not, in fact, need not grow in the shadow of spin. He didn’t think there could be a bowler here like England’s John Snow, whom he captained at Sussex. Or maybe it was an idea whose time hadn’t come. “Pick your best bowlers, and if they are all spinners, so be it,” he said. Indian bowling attacks were lopsided for years. The theory was successful at home on helpful wickets, but failed in England and Australia. Even as recently as the 2014 series in those countries the familiar cry was articulated after India lost: We must find fast bowlers. We must prepare wickets for them in domestic competitions. Soon after, the Board of Control for Cricket in India told its curators to leave grass on the pitch (between 3mm and 8mm) to aid fast bowling. It helped. As did the general level of fitness and bowler-specific regimen developed by professional fitness men attached to the teams. Playing alongside some of the finest fast bowlers year after year in the IPL — Bumrah and Lasit Malinga were teammates at Mumbai Indians — ensured that free education was available on tap. The Arun influence The coming together of a whole set of circumstances meant that India has enviable bench strength. Bowling coach Bharati Arun has been the quiet strength behind the scenes — a diffidence that means he has not been given the credit he deserves for developing India’s bowlers. His contribution is significant. Lead spinner R. Ashwin has acknowledged that. In Australia, India will miss Ishant Sharma’s experience — he is just three short of 300 Test wickets — but it might mean, as the series progresses, a call up for Navdeep Saini or Mohammed Siraj. The return of Steve Smith (and later, David Warner) will keep the spotlight trained on Bumrah and the heroes of 2018-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-and-company-will-hope-history-repeats-itself-down-under/article33341151.ece
16 December 2020||SONEPAT,||Aayush gets past Vaibhav||Aayush Sharma pipped Vaibhav Kundu 6-3, 6-7(6), 7-6(4) in the first round of the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament at the Shantima Tennis Academy here on Tuesday. Second seed Siddharth Arya had to sweat it out 7-6(2), 7-6(3) against Utkarsh Tiwari. At Chandigarh, Top seed Aryan Thakur set up a summit clash against Navya Verma in the under-16 boys’ event of the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament at the CLTA Complex. The girls’ final will be between top two seeds Harleen Kaur Dhanda and Radhika Vasudeva. Top seed Bhavika Proacha fought her way past Diya Chaudhary 1-6, 6-3, 6-2 to set up a title clash against second seed Inaya Mittal in the under-14 girls event of the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament at the Chamunda Tennis Academy in Karnal.  The results:   At Sonepat (Rs. 100,000 men’s ranking):   First round: Chirag Duhan bt Raghav Harsh 6-1, 6-0; Tanik Gupta bt Vishesh Rathi 6-4, 6-1; A Siddharth bt Naman Dadlani 4-6, 6-4, 6-4; Aayush Gurnani bt Raghav Singh 6-0, 6-1; Vivek Kumar bt Hemant Kumar 7-5, 7-6(4); Amit Dahiya bt Ankush Mishra 6-4, 7-6(2); Abhinay Kumar bt Sonu Khan 6-3, 6-3; Shivam Dalmia bt Prashant Kumar 6-4, 4-6, 6-2; Fardeen Qamar bt Aditya Nandal 6-1, 6-2.   Chinmay Dev Chauhan bt Krishan Hooda 6-1, 6-2; Dhananjay Singh bt Divanshu Hooda 6-3, 6-2; Aayush Sharma bt Vaibhav Kundu 6-3, 6-7(6), 7-6(4); SandeshDattray bt Ayyoque Ahmed 7-6(2), 7-5; Gajender Singh bt Bharat 6-3, 6-4; Amandeep bt Arjun Kundu 6-2, 6-3; Siddharth Arya bt Utkarsh Tiwari 7-6(2), 7-6(3).   At Chandigarh (under-16): Boys: Semifinals: Aryan Thakur bt Akshat Dhull 9-2; Navya Verma bt Aditya Chauhan 9-5; Quarterfinals: Aryan bt Rakshit Dhankar 9-5; Akshat bt Anirudh Sangra 9-4; Aditya bt Arnav Bishnoi 9-2; Navya bt Kartik Kumar 9-1.   Girls: Semifinals: Harleen Kaur Dhanda bt Gurmanat Kaur Sandhu 9-2; Radhika Vasudeva bt Maitreyi Phogat 9-0; Quarterfinals: Harleen bt Bhumika Gupta 9-2; Gurmanat bt Vanya Arora 9-8(5); Maitreyi bt Ananya Dogra 9-4; Radhika bt Riya Kaushik 9-6.   At Karnal (under-14): Semifinals: Boys: Pratyushraj Goel bt Aditiya 6-4, 6-1; Daksh Khokhar bt Priyansh Barthwal 6-2, 6-3. Girls: Bhavika Proacha bt Diya Chaudhary 1-6, 6-3, 6-2; Inaya Mittal bt Alia Dahiya 6-1, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aayush-gets-past-vaibhav/article33341340.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Have our plans in place for Kohli: Langer||Australia coach Justin Langer on Tuesday hailed the compelling rivalry between India and Australia, while explaining why it has always had allure and sparked the best games. “This is a great series, a great rivalry that has been built up for a long time between Australia and India... a great rivalry for world cricket I think,” Langer said at a virtual media interaction on Tuesday. Langer alluded to the 2-1 Test series win in India in 2004 as a watershed moment of his playing career. “I've said many times, beating India in India in 2004 was Mount Everest of my career because we knew how hard it was!” Langer said. “In the past, India has found it hard to win over here (Australia). I guess I've never heard Virat (Kohli) say it but beating us over here last time... (2018-19) — these moments are very important in each of our cricket, whether as individuals or as a collective experience." Langer credited the Indian Premier League (IPL) for promoting a sense of camaraderie and sportsmanship among the players. “We will play tough cricket, but in the spirit it’s meant to be played. That’s one of the benefits of the IPL, I think. The guys get to know each other. There's a good relationship... All things said I can't wait... Bring it on, Thursday!" The Virat showdown Asked about Australia’s plans against Kohli the batsman, and whether the side will engage him if he gets fired up, Langer said, “What we talk about is how to get Virat out. He is such a great player, we don't talk about whether we taunt him or not. That’s rubbish... We play on the skill, not on emotions, at least we try to,” Langer said. “He is a great player and a great leader. I have got so much respect for him but we are going to be really well planned for him because we know how important he is for India as a leader and as a batsman. So, we will have our plans in place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/have-our-plans-in-place-for-kohli-langer/article33341147.ece
16 December 2020||Kochi,||Anju Bobby George looking to cash in on her image||After opting for voluntary retirement from Chennai Customs a few days ago, Anju Bobby George is now on a new mission. She is keen to tap the ‘brand Anju’ and hopes it will raise funds for her Anju Bobby Sports Foundation in Bengaluru. “I’m planning to get into professional sports in a bigger way, like supporting school sports, do some private coaching, ads... such things,” said Anju, the country’s lone World Championships medallist in athletics, in a chat with The Hindu . Prime years The 2003 Worlds long jump bronze medallist said she could not tap the Indian market commercially during her prime years between 2000 and 2009. “Those days HSI, which was managing some of the world’s leading American athletes, was managing me and I did ads for Nike which ran internationally. The ad shoots were in Australia. “But my manager had no connections in India. I had some chances to do ads for big companies (in India), but I missed them because my priorities then were training and competition. “ Ads meant that I had to do five to six appearances, so I could not do them.  “Now, I need to explore the ‘brand Anju’ more. I think the brand is worth a lot even today. I’m getting some good offers too. I’ve signed a five-year contract with Tattva School in Bengaluru and there is also the Milo Home Ground programme for school children.” Anju, who spoke about the pain and uncertainty she had to undergo in her athletics career as she was born with a single kidney, said that work on the synthetic track at her academy, where her husband Robert Bobby George is the coach, has started and she plans to shift her trainees, including the very talented Shaili Singh, from the SAI centre as soon as the work is over. “We have got Rs. 5 crore from the Central Government but we need more funds to complete all the work we had planned. We have pumped in a lot of our money too and we are looking at other sources for support,” said the AFI senior vice-president who was in Kochi on Tuesday as the national federation’s observer for the Kerala Athletics Association elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anju-bobby-george-looking-to-cash-in-on-her-image/article33341388.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Santana does it for HFC||Profligacy in front of goal in the first half gave way to clinical finishing in the second as Hyderabad FC maintained its unbeaten run in the ISL with a 3-2 comeback win over SC East Bengal at the Tilak Maidan, Vasco, on Tuesday. Skipper Aridane Santana, who missed a spot-kick, netted two goals in one minute and Halicharan Narzary added to the tally as Hyderabad scored thrice in the space of 12 minutes. Substitute Liston Colaco made a big impression with two assists. Against the run of play, East Bengal broke the duck with what was its first shot. In the 26th minute, Matti Steinman made an unmarked run into the box from the left and squared the ball to Maghoma, who smashed it low past goalkeeper Subrata Pal. After Liston won a free-kick at the edge of the box, Yasir’s speared-in-cross into the box took the faintest touch off Santana’s head to carry the ball away from Debjit and into the net in the 56th minute. Yasir stole the ball from Maghoma in his own half and played in Liston, whose pass pierced through the East Bengal defence and found an unmarked Santana who did the rest. Liston then set up Narzary for a simple finish after a solo run into the box in the 68th minute. East Bengal found a lifeline nine minutes from the end when Subrata couldn’t keep out Maghoma’s flicked header off an Anthony Pilkington free-kick.   The result: Hyderabad FC 3 (Santana 56 & 56, Narzary 68) bt SC East Bengal 2 (Maghoma 26 & 81).   Wednesday’s match: ATK Mohun Bagan vs FC Goa, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santana-does-it-for-hfc/article33341196.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna gains a wildcard||Former Asian champion P. Harikrishna has gained a wildcard to be part of the $200,000 Airthings Masters online chess tournament beginning on December 26. Harikrishna joins World champion Magnus Carlsen, current Champions Chess Tour leader Wesley So, World No. 1 blitz player Hikaru Nakamura and eight others in the 12-player elite field. Dutch No. 1 Anish Giri, Russia No. 1 Ian Nepomiachtchi, Spanish champion David Anton Guijarro, Armenia’s No. 1 Levon Aronian, French No. 1 Maxime Vachier Lagrave and former World Cup winner Azerbaijan’s Teimour Radjabov made it after being among the top-eight finishers in the previous event on the Tour. Former World rapid champion Daniil Dubov is the other wildcard while three-time World blitz champion Russia’s Alexander Grischuk made it after winning the popular vote on host broadcaster chess24.com . After three days of round-robin league, the top eight will advance to the knockout quarterfinals. The event, second on the $1.5 million Tour, a 10-tournament circuit of rapid online chess, will end on January 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-gains-a-wildcard/article33341337.ece
16 December 2020||TOKYO,||Tokyo Games torch relay set to begin on March 25||The torch relay for the postponed Tokyo Olympics will start in just over three months, and it faces the same questions as the Olympics about being held safely during the pandemic. Organisers said on Tuesday the relay is to begin on March 25 from Fukushima. This was also to have been the starting point for the relay before the Olympics were postponed nine months ago.  The relay will travel across Japan and involve 10,000 runners and tens of thousands of officials. This does not include local residents who will want to see the torch go by. “The COVID-19 countermeasures will be worked on continuously for the torch relay; the audience, the torchbearers as well as the officials who are related to the program,” Yukihiko Nunomura, vice director-general of the Tokyo Olympic Organising Committee, said on Tuesday during an on-line news conference. The relay is sponsored by Toyota and Coca-Cola — two heavyweight Olympic sponsors. The relay will last for 121 days and pass through 859 municipalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-games-torch-relay-set-to-begin-on-march-25/article33341424.ece
16 December 2020||Itanagar,||Record entries for Rally of Arunachal||Itanagar will reverberate with the sound of roaring cars as the Rally of Arunachal, round one of Champions Yacht Club Indian National Rally Championship, powered by MRF Tyres gets underway here on Wednesday. The rally will have a record number of 43 cars lining up. All eyes will be on the battle between defending champion Chetan Shivram and Gaurav Gill. The Rally of Arunachal will see the teams fight it out over a total distance of 178.32km, with as many as 108km earmarked for four special stages over two days, including two night stages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/record-entries-for-rally-of-arunachal/article33341425.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Yuvraj set to pad up again||Former India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh is set to come out of retirement and play domestic cricket again after being named in Punjab’s 30-strong list of probables for next month’s Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament. Yuvraj, the star of India’s 2011 World Cup-winning campaign, had announced his retirement last June, but decided to resume playing for his home state after being approached by Punjab Cricket Association secretary Puneet Bali. Video on social media The 39-year-old left-handed batsman, who has played 304 ODIs, 40 Tests and 58 T20Is for India, has been training at the PCA stadium in Mohali and also posted a video of his preparations on social media. Yuvraj had participated in the Global T20 league in Canada after his retirement. The BCCI plans to conduct the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, the national T20 championship, from January 10, the venues for which will be declared later. The tournament will be conducted in bio-secure and teams will have to assemble at their respective bases by January 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuvraj-set-to-pad-up-again/article33341184.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Moody named SRH director of cricket||Australia cricketer-turned-coach Tom Moody was on Tuesday appointed as the director of cricket by IPL franchise Sunrisers Hyderabad. The 55-year-old Australian was in charge of SRH for seven years till the 2019 season, guiding the team to the title in 2016 before he was replaced by England’s World Cup-winning coach Trevor Bayliss in July last year. During Moody’s tenure, Sunrisers reached the play-offs five times.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/moody-named-srh-director-of-cricket/article33341189.ece
16 December 2020||Vigo (Spain),||Celta blows away Cadiz||Celta Vigo earned its biggest win since June when it beat Cadiz 4-0 in the Spanish league. Cadiz was coming off beating Barcelona 2-1 at home but started badly and by halftime, was down 4-0. Nolito’s third goal in four games put Celta Vigo on the board after only six minutes. Alvaro Negredo headed off the right post moments later, but Iago Aspas doubled the lead from the penalty spot. Santi Mina was fouled by Jeremias Ledesma and left the field soon after. Aspas got a second assist when Fran Beltran shot in the third goal just before halftime, and there was still enough time for Brais Mendez’s first goal of the season with a header in injury time. The second half was messy but Celta had already se cured its third straight win over Cadiz.  The result: Celta Vigo 4 (Nolito 6, Aspas 31-pen, Beltran 43, Mendez 45+1) Cadiz 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/celta-blows-away-cadiz/article33341197.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Bowlers can win Tests if we get big totals: Kapil||Kapil Dev believes India’s batsmen will have to play a big role in the Test series in Australia and give the bowlers enough runs to work with. “The bowlers will get used to the line and length [needed on Australian wickets]. But the batsmen will have to play a bigger role. If they get a big total, our bowlers are ready to save the match or win it,” the legendary all-rounder said on the Tissot Presents Sportstar Extras T20 Time show. Kapil is happy with the way the pacers have shaped up. “Speed-wise, all the three fast bowlers — Mohammed Shami, Navdeep Saini, Jasprit Bumrah — bowl regularly at 145kmph; that’s the strength. We had this previously, too, but it was not so consistent as a unit.” He also felt that Rohit Sharma will be a big asset in Australia. “He is a great cricketer... in Australia, he will be very useful. Rohit has the right approach.” Watch full interview on www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0BP0iURP8Y||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowlers-can-win-tests-if-we-get-big-totals-kapil/article33341145.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI:,||Born Queen reigns in South India 1000 Guineas||Satish Narredu-trained Born Queen (Suraj Narredu astride) claimed the South India 1000 Guineas, the first Classic of the season here on Tuesday (Dec. 15), to complete a hat-trick of wins. The winner is the property of United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. The daughter of Tazahum-State Secret, who jumped out smartly from gate 11 and was well positioned in the third position till the final turn, improved gradually and came up with gigantic strides to overtake long-time leader Good Connection in the last 250m to register a win by four lengths. Trainer R. Ramanathan, who was given a licence this year, saddled three winners, while jockey Suraj Narredu scored a treble.  1. KENTUCKY PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 45: RENEGADE (Zervan) 1, Glorious Flame (A.M. Alam) 2, Incredible Star (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Choir (Umesh) 4. 2-1/4, 1-3/4 and 1-1/2. 1m, 12.90s. Owner: Mr. H. Thambuswamy. Trainer: P. Krishna.  2. DECEMBER PLATE (Div. II) , (1,000m), rated 0 to 25: INTOX (P.P. Dhebe) 1, Vibrant Approach (Brisson) 2, Heavenly Blue (C. Umesh) 3 and Orange Pekoe (Rayan Ahmed) 4. 2-1/4, 1-3/4 and 2. 1m, 1.20s. Owner: Mrs. Beena Mahaesh. Trainer: Vishesh.  3. DECEMBER PLATE (Div. I) , (1,000m), rated 0 to 25: DAIYAMONDO (C. Umesh) 1, Medovic (Shahar Babu) 2, Palace Music (M. Bhaskar) 3 and Azeria (P. Vinod) 4. Not run: Arazinger. 1-1/4, 1-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 1.83s. Owners: Mr. Kishore Futnani & Mr. Chirag D. Joshi. Trainer: D.K. Futnani.  4. K. BHAGAVAN DAS MEMORIAL CUP (Div. II) , (1,000m), 4-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: THOMAS HARDY (Shahar Babu) 1, Royal Protocal (Akshay Kumar) 2, Palsy Walsy (Zervan) 3 and Crown Of Stars (B. Nikhil) 4. 1-1/4, 2-3/4 and shd. 59.72s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  5. K. BHAGAVAN DAS MEMORIAL CUP (Div. I) , (1,000m), 4-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: GODS PLAN (Suraj Narredu) 1, Glorious Land (A.M. Alam) 2, Kings Show (C. Umesh) 3 and My Passion (Akshay Kumar) 4. Not run: Fiat Justitia. 3, 2-3/4 and 2. 59.28s. Owners: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah & United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  6. SOUTH INDIA 1000 GUINEAS (1,600m), 3-y-o fillies only (Terms): BORN QUEEN (Tazahum- State Secret) (Suraj Narredu) 1 , MISTLETOE (Win Legend-Conceptual) (Akshay Kumar) 2, NIGHT SECRET (Night of Thunder-Serenity Star) (Srinath) 3 and SUCCESSOR (Leitir Mor-Sweeping Success) (P. Trevor) 4. 4, 1-1/2 and 1/2. 1m, 36.96s. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: S. Narredu.  7. SUNDAY SILENCE PLATE (1,800m), rated 20 to 45: ROYAL COMMANDER (Nakhat Singh) 1, Dominant (P. Trevor) 2, Brilliant Script (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Sifan (C. Umesh) 4. Not run: Embrace. 3/4, 5-1/2 and 2-1/4. 1m, 53.98s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: R. Foley.  8. MIDNIGHT MADNESS PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65: NIGHT HUNT (Suraj Narredu) 1, Shalem (Irvan Singh) 2, Royal Rules (Brisson) 3 and Catelyn (Kamigallu) 4. 4-1/2, 1-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 25.77s. Owners: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah & United Racing Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/born-queen-reigns-in-south-india-1000-guineas/article33341631.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Archa form||Of Lord Narayana’s forms, it is the archa form that is of huge importance to us, for in this form He can be seen by us and it is this form that facilitates concentrated worship by us. When we see Him in idol form in a temple, it is easier for us to focus on Him, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Bhakti towards Him becomes simple when we observe His form. We also worship in the form of salagramas at home. How simple He is in archa form is seen in how quietly He accepts our humble offerings, when the whole world is at His disposal. If there is a flood or a fire in a person’s home, his first thought is to save his possessions. Thoughts about any murthy of God or Salagrama that he has, come to him later. But Bhagavan waits patiently for his bhakta to take Him away. He is very much like a parent. A son may go abroad and not visit for many years. Even phone calls from him may be few and far between. When the son finally does come after many years, do the parents ask why he has turned up now when he never bothered to come all these years? They do not. They are glad to see him. In the same way, we may not go to a temple to worship for a long time. But when one day we make up our minds to go to the temple, does the Lord ask why we have come now, when all these years we did not? So, He is loving, like a parent. He can be Rama, or Krishna, or Narasimha in His archa form. He takes the form which pleases His devotees. A person visiting a Narasimha temple may be from Srirangam, in which case, when he comes to the temple, regardless of the fact that it is Narasimha who is enshrined there, he may say, “Pranaams to you, Ranga.” The Lord does not question him why he said Ranga, when He has taken the form of Narasimha in the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-archa-form/article33341134.ece
16 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Iniyan, Pranav claim gold||Grandmaster P. Iniyan and V. Pranav won gold medals in the under-18 and u-14 open categories respectively in the Asian continental online selection chess tournament recently for the FIDE online world u-10 to 18 rapid championships to be held from Dec. 19 to 23. Rich haul With 10 medals — two gold, six silver and two bronze — India finished on top, followed by China and Iran.  The Indian medallists:   Gold: P. Iniyan (open u-18), V. Pranav (open u-14).   Silver: Sankalp Gupta (open u-18), Aditya Mittal (open u-14), Mrinmoy Rajkhowa (open u-10), L. Jyothsna (girls u-16), Mrittika Mallick (girls u-12), Shreya G. Hipparagi (girls u-10).   Bronze: N. Priyanka (girls u-18), Rakshitta Ravi (girls u-16) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iniyan-pranav-claim-gold/article33341185.ece
16 December 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI AGM at Ahmedabad on Dec. 24||Ahmedabad will host the BCCI Annual General Meeting (AGM) on December 24. The decision was notified to the affiliates on Tuesday. The notice for the meeting had not specified the agenda as the BCCI was in consultation with the Maharashtra government on whether the AGM could be organised at its headquarters in Mumbai. Once it failed to get permission, Ahmedabad was decided as the venue. The election officer, A.K. Joti, has released the final electoral roll of 28 member representatives for the election of the vice-president and two IPL Governing Council members. 10 affiliates have been barred — Punjab, Rajasthan, Odisha, Tripura, Jammu & Kashmir, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Railways, Services and All India Universities — from attending the AGM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-agm-at-ahmedabad-on-dec-24/article33341182.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Geetha Poojary and Girish Gaba emerge leaders||Girish Gaba and Geetha Poojary emerged the men's and women's leaders respectively at the end of round one of the Karnataka State Tenpin Bowling Championships on Tuesday. Girish scored 1257 pins in his second block of six games, moving into the top position with a total pinfall of 2387. Defending champion R. Kishan scored 1084 pins in his second block to drop to second with 2315. In the women’s category, Geetha Poojary who had a fine day scoring 1067 pins, topped the field (2000). Overnight leader Premal Joan slipped to second, 29 pins behind.   The RBG South Zone Tour Championship for 2020 tees off at the Eagleton Golf Resort here from Wednesday. This is the third leg of the RBG Champions Golf Development Tour that provides players a chance to earn World Golf ranking points. The event will be played over 54 holes (3 rounds) and will consist of Junior (7-12 yrs), Teen (13-18) and Amateur (19+) categories (both boys and girls). The winners in the junior and amateur categories will be gaining Global Junior Golf Ranking (JGS) and World Amateur Golf Rankings (WAGR) points respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/geetha-poojary-and-girish-gaba-emerge-leaders/article33341613.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Victory Playground hoopsters triumph||Victory Playground defeated Hyderabad Mayors 83-75 in the final of the Dumpala Narsing Rao Patel memorial basketball tournament here. International boxer Nikhat Zareen gave away the prizes.  The result: Final: Victory PG 83 (Pathak 21, Mintu 19, Salman 18, Naveen 16) bt Hyd. Mayors 75 (Naresh 20, Prasanth 17, Balu 15); Third place: TTSF bt Hyd. Sporting Club 61-56 .       A. Sreeja of Reserve Bank of India recorded three wins in the Group I league phase of the women’s category of the seventh Stag Telangana State table tennis championship on Tuesday.  The results: Men: League: Group I: Saswat Baran Samal (MLR) bt Kesavan Khannan (MLR) 8-11, 11-8, 13-11, 5-11, 12-10; Saswat bt Aman Balgu (CRSCB) 12-10, 11-13, 9-11, 12-10, 11-7; Aman bt Kesavan 16-18, 11-7, 11-9, 11-8; Aman bt Manohar Kumar (IOC) 11-9, 7-11, 11-9, 11-6.   Group II: S.F.R. Snehit (MLR) bt Ali Mohd (AVSC) 11-6, 11-9, 11-7; Snehit bt Vatsin 11-6, 12-10, 9-11, 11-8; Snehit bt Varun Shanker (MLR) 11-5, 11-6, 11-7; Ali Mohd. bt Varun 10-12, 11-8, 11-5, 9-11, 12-10; Ali Mohd. bt Vatsin 11-7, 8-11, 11-3, 11-7.   Group III: Zubair Farooqui (LBS) bt Saroj Siril (AWA) 7-11, 6-11, 11-8, 11-8, 11-6; Zubair bt Swarnendu (AVSC) 13-11, 11-9, 9-11, 11-6; Swarnendu bt Saroj 11-8, 11-8, 11-4; Swarnendu bt Sainath Reddy (MLR) 9-11, 11-8, 11-8, 11-8.   Group IV: Mohd. Ali (LBS) bt Chandra Chud 13-11, 8-11, 7-11, 11-3, 11-7; Mohd. Ali bt Vishal (GSM) 11-5, 11-6, 14-12; Chandra bt Arvind (AWA) 11-8, 7-11,11-1, 11-4.   Women: League: Group I: A. Sreeja (RBI) bt P. Mercy (HVS) 11-2, 11-7, 11-6; Sreeja bt V. Laasya (AWA) 11-5, 11-7, 9-11, 11-6; Sreeja bt Vinichitra Yadav (MLR) 11-8, 11-6, 11-8; Laasya bt Vinichitra 11-7, 12-10, 11-7; Laasya bt Mercy 11-5, 11-2, 11-9.   Group II: Varuni Jaiswal (GSM) bt M. Gayatri (YMCA) 11-9, 11-3, 11-8; Varuni bt K. Ikshitha (AWA) 11-9, 11-4, 11-8; Varuni bt N. Bhaavitha (GSM) 11-8, 11-5, 13-11; Bhaavitha bt Ikshitha 10-12, 11-9, 6-11, 11-5, 11-9; Bhaavitha bt Gayatri 11-6, 11-4, 10-12, 11-8.   Group III: G. Pranitha (HVS) bt M. Nikhita (PPA) 11-7, 11-3, 11-8; Pranitha bt Rachana (GSM) 11-9, 11-5, 11-6; Pranitha bt V. Saasya (AWA) 9-11, 11-6, 11-6, 11-5; Saasya bt Rachana 5-11, 11-5, 11-9, 11-3; Saasya bt Nikhita 11-8, 11-7, 11-6.   Group IV: R. Nivedita (MLR) bt Y. Nikhitha (YMCA) 11-4, 11-4, 11-4; Nivedita bt Hanifa Khatoon (VPG) 11-2, 11-6, 11-5; Nivedita bt Mounica (GSM) 11-6, 11-9,11-13, 8-11, 11-7; Mounica bt Hanifa 11-7, 13-11, 11-8; Mounica bt Nikhitha 12-10, 11-4, 11-8 .    Hyderabad’s biggest football league, HFL, has launched its first ever football coaching academy at Basheerbagh. Camps will be conducted in separate batches for those aged eight years and above from Monday to Friday in the evenings for male and female footballers. For registrations, visit www.thehfl.in or call 9133662193.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/victory-playground-hoopsters-triumph/article33341678.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Mathur’s century fashions Shraddhanand’s big win||Sumit Mathur’s 101 laid the foundation of Swami Shraddhanand College’s resounding 69-run victory over Hari Singh Academy, Ghaziabad, in the quarterfinals of the 30th All India Sperry Om Nath Sood memorial cricket tournament at the RSKP ground here on Tuesday.  The scores: Swami Shraddhanand College 238 in 38.3 overs (Sumit Mathur 101, Lakshay Thareja 40, Ankush Bains 36, Rohan Rana 3/22, Ravi Tewatia 3/38) beat Hari Singh Academy 169 in 37.2 overs (Salil Malhotra 45, Dev Khanna 30, Aman Sehrawat 4/37) .      Lakshay Sharma (4/18) and Naman Bisht (55) played leading roles in R.V.S. Academy’s seven-wicket win over Ganga International Academy (GIS) in the final of the first Winter (under-13) cricket tournament at the Rohini ground, Karala.  The scores:   GIS Academy 147/9 in 40 overs (Harsh Aggarwal 46, Aaina Taak 45, Lakshay Sharma 4/18) lost to R.V.S. Academy 151/3 in 33 overs (Naman Bisht 55, Ridhaan 40, Rohit Kumar 33).      Krish Chahar (55) and Badal Rai (3/34) enabled Sporting Club beat R.C.C. Club by 21 runs and enter the semifinals of the first Backyard RCC (under-14) cricket tournament at the Greenfield ground, Mundka.  The scores: Sporting Club 208/8 in 30 overs (Krish Chahar 55, Nikhil Maan 37, Tanish Rana 4/23) beat R.C.C. Club 187/8 in 30 overs (Sachin Yadav 69, Badal Rai 3/34).    Uttar Pradesh (under-19) player Anchit Yadav’s all-round display (3/41 and 77) helped T.N. Memorial beat Udaybhan Academy by seven wickets on way to the semifinals of the Turf Youth Cup (under-19) cricket tournament at the Guru Gobind Singh College ground here.  The scores: Udaybhan Academy 187 in 38.3 overs (Vansh Bedi 69, Amanpreet Singh 29, Aryan Dabas 28, Tusya Naman 3/10, Anchit Yadav 3/41) lost to T.N. Memorial 189/3 in 34.3 overs (Anchit Yadav 77, Aaradhya Yadav 55 not out, Siddarth Yadav 28 not out) .      Abhimanyu Singh’s 102 and half-centuries from Yash Dabas and Bharat Sindhwani contributed to Telefunken’s 168-run win over Gross Sporting in the B.R. Sharma memorial cricket tournament at the Mohan Meakin ground, Ghaziabad.  The scores: Telefunken Club 331/7 in 40 overs (Abhimanyu Singh 102, Yash Dabas 56, Bharat Sindhwani 54) beat Gross Sporting 163 in 31.4 overs (Saksham Singh 44, Jagdev Bhati 37, Siddhant Bansal 4/13) .      Neeraj Yadav (4/26) and Ankit Chouhan (3/1) joined hands to script Youth XI’s massive 187-run victory over G.K. Club in the first Tripathi Premier League at the Tripathi Sports Complex.  The scores: Youth XI 262/7 in 40 overs (Vipul Choudhary 68, Shubham Sehrawat 53, Jatin Gehlot 35, Kaushal Suman 35) beat G.K. Club 75 in 27.5 overs (Neeraj Yadav 4/26, Ankit Chouhan 3/1) .      Aakash Kumar (105 not out) and Shaffin Kumar (58) were the main architects of Harbhajan Institute of Cricket’s 27-run win over Uday Gupta Academy in the Hari Ballabh Sharma memorial (under-14) cricket tournament at the St. Stephen’s ground.  The scores: Harbhajan Institute Of Cricket 240/8 in 40 overs (Aakash Kumar 105 not out, Shaffin Kumar 58, Aman Chaudhary 26) beat Uday Gupta Academy 213/8 in 40 overs (Ayan Kumar 63, Sameer Jayant 47, Aditya Kumar 33) .    Dipesh Balyan (27 and 3/11) contributed the most to Lal Bahadur Shastri Club’s 54-run win over Rohtak Road Gymkhana in the first Bhola Singh memorial (under-17) cricket tournament at the Chattar Singh ground.  The scores: L.B. Shastri 162/9 in 40 overs (Garvit Grover 36, Aditya 31, Dipesh Balyan 27, Abhishek Kumar 3/26, Anshul Sehrawat 3/37) beat Rohtak Road Gymkhana 108 in 34 overs (Lakshay Goyal 27, Dipesh Balyan 3/11) .    Tarun Bisht (46 and 3/39) helped Uttaranchal Boys Academy beat RPL Academy by 40 runs in the seventh S. N. memorial cricket tournament at the Pioneer ground.  The scores: Uttaranchal Boys Academy 231/8 in 40 overs (Ayush Kumar 61, Rushal Saini 55, Tarun Bisht 46, Gautam Saxena 4/30, Aaditya Kumar 4/45) beat RPL Academy 191 in 36.2 overs (Aaditya Kumar 69, Kavya Kumar 27, Tarun Bisht 4/39) .    Kapish Gehlot (3/15) and Aryan Gehlot (45) enabled Achievers Academy beat Aardin Academy by three wickets in the first Airliner Winter cricket tournament at the Bharti College ground.  The scores: Aardin Academy 133 in 26 overs (Lakshya 45, Kapish Gehlot 3/15) lost to Achievers Academy 137/7 in 22 overs (Aryan Gehlot 45, Aditya Madan 41, Aarush Kumar 4/23) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mathurs-century-fashions-shraddhanands-big-win/article33341671.ece
16 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sreesanth named in Kerala probables’ list||The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) has named S. Sreesanth as one of the probables for Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy 2021. The selectors have named 26 probables who will undergo a preparatory camp and will play a series of selection matches at S.D. College ground, Alappuzha from December 20 to 30. All players and support staff will have to undergo RT-PCR test before reporting for the camp which will be held in a bio-secure environment.  The probables:   Robin Uthappa, Jalaj Saxena, Sanju Samson, Vishnu Vinod, P. Rahul, Mohammed Azharudeen, Rohan Kunnamel, Sachin Baby, Salman Nizar, Basil Thampi, S. Sreesanth, M.D. Nidheesh, K.M. Asif, N.P. Basil, Akashay Chandran, Sijomon Joseph, S. Mithun, Abhishek Mohan, Vatsal Govind, Anand Joseph, Vinoop Manohar, P.K. Midhun, Sreeroop, K.C. Akshay, Rojith and M. Arun.   Head coach: Tinu Yohannan; Assistant Coach: Mazar Moidu; Physio: Ashly Tommy; Trainer: Visahakh Krishna; Video Analyst: Saji Soman .   The selectors have named 26 players who will undergo a preparatory camp and figure in a series of selection matches||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreesanth-in-kerala-probables-list/article33341187.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 10:10 IST,||Sudoku - December 16, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-16-2020/article33342646.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||You scream, ice cream for Christmas||Shwey’s artisanal ice creams have come out with an ice cream hamper, which contains three much-loved Christmas flavours. The first is an eggnog drink, made of organic milk, country egg yolks and hand-pound spices such as dried ginger, nutmeg and cinnamon. Then comes a chocolate and marshmallow ice cream called ‘A Bumpy Ride to Santa’. “It contains marshmallow, so the texture isn’t smooth,” says Shweta Mathew, co-founder of Shwey’s, that was born as a lockdown experiment in Kochi. She runs it with her husband Abhner Mathew Pauly, who makes the ice creams. The third component in the hamper is a cream cheese-plum cake ice cream, called ‘Shwey’s Old Monk’. “This one is an ode to Kerala’s favourite spirit. We decided to make a fusion of our usual blueberry cream-cheese ice cream with the fruits I had soaked in rum for a plum cake,” says Shweta.  To order (in Kochi) head to @shwey’s_tin on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/you-scream-ice-cream-for-christmas/article33341351.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Making a murderer||A murder jolts the countryside dwellers out of their ordinary lives in an otherwise peaceful village. Suspicions arise and fingers are pointed. They know the murderer is one among them. Debutant director Sarath G Mohan says his upcoming Malayalam film Karnan Napoleon Bhagat Singh is a family thriller-cum-murder mystery. “A larceny leads to the cracking of a murder. The story moves forward through the perspective of Roopesh Raghavan, a young man who has cleared police recruitment tests and awaits posting. The entire film happens before he officially joins the force,” says Sarath, who has also written the script. Actor Dheeraj Denny (of Kalki, Varikkuzhiyile Kolapathakam fame) plays the young cop. Sarath says though Karnan Napoleon Bhagat Singh is essentially a whodunit, the focus is more on the ‘why’ than the ‘who’. “The story is set in a village called Manjamankala and we get to see how something like a murder creates such a flutter in a close-knit community,” says the Kollam native. He adds that perhaps in a countryside, sensational news often spreads faster. “The kind of attention such an incident would generate among people would be more. It is not just the bereaved family that is affected but the larger community itself,” he says. The film’s title is a hat-tip to a popular dialogue by Prithviraj Sukumaran’s character in 7th Day where he says “Karnan Napoleon Bhagat Singh... these three are my heroes”. Sarath says the title is a metaphor in his film. “A local arts and culture club where Roopesh and his friends get together frequently is named Karnan Napoleon Bhagat Singh. In fact, most of the action pivots around this club and its members,” adds Sarath, who scripted the 2016 movie Paulettante Veedu . Others in the cast include actor-director Althaf Salim, Eldho Mathew, Aneesh Gopal, Vishnu Purushan Biju Kuttan, Arya Manikandan and Aadhya Prasad. The film has music by Ranjin Raj and cinematography by Prasanth Krishna.  Karnan Napoleon Bhagat Singh was mainly shot in locations near Erattupetta in Kottayam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/making-a-murderer/article33341343.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Some kimchi for your jeon?||If the many scenes extensively featuring food in K-Dramas are anything to go by, Korean cuisine promises to be warm, comforting and delicious. And such was the food at ‘Celebrations of the Korean Culinary Arts’, organised over the weekend as a part of the Korean Cultural Week by the Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai. The consulate, in collaboration with The Leela Palace, Chennai, introduced five Korean dishes on Sunday evening to the diners at Spectra restaurant, with the aim of promoting the cuisine in the city and giving diners a peek into the nuances that go into creating the piquant flavours of these dishes. Korean food places emphasis on using many vegetables and little oil. “We went through a list of around seven to eight dishes, their recipes and the ingredients that go into them before zeroing in on five dishes. They had an interesting amalgamation of flavours which we were sure would appeal to the Indian palette as well,” said Rohit Tokhi, executive chef, speaking about how they planned the menu. The diners were ushered in; tables had a bowl of kimchi placed at the centre. Probably the most popular part of Korean cuisine and known world over, there was a lot of pressure on this seemingly simple side dish to deliver since it is widely considered to be the perfect accompaniment to most other dishes. The kimchi helped elevate the jeon (pancakes with chopped seafood). While japchae, or cellophane noodles, with vegetables and meat had an interesting combination of flavours, it is the texture that stood out; Chef Tokhi said that the potato starch noodles used made the dish unique. Bibimbap is generally served as a large dish, however at the event, compact, individual portion-sized bowls filled with rice, beef bulgogi, vegetables and an egg were served. “With bibimbap, I felt the strongest connection to the cuisine here in South India. It reminded me of a bowl of warm, comfort food akin to a bowl of hot rice and rasam that many of us turn to,” said Chef Tokhi. Bulgogi, the pièce de résistance of the meal, did not disappoint. The small pieces of tenderloin were perfectly marinated and cooked, and it was remarkable how tender the meat was. “The produce we used was fresh, all locally sourced and the ingredients were from our kitchen. We only had to specially source the noodles for the japchae and the Korean chilli powder,” he added. While it was the first time that their kitchen was serving a spread of Korean dishes, Chef Tokhi said that the dishes they put out will soon find a permanent place in the hotel’s buffets and brunches.  Interested in whipping up these dishes at home? Recipe videos by Chef Tokhi are available on the Facebook page of the Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/some-kimchi-for-your-jeon/article33341346.ece
16 December 2020||December 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Powerpuff Girls||At first, it seemed a foolproof plan: Jayati, Kavita and Veera, three best friends conspiring to kill husbands who had subjected them to physical and mental abuse... until one husband returns, having survived the bomb blast. This is the storyline of ZEE5’s upcoming thriller-dark comedy genre series Black Widows , starring Swastika Mukherjee, Mona Singh, Shamita Shetty, Raima Sen, Sharad Kelkar and Parambrata Chatterjee among others. Directed by Birsa Dasgupta, the series was shot in Kolkata after restrictions on filming was lifted following the initial lockdown earlier this year. In the 45 days they spent filming, the lead cast comprising Swastika, Shamita and Mona — in the latter’s words — “set the house on fire”. For reasons obvious to the trio, they couldn’t pass on the offer to be a part of the show. Says Swastika, over phone from Kolkata, “She is a strong-headed person who takes decisions on behalf of all.” Swastika plays Jayati; she adds: “It felt important to me that I had the opportunity to play a character who speaks of the social justice cause I stand for in real life. It is important to show women in a less vulnerable state and taking a stand, becoming independent and having their own perception of what freedom is to them.” Shamita, who plays Kavita, “the impulsive and restless character who is also a ticking time bomb”, says the show is about women deciding to take back power in a relationship. Black Widows streams on ZEE5 from December 18   It is important to show women in a less vulnerable state and having their own perception of freedom Swastika Mukherjee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-powerpuff-girls/article33341344.ece
16 December 2020||N ew Delhi,||Patients wait for hours only to go home as nurses strike work||Around 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday, a little away inside the main gate of AIIMS, 42-year-old Binti Devi was lying on a white stretcher. Cars and bikes were screeching past her without even noticing her. For six hours, she has been in this state, waiting for chemotherapy. “I have cancer in my stomach and was given today’s [Tuesday] date. We came here around 8 a.m. and now they are saying there is a strike and have asked us to go home. We haven’t eaten anything since morning,” Ms. Devi told The Hindu . As more than 3,000 nurses of the AIIIMS went on a sudden indefinite strike from Monday afternoon, families of several patients said they are left stranded without treatment at the hospital. Around 6 a.m., Ms. Devi and her family had left their house in Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh for her chemotherapy. But they have been given the next available date of December 21. “We don’t know whether it will happen on December 21, they might extend it again. There is no one to hear about poor people’s problems,” Ms. Devi said. No intimation Ms. Devi’s 15-year-old daughter, Shristi, said they had come to the hospital on Monday and was given Tuesday’s date by the authorities and no one told them about the strike. “She can’t breathe properly and I have to help her to get up. She can’t even do that alone,” Ms. Shristi said. Ms. Devi’s husband, an electrician, said they spent about Rs. 2,000 for one trip to the hospital as they had to hire a cab because of her condition. Near the emergency ward of the hospital, Indu Chaudhary was waiting with her 70-year-old mother-in-law, who was lying on a stretcher. “She has liver problem and we went to an OPD and the doctor asked us to go to the emergency. But here they are saying that there is a strike today [Tuesday] and has asked us to come back once it is over. We have been sitting here from 12 p.m.,” Ms. Chaudhary said around 3 pm. “Her condition is not that good, but we don’t have the money to go to a private hospital,” she added. Twenty-three-year-old Kishore Sisodia was massaging his mother’s legs. The latter was lying on the floor outside the Rajkumari OPD. “She had a surgery in her stomach a couple of days ago, and since then she has been complaining of stomach pain. We came to the hospital around 9 a.m. The doctor admitted her and gave her some medicine. He then told us that there is a strike and discharged her. She is still unwell and we want to admit her,” said Mr. Sisodia. When asked whether if it still pains, Baby Sisodia, 43, lying on the floor, nodded her head and pointed her hand to her stomach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/patients-wait-for-hours-only-to-go-home-as-nurses-strike-work/article33341373.ece
16 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Sukhbir says BJP is the real ‘tukde tukde gang’||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said the BJP was the real “tukde tukde” gang in the country and accused it of attempting to split the nation by setting one community against another. “So desperate is the BJP for power that it has no scruples about taking the communal polarisation route and setting the country on communal flames,” Mr. Badal Said. Talking to journalists in Bathinda, he said, “the BJP is conspiring to set our peace-loving Hindu brethren in Punjab against their Sikh brethren with whom they have shared strong bonds of blood for centuries”. “The BJP has been resorting to dangerous conspiracies to sabotage the hard-earned atmosphere of peace and communal harmony just for the realisation of petty political goals. The BJP leadership must realise that their party today has become the most powerful divisive force. It has been resorting to dividing the country and its people by spreading hatred in the name of religion,” Mr. Badal alleged. Referring to the ongoing farmers’ agitation over the three farm laws, he said, the whole country except the BJP gratefully acknowledges the debt which we owe to our patriotic farmers and soldiers. ‘Ungrateful to farmers’ “The BJP is provoking the people to deny that debt. It believes only in emotionally exploiting farmers’ sacrifices but remains so ungrateful to them that it is painting them as anti-national,” the Akali Dal chief said.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sukhbir-says-bjp-is-the-real-tukde-tukde-gang/article33341365.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP will contest U.P. Assembly polls: Kejriwal||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections to provide an honest political alternative to the people of the State, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in his capacity as the AAP’s national convenor, announced here on Tuesday. The development of the State, he alleged, had been held back because of the “dirty politics and corrupt leaders” of the State. While the people of U.P. had reposed their trust and faith in every party, each had stabbed them in their backs. “Today, there is only one thing lacking in the politics of U.P., which is honesty and intent. This is what AAP has. It is with this honesty that the AAP has transformed Delhi. We proved that the governments lack not money, but the intent,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “We created a party out of a Jan Andolan, we never in our dreams imagined that we will get so much love, support, and trust from the people. In these 8 years, the AAP has formed government in Delhi thrice and has emerged as the main opposition party in Punjab,” he said. Since the time the AAP government was formed for the third time in Delhi, Mr. Kejriwal said, many who belong to U.P. and residing in Delhi came to him and requested that AAP should fight elections in U.P. too. “Why do the people of U.P. travel to Delhi for every major and minor facility,” he asked. “While the people of U.P. looked towards the Capital for everything from good academic institutions and health establishments, there was no reason why they should suffer long cuts or pay hefty power bills when the people of Delhi receive 24-hour hour supply and get free electricity,” the Chief Minister said. ‘Inept administrator’ Meanwhile, hours after Mr. Kejriwal’s announcement, the U.P. government called him an inefficient administrator and a habitual liar . The barbs from Uttar Pradesh Minister and government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh on Tuesday were in reaction to the AAP leader’s criticism of the BJP government in U.P. “He is a habitual liar while his inefficient administration skills have been exposed thoroughly, especially during the COVID-19 crisis,” the Minister said.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-will-contest-up-assembly-polls-kejriwal/article33341363.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Clear hurdles for road redesign project: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal chaired a review meeting with Public Works Department (PWD) officials regarding the ongoing road redesigning project, along the lines of European cities, in the city on Tuesday. The Chief Minister directed the officials to remove all obstacles under the project to redesign 540 kilometre of road identified under the project and said that the process of designing the roads should be done in a swift manner within the stipulated time. According to the government, PWD officials said the process of appointing a consultant for the project had been completed. The consultant is responsible for preparing and submitting a Detailed Project Report by February 2021 based on which tenders will be awarded and operations to design roads will begin by June 2021. According to the government, Mr. Kejriwal said the process of Detailed Project Report should be completed as soon as possible for rapid progress of the project as it needs to be completed in two years since its deadline is early 2023. Mr. Kejriwal had approved the project of redesigning some of the roads falling under the jurisdiction of PWD in November 2019. The development of these roads will be on the lines of the Built-Operate-Transfer model and the construction company will take care of the maintenance for 15 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/clear-hurdles-for-road-redesign-project-cm/article33341370.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP is threatening safai karamcharis to join stir’||AAP on Tuesday said that the BJP-ruled municipal corporations have not paid salaries of the safai karamcharis for three months, which is in violation of the Delhi High Court orders, and they are now threatening the safai karamcharis to join a protest by Mayors of the corporations outside the residence of the Chief Minister. “The BJP-ruled North body is not taking money from the contractors who owe massive amounts to them, just to show that the North body has a fund crunch,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj. He said the BJP has also become nervous as nobody is paying “any attention” to their “drama” outside the CM’s residence. “Now, the BJP has stooped to a very dirty political stunt. Yesterday [Monday], a top BJP leader met the representatives of the safai karamchari union and threatened them that if they did not join the protest of the Mayors and sit outside the residence of CM, then the BJP-ruled civic body will not clear their due salary,” the AAP leader said. “Whenever the civic body wants to divert the attention from real issues, they stop the salaries of the safai karamcharis. Their target is simple: make Delhi a city full of garbage. There are HC orders dated 27.05.2016 and 11.07.2016, which clearly direct the civic body to pay the regular salaries to the safai karamcharis,” Mr. Bharadwaj. added. He said that the party will apprise people about an alleged massive scam of Rs. 2,500 crore by the BJP-ruled North body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-is-threatening-safai-karamcharis-to-join-stir/article33341377.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Umar Khalid’s mother, sister among 14 detained||A total of 14 persons, including the mother and sister of activist and former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid, were detained during a candlelight march on Tuesday. December 15 marked the one-year anniversary of violence inside Jamia Millia Islamia campus and a major clash between students and the police following anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests. Batla House A student, who did not wish to be identified, said that an internal call was given for a candlelight march to Batla House on Tuesday after which about 25 people gathered at a meeting point. “As soon as the people gathered, the police came and started detaining them and took them through Nafees Road,” he said. Those detained included Mr. Khalid’s mother Sabiha Khanum and his 17-year-old sister, said sources. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said that a group of protesters had assembled at Batla House for a candlelight march to mark the anniversary of CAA agitation. “The police team removed the agitators from the spot. Meanwhile, three women also accompanied the protesters. The protestors were then counselled regarding COVID-19 appropriate behavior and were requested to return to their homes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/umar-khalids-mother-sister-among-14-detained/article33341378.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Active COVID-19 cases fall below 15K; 8,516 patients under home isolation||Delhi recorded 1,617 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 6,10,447, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Moreover, 41 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,115. Of the total cases, 5,85,852 people have recovered and there are 14,480 active cases. Also, a total of 85,105 COVID-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours. The positivity of COVID-19 cases was 1.9% on Tuesday, lesser than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 8.28%, as per the bulletin.  Out of the total 18,807 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 14,770 are vacant, as per the bulletin. About 4,040 people were admitted in hospitals and 8,516 patients were under home isolation. As per the bulletin, the death rate in the past 10 days was 2.59%. There are 6,420 containment zones in the city as on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-15k-8516-patients-under-home-isolation/article33341375.ece
16 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia launches online reading portal ‘Tadaa’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia launched Katha’s online reading portal, Tadaa which aims at connecting students from across the country via stories to develop their reading ability, on Tuesday. The Deputy CM stressed on inculcating the habit of reading stories in children from an early age and said: “Stories help children develop a mindset from an early age, and enhances their reading ability. This is why we have used stories to improve the level of reading in children in Delhi’s government schools through schemes like ‘Chunauti’, and ‘Mission Buniyaad.” He said that the pandemic had allowed children to engage with stories even more as they have gotten to hear stories from family members, which are often passed down from generation to generation within the family. “I know of children who have been hearing stories from their parents’ generation and even stories from their grandparents’ generation. Despite the pandemic, this has been a blessing in disguise,” Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-launches-online-reading-portal-tadaa/article33341368.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP will fight U.P. Assembly polls: Kejriwal||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections to provide an honest political alternative to the people of the State, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in his capacity as the AAP’s national convenor, said on Tuesday. The development of the State, he alleged, had been held back due to the “dirty politics and corrupt leaders” of the State. While the people of U.P. had reposed their trust and faith in every party, each had stabbed them in their backs, Mr. Kejriwal added. “Today, there are only two things lacking in U.P. politics: honesty and intent. This is what AAP has. It is with this honesty that the AAP has transformed Delhi. We proved that the governments lack not money, but the intent,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “Why do the people of U.P. travel to Delhi for every major and minor facility,” he asked. Hours after Mr. Kejriwal’s announcement, the U.P. government called him an inefficient administrator and a habitual liar”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-will-fight-up-assembly-polls-kejriwal/article33341675.ece
16 December 2020||New Delhi,||Special House Session on fund misuse in civic bodies||A one-day Special Session of the Delhi Legislative Assembly has been convened regarding the alleged misappropriation of funds in the BJP-run Municipal Corporation of Delhi, even as the sit-in protest of the Mayors of the three civic bodies continues outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia announced that a session related to the alleged misappropriation of Rs. 2400 crore in the corporations would be convened on Thursday as the protest by the Mayors entered the ninth consecutive day. The Mayors allege that the Delhi govt., in its quest to make the civic bodies powerless, has been sitting on funds amounting to Rs. 13,000 crore due to them. On its part, the government, claims it has not only disbursed the funds it is required to in the past but also provided the civic bodies monetary payments in advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/special-house-session-on-fund-misuse-in-civic-bodies/article33341369.ece
16 December 2020||guwahati,||Bodo council gets new chief after 17 years||Assam’s Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) on Tuesday got a new chief 17 years after it was created as an alternative to the Bodoland Statehood movement. Pramod Boro, the former president of the All Bodo Students’ Union, was sworn in as the chief executive member (CEM) of the BTC. He replaced Hagrama Mohilary, chief of the Bodoland People’s Front that ruled the council from February 2003 till its dissolution in April this year. Mr. Boro is the president of the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), which tied up with the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) after the polls to form the 40-member council. The UPPL’s Gobinda Basumatary, who headed one of the factions of the now-disbanded National Democratic Front of Boroland, took oath of office as the Deputy CEM. Gautam Das and Diganta Baruah of the BJP and Ghanashyam Das of the GSP were also sworn in as members of the council in presence of Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bodo-council-gets-new-chief-after-17-years/article33341366.ece
16 December 2020||Noida,||Three killed in road crash on Yamuna Expressway||Two women and a man died after a truck hit their SUV on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place in the Jewar police station area during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, they said.“Three of the car’s occupants died, while two have been hospitalised with injuries,” the spokesperson said. The deceased have been identified as Rinki (25), Anita Gupta (35) and Pavan Dubey (38), all residents of Siddharthnagar district in U.P. Those hospitalised are Suman (27) and Subhash (55), the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-killed-in-road-crash-on-yamuna-expressway/article33341371.ece
