27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmer unions to resume talks||As the farmers’ agitation for the repeal of the three farm laws completed a month, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint front of farmer unions, on Saturday accepted the Centre’s offer for talks, putting forth a four-point agenda that includes modalities for the revocation of the laws and a mechanism for legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). The SKM proposed to hold the talks on December 29 at 11 a.m., Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav announced at a press conference. Besides the farm laws and MSP, the agenda includes the amendments to be made and notified in the “Commission for the Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020” to exclude farmers from the penal provisions of the Ordinance and changes to be made in the draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 to protect the interests of farmers. “We want these four items in the agenda and in the same sequence. It means the first item to be discussed will be the modalities to repeal the three laws,” said Mr. Yadav. He added that farmer’ organisations were and had always been open to a sincere dialogue. The farmer unions’ proposal came in reply to a letter from the Union government on December 24 inviting them for talks and reiterating its commitment for logical solution to all the issues raised by the agitating farmer groups. In a letter addressed to Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the farmer unions, however, said the government continued to mislead the public by suppressing the true facts about the deliberations in the previous meetings. “We have consistently demanded the repeal of the three central farm laws, whereas the government has distorted our position as if we were asking for amendments to these Acts. If you are sincere about respectfully listening to the farmers, as you say in your letter, the government must not indulge in misinformation about the previous meetings. The campaign launched by the entire state machinery to defame and malign the farmers’ movement must stop forthwith,” read the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmer-unions-to-resume-talks/article33428126.ece
27 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Now, devotees question mutt’s land donation||Close on the heels of seer of Balehosur Mutt Sri Dingaleshwar Swami objecting to the Moorusavir Mutt’s decision to donate mutt’s land to KLE Society to build a medical college and hospital, a section of the devotees has questioned the donation and said that it was in violation of a court order pertaining to the mutt. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, mutt’s devotee Anandyya Hiremath and his advocate S.N. Patil said that the decision of seer of the mutt Sri Gurusiddha Rajaygoindra Swami was in violation of the Supreme Court order and the swami should immediately take back the land. Otherwise, KLE Society should return it to the mutt as taking the land was not only a violation of court order but also an offence. Mr. Patil, said that a dispute between Sri Gurusiddha Rajayogindra Swami and Sri Rudramuni Swami, who was a claimant as a successor of the mutt, was resolved in 2009 before the Arbitral Tribunal of Justice Chittatosh Mukherjee, former Chief Justice of Calcutta and Bombay High Courts. “As per the agreement, Sri Gurusiddha Rajayogindra Swami is barred from handing over any mutt land to others. However, in violation of their arbitration agreement, the swami has donated the land to KLE Society,” he said. Mr. Patil contended that his client being a devotee of the mutt would not have objected to the donation, if KLE Society was opening a charitable hospital where the poor would get free treatment. But the reality was that KLE Society was setting up a medical college and super-specialty hospital with business interests and the swami should immediately take back the land from KLE Society, he said. Meanwhile, in a press conference, Sri Dingaleshwar Swami reiterated his opposition to the land donation by the mutt and said that at a time when the mutt was in financial distress and selling land for a few lakhs of rupees to mobilise funds, what was the need for donating 24.30 acres of land which was worth crores of rupees to KLE Society. The swami too said that the donation was in violation of the arbitration agreement reached before the Arbitral Tribunal of Justice Chittatosh Mukherjee in 2009. The swami said that he was being threatened for opposing the land donation and after he addressed the first press conference in this regard, he was threatened with dire consequences by unidentified persons on the outskirts of Hubballi. The swami said that he had filed a complaint with Laxmeshwar Police in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-devotees-question-mutts-land-donation/article33428236.ece
27 December 2020||mumbai,||16 passengers from U.K. test positive||The Maharashtra government on Saturday said that 16 passengers who travelled from the United Kingdom were found coronavirus positive out of the 1,122 who were tested. The State government has launched a special drive to trace and test all passengers who travelled from the U.K. since November 25, and as part of this RT-PCR test was conducted on 1,122 people. Of the 16 who have tested positive, four are from Nagpur, three each from Mumbai and Thane, two from Pune and one each from Nanded, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad and Raigad. As per the State government notification their samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune to check for traces of the new coronavirus strain detected in the U.K. A government official said that as per the protocol, relatives of those who tested positive have been traced and RT-PCR tests conducted on them. “As many as 72 relatives and close contacts have been tested of whom two were found positive,” said the official. 58,091 active cases Meanwhile, the COVID-19 caseload in the State rose to 19,16,236 on Saturday as it recorded 2,854 new cases, a health official said. The State also reported 60 fatalities, taking its death toll to 49,189, he said. A total of 1,526 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the tally of recovered people to 18,07,824. There are 58,091 active patients in the State now. Mumbai city reported 536 new cases during the day, which pushed its overall case count to 2,90,336, while its death toll rose to 11,068 with 12 new fatalities. With 50,282 new tests, the number of samples tested went up to 1,24,51,919. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and satellite towns, reported 985fresh cases, raising the total count to 6,55,507. The total fatalities in the region stood at 19,007, the official said. Nashik division’s cumulative case tally is 2,61,865 and death toll is 4,853. The cases in Pune division stood at 4,77,231 and deaths at 11,219, the official added. The Kolhapur division has reported 1,16,203 cases and 3,951 deaths until now, while Aurangabad division’s case tally stood at 72,034. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-passengers-from-uk-test-positive/article33428962.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. gears up for vaccine dry run||Officials of the Health Department and the Krishna district administration are gearing up to conduct an end-to-end COVID-19 vaccine distribution dry run on December 28 and 29 as Andhra Pradesh has been selected for the exercise along with three other States. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar, the dry run would be conducted at five session sites – Government General Hospital, Vijayawada, Public Health Centre (PHC), Uppuluru, Purna Heart Institute, Vijayawada, PHC, Penamaluru and Urban PHC, Prakash Nagar, Vijayawada with 25 dummy beneficiaries (healthcare workers) at each site in a two-hour slot. Each beneficiary would pass through five Vaccine Officers at the site and their details would be verified with the Co-WIN application, get vaccinated and stay under observation for 30 minutes before leaving. “The dry run is aimed at testing the planned operations and the laid out mechanisms for CoVID-19 vaccination in the State and it will provide insights on any gaps or bottlenecks so that those could be addressed before the commencement of the actual vaccination drive. It will be used to test preparedness for vaccinating pre-identified beneficiaries from specified groups supported by Co-WIN, an electronic application,” the Commissioner said in a release. The government has already identified the Vaccine Officers and healthcare workers and their details have been uploaded to Co-WIN portal. Training An Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) committee has been formed as per the guidelines and the vaccine team members were scheduled to be trained on Saturday. On Monday, the dry run would be conducted under video coverage and reports would be submitted to the district and State task force committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-to-start-2-day-vaccine-dry-run-from-tomorrow/article33428038.ece
27 December 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. Cabinet nod for anti-conversion Bill||The Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020, which provides for a prison term of up to 10 years and a fine of Rs. 1 lakh for conversion through marriage or by any other fraudulent means got the State Cabinet’s approval on Saturday, Home Minister Narottam Mishra said. He said that once enforced, it would be the most stringent law in the country against religious conversion carried out by fraudulent means, allurement or threat. The violation of the proposed law would be considered a cognisable and non-bailable offence. The Bill will now be presented in the Assembly. “This Bill will replace the Religious Freedom Act of 1968 (after the approval by the Assembly),” Mr. Mishra said. “The new legislation will prohibit religious conversion or such efforts by misrepresentation, allurement, force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or any other fraudulent means. Abetment and conspiracy for religious conversion will also be prohibited under it.” Any marriage solemnised in violation of this law would be considered null and void, the Minister said, adding that family courts would hear such cases. A provision has been made that those willing to convert should apply before the district administration 60 days in advance, he said. Jail for religious leaders The religious leaders facilitating the conversion should also inform about it 60 days in advance, he added. Its violation would attract imprisonment of three to five years and fine of Rs. 50,000, he said. Mr. Mishra said there would be a provision for one to five years of imprisonment and fine of Rs. 25,000 for the religious conversion carried out in violation. In cases of religious conversion of Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST) and minors, a provision has been made for imprisonment of two to 10 years and Rs. 50,000 fine, he said. There is provision of three to 10 years of imprisonment and fine of Rs. 50,000 in cases of marriage carried out by hiding religion, misrepresentation and impersonation, he said. The Minister said in case of mass religious conversions (of two or more persons), a provision of five to 10 years of imprisonment and minimum fine of Rs. 1 lakh has been made. Those found violating the law for more than once would face five to 10 years of imprisonment, Mr. Mishra said, adding that the registration of any organisation involved in such violation would be cancelled and those involved would also face the punishment. Religious conversion in violation of this law would be considered null and void, he said. The parents, legal guardian or custodian and brothers and sisters of the converted person can lodge a complaint in this regard, he said, adding that the crime would be cognisable and non-bailable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-cabinet-approves-anti-conversion-bill/article33428124.ece
27 December 2020||JAIPUR,||RLP quits NDA over farm laws||Miffed with the BJP over its “obstinate stance” on the new agriculture sector laws, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Rajasthan, on Saturday withdrew its support to the BJP-led government at the Centre. The RLP has one seat in the Lok Sabha and three members in the State Assembly. RLP chief and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal announ-ced the decision to quit the NDA during a massive rally of farmers at Shahjahanpur near the Rajasthan-Haryana border. He alleged that his party’s voice was not being heard in Delhi and the NDA government was mishandling the farmers’ agitation. The RLP is the second ally, after the Shiromani Akali Dal, to sever ties with the BJP over the three farm laws being opposed by large sections of agriculturists. Mr. Beniwal had resigned from three Parliamentary committees last week after extending support to the agitation of farmers. “The self-respect of farmers is the strength of my party... I am not glued to the NDA with Fevicol. Today, I am breaking away from this alliance,” Mr. Beniwal announced while addressing the farmers who had gathered on Jaipur-Delhi highway on his call to join a march to the Capital. The Haryana police had sealed the highway on Friday to stop the farmers. ‘Not joining Congress’ Mr. Beniwal said the farm Bills were passed in his absence, when he was kept out of Lok Sabha on the pretext of COVID-19 infection. “Had I been present, I would have torn the Bills apart and thrown them away.” The RLP MP said he was not going to join any alliance led by the Congress and added that his party would contest the upcoming by-elections to three Assembly seats in the State on its own. After the meeting, Mr. Beniwal joined a night-long paraav (sit-in) of his supporters at some distance from the site where the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has been staging a protest since December 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-ally-quits-nda-over-farm-laws/article33428441.ece
27 December 2020||Kochi,||INKEL asked to halt work on cancer research centre||The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) has asked Infrastructure Kerala Ltd. (INKEL), the special purpose vehicle executing work on the new Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) at Kalamassery, to stop construction, citing poor quality of work done and delay in completion. Moni Kuriakose, director, CCRC, said the decision was taken after it was found that work was not progressing at the site. “Between May and December, only 1.6% of the work was done. At this rate, the work will not be completed on time. A decision on whether the contract will be cancelled is yet to be taken,” he said. Contractor’s version An official representing the contractor said the company was yet to receive an official stop memo, but was informed that they would have to vacate the site by Monday. “A section of the building under construction collapsed last year, after which problems pertaining to the quality of work were rectified. Construction has been progressing after pandemic-induced delays and work was to be completed in six or seven months,” he said. Revised deadline The revised deadline for the completion of the first two blocks was February 2021, but the lockdown had delayed the work, he added. In November, KIIFB’s technical inspection authority had pointed out poor quality of work at the site. INKEL was then directed to step up the pace of work and rectify quality issues, said a post on KIIFB’s Facebook page. Failure to comply with these directives prompted the stop memo. From July 2018 KIIFB, which is funding the project, had halted the work briefly last year after the building collapse. A meeting of officials from KIIFB, INKEL and CCRC was convened earlier this month to evaluate the progress of work. The construction of the building had commenced in July 2018, but only around 34% of the work has been completed so far. Shifted The CCRC functioned out of the Government Medical College Hospital before the pandemic. With the MCH turning into a COVID care centre, the cancer centre was shifted to the General Hospital and surgeries were conducted at the Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital. The new complex is a long-awaited exclusive facility for cancer care in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inkel-asked-to-halt-work-on-kochi-cancer-research-centre/article33428297.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||SSLC, Plus Two question papers to have more choices||Question papers for the SSLC and Plus Two examinations to be held from March 17 to 30 will have more choices for students to select from and answer. This was decided at a meeting chaired by Minister for Education C. Ravindranath here. General Education Secretary A. Shajahan, Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K., and State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) Director J. Prasad, were present. With the number of questions going up to accommodate more choices for students, the time needed to read and comprehend these will also increase. The cool-off time will be extended accordingly. Model question papers will be prepared and uploaded on the websites of the General Education Department to familiarise students with the question paper patterns that incorporate more options. Model examinations will also be held. Practical examinations for SSLC, higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary students will be held after the written examinations. Students will get at least one week after the written examinations to prepare for the practical examinations. The syllabus will be completed through online classes by January 31. Students can reach schools for classes or clearing doubts with parents’ permission from January 1 to March 16. Schools will be informed by December 31 of the portions that have to be prioritised. These will be put up on the General Education Department’s websites too. Teachers must ensure thorough revision of the specified portions. Special guidelines will be issued in connection with extra academic support for differently abled students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-plus-two-question-papers-to-have-more-choices/article33428298.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Polavaram project: Centre approves revised cost||The revised cost of the Polavaram Irrigation Project (PIP) at the 2017-18 price level (Rs. 55,548.87 crore) was approved by the Ministry of Jal Shakti as per the report on its year-end review published by the Press Information Bureau on Saturday. It was stated that the PIP was declared a national project under Section 90 of the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014. The project, with 2,454 metres of earth-cum-rock fill dam and 1,128.40 metre-long spillway, is aimed at irrigating 2.91 lakh hectares in East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, West Godavari and Krishna districts, besides ensuring several other benefits. The Central government is funding 100% of the remaining cost of the irrigation component of the project as on April 1, 2014, and the Government of Andhra Pradesh is executing it. After declaration as a national project, a sum of Rs. 8,614.16 crore had been released for the execution of the project. Of it, Rs. 1,850 crore had been released since January 2020. Besides, a sum of Rs. 2,234 crore had been sanctioned during 2020-21, which would be released by NABARD soon. An expenditure of Rs. 17,327 crore was incurred on the project up to March 31, 2020.  Geologists visit project Vijayawada Staff Reporter adds: National geologists B. Ajay Kumar and D. Bushan visited the Polavaram project on Saurday. Along with Polavaram Irrigation Project (PIP) Superintending Engineer M. Nagireddy and Megha Engineering Infrastructures Limited officials they observed the shear zone at gap-3 and hill works. The team would continue its site visit on Sunday, Mr. Nagireddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polavaram-centre-approves-revised-cost/article33428114.ece
27 December 2020||Srinagar,||PM: DDC polls a new chapter in democracy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday praised the Jammu and Kashmir administration for the “peaceful and successful” conduct of the maiden District Development Council (DDC) elections, and said the people of the Union Territory had written a new chapter in India’s democracy by participating in large numbers. “I was observing how people, including elderly women and youth, stood in long queues outside polling booths despite the COVID-19 pandemic and the cold. Every voter was wearing a smile and exuded hope for a better tomorrow,” Mr. Modi said after launching the Ayushman Bharat-Sehat scheme in Srinagar via videoconference. He described the elections as a step towards “strengthening the roots of democracy” in the Union Territory. “The completion of DDC polls puts in place a three-tier Panchayati Raj system, fulfilling Mahatma Gandhi’s Gram Swarajya dream. I don’t have words to felicitate the officials. You have made entire India proud,” he said. He said “the only reason” the BJP pulled out of the alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party in 2018 was because “we wanted panchayat elections to be held”. “These elected people belong to the grassroots and have suffered equally. They will work for the people in villages and districts.” On the frequent shelling by Pakistan along the Line of Control, Mr. Modi said, “It has always been a concern for us. We have taken a series of steps to protect the border residents and to ensure development of border areas. Security forces, however, have been given a free hand.” Referring to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Mr. Modi said, “Vajpayee would always talk of Kashmiriyat, Jamhooriyat and Insaniyat . We are following the mantra today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-ddc-polls-a-new-chapter-in-democracy/article33428123.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. gears up for vaccine dry run||Officials of the Health Department and the Krishna district administration are gearing up to conduct an end-to-end COVID-19 vaccine distribution dry run on December 28 and 29 as Andhra Pradesh has been selected for the exercise along with three other States. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar, the dry run would be conducted at five session sites – Government General Hospital, Vijayawada, Public Health Centre (PHC), Uppuluru, Purna Heart Institute, Vijayawada, PHC, Penamaluru and Urban PHC, Prakash Nagar, Vijayawada with 25 dummy beneficiaries (healthcare workers) at each site in a two-hour slot. Each beneficiary would pass through five Vaccine Officers at the site and their details would be verified with the Co-WIN application, get vaccinated and stay under observation for 30 minutes before leaving. “The dry run is aimed at testing the planned operations and the laid out mechanisms for CoVID-19 vaccination in the State and it will provide insights on any gaps or bottlenecks so that those could be addressed before the commencement of the actual vaccination drive. It will be used to test preparedness for vaccinating pre-identified beneficiaries from specified groups supported by Co-WIN, an electronic application,” the Commissioner said in an official press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-gears-up-for-vaccine-dry-run/article33429006.ece
27 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||‘Late Siddhalinga Swami conspired against me’||The dispute over the issue of succession in Moorusavir Mutt has been raked up again with the seer of Balehosur Mutt Sri Dingaleshwar Swami alleging on Saturday that he was denied the opportunity because of a conspiracy hatched by seer of Gadag Tontadarya Mutt late Sri Siddhalinga Swami. Dingaleshwar Swami, who claims himself as a successor to Moorusavir Mutt peetha, told presspersons here on Saturday that had it not been for Siddhalinga Swami, he would have become the successor to the mutt peetha, where he once studied. “I have newspaper reports to show that Siddhalinga Swami was part of a meeting which was held to decide the issue of succession. However, Siddhalinga Swami conspired against me and deprived me of the opportunity,” he said. On why he was making the allegation now, speaking nothing when the swami was alive and keeping quiet for so long, the seer said that he mentioned it now as it had become necessary in the interest of the Moorusavir Mutt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/late-siddhalinga-swami-conspired-against-me/article33428234.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Two motorcycle-borne men stabbed in Krishnakodi near Kuttar||Two men were stabbed by two motorcycle-borne assailants in Krishnakodi near Kuttar in Ullal Police limits on Friday night According to the police, Aditya (23) of Sevantigudde and Pavan (27) of Pandit House were riding a motorcycle from Kuttar to Amblamogaru to meet their friend Anish. Near Krishnakodi, their motorcycle was hit by another motorcycle ridden by the two assailants at around 10 p.m. As Aditya and Pavan fell off their motorcycle, the assailants stabbed Aditya twice. Then, they stabbed Pavan once and left the spot. The injured Aditya and Pavan were admitted to a local hospital. They are out of danger now. The police said that they are yet to establish the motive behind the attack. Based on CCTV footage and other evidence, the police have launched a search for the assailants. Expressing concern over the incident, Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader on Saturday asked the police to quickly arrest the assailants. Mr. Khader said that anti-social elements were operating without a check in the city and the police should rein in such elements who are creating tension in society. On his vehicle being stalked on Wednesday, Mr. Khader said that the police have booked a petty case against the person who had followed his vehicle. Appreciating the quick action by the police, Mr. Khader said that the police will book the accused for serious charge if investigation reveals any ill-intention on his part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-motorcycle-borne-men-stabbed-in-krishnakodi-near-kuttar/article33428939.ece
27 December 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal reports 1,253 new COVID-19 cases||West Bengal’s COVID-19 tally mounted to 5,46,008 on Saturday as 1,253 more people tested positive for the infection, according to a health bulletin. With 33 more deaths reported, the State’s fatalities stand at 9,569, it said. As many as 1,861 more people have been cured of the disease, taking the recovery count to 5,22,331, the bulletin said. The recovery rate in the State has improved to 95.66%, it said. North 24 Parganas district reported the highest number of 270 new cases, followed by Kolkata (262).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-reports-1253-new-covid-19-cases/article33428337.ece
27 December 2020||Srinagar,||Three charged in Shopian killings||The J&K Police’s Special Investigation Team on Saturday filed a chargesheet agai-nst an Army officer and two others before a local court in an alleged staged encounter that left three “locals” dead in Shopian’s Amshipora on July 18 this year. The SIT, headed by a Superintendent of Police, presented a 300-page challan before a local judge and named three persons, including Captain Bhupinder of 62 Rashtriya Rifles; Tabish Ahmad, a resident of Shopian; and Bilal Ahmad, a resident of Pulwama. The trio allegedly played a role that led to the encou-nter. Three missing youth — Abrar Ahmed, 25, Imtiyaz Ahmed, 20, and Mohammed Ibrar, 16 — were left dead in the encounter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-charged-in-shopian-killings/article33428869.ece
27 December 2020||Mumbai,||All anti-BJP parties should unite under UPA: Shiv Sena||Contending that the Congress is not providing effective opposition to the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Saturday said all anti-BJP parties including the Sena should come together under the banner of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). The time has come for expanding the UPA, Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut told reporters later in the day. The Congress in Maharashtra, which is part of the Sena-led ruling alliance, however, said the Uddhav Thackeray-led party is not part of UPA and should not comment on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-anti-bjp-parties-should-unite-under-upa-shiv-sena/article33428963.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Lorry helper killed in road accident||Nishad (37), a helper on an insulated fish lorry, died after he was hit by a motorcycle when the lorry was stopped for replacing a deflated tyre near Dandatirtha School in Uliyargoli village of Kaup taluk at midnight on Friday. The Kaup Police said Nishad was accompanying Smijith of Kollam who was driving the insulated fish lorry. They were transporting fish from Mumbai to Kerala. At around 12.30 a.m., the lorry was stopped by the side of National Highway 66 near the school. As Nishad was helping Smijith, Prajwal, who was riding a motorcycle, came and hit Nishad. Nishad and Prajwal were injured and were brought to a private hospital in Manipal. Nishad was shifted to Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru where he died at around 5.30 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lorry-helper-killed-in-road-accident/article33428941.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||GP elections amid fears of COVID-19||Amid fears of a possible spread of COVID-19 owing to crowding, Sunday will see the second and final phase of elections to 2,709 gram panchayats across Karnataka. There are 1.05 lakh candidates in the fray for 39,378 seats. Polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gp-elections-amid-fears-of-covid-19/article33428412.ece
27 December 2020||Vijayawada,||State reports one more COVID death||The State has reported one COVID-19 death and 282 new infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. For the 11th consecutive day, the single-day tally was less than 500. The lone death was reported in Kadapa district. ‘No need for panic’ East Godavari District Coordinator of Hospital Services Ramesh Kumar on Saturday said that the medical reports of a 47-year-old Anglo-Indian woman, who returned from the UK recently and tested positive for COVID, are expected to be out within a week and there is no reason for panic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-one-more-covid-death/article33428117.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||More farmers head to Delhi||Thousands of farmers under the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) banner on Saturday began their march from Punjab to Delhi to join the protest against the farm laws. BKU general secretary Sukhdev Singh said more than 16,000 farmers, including women, on several tractor-trolleys, buses, trucks and other vehicles left from Punjab’s Khanauri border for Delhi.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-farmers-head-to-delhi/article33428108.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Vizag is best performing municipal corporation||Visakhapatnam has been selected as the Best Performing Municipal Corporation in the annual awards announced by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for implementing the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban Mission. Announcing this here on Saturday, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that Satraboina Durga, a housing beneficiary of Ward No. 50 of Gajuwaka, was selected under the ‘best house construction’ category. The GVMC officials said that the civic body has provided all the civic amenities such as water supply, underground drainage, C.C roads, street-lighting and the family is leading a happy life. The corporation will be receiving the award and the beneficiary will be felicitated on January 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vizag-is-best-performing-municipal-corporation/article33428115.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus variant: advanced test on 5% positive samples||A meeting of the National Task Force (NTF) on COVID-19, convened by the Indian Council of Medical Research, has concluded that while there was no need to change the existing treatment protocol in view of the mutations emerging in the SARS-CoV-2 strain, 5% of the positive cases from all the States and Union Territories would now be sent for whole genome sequencing (WGS). “This is in addition to the more than 50 samples of U.K. returnees which are currently under sequencing at the designated laboratories,” the NTF said. Various strains The NTF also recommended the setting up of a ‘Genomic Surveillance Consortium’ (INSACOG) to map the various strains circulating in India. As per the earlier direction of the Union Health Ministry, all passengers who arrived from the U.K. between December 21 and 23 were tested at the airports. Only those testing negative in the RT-PCR test are permitted to exit the airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/virus-variant-advanced-test-on-5-positive-samples/article33428127.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Tsunami anniversary||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tsunami-anniversary/article33428110.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||NAAC blacklists engineering college in State||Dhanekula Institute of Engineering and Technology (DIET) at Gangur in Penamaluru mandal of Krishna district was blacklisted by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) for five years for submitting fabricated certificates. The NAAC informed its decision in separate letters to the Principal of the college. A letter received by Kadiyala Ravi, DIET Principal of the college, said the Self Study Report (SSR), the primary document that is the foundation for the review team’s judgment of whether a programme meets its criteria for accreditation, was found to be either fabricated or manipulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naac-blacklists-engineering-college-in-state/article33429005.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||NAAC blacklists engineering college in State||Dhanekula Institute of Engineering and Technology (DIET) at Gangur in Penamaluru mandal of Krishna district was blacklisted by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) for five years for submitting fabricated certificates. The NAAC informed its decision in separate letters to the Principal college. A letter received by Kadiyala Ravi, DIET Principal of the college, said the Self Study Report (SSR), the primary document that is the foundation for the review team’s judgment of whether a programme meets its criteria for accreditation, was found to be either fabricated or manipulated. The accreditation agency said the documents contained superimposed signature, and signatures were inserted and the letterhead of the college had watermark logo of the APSSDC. ‘Reply not convincing’ Finding the college’s reply to the show-cause notice issued by it “neither convincing nor satisfactory,” the NAAC placed the issue before its Executive Council, which, in turn, decided to cancel the SSR and blacklist the institution for five years. “We have a Memorandum of Understanding with the APSSDC, and we are one of the active partners implementing collaborative programmes on a regular basis. While presenting the college data in the SSR, the teacher concerned has sent it along with the logo of the SSDC,” said Mr. Ravi. Speaking to The Hindu , he said, “We are authorised to use the logo, but it has not been accepted by the NAAC.” ‘No compromise on quality’ When asked about the impact of the NAAC decision, he said: “We strive for quality and we will continue to do that,” and added add that “as a technical institution, we are more concerned with the National Board of Accreditation (NBA). Four of our programmes are affiliated to it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naac-blacklists-engineering-college-in-state-for-five-years/article33428112.ece
27 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Shah targets new Assam party formed by activists||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday targeted some anti-CAA activists for “leading the people of Assam on the path of agitation” to eventually float a political party as part of a “conspiracy” to help the Congress win the 2021 Assembly election. He did not take names but made it clear that his attack was directed at the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP). Leaders of the AASU and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chhatra Parishad (AJYCP), who led the anti-CAA movement, floated the AJP in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shah-targets-new-assam-party-formed-by-activists/article33428345.ece
27 December 2020||Srinagar,||Two militants killed in Shopian gun battle||Two local Al-Badr militants were killed and two soldiers were injured in a two-day operation at Shopian in south Kashmir on Saturday. A joint cordon and search operation was launched on Friday evening, said IGP Vijay Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-militants-killed-in-shopian-gun-battle/article33428443.ece
27 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Stage set for second phase polling||The stage is set for second phase of gram panchayat elections with polling scheduled to take place from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday. In the first phase of the elections, polling took place on December 22 and concluded peacefully without any hassles. Senior officials reviewed the preparations on Saturday and visited mustering centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stage-set-for-second-phase-polling/article33428238.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Irregularities in tender drafting: IPS officer||Responding to the controversy that has exploded over an IPS officer allegedly trying to seek classified information without authorisation, D. Roopa, Principal Secretary - PCAS, Home Department, in a letter to the Chief Secretary on Saturday, accepted that she did make a call to the Project Management Consultant for the Safe City Project tender. The State government instituted a probe into the matter on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/irregularities-in-tender-drafting-ips-officer/article33428814.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||City to get a circular metro under Phase III||The city will get a circular metro on the Outer Ring Road, as BMRCL is planning to extend the metro network from Hebbal to J.P. Nagar under Phase III. The BMRCL is contemplating taking up the project under private-public partnership model. Another corridor proposed under Phase III is from Magadi Road toll gate to Kadabagere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-to-get-a-circular-metro-under-phase-iii/article33428816.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 655 new COVID-19 cases||Delhi reported 655 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours – the lowest in over four months, taking the total to 6,22,094. This is the lowest number of new cases since August 16 when 652 cases were reported in a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-655-new-covid-19-cases/article33428871.ece
27 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Shah targets new Assam party formed by activists||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday targeted some anti-CAA activists for “leading the people of Assam on the path of agitation” to eventually float a political party as part of a “conspiracy” to help the Congress win the 2021 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shah-targets-new-assam-party-formed-by-activists/article33428444.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||One killed in fire at mask factory in west Delhi||A 45-year-old man died while two persons were rescued after a fire broke out at a mask manufacturing factory in west Delhi’s Mayapuri on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said the deceased has been identified as Yugal Kishore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-in-fire-at-mask-factory-in-west-delhi/article33428445.ece
27 December 2020||Mumbai,||MIDC land case: ED sends notice to Eknath Khadse||Months after he quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to join the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Eknath Khadse has now been served a notice by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to appear for inquiry in Mumbai on December 30 in a case related to a land in Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation area in Pune. Mr. Khadse, was the Revenue minister in the Devendra Fadnavis government when he resigned in 2016 after allegations over misuse of his position in a land purchased by his wife and son-in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/midc-land-case-ed-sends-notice-to-eknath-khadse/article33428964.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Damaging trees to save the environment||A call to conserve nature on a plastic banner nailed to trees by a social organisation in Barkur town in Udupi district has kept many people amused. The plastic banner, about three foot wide and two foot tall bearing the name of Lions Club, Barkur, was found nailed to a tree on Barkur-Mandarthi Road on Friday with the message, Parisara Ulisi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/damaging-trees-to-save-the-environment/article33428943.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Pongal gift without biometric check: govt.||Family cardholders can receive the Pongal gift, which includes a hamper and Rs. 2,500 in cash, without biometric authentication, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said in Tiruvarur on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pongal-gift-without-biometric-check-govt/article33428144.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Five more U.K. returnees test positive||A day after Union Minister Prakash Javadekar gave an evasive response to a question if Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was the NDA’s candidate for the top job in 2021, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Saturday rejected Mr. Javadekar’s contention that the BJP central leadership would decide on the CM candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-more-uk-returnees-test-positive/article33428182.ece
27 December 2020||Chennai,||ISRO for ‘green propulsion’ tech||BJP women’s wing national president Vanathi Srinivasan on Saturday said the AIADMK would lead the National Democratic Alliance in the State, and there was no strain in ties between the allies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-strain-in-nda-says-vanathi-srinivasan/article33428145.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Close sesame for China’s Internet giant||Since the stunning rise of the e-commerce giant Alibaba, few people have strode China’s political and economic landscape with the swagger of Jack Ma. A household name in his country — where he is known by his Chinese name, Ma Yun — and perhaps the most well-known Chinese personality in the world along with the country’s President, Mr. Ma isn’t merely China’s richest man and the founder of a tech behemoth. He is in every sense a public figure who has neither shied away from the limelight, unlike many of his publicity-wary peers, nor refrained from voicing his views on matters of national interest that the members of China Inc. usually scrupulously avoid. Mr. Ma would perhaps happily describe himself as a man for all seasons — after all, he has starred in a Kungfu action film with Jet Li and just this October, crooned a duet with the most famous singer in China, Faye Wong. Unfortunately for Mr. Ma, it wasn’t only the duet with Ms. Wong that he lent his vocals too that month. Speaking at a high-profile financial forum in Shanghai on the eve of the planned world record-breaking $35 billion IPO of his Ant Group — the financial arm of the Alibaba empire which is behind China’s biggest digital payments company Alipay — Mr. Ma, in his characteristic no-holds-barred style, slammed the state of China’s financial ecosystem, with the country’s top regulators in attendance, and described not-so-tactfully China’s powerful State-run banks, whose monopolies his Ant Group has eroded, as “pawn shops”. Whether or not the speech was the tipping point remains unclear, but regulators stunned the world by promptly suspending the IPO. Then came the second hit. On December 24, authorities said they would launch an antitrust investigation into alleged monopolistic practices of the Alibaba Group and Tencent Holdings, the other Internet giant and Alibaba-rival behind WeChat. “If monopoly is tolerated,” said the People’s Daily , the Communist Party’s official newspaper, “and companies are allowed to expand in a… barbarian manner, industry won’t develop in a healthy.. way.” The regulators may well have had a point. The stunning success of Alipay and WeChat has certainly made China’s fintech ecosystem reliant on two apps without which digital finance in China would come crashing down. Alipay, in 2019, crossed 1.2 billion users, with WeChat recording more than 1 billion. The great irony, of course, was that the Alibaba Group had, more than any other, fought the monopolies of State-controlled banks. The grouse of entrepreneurs like Mr. Ma was that for the State, some monopolies appeared more welcome than others. Rags to riches Mr. Ma (56) is a former school-teacher whose rags to riches story is emblematic of the China boom after the turn of the century. Founded in 1999 in Hangzhou, a beautiful city of lakes in eastern Zhejiang, a province famed throughout Chinese history for its enterprising businesspeople, Alibaba rose to fame as a business-to-business portal. It expanded into direct sales with consumers just as China’s Internet boom took off, with Taobao and Tmall carrying the growth of the world’s fastest-growing e-commerce market. Alibaba was more than a business. It became a cultural and social phenomenon. It even birthed its own festivals — “Singles Day”, celebrated every year on November 11, has become China’s biggest celebration of consumption. Alibaba recorded $74 billion in sales this year when the daily festival was extended to an 11-day extravaganza in November, which is more than India’s estimated online sales in an entire year. The launch of Alipay in 2003 was the real game-changer. The payments portal grew into a financial behemoth in its own right, becoming not just the favoured method of payment for commercial transactions but also the go-to funding choice for millions of small businesses that were shunned by conservative Chinese banks. A decade later, Mr. Ma would launch Yuebao, a money market fund offered through the Alipay app that by 2017, in a span of just four years, amassed assets worth $170 billion making it the world’s largest. The success of both underlined the limitations of China’s own State-controlled banking sector, which offered lower interest rates for its customers and, as Mr. Ma put it memorably in October, imposed demands on small businesses in a way that a “pawn shop” would. Targeting billionaires If, for a decade, Mr. Ma was beloved by Chinese authorities as a poster-boy of the country’s economic success, the mood towards China’s billionaires has, of late, taken a darker turn. Mr. Ma isn’t the only one in the Party’s crosshairs. The Dalian Wanda Group, started by the industrialist who was previously China’s richest man, Wang Jianlin, was reined in by regulators in 2017 and forced to curb its rapid overseas expansion because of concerns over its debt. The group was then forced to sell assets and was cut down to size. The following year, the Anbang Insurance Group which had, like Wanda, gone on an overseas expansion spree, came under the lens of regulators, and its billionaire chairman, Wu Xiaohui, was sentenced to 18 years in prison for corruption. No one expects Mr. Ma to suffer a similar fate, but the recent moves certainly suggest a warning shot that underlines the Communist Party’s discomfort with companies that have grown too powerful, and in their own ways, have begun to challenge a system it prefers to tightly control. “It’s clearly an escalation of coordinated efforts to rein in Jack Ma's empire, which symbolised China's new 'too-big-to-fail' entities," Dong Ximiao, a researcher at Zhongguancun Internet Finance Institute, told Bloomberg. "Chinese authorities want to see a smaller, less dominant and more compliant firm." Patriotism first Compliance is precisely what President Xi Jinping has made clear he expects from China’s private sector. Under Mr. Xi’s watch, the Party has robustly defended State-owned enterprises (SOEs) — which have long been criticised by China’s entrepreneurs for the preferential treatment they receive which, they say, has bred inefficiency — as one of the unique institutional advantages of the Chinese system. The post COVID-19 situation has only deepened that impression, with Chinese officials praising State-run firms for their role in China’s economic recovery this summer. “Unlike risk-averse private firms, SOEs tend to rush to the forefront during difficult periods by increasing investment, cementing their main business and providing more jobs," Dong Dengxin, an economist, told the Party-run Global Times, which reported in July that during the first of a pandemic-hit year, fixed-asset investment by State firms was up 7.2% and firms had stepped in to provide 1 million jobs. That same month, Mr. Xi chaired a meeting with entrepreneurs, and called on them “to seek self-improvement in terms of patriotism, innovation, integrity, social responsibility and global vision, in order to lead enterprises out of the immediate plight and toward a brighter future.” Mr. Xi also “demanded that entrepreneurs set a good example for society as a whole by their honest and law-abiding practices”. And “a good example”, it increasingly appears, means not growing too big for the comfort of China’s ruling party.  In Focus Founded in 1999 in Hangzhou, a beautiful city of lakes in eastern Zhejiang, Alibaba rose to fame as a business-to-business portal  The company expanded into direct sales with consumers just as China’s Internet boom took off, with Taobao and Tmall carrying the growth of the world’s fastest-growing e-commerce market  A multi-billion-dollar group, Alibaba is now under regulators' scrutiny for alleged monopolistic practices   Alibaba recorded $74 bn in sales this year when ‘Singles Day’ was extended to an 11-day extravaganza in November, which is more than India’s estimated online sales in an entire year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/close-sesame-for-chinas-internet-giant/article33428096.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka IPS officer alleges irregularities in tender drafting||Responding to the controversy that has exploded over an IPS officer allegedly trying to seek classified information without authorisation, D. Roopa, Principal Secretary - PCAS, Home Department, in a letter written to the Chief Secretary on Saturday, has accepted that she did make a call to the Project Management Consultant (PMC) for the Safe City Project tender. The State government instituted a probe into thematter on Friday. However, describing herself as a “whistleblower”, Ms. Roopa has claimed that she was trying to find out “serious irregularities in tender drafting”. Hemant Nimbalkar, Additional Commissioner, Administration, Bengaluru city police, and member secretary of the State Level Apex Committee overseeing the Rs. 619 crore tender, had lodged a complaint with the Chief Secretary that the officer, who is not a member of the apex committee, impersonated the home secretary and called up the PMC and tried to procure a copy of the classified Request for Proposal (RFP) before it was published, “which amounted a criminal act”. The State government has instituted an inquiry by Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. Accused of “unauthorised intervention into the tender process”, Ms. Roopa has now claimed in the letter to the Chief Secretary: “The file was given to me by the Additional Chief Secretary of the Home Department himself to study. While studying, I found serious irregularities in the tender drafting. In this context I spoke to Ernst & Young in my capacity as home secretary to ascertain more facts on the matter.”  She has also denied the charge of impersonation and said she was indeed the home secretary. While she is Principal Secretary - Prisons, Civil Defence and Auxiliary Services (PCAS), Home Department. The post is commonly referred to as that of “home secretary.” Ms. Roopa has alleged that an earlier tender for the project that was cancelled was “biased and was drafted to favour a particular vendor”. However, sources in the State government said that the earlier tender was cancelled in January 2020, over Chinese-made components being part of the supply chain by bidders and the State government took a stand to boycott all Chinese made products, in light of the Galwan valley clash, and not over the draft of the tender. However, Bharat Electronics Ltd. (BEL) had written to the Prime Minister’s Office that the firm was “wrongly disqualified by the tender scrutiny committee.” Calling the complaint by Mr. Nimbalkar “motivated”, Ms. Roopa said it was only after she brought to the notice of chief secretary that Sanction of Prosecution of Mr. Nimbalkar in the IMA scam was granted in September 2020. She has demanded that Mr. Nimbalkar be removed as the chairman of the tender inviting committee of the Safe City Project tender and there was a need for the government to protect“whistleblower D. Roopa”. Ms. Roopa’s letter went viral on social media on Saturday. Mr. Nimbalkar shot back saying: “Governance is a serious business and cannot be run on social media.” “I will issue a point by point rebuttal after the letter is authenticated by authorities,” he said in a statement announcing he will address a press conference on Sunday. However, Ms. Roopa confirmed the authenticity of the letter to The Hindu . Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Nimbalkar said: “Anyone approaching the PMC without authorisation amounts to illegal interference in the tender process and is a criminal act. The facts of the case will come out during the inquiry instituted by the government and the concerned has a lot to answer” and alleged the contents of the purported letter had “an ulterior motive.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-ips-officer-alleges-irregularities-in-tender-drafting/article33428040.ece
27 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||Numbers swell at Delhi border||As the farmers’ protest against the farm laws completed almost a month at the Ghazipur border, the numbers are swelling at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border. The row of tractors behind the stage on the Delhi-Meerut expressway has suddenly become longer in the last two days. Among those who have joined in the last couple of days are peasants from Punjab. “We were at the Singhu border for some time but now we have been told to come here as this site needs more numbers,” said Joga Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana. “If all goes well, tomorrow 200 tractors are expected to come here from the Delhi side as well,” said Mr. Singh, sitting on a divider. On Saturday, farmers blocked both the carriageways on the expressway for around five hours. The traffic from Delhi was diverted via Anand Vihar. “We do it when the administration doesn’t allow our tractors to come to the protest site. Once they allowed, we opened the traffic from Delhi,” said Gurpreet Singh from Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand. “At this point, the tractors have covered at least 4 km of the Meerut carriageway,” said Mr. Gurpreet, adding the protesters did not stop the vehicles of essential services. Responding to the Prime Minister’s address on Friday, Mr. Singh said the PM’s comparison between poultry and dairy farmers and those growing food grains was misplaced. “Eggs and milk could be sold in small quantities to different buyers. I can’t keep selling a quintal of grain and I don’t have the facility to hoard,” he said. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, who negotiated with the administration during the day, said, “ Jab tak Bill wapsi nahin , tab tak ghar wapsi nahin (‘as long as the Acts are not repealed, we will not return home’).” He said the protest was leaderless and being run by farmers. “After many years, farmers have come together for their rights. We can’t allow it to be sabotaged,” he stressed. He appealed to temple trusts to support the protest. “The way they do during the kawad yatra , they could provide meals to farmers.” Serving milk and jaggery to farmers before they retired for the day, Manoj Chaudhary, vice-president of the Ghaziabad unit of the BKU, observed, “The best thing that these black Acts have done is that they have united Sikh and Jat farmers, and landowners and landless farmers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/numbers-swell-at-delhi-border/article33428060.ece
27 December 2020||Srinagar,||3 charged in Shopian killings||The J&K Police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Saturday filed a chargesheet against an Army officer and two others before a local court in the alleged staged encounter in Kashmir that left three “locals” dead in Shopian’s Amshipora on July 18 this year. The SIT, headed by a Superintendent of Police (SP), presented a 300-page challan before a local judge and named three persons, including Captain Bhupinder of 62 Rashtriya Rifles; Tabish Ahmad, a resident of Shopian; and Bilal Ahmad, a resident of Pulwama. The trio allegedly played a role that led to the encounter. Three missing youth from Rajouri in the Pir Panjal Valley — Abrar Ahmed, 25, Imtiyaz Ahmed, 20, and Mohammed Ibrar, 16 — were left dead in the encounter. The police had said weapons were recovered from the dead, passed off as “unidentified militants” then. Later, DNA samples established their identities and the bodies were returned to the families of the youth, who were working as labourers in south Kashmir. Meanwhile, the Army said the process of summary of evidence was completed with regard to the Shopian “fake encounter”. “The same is being examined by the authorities concerned in consultation with legal advisers for proceeding further. The Army is committed to the ethical conduct of operations,” a spokesperson said in a statement on Thursday. He said the inquiry had brought out “certain prima facie evidence”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-charged-in-shopian-killings/article33428810.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Mercenaries from America||Blackwater Worldwide, the Virginia-based private security firm, whose four convicted contractors were last week granted clemency by President Donald Trump, is arguably the most high-profile embodiment of what is described as the outsourcing of warfare by successive U.S. administrations. Contracted by the State Department to protect American diplomats, the firm, since renamed Xe Services and more recently as Academi, has seized on the new avenues thrown open by the global war on terror following the September 11, 2001 attacks and snapped up security deals. It has in the process acquired increasing notoriety for contempt for the rule of law and violations of human rights. The 2007 Baghdad massacre of 17 civilians for which these former U.S. service members were pardoned by President Donald Trump, is one of many instances that Blackwater has been criminally implicated. Months before the notorious killings, one of its employees fatally shot a bodyguard of a top Iraqi politician, leading to his dismissal. Families of four Blackwater employees killed in Falluja in 2004 sued the firm for wrongful deaths. In 2018, under former chairman Erik Prince, Blackwater was manoeuvring hard to privatise Washington’s war effort in Afghanistan as a third option between a prolonged U.S. military presence and complete withdrawal of troops. A UN investigation this year revealed that Mr. Prince equipped Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed, the de facto ruler of the UAE with private militia. The UN has also linked Blackwater’s involvement in another botched mercenary mission in Libya. Nearer home, there have been reports that Mr. Prince, a close ally of President Trump, and the brother of U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, was recruiting former spies to infiltrate the Democratic campaign and politically liberal organisations opposed to the Trump agenda. Mr. Prince, whose clandestine operations span several continents, has all along denied any wrong-doing by the security firm. In a 2007 testimony to a House oversight committee relating to the gruesome shootings of unarmed civilians in the Iraqi capital, Mr. Prince alleged that judgment was being pronounced based on inaccurate information. Instead, he insisted that the legal immunity from prosecution of contractors should be protected because a fair trial for foreigners was highly unlikely in the country. Henry Waxman, a democratic legislator and chairman of the House oversight committee, and another Republican member criticised the State Department’s failure to enforce accountability on Blackwater. Tax evasion allegations In October the same year, Mr. Waxman, based on an Internal Revenue Service ruling, accused Blackwater of evading millions of dollars in federal taxes. The agency had found that the company’s designation of its personnel as independent contractors rather than an employee as was the practice in other security firms, lacked merit. Blackwater’s defence was that the arrangement gave flexibility to the relationship between the company and its workers. While the Iraqi government tried to ban Blackwater from the country, the State Department in 2008 renewed the company’s contract, even as the latter managed to stall an inquiry into the 2007 killings of civilians. In further demonstration of its increasing clout, the Pentagon invited Blackwater to bid for lucrative security contracts worth billions of dollars, this time to combat terrorists with links to the drug mafias in Mexico, Bolivia and Colombia. In August 2009, it emerged that the CIA had, at a cost of millions of dollars, hired the firm for its secret operation to trace and assassinate al-Qaeda terrorists, but with little to show for its activities. Ironically, the tide began to turn against Blackwater after the 2009 dismissal of charges against the company in a U.S. court. In response, Jo Biden, then Vice-President in the Obama administration, promised to reopen the trial. The protracted process that followed in the next decade resulted in the more recent convictions and the relentless pursuit to exonerate them, culminating in last week’s clemency. The new administration’s dealings with Blackwater is sure to attract closer Congressional scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mercenaries-from-america/article33428094.ece
27 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Congress to take stock of poll debacle in Kerala||Rumblings of infighting appeared to grow louder in the Congress on Saturday even as it commenced a soul searching process to make sense of the party’s poor showing in the local body polls. Leaders continued to the play the blame game on the eve of Tariq Anwar's arrival, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in charge of Kerala. Mr. Anwar will be here on Sunday to take stock of the party’s shortcomings and initiate corrective action to make the organisation fighting fit in the run-up to the Assembly elections in mid-2021. He arrives against the backdrop of reports that V. S.Sivakumar, MLA, has moved the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) against the move to foist the party’s dismal performance in Thiruvananthapuram on his shoulders. He has alleged that some organisational insiders had accused him of working to the advantage of political opponents. Adoor Prakash, MP, blamed group satraps for the party’s lousy show. He said they had sacrificed winnable candidates on the altar of clannish group politics. Both leaders did not mention any person by name. Mr. Anwar is scheduled to meet leaders individually and collectively, among them members of the Political Affairs Committee (PAC) of the KPCC and then hear MLAs, MPs, and District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents. Systemic weaknesses The AICC was reportedly disinclined to make any ‘knee-jerk’ leadership change in the KPCC. However, a party insider signalled that leaders would face some measure of reckoning for the ‘flailing’ campaign. He said the AICC was ill-disposed to ascribing the failure to any one leader or faction. Instead, it wanted Congress to address systemic weaknesses. The meeting might also lay the template for future candidature selection, emphasising youth and winnability factor. Rebuilding bridges with social forums, formulating a development and social welfare-oriented election manifesto, raising election funds, early announcement of candidates, and ironing out group differences are on the agenda. The party has to manage a resurgent Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) asking for more seats and a weakened Kerala Congress (Joseph) and other alliance partners’ demands. Congress has to ensure that the anti-incumbency factor would benefit the United Democratic Front (UDF) and not the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by striking tactical alliances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-to-take-stock-of-poll-debacle-in-kerala/article33428374.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Kannada actor’s bust vandalised||A bust of Kannada actor late Vishnuvardhan at Magadi Road–Chord Road junction here was found vandalised on Saturday morning, sparking off protests by the actor’s fans who had installed it around a year ago, leading to tension in the area. The issue was later resolved with the intervention of local MLA and Housing Minister V. Somanna. The Vijayanagar police have registered a case and launched a probe to identify the vandals. Puttaraju, one of the actor’s fans protesting at the site, told mediapersons that the bust was fine when he saw it on Friday night. “There had been pressure on us to relocate the bust to a nearby place and we had agreed to it as well. But vandalising the bust like this is extremely sad. The police should arrest those behind this,” he said. The city’s civic body had recently agreed to name Magadi Road–Chord Road junction as Balagangadharanatha Swamy Circle and in that light, devotees of Adichunchanagiri Mutt, located nearby, wanted a statue of the late seer installed at the circle. However, a few people overnight installed the bust of Vishnuvardhan without any authorisation, leading to confusion. Even those from the mutt had mediated and the fans had agreed to relocate the actor’s bust, a senior police officer said. At another location Mr. Somanna condemned the incident and said that given the actor’s fans were willing to relocate the bust, vandalising it in the midnight was uncalled for. “Vishnuvardhan and Balagangadharanatha Swamy have contributed immensely to the State. We will talk to all sides and peacefully resolve the issue and install the actor’s bust at another location soon,” he said. The police are examining footage from CCTV cameras from the area to identify the vandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kannada-actors-bust-vandalised/article33428053.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||PM nudges Puducherry on polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday gave a very public nudge to the Puducherry administration for not facilitating local body polls in the Union Territory, even as he commended the successful conclusion of the District Development Council polls in Jammu and Kashmir. He made the point during his address at the time of launching a government health insurance scheme, the PMJAY-SEYHAT, for Jammu and Kashmir. Praise for J&K “Jammu and Kashmir has proven its confidence and faith in democracy but on the other hand, I want to attract the attention of the country to another fact — despite a Supreme Court order, local body polls haven’t been held in Puducherry,” he said. The nudge was also a response to Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s statement a couple of days ago that there was “no democracy” left in India. Mr. Modi’s pointing out of Congress-ruled Puducherry’s reluctance to hold local polls, whereas Centrally-ruled Jammu and Kashmir had done so, was aimed at the Congress’ own patchy record. Mr. Modi also said that “some people in Delhi teach me lessons in democracy morning and evening”. The SC had ordered in 2018 that local body polls be held in Puducherry, where local body polls hadn’t been held since 2006. The terms of those local bodies came to an end in 2011. The Union Home Ministry has been urging the Puducherry administration to hold local body polls for the last 10 years but it hasn’t happened. The appointment of Roy Thomas as Election Commissioner there has raised hopes of polls soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-nudges-puducherry-on-polls/article33428065.ece
27 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Over 4,000 LWEs have surrendered in 3 States’||Over 4,000 left-wing extremists (LWEs) have laid down their arms in Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh in the past seven years, according to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). In response to an Right to Information (RTI) query by Cuttack-based activist Srikant Kumar Pakal, the MHA said as many as 4,122 extremists had surrendered in the three States, which share borders, between 2014 and 2020. The outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) has been active in the border areas of these States. Of those who surrendered, 3,185 returned to the mainstream in Chhattisgarh, while Andhra Pradesh and Odisha recorded 617 and 320 surrenders respectively. Similarly, 656 LWEs were killed in encounters with security forces in the three States. Chhattisgarh continued to be the worst-affected as far as encounters between security forces and ultras are concerned. As many as 533 extremists were killed in Chhattisgarh in the past seven years, followed by 105 in Odisha and 18 in Andhra Pradesh. In 2016, Chhattisgarh recorded killings of 135 ultras, the highest single-year mortality. Incidentally, not a single casualty was reported on the part of LWEs in Andhra Pradesh in 2020. While 31 ultras were killed in Chhattisgarh, 13 died in Odisha. Mr. Pakal said the MHA declined to share any information regarding security forces deployed in Maoist-affected regions of the three States. It also refused to provide information regarding casualties on the part of security forces and civilians. The Left Wing Extremism Division of MHA did not provide information on seizures made in operations against extremists in the past seven years. “During the past six years, there has been a steady decline in the activities of the CPI (Maoist) in the region. We have been able to consolidate in Malkangiri district bordering Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh, so influx could be controlled. The security forces have managed to bust the hideouts of LWEs. In Koraput district, security forces have also squeezed out CPI (Maoist) rebels,” said Shefeen Ahamed, Deputy Inspector General of Police for the South West Range, Odisha, which controls districts bordering Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh. 2004 raid Odisha police woke up to the Maoist threat in 2004 when LWEs carried out a daring armoury raid. Since then, police modernisation and creation of specialised force were taken up. “Now, special anti-Maoist forces and intelligence agencies have been working in tandem. We are receiving excellent cooperation from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh,” said Mr. Ahamed. According to him, no area could be claimed as a Maoist bastion any more. Due to coordinated action by security forces, including State police and Central forces such as Border Security Force and Central Reserve Police Force, LWEs were forced to lay down their arms, said a senior officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-4000-lwes-have-surrendered-in-3-states/article33428346.ece
27 December 2020||AHMEDABAD,||‘Jal Jeevan adds 1 lakh water connections daily’||Since its launch in August 2019, the Centre’s ambitious flagship scheme Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), which in partnership with the States seeks to ensure that every rural household of the country gets assured drinking water supply by 2024, has achieved 32.3% coverage of tap connections in rural India, emerging as a key scheme in the Narendra Modi government’s second term. The Modi government is almost replicating the implementation of its flagship scheme of building toilets in the first term in providing tap water connections to every rural household in the country in its second term. In its first term from 2014 to 2019, the Centre reportedly built over 11 crore toilets in the country. “The actual implementation started on December 25, 2019 with the release of Operational Guidelines for the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission. In almost a year, despite COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown as well as restrictions, more than 3 crore households have been provided with tap water connections,” said Director of JJM Bharat Lal, a top bureaucrat tasked with the implementation of the ambitious scheme. 3 cr. addition per year “With this, as of now, 6.15 crore (32.3%) households of the country are getting tap water supply into their homes. Every year, more than 3 crore households are to be given tap water connections. This is the speed and scale on which the mission is being implemented,” he added. “Almost 1 lakh new connections are getting added on daily basis. The State governments have taken this very seriously and have focused their efforts on its [the scheme’s] delivery,” Mr. Lal, a Gujarat-cadre Forest Service officer, told The Hindu . According to him, there are many challenges in implementing the scheme nationally. Out of a total of 731 districts, 256 districts and 1,592 blocks have been classified as water-stressed or drought prone. “The State government and local bodies (panchayats) will also have to protect the source of water to be supplied to the households. The government has emphasised protecting local water bodies to be used as a source for supply,” he said. To ensure its implementation without any funding crunch, in 2020-21, a sum of Rs. 23,500 crore has been allocated for the implementation of the JJM. Besides this, in 2020-21, 50% of 15th Finance Commission Grants to Rural Local Bodies, that is, Rs. 30,375 crore as a tied grant, will be utilised for water supply and sanitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/19-cr-rural-households-to-get-tap-water-by-2024/article33428063.ece
27 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Massive BKU(U) contingent starts march from Punjab||Scores of farmers under the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) banner on Saturday started their march from parts of Punjab to participate in the ongoing agitation in Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws. The BKU(U) is one of the largest farm outfits in Punjab and its members have been protesting at Tikri (Delhi-Bahadurgarh border). BKU general secretary Sukhdev Singh said over 16,000 people including women farmers and labourers on several tractor-trolleys, buses, trucks and other vehicles left from Punjab’s Khanauri border for Delhi. “We have printed pamphlets, which we will distribute to people during our march to expose the government’s false propaganda and defend the rights of the farmers. We want to make people aware and expose the government,” Mr. Singh said. Leader of the Opposition in the Punjab Assembly and Aam Aadmi Party MLA Harpal Cheema said the farm laws were not only anti-farmer but also against the poor, middle class and small traders of the country. “While the new agricultural laws would grab the land of farmers by giving them to the capitalists, depriving them of their assets, the law related to the stocking of essential commodities would eliminate the poor and traders of the country,” he alleged in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/massive-bkuu-contingent-starts-march-from-punjab/article33428069.ece
27 December 2020||Hathras,||Three months on, wounds remain raw in Hathras as family faces uncertainty||The towering bajra crops have given way to wheat saplings. The change in season is palpable in the fields of Boolgarhi. And three months after his 19-year-old daughter was brutalised in the millet fields by four upper caste men, there is a semblance of a smile on the face of the victim’s father. Her death and midnight cremation without the family’s consent shook the conscience of the nation. “ Doodh ka doodh, paani ka paai kar diya (the wheat has been separated from the chaff),” he says, referring to the recent Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) chargesheet filed in a Hathras court. In the chargesheet, Sandeep, 20, Ramu, 26, Ravi, 35, and Luvkush, 21, have been arraigned under Sections 376, 376D, and 302 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The four accused are lodged in the Aligarh district jail and have undergone a narco test at a government lab in Ahmedabad. Under watch “We haven’t seen the document, but we have been told that it is a step in the direction to send the culprits to the gallows,” says the father, sitting in the inner courtyard of his residence, covered by eight CCTV cameras, concertina wires from two sides, and a posse of CRPF. The CBI investigation is not the only ray of hope for the traumatised family. Despite the tense and polarised atmosphere in the village, the neighbouring Brahmin family has agreed to share-crop on their fields. The neighbour, Jagdish Chandra Pachauri, says social hierarchies remain in the village but adds, “We stand for each other as well.” “They needed somebody to cultivate their fields. I agreed and sowed wheat in his field. We will share the harvest. There is nothing wrong in this and nobody could stop me from doing this. Those who have done wrong will have to suffer,” Mr. Pachauri says. However, concerns of the victim’s family remain. “Neither the pradhan (headman) of the village, the elected representative, nor her son has cared to come and commiserate with us,” the father says. “We have received a threat over the phone that ‘you would not be safe anywhere’,” he says. And he reiterates the family’s demand born out of fear: “We want the case to be shifted to Delhi and arrangements be made for our stay there.” It doesn’t mean surrendering the land of their forefathers, he says but reflects the impact of the tragedy. “We respected social hierarchy and many in the village acknowledge this... We didn’t cross the line. All these years, we folded hands from outside the temple. We offered Ganga water to our peepul , our tulsi (holy basil). Still, our daughters are not safe and we can’t cremate our dead with dignity,” he says with bitterness. The victim’s younger brother points out that no action has been taken against the “insensitive” district magistrate who took the decision on the cremation. The family is also worried about the future. “The ex-gratia compensation of Rs. 25 lakh has come but we are yet to hear on the job for a family member and a house that the Chief Minister promised. My younger brother and I were working in Delhi-NCR before the lockdown. Each of us were earning around Rs. 10,000. We want to return to normal life. My father also made around Rs. 3,000 working as a sanitary supervisor in a local private school. For how long, will we remain confined,” the brother asks. The victim’s elder brother refutes allegations that the girl was having an affair with one of the accused, Sandeep, as the CBI chargesheet reportedly says, on the basis of call records. At the homes of the accused, there is an atmosphere of despondency and aggression. Family members use expletives to refer to the victim’s family and refer to the alleged “affair” between Sandeep and the victim. “The truth will prevail. The CBI might have found our sons guilty, but the case is yet to be fought in the court,” says Rakesh, father of Ramu. He claims the CBI didn’t take into account the presence of his son at the local dairy at the time of the incident because of a lack of CCTV footage. Atar Singh, the father of another accused, Ravi, questions the dying declaration of the victim. “In her first statement, at the Chandpa police station, she named only Sandeep. Her mother also blamed Sandeep. The girl later named the other three at the behest of the daughter of the local MP who belongs to their community,” he alleges. Locals say support for the families of the accused diminished after the CBI chargesheet but caste-based groups are still trying to fan emotions. On Thursday, five members of Karni Sena Bharat were arrested by the Hathras police as they planned to hold a panchayat in support of the accused. Seema Kushwaha, lawyer for the victim, says she hasn’t received a complete copy of the chargesheet but the sections that have been invoked suggest it is a step towards justice. She admits the trial would be tough but says rape laws had changed after the Nirbhaya case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-months-on-wounds-remain-raw-in-hathras-as-family-faces-uncertainty/article33428076.ece
27 December 2020||Kolkata,||Row over house a political issue: Amartya Sen||Nobel laureate Amartya Sen on Saturday broke his silence on the controversy around Visva-Bharati allegedly putting his name in the list of illegal occupants of its lands. Professor Sen described the development a political matter, and said if the Vice-Chancellor of Visva Bharati Bidyut Chakraborty feels happy to take part in such political matters, then there was nothing to be done. “Till now, I have not received a single letter. There are only talks in the media. This is evidence of uncivilised behaviour. I believe there are good reasons to condemn this kind of behaviour. I am delighted that people, including the Chief Minister also, think so. If there was really any complaint, then they should have written to me,” he told a local television news channel from Visva-Bharati. On Friday, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had written to Professor Sen expressing solidarity with him against the “bigotry of the majoritarians in this country”. He said there may be a political reason for the war that was being waged from the office of the Vice-Chancellor. “I have often been the target of criticism for the political party to whom Bidyut Babu (the Vice-Chancellor) is beholden to,” he said. The Noble laureate said the allegations come after 50 years. “How did you discover that? What is the proof? Do you have the necessary papers? I have certainly talked to my lawyers. I will not do anything now, but I will certainly act on it when they tell me what the issue is,” he said. The West Bengal BJP leadership jumped into the controversy and State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said Prof. Sen is a respectable person but he should not appear as a “spokesperson of a party that running a dictatorship in West Bengal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-house-a-political-issue-amartya-sen/article33428083.ece
27 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Congress begins ‘save cow yatra’ in U.P.||The Congress party on Saturday started a foot march from Lalitpur to highlight the plight of cows and farmers in Uttar Pradesh. But barely had the yatra progressed that its State president Ajay Kumar Lallu, who set off with a pot filled with the asthiya (ashes) of a dead cow on his head, the police stopped the yatra and took him into custody. Mr. Lallu and several other Congress leaders were detained by the police. The party also said that many of their leaders had been placed under home arrest. Additional SP Lalitpur Brijesh Kumar Singh said 55-60 Congress workers were detained and released in the evening for violating COVID-19 protocols and taking out a yatra without seeking permission. Mr. Singh said an FIR was also lodged against the Congress workers. However, district Congress president Balwant Singh Rajput, who was among those arrested, claimed around 200 party workers were held. He also alleged that about two dozen party workers were injured as the police used force against them. Called the “ gai bachao , kisan bachao ” (save cows, save farmers) yatra, the foot march planned to cover the Bundelkhand region of the State, and was scheduled from a gaushala in Saujana in Lalitpur district to Chitrakoot. As per the Congress’ plans, the yatra would pass through all seven districts of Bundelkhand before culminating on the banks of the river Mandakini in Chitrakoot where a tarpan ritual would be performed for cows. Mr. Lallu led the yatra with hundreds of party workers marching beside him. Slogans like “ gohatya band karo , gohatya nahi sahenge ” (Stop killing cows, we won’t tolerate killing of cows) were raised by party workers. When the Congress yatra was stopped by the police, Mr. Lallu, carrying a clay urn with “ gai mata ” stamped on it, was heard arguing with a police officer. “We want to hold a foot march. What is the problem in it?” he asked. Before being packed off in a police bus, the MLA from Kushinagar said that there were no restrictions on the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders from going to West Bengal for holding rallies but Opposition parties in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh were being prevented from conducting yatras under the pretext of implementing laws. “Is there any law in the country that bars us from taking out a yatra?” he asked. Priyanka tweets support Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted in support of her party colleagues participating in the yatra. “No force in the world can stop you from raising questions in the interest of farmers,” Ms. Vadra said in a tweet addressed to “dear soldiers of Congress”. Mr. Rajput alleged that the BJP has no concern for cows or farmers. Cows in Saujana and Amjhara cow shelters were dying of starvation and the Yogi government is arresting Congress workers to hide its ‘sins’, he added. In Jhansi, Congress leaders claimed party national secretary Rohit Choudhary, former MP Pradeep Jain Aditya and some other leaders were put under house arrest.  (With PTI inputs)   We want to hold a foot march. What is the problem in it? Is there any law in the country that bars us from taking out a yatra?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-begins-save-cow-yatra-in-up/article33428410.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka SEC’s lens on unopposed poll winners||With as many as 8,074 candidates elected unopposed into the gram panchayats, the Karnataka State Election Commission (SEC) has decided to explore the option of disqualification of candidates if they got elected by luring the electorate with money power, gifts, or other dubious means. Official sources in the SEC said the very purpose of conducting elections would lose meaning if candidates were elected unopposed. “Moreover, it was a denial of the right to vote for the electorate in rural local bodies elections,” a source said. SEC officials have held discussions with lawyers to find solutions to a large number of candidates getting elected without facing contest. Sources revealed that following the suggestions from lawyers and senior officials, the SEC has decided to issue circulars to all Deputy Commissioners to verify the process of electing candidates unopposed. In the second phase of the polls, which will be held on Sunday, 3,697 candidates in different gram panchayats in districts have already been elected unopposed. Districts where more than 100 candidates have been elected unopposed are Bengaluru Urban (139), Chitradurga (189), Davangere (163), Kolar (106), Tumakuru (111), Hassan (178), Mandya (185), Belagavi (332), Vijayapura (119), Bagalkot (158), Kalaburagi (242), Bidar (109), Ballari (319), Raichur (215), Yadgir (207), and Koppal (169). It is reported that in some gram panchayats, candidates made attempts to get elected without elections by auctioning seats and declaring the highest bidder the winner. In some cases, candidates allegedly hosted birthday parties and distributed gifts to lure voters. In the first phase of the polls, 4,377 candidates were elected unopposed, while in the second, 3,697 were elected unopposed. With the advancement of technology, many candidates who lost the elections are expected to provide evidence in video and other formats seeking disqualification of the elected candidates soon after the announcement of results. The counting of votes for the elections held will take place on December 30. SEC sources said that based on the reports of the Deputy Commissioners, efforts would be made to challenge the election in court. “Like in the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections, the victory of candidates after violation of model code of conduct will be challenged only in the court of law. Already, in few cases and FIRs have been registered for violation of poll code in some districts,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-secs-lens-on-unopposed-poll-winners/article33428043.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Covaxin trial hit by a lack of volunteers||A less than enthusiastic participation by volunteers has slowed down phase-3 clinical trials of the country’s indigenous COVID-19 vaccine (Covaxin) at Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre in Bengaluru. This is even as Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which is developing Covaxin, applied to the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) again for emergency use authorisation on December 23. When the trials started on December 2, the hospital had aimed to administer the first dose of vaccine to 1,000 volunteers in a week. However, as of December 26, only 480 people had received the dose. While there has been a lack of enthusiasm in the general public, the State’s elected representatives and IAS/IPS officials, apart from celebrities, have voluntarily participated in the trials and taken the first dose. Over 65 volunteers are senior citizens too. The hospital has roped in Clintrac International Ltd., an autonomous research institute for the trials. ‘Vaccine is safe’ Chaitanya Adikeshavlu, one of the directors of Clintrac, told The Hindu on Saturday that about 120 of the 480 volunteers are politicians, IAS, IPS officials, and some other celebrities. “There is some hesitation among people to participate in the trial as they may be worried about side effects. But, the vaccine is completely safe. Several doctors from Vydehi, including me and my family, have taken the dose and none of us have had any problem,” she said. “The plan is to roll out the vaccine by the second week of January for the priority group of healthcare workers. And for this, we have to complete the phase-3 trials by the year-end. We need 520 more volunteers and appeal to people to come forward and participate in the trials,” she said. The hospital has now offered travel arrangements for volunteer groups from residents’ welfare associations and apartments who want to be part of the trial. Covaxin clinical trials are based on a two-dose schedule, given 28 days apart. The vaccine efficacy will be determined 14 days post the second dose. It is the largest phase-3 clinical trial conducted in India. It is also the only efficacy trial being conducted in India for COVID-19 vaccine, to determine its suitability for the diverse Indian population. D.V. Chalapathy, co-investigator of the trials, said anyone aged above 18 can participate. “As the vaccine candidate is preventive and curative, it will be given to those who test negative and are asymptomatic. Anyone who wants to volunteer can walk into our institute and enroll. Interested people can also call 97394 19272 and ask to be connected to the Covaxin clinical trial room,” he said. Vaccine hesitancy C N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, attributed the vaccine hesitancy to fear factor. No major side effects have been observed so far, he said. “People are worried about adverse effects. It is likely that vaccination will be associated with mild adverse events such as soreness at the injection site, fever, fatigue, and myalgias. These are universal side effects with any vaccination. Efforts should be made to propagate the message that vaccination is safe in society. Awareness drives should be conducted to boost the confidence of people,” he said. Champion advocacy V. Ravi, former professor and head of the department of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, who is part of the State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said champion advocacy is the need of the hour. “More celebrities and eminent personalities should participate in the trials and publicise their participation. Vaccine reluctance is natural in the beginning but this can be turned into acceptance with more awareness,” he said. Shashi Bhushan B.L., professor and head of the department of Pulmonary Medicine at Victoria Hospital, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, said no vaccine would be 100% effective. “A vaccine that protects against developing clinical illness may not prevent transmission to others. Also, the duration of naturally occurring immunity to infection with severe SARS-CoV-2 is unknown and may wane with time. More awareness should be created to clear all doubts in the minds of people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lack-of-volunteers-hits-phase-3-covaxin-trials/article33428232.ece
27 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala hopeful of Governor’s assent||The Kerala government appeared optimistic on Saturday that Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will give his assent to summon the legislative Assembly on December 31 for a one-day emergency session to discuss the national-level farmers’ agitation and its implications for the State’s food security. The administration’s move to pass a resolution at the sitting against the agriculture reform laws that thrust farmers in the rice-bowl States in northern India on the warpath against the Centre had reportedly emerged as a sore point between the ruling coalition and Mr. Khan. Assent withheld Mr. Khan had withheld his assent to convoke the Assembly on December 21 for the very purpose because he felt the State legislature lacked the “jurisdiction to offer a solution” to the farmers’ strike. In the past, Mr. Khan had expressed scepticism whether the Assembly could discuss or hazard a judgement on the constitutional validity of laws enacted by Parliament. He had aired a similar sentiment when the Assembly passed a resolution against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December 2019. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said the government had answered the questions raised by Mr. Khan satisfactorily. He hoped the Governor would permit the session. Law Minister A.K. Balan and Mr. Sunil Kumar called on Mr. Khan on Friday in a bid to iron out differences. Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan followed suit on Saturday. Lack of ‘clarity’ Officials said Mr. Khan had withheld consent for the December 21 session primarily because the government “failed” to convey with clarity of purpose the urgency to summon the Assembly at short notice. The Governor had found the language in government communications imprecise. It left him wondering whether any farmer distress in Kerala had precipitated a crisis that necessitated the urgent summoning of the Assembly, bypassing the minimum 15-day notice period to members.  Governor criticised The Governor’s refusal to give assent had earned him criticism from the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) and plaudits from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan stated that Mr. Khan’s action was “unconstitutional”. The Governor had no choice but to convene the Assembly once counselled to do so by the cabinet. The BJP praised Mr. Khan for “upholding federalism”.  Government has answered the questions raised by the Governor satisfactorily V.S. Sunil Kumar Agriculture Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-hopeful-of-governors-assent/article33428050.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||Congress election panel to meet soon||The Central Election Authority (CEA) of the Congress party, entrusted with the task of holding organisational elections to elect a new party president, is likely to meet in the first week of January, a person familiar with the development said on Saturday. The source quoted above said that though the CEA had firmed up a tentative election schedule, it was asked to put it on hold until the December 19 meeting of party president Sonia Gandhi with key members of the group of 23 dissenters (G-23) as the effort was to create a consensus on the party’s presidential candidate. If all goes as planned, then the party would complete the process by February and inform the Election Commission (EC), he added. While the party’s focus has been on who will be the next national president, several States are going through the same uncertainty and leadership crisis. In Telangana, former Rajya Sabha member and party veteran V. Hanumantha Rao on Saturday threatened to quit if the party high command decided to elevate Lok Sabha member Revanth Reddy as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief. The post of the Telangana PCC chief fell vacant after Uttam Kumar Reddy stepped down from his post owning moral responsibility for the party’s rout in the recent Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-election-panel-to-meet-soon/article33428067.ece
27 December 2020||Kolkata,||New species of sun rose found in the Eastern Ghats||Botanists have discovered a new species of wild Sun Rose from the Eastern Ghats in India. The new species, named Portulaca laljii , discovered from Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh has unique features such as a tuberous root, no hair in its leaf axils, a reddish pink flower, prolate-shaped fruits, and copper brown seeds without lustre. These morphological features distinguish the species from other species of genus Portulaca. The details of the discovery have been published in the Journal of Asia Pacific Biodiversity in an article titled “A new species of the genus Portulaca L. (Portulacaceae) from the Eastern Ghats, India”. “Botanical explorations were undertaken in the Prakasam district during April 2018 to February 2020. The species was first spotted in April 2018 but the samples were seen during flowering in July-August,” Pasupuleti Sivaramakrishna, one of the botanists behind the discovery, said. The flowers, which are reddish pink in colour, are very minute, at about 0.5mm. The plant was found growing in rocky crevices at an altitude of about 1,800 metres above mean sea level, very close to the ground, at about less than 10 cm. “The flowers are very attractive and bloom for months from June to February. The plant can have a rich horticultural value,” said Mr. Sivaramakrishna, who is associated with the Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh. Along with Mr. Sivaramakrishna, Pulicherla Yugandhar, another botanist associated with the same institute, has contributed to the discovery. “We have been able to grow the plant species ( Portulaca laljii ) in our college botanical garden as a part of ex situ conservation and we found that the plant bears beautiful, tiny pink flowers for eight months. It is because of the succulent nature of tuberous roots that the plant can survive on rocky crevices,” Mr. Sivaramakrishna said. The plants belonging genus Portulaca are classified in the category Sun Rose because they flower in bright sunshine. The genus was described by Linnaeus in 1753 as a type genus of the flowering plant family Portulacaceae, and presently comprise over 100 taxa which are distributed throughout tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. In India, earlier studies on the genus Portulaca have revealed the presence of eight species. The plants belonging to genus Portulaca show various degrees of succulence in their vegetative parts like roots, stems and leaves. For instance, all the vegetative parts of Portulaca oleracea are succulent, whereas in Portulaca tuberosa the highest succulence is found in the roots compared with the leaves. The species are widely distributed in both forests and agricultural fields, unlike the new Portulaca laljii which only grows naturally in rocky crevices.  Portulaca laljii has been named to honour the contribution of Lal Ji Singh, an eminent botanist of the Botanical Survey of India associated with the Andaman and Nicobar Centre of the Botanical Survey of India. The species has been placed under the ‘Data Deficient’ category of the IUCN List of Threatened Species because very little information is available about the population of the species.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-species-of-sun-rose-found-in-the-eastern-ghats/article33428090.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||150 soldiers test positive for COVID-19||4Around 150 soldiers who travelled to Delhi to take part in Republic Day and Army Day parades have tested positive for COVID-19, according to an Army source. “The soldiers who arrived to participate in various parades were tested before putting them into a safe bubble. Some of them tested positive. Almost all are asymptomatic,” the source said. They are among the few thousand soldiers who have been tested. The soldiers have been quarantined at Delhi Cantonment. Protocols have been put in place for conducting the parade safely, a second source said. Thousands of soldiers travel to the national capital every year to take part in the annual Republic Day as well as Army Day parades. Plans to hold the parade at Rajpath on January 26 this year are on despite the pandemic. India has invited U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson as the chief guest. The Ministry of External Affairs has already clarified that the British Prime Minister will be visiting despite the scare of the new virus strain in U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/150-soldiers-test-positive-for-covid-19/article33428087.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||5 die as lorry rams auto||Mominpet police said the accident took place around 7 a.m. when the victims, all daily wagers, were on their way to Shankarpally in an auto-rickshaw for picking cotton. “The auto was parked on the wrong side of the road and the lorry coming in the opposite direction at a high speed hit the vehicle in an attempt to avoid ramming into an TSRTC bus moving in the same direction,” Mominpet Sub-Inspector Ravi Kumar said. He said the laterite-laden lorry grazed past the RTC bus, and went on to ram the auto, which toppled on the left. It came to a halt after damaging a roadside house. The victims were residents of Ezra Chittampally. Their bodies were shifted to Government Hospital in Tandur. Auto driver V Hari had a lucky escape as he was inside his house when the accident took place, and lorry driver Rafeeq too escaped unhurt. A case under Section 304-A (Causing death by negligence) of IPC was registered against both Hari and Rafeeq.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-die-as-lorry-rams-auto/article33428877.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||2 more U.K. returnees test positive in Telangana||Two more persons who came to Telangana from the U.K. tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. They are from Medchal-Malkajgiri district. From December 9, a total of 1,216 people have come to the State from the U.K. Of them, 937 were tracked and tested and 18 have tested positive (including the two on Saturday). The 18 patients include six from Medchal-Malkajgiri, four from Hyderabad, two from Jagtial, one each from Mancherial, Nalgonda, Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Siddipet, Warangal Urban. They were admitted to different hospitals. Besides the coronavirus-positive patients,Their immediate contacts too were traced. The 18 positive patients have 79 immediate contacts. Of the 79, three were detected with COVID-19. The rest are under quarantine. All samples were sent to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing to know the strain of the virus. Results are expected in two days, said Telangana Director of Public Health Dr. G Srinivasa Rao. Besides them, their immediate contacts too were traced. The exercise of identifying the contacts was similar to the one taken up in the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Health department staff have identified 79 immediate contacts of the 18 patients, who were kept under quarantine and their health condition was monitored. Of the 79 immediate contacts, three have tested positive for coronavirus. The rest continue to be under quarantine.  Samples collected from all of them were sent to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing to know the variant of coronavirus. Dr Srinivasa said that the results of the sequencing is expected in two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-more-uk-returnees-test-positive-in-telangana/article33428037.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Deve Gowda dismisses JD(S)-BJP merger talk||Spiking speculation about his party’s merger with the BJP, former Prime Minister and JD(S) national president H.D. Deve Gowda said on Saturday that his focus was on keeping the regional party alive and on trying to take it to power on its “own strength” in the 2023 Assembly elections. Breaking his silence on the issue at a press conference, he dismissed the talk of merger as an “entertainment programme”. “We will focus on building the party. Regional parties are inevitable, not just for Karnataka but for the country,” he said, citing examples in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. “We are not anxious to remove B.S. Yediyurappa from power. I have decided that my priority is to build the party,” he said, when asked about allegations of his party “going soft” on the BJP. Mr. Gowda dropped hints of his son and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy taking greater control of the party after Sankranti. “He has ideas and he will take them forward after January 15,” he said. This will be preceded by a mega rally on January 7 at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru. “Those who are loyal to the party will come and the others won’t. This meeting will revealit all,” he said. The JD(S) will have a core committee in place with 8-9 leaders and will discuss revamping the party after January 15. “We do not want to concentrate power. It will be a collective responsibility.” Shots at Congress During a press conferences replete with potshots at the Congress and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, often without citing his name, Mr. Gowda bristled at his secular credentials being called into question. Saying that he had not gone to anyone asking for his son to be made Chief Minister after the 2018 elections, he added, “I invited all the secular leaders of the country for the swearing-in to give strength to the Congress. Who destroyed it?” Recalling Rahul Gandhi calling the JD(S) the “B-team of the BJP” in Hassan, he said that statement had cost the Congress dear. “You made the man, a future Prime Minister, call us the BJP B-team. What was its impact? How did your strength come down to 78?” asked Mr. Gowda. On corruption Mr. Deve Gowda also said that he had decided not to raise corruption as an issue. “I will not raise the question of corruption henceforth because there is no connection between corruption and how people vote. Corruption is not the issue now. It is raised, but not given strength and taken forward,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gowda-rules-out-jds-bjp-merger/article33428042.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Five die after lorry rams auto in Vikarabad dist.||Five persons, including three teenagers were killed, while a few others suffered severe injuries after a speeding lorry ran over the stationary autorickshaw they were seated in near Ezra Chittampally of Mominpet mandal in Vikarabad district on Saturday morning. While Sona Bai (17), Sani Bai (55), Sandhya (15) and Nithin (17), died on the spot, another person Renuka (30) succumbed while undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Parked on wrong side  According to Mominpet police, the accident took place around 7 a.m. when the victims, all daily wagers, were on their way to Shankarpally in an auto-rickshaw for picking cotton.  “The passenger auto was parked on the wrong side of the road and the lorry coming in the opposite direction at a high speed hit the vehicle in an attempt to avoid ramming into a State-run RTC bus moving in the same direction,” Mominpet Sub-Inspector Ravi Kumar said. He said that the laterite-laden lorry grazed past the TSRTC bus, and went on to ram the auto, which toppled on the left. It came to a halt after damaging a roadside house. The victims are residents of Ezra Chittampally and their bodies were shifted to Government Hospital in Tandur. The auto driver V Hari had a lucky escape as he was inside his house when the accident took place, and lorry driver Rafeeq too escaped unhurt. A case under Section 304-A ( Causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code was registered against both Hari and Rafeeq.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-die-after-lorry-rams-auto/article33428876.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmer unions agree to resume talks||“We want these four items in the agenda and in the same sequence. It means the first item to be discussed will be the modalities to repeal the three laws,” said Mr. Yadav.  The farmer unions’ proposal came in reply to a letter from the Union government on December 24 inviting them for talks and reiterating its commitment for logical solution to all the issues raised by the agitating farmer groups. In a letter addressed to Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the farmer unions, however, said the government continued to mislead the public by suppressing the true facts about the deliberations in the previous meetings. “We have consistently demanded the repeal of the three central farm laws, whereas the government has distorted our position as if we were asking for amendments to these Acts. The campaign launched by the entire state machinery to defame and malign the farmers’ movement must stop forthwith,” read the letter. Krantikari Kisan Union, president Darshan Pal said the farmers would take out tractor rally on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on December 30 and all tolls in Haryana and Punjab would remain permanently open. He also gave a call to residents of Delhi to celebrate new year with the protesting farmers at the border points on January 1. On the completion of one month of the Delhi sit-in, more than 7,000 protest programmes observed “Dhikkar Diwas” (Day of Shame) at various places to damn the government’s obstinate attitude towards the demand for repeal of the Acts, a press statement issued by the AIKSCC said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-unions-to-resume-talks/article33428047.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||PM: DDC polls a new chapter in democracy||Speaking on the occasion, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the Prime Minister’s efforts since 2014 had started bearing fruit. “J&K is witnessing the most peaceful atmosphere, for the first time since the 1990s,” Mr. Shah said. He said the DDC polls were the first such elections where not a single drop of the blood was shed. “By conducting peaceful polls, the Government of India has fulfilled its promise of taking democracy to the grassroots level in J&K. The local representatives will take up the governance related issues and resolve them on priority. Money will directly reach villages and districts.” He said since August 5, 2019, when the Centre ended J&K’s special status, developmental initiatives and infrastructure building received a major push. “Times ahead will be known as the most peaceful era in J&K,” he added. Under the new health scheme, every member of a family in J&K will get Rs. 5 lakh health insurance cover in 229 government hospitals and 35 private empanelled hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-ddc-polls-a-new-chapter-in-democracy/article33428054.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||M.P. Cabinet approves anti-conversion Bill||“This Bill will replace the Religious Freedom Act of 1968 (after the approval by the Assembly),” Mr. Mishra said. “The new legislation will prohibit religious conversion or such efforts by misrepresentation, allurement, force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or any other fraudulent means. Abetment and conspiracy for religious conversion will also be prohibited under it.” Any marriage solemnised in violation of this law would be considered null and void, the Minister said, adding that family courts would hear such cases. A provision has been made that those willing to convert should apply before the district administration 60 days in advance, he said. The religious leaders facilitating the conversion should also inform about it 60 days in advance, he added. Its violation would attract imprisonment of three to five years and fine of Rs. 50,000, he said. Mr. Mishra said there would be a provision for one to five years of imprisonment and fine of Rs. 25,000 for the religious conversion carried out in violation. In cases of religious conversion of Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST) and minors, a provision has been made for imprisonment of two to 10 years and Rs. 50,000 fine, he said. There is provision of three to 10 years of imprisonment and fine of Rs. 50,000 in cases of marriage carried out by hiding religion, misrepresentation and impersonation, he said. The Minister said in case of mass religious conversions (of two or more persons), a provision of five to 10 years of imprisonment and minimum fine of Rs. 1 lakh has been made. The parents, legal guardian or custodian and brothers and sisters of the converted person can lodge a complaint in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-cabinet-approves-anti-conversion-bill/article33428055.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Advanced test on 5% positive samples||The NTF recommended that in addition to the existing surveillance strategies, it is critical to conduct enhanced genomic surveillance for SARS-CoV-2 specially in incoming passengers from the U.K. “Besides, it will also be critical to conduct genome sequencing in samples where there is dropout of the S gene in lab diagnosis, proven cases of re-infections etc. Routine genomic surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 from representative samples all across the samples needs to be a continuous and well planned activity,” it said. “Since ICMR has always advocated use of two or more gene assays for testing SARS-CoV-2, it is unlikely to miss infected cases using the current testing strategy,” said a release issued by the Health Ministry on Saturday. The meeting was convened to discuss evidence-based modifications in testing, treatment and surveillance strategies with the emergence of the new virus variant in the U.K. The Ministry noted that the variant has 14 non-synonymous (amino acid altering) mutations, six synonymous (non amino-acid altering), and three deletions. Eight mutations are present in the Spike (S) gene which carries the binding site (Receptor Binding Domain) of the ACE2 receptors, which are the point of entry of the virus into the human respiratory cells. “Besides, it will also be critical to conduct genome sequencing in samples where there is dropout of the S gene in lab diagnosis, proven cases of re-infections, etc. Routine genomic surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 from representative samples all across the samples needs to be a continuous and well planned activity,” it said. The Ministry said it is important to understand that like all other RNA viruses, SARS-CoV-2 will continue to mutate. “The mutated virus can also be contained by measures like social distancing, hand hygiene, wearing masks and also by an effective vaccine, as and when available,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/genome-sequencing-on-5-of-positive-cases/article33428056.ece
27 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Shah targets new Assam party formed by activists||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday targeted some anti-CAA activists for “leading the people of Assam on the path of agitation” to eventually float a political party as part of a “conspiracy” to help the Congress win the 2021 Assembly election. He did not take names but made it clear that his attack was directed at the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP). Leaders of the AASU and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chhatra Parishad (AJYCP), who led the anti-CAA movement, floated the AJP in September. “Election is coming up. Some people will try to take you to the path of agitation. Did their agitation lead to development or creation of employment or infrastructure? Only the youth of Assam became martyrs,” he told a gathering in Guwahati at a programme where several State government projects were launched. “Some of them today floated a political party by changing their colours. It is a conspiracy to cause a split of BJP votes and help the Congress win the polls,” Mr. Shah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-targets-new-assam-party-formed-by-activists/article33428079.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Energy will be focus of Jaishankar’s Qatar visit||In his second visit to the Gulf region during the coronavirus pandemic, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will travel to Qatar on Sunday for a two-day visit and talks with Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani. Energy trade, investment opportunities, discussions on conditions for Indian expatriate labour and the ongoing Afghanistan dialogue process taking place in Doha will be on top of the agenda. “During the visit [Mr. Jaishankar] will hold talks with his counterpart on bilateral issues as well as regional and international issues of mutual interest. He will convey special gratitude to the State of Qatar for taking care of Indians during the COVID-19 pandemic,” said an MEA statement on Saturday. It also pointed out that the two countries had maintained strong ties during the pandemic, and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken to the Qatari Amir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani three times in the past few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/energy-will-be-focus-of-jaishankars-qatar-visit/article33428812.ece
27 December 2020||Srinagar,||Horse-trading destroying democracy in J&K: Omar||National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Saturday said democracy was being discredited by “brazen horse trading”, a day after two winners from his party and the Peoples Democratic Party joined the Apni Party. He alleged Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha’s administration was using police “to force the candidates, who emerged as winners in the recent District Development Council polls, of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), to join the Apni Party”. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Sinha boast about the polls and the victory of democracy but, at the same time, democracy is being discredited. The winning PAGD candidates are being threatened, humiliated and coerced to join the Apni Party, which is a B-team of BJP,” Mr. Abdullah alleged. He claimed that a woman representative who won the poll from Shopian was “forced to join the Apni Party” in lieu of the release of her brother-in-law. “Why is anti-defection law not being implemented to disqualify candidates switching parties? If Parliament has the law, and the Assembly too, why is the same not being implemented in J&K?” he said. Referring to the recent arrests of NC leaders, Mr. Abdullah said former legislator Sowkat Ganai and Shabir Ahmed Kullay were detained “with the aim of forcing them to join the Apni Party”. “The majority of people voted against the decision of August 5, 2019. The message is loud and clear,” he said. Reacting to the allegations, Apni Party vice president Ghulam Hassan Mir said, “Those who have won are not anyone’s property. If someone has been detained mistakenly, we condemn it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/horse-trading-destroying-democracy-in-jk-omar/article33428447.ece
27 December 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala sends juicy return gift to Punjab’s farmers||In a sweet sign of support for the farmers protesting in Delhi against the farm laws, Kerala’s pineapple farmers have despatched a truckload of the fruit for them. The truck is slated to reach Delhi by Tuesday where MPs K.K. Ragesh and Dean Kuriakose, along with Harbhajan Singh of the Delhi gurdwara, will coordinate distribution among the protesters. The special gift is a thanksgiving from the people of Kerala as the gurdwara had deployed medical teams to provide emergency help in the State during the devastating 2018 floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-sends-juicy-return-gift-to-punjabs-farmers/article33428057.ece
27 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana govt. scared of no-confidence motion: Hooda||Leader of the Opposition and former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said that the ruling BJP-JJP government in Haryana was scared of facing a ‘no-confidence motion’ and therefore was not convening a special session of the State Assembly. Urging Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya to convene a special session, Mr. Hooda claimed that the government had lost the support of the people. He said Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s recent remark that there was no need to call a special session of the Assembly because the Opposition did not have any specific issues to discuss was not true. “Every day one of the agitators sitting under the open sky is dying due to the bitter cold. Does the government not consider the martyrdom of farmers on a daily basis an issue that merits a discussion? What can be a bigger issue for the government?” he asked. Mr. Hooda said the Congress would bring a no-confidence motion in the Assembly on the issue of farmers as several Independent MLAs were not in support of the government. “In this battle between the farmers and the government, many legislators of coalition partner JJP have spoken in support of the farmers. It is clear that the BJP-JJP coalition government has lost not only support of the public, but also the confidence of its own legislators,” he added. “If a motion of no confidence comes in the Assembly, then their (the BJP’s) allies will vote against the government. That is why we have demanded a special session from the Governor. Dismissing our demand reflects that the Chief Minister does not trust his MLAs,” said Mr. Hooda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-govt-scared-of-no-confidence-motion-hooda/article33428448.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Charge denied||Rajneesh Goel, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, who, according to D. Roopa, gave her the file of the Safe City Project tender to “study”, prompting her to call the Project Management Consultant, has now posed seven questions to Ms. Roopa, essentially denying he ever marked the project’s file to her. To argue that her call to the PMC was not unauthorised, Ms. Roopa had claimed that the ACS, Home Department, gave her the file. However, Mr. Goel has denied that. “I have gone through the Safe City Project file available at the Home Ministry. The file has never been marked to you and also does not contain any observations/comments made by you,” his letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/charge-denied/article33428817.ece
27 December 2020||Hassan,||Reimburse RTE dues, demand pvt. schools||Private school managements will protest against the State government if the reimbursement of RTE dues is not cleared soon, said D. Shashi Kumar, State general secretary of the Associate Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. In a press conference in Hassan on Saturday, Mr. Shashi Kumar said the government was yet to clear Rs. 650 crore towards RTE reimbursements. “However, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar had said all dues had been cleared. It is a lie. The Minister, who is available only on social media, is playing with the lives of children and the private managements,” he alleged. Among the 20,000 private schools in the State, more than 18,000 schools were dependent on the monthly fee they collect from parents for routine expenses. More than 60% of the schools were not in a good condition. Only those institutes set up by politicians and industrialists are doing well, he said. Criticising the government’s move to open schools from January 1, he said the government’s guidelines were silent on who would be responsible if students or teachers contracted COVID-19 infection. The contradictory statements by the Minister had caused confusion among the parents, he said. He also criticised the government for not providing any relief for teachers of private schools during the pandemic. More than 500 schools had been closed down unable to face the situation, he said. Representatives of the association Gangadhar, Shivaram and others were present at the press conference.  The government is yet to clear Rs. 650 crore towards RTE reimbursements, according to D. Shashi Kumar, State general secretary of the Associate Management of Primary and Secondary Schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reimburse-rte-dues-demand-pvt-schools/article33428276.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||CBSE exam schedule on Dec. 31||The schedule for Classes 10 and 12 Board examinations will be announced on December 31, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said on Saturday. “I will announce the date on Dec 31 when the exams will commence for students appearing for CBSE Board exams in 2021,” he tweeted. Mr. Nishank had earlier this week ruled out conducting the examinations for Classes till February in view of the COVID-19 situation. Usually, practical tests are conducted in January and theory exams begin in February and conclude in March. On Tuesday, the Education Minister had said that a decision on when to conduct the exams will be taken later after an assessment of the situation and consultation with stakeholders. With no clarity on the Board exam dates yet, several schools have already conducted pre-Board exams online to keep students prepared. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had earlier this month announced that Board exams in 2021 will be conducted in written mode and not online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-exam-schedule-on-dec-31/article33428066.ece
27 December 2020||Patna,||RJD, Congress raise defection in Arunachal||A day after six Janata Dal(U) MLAs switched sides to the ruling BJP in Arunachal Pradesh, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Congress leaders in Bihar on Saturday said it was now “Bihar’s turn” and the BJP would “poach ruling alliance partner JD(U)’s legislators”. Calling it an “unfriendly move”, the JD(U) began its two-day national council meeting from Saturday in Patna in which Arunachal Pradesh issue too cropped up. “Following Arunachal Pradesh, the disintegration of JD(U) in Bihar too is very much likely,” said RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rjd-congress-raise-defection-in-arunachal/article33428074.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Process for procuring new tanks started||After delays, the process for procurement of 118 indigenous Main Battle Tank (MBT) Arjun Mk-1A has commenced, according to an Army source. The cost as obtained from the Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF), Avadi, is Rs. 8,956.59 crore. “The file is currently with the Deputy Chief of Army Staff and will be shortly sent to Integrated Defence Staff (IDS) to put up the case. The case is planned to be fielded before the Defence Procurement Board (DPB) and the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) in January 2021,” the source said. Issues with Arjun Mk1 ammunition, spares and repairs had also been resolved and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) had set up an Arjun hub in Jaisalmer for spares and support, the source stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/process-for-procuring-new-tanks-started/article33428077.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Circular metro for Bengaluru||The city will get a circular metro on the Outer Ring Road (ORR), as the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) is planning to extend the metro network from Hebbal to J.P. Nagar under Phase III. The BMRCL is contemplating taking up the project under private public partnership (PPP) model. Another corridor proposed under Phase III is from Magadi Road toll gate, that is from the existing Hosahalli station to Kadabagere. The total length of both the corridors is 42 km. Detailed project report The BMRCL has assigned the work to prepare the detailed project report (DPR) to the Rail India Technical and Economical Service Limited (RITES). The annual report for 2019-20 states that the consultant for DPR has been asked to analyse various options regarding the type of metro system and viability of PPP models. The DPR report is likely to be available in the first quarter of 2021. Ajay Seth, MD, BMRCL told The Hindu that with almost 175 km, the metro network (Phase I, Phase II, II A&B) will provide synergy, and a large population of the city will get benefited, leading to good ridership. “The PPP model appears a feasible option. It will free up government's efforts for Transit Oriented Development (TOD) and Multi Modal Integration (MMI), while the private partner takes up construction and operations. PPP appears necessary to establish rail-based public transport of about 500 km in the city (Metro, MetroNeo, Suburban) by 2035,” he said. Western part of ORR On the proposed two alignments, he said the c ommercial development along the western part of ORR is relatively less. Residential developments are significant, though not the high-rise type. In the Magadi Road area, residential development is large. “By completing the full circle of ORR and the remaining one radial (Magadi Road), significant synergies and travel options are expected,” said Mr. Seth. Responding to a suggestion from the Indian Institute of Science on building an Inner Ring Metro to ease traffic in the Central Business District (CBD), Mr. Seth said, “Comprehensive Mobility Plan for Bengaluru, prepared by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport, has suggested such a network. However, its feasibility depends on very good success in Transit Oriented Development (ToD) in core parts of the city along existing, under-construction and proposed ORR-airport metro corridors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/circular-metro-for-bengaluru/article33428373.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rajinikanth’s condition stable, says hospital||There is nothing alarming about the health of superstar Rajinikanth in the reports of some investigations performed at Apollo Hospitals here on Saturday. The hospital said in the evening that a few more reports were awaited. Based on the reports that were yet to come in and his blood pressure level overnight, a decision on his discharge would be taken on Sunday morning. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami spoke to Mr. Rajinikanth over the telephone to enquire about the actor’s health, and wished him a speedy recovery.  Rajinikanth was admitted to the hospital on Friday morning after his blood pressure showed severe fluctuations. He had been shooting for a film in Hyderabad for the past 10 days. “A couple of people on the sets tested positive for COVID-19. Mr Rajinikanth was tested on December 22 for COVID-19 and he was negative,” the hospital said. ‘Progressing well’ In a bulletin issued on Saturday morning, the hospital said he had had an uneventful night (on Friday) and his blood pressure was still high, though it was under better control than what it was on Friday. He was progressing well. In the evening, the hospital said his condition was stable.  Rajinikanth was admitted to the hospital on Friday morning after his blood pressure showed severe fluctuations. He had been shooting for a film in Hyderabad for the past 10 days. “A couple of people on the sets tested positive for COVID-19. Mr Rajinikanth was tested on December 22 for COVID-19 and he was negative,” the hospital said. In a bulletin issued on Saturday morning, the hospital said he had had an uneventful night (on Friday) and his blood pressure was still high, though it was under better control than what it was on Friday. He was progressing well. In the evening, the hospital said his condition was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajinikanths-condition-stable-says-hospital/article33428142.ece
27 December 2020||PALAKKAD,||Youth hacked to death in Kerala, wife’s kin arrested||A young man belonging to a backward caste was hacked to death by his wife’s father and uncle, near here in Kerala on Friday. Aneesh aka Apu, 27, son of Arumughan from Ilamandam, was returning from a shop along with his brother Arun when the attack took place at Thenkurissi around 6.30 p.m. The attackers reportedly came on a motorcycle and hit Mr. Aneesh with an iron rod before hacking him with a long blade. He suffered wounds on the neck and legs, and died on the way to the hospital. The police arrested Aneesh’s father-in-law Prabhu Kumar and Aneesh’s wife’s uncle Suresh in connection with the murder. The police said they were being questioned. Long-time friends Mr. Aneesh, a painting worker from the Viswakarma community, had married Haritha belonging to the Pillai community three months ago. They were long-time friends, and had registered their marriage resisting the opposition from Haritha’s family. Mr. Aneesh’s father and brother said that they lived under constant threat from Mr. Prabhu Kumar, who had allegedly threatened to “finish him off” in three months. They said the police had ignored their complaint against Mr. Kumar. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, criticised the police. Had the police acted in time on the complaint, the murder could have been prevented, he said. National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations (NCHRO) district president K. Karthikeyan demanded strong action against the culprits. He said stringent action was needed to prevent the recurrence of such incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youth-hacked-to-death-in-kerala-wifes-kin-arrested/article33428046.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||CBSE exam schedule on Dec. 31||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Saturday said he would soon announce the dates for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class X and Class XII board examinations to be held in 2021. “Major announcements for students & parents! I will announce the date when the exams will commence for students appearing for #CBSE board exams in 2021. Stay tuned,” tweeted Mr. Nishank. He shared a photo that said the announcement would be made on December 31 at 6 p.m. The Education Minister had on December 22 said that owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, it would not be possible to hold the examinations in January and February. Usually, practical tests are conducted in January and theory exams begin in February and conclude in March. On Tuesday, the Education Minister had said that a decision on when to conduct the exams will be taken later after an assessment of the situation. Several schools have already conducted pre-Board exams online to keep students prepared.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-exam-schedule-on-dec-31/article33428806.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Correction||The strapline of the report “BJP aims to make India a homegeneous monolith” in these columns on December 26 should read as “D. Raja seeks efforts to end divisiveness” and not A. Raja as published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/correction/article33428073.ece
27 December 2020||Srinagar,||Two militants killed in Shopian||Two local Al-Badr militants were killed and two soldiers were injured in a two-day operation at Shopian in south Kashmir on Saturday. “A joint cordon and search operation was launched on Friday evening. The presence of terrorists was ascertained and they were given the opportunity to surrender. They fired indiscriminately and two Army personnel got injured. On Saturday, both the hiding terrorists were killed,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. He said the operation was suspended on Friday evening due to the dark. “In the wee hours, an appeal of surrender was made to the terrorists. Later, the bodies were retrieved from the encounter site,” Mr. Kumar said. The police identified the slain militants as Owais Farooq from Awantipora and Asif Lone from Shopian. The slain terrorists will be buried in Baramulla. “Only nearest family members shall be allowed to participate in the last rites,” the police said. Two held in Jammu The Jammu Police arrested two persons associated with the The Resistance Front (TRF), in Jammu, on Saturday. “Based on an input, the police’s special operation group started checking vehicles in the Narwal area, in which an Alto car tried to break the barrier. The car was chased and two persons were arrested,” Inspector General of Police Mukesh Singh said. The police identified them as Raees Ahmed Dar from Qazigund and Sabzar Ahmed Sheikh from Kulgam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-militants-killed-in-shopian/article33428086.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||No deaths in rail accidents since April ’19||No passenger fatality in train accidents has been reported since April 2019. The accidents progressively have also declined from 107 in 2015-16 to 55 in 2019-20, with only 12 such cases reported this year so far, Railway Board Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Vinod Kumar Yadav said. At a press conference, Mr. Yadav said all the unmanned level crossings on broad gauge were eliminated by January 2019. The process of doing away with manned level crossing gates was also accelerated. While safer coaches were being manufactured since January 2018, the replacement of old mechanical signalling with the electronic system had been intensified. Locomotive pilots were getting simulator-based training. The indigenous Train Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) was also being implemented in a phased manner. The system was already functional along 250-km stretch and work on 1,200 km is in progress. TCAS along the freight dense routes is expected to be implemented by March 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-passenger-deaths-in-rail-mishaps-since-apr-19/article33428088.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Woman held for smuggling gold at RGI Airport||A woman passenger who attempted to smuggle in foreign-origin gold was apprehended by the Customs officials at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) here on Saturday. According to officials, the accused arrived at RGIA from Dubai in Air India AI 952 flight. Five gold bars The accused concealed five gold bars weighing 1.42 kg and other jewellery weighing 583 grams in her baggage. The seized yellow metal is valued at Rs. 96.04 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-held-for-smuggling-gold-worth-rs-96l-at-rgia/article33428882.ece
27 December 2020||Patna,||Bihar Cabinet approves proposal to create 103 new nagar||The Bihar Cabinet on Saturday gave its nod for creation of 103 new nagar panchayats, eight new nagar parishads, and upgrading five municipal councils to municipal corporations, an official release said.The Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, approved the Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2020, in order to create/upgrade/expand 160 ULBs.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-cabinet-approves-proposal-to-create-103-new-nagar/article33428408.ece
27 December 2020||Patna,||Bihar Cabinet nod for more urban civic bodies||The Bihar Cabinet on Saturday gave its nod for creation of 103 new nagar panchayats, eight new nagar parishads, and upgrading five municipal councils to municipal corporations, an official release said.The decision was taken to boost urbanisation and increase the states share in central resources, the release said. The Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, approved the Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2020, in order to create/upgrade/expand 160 ULBs.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-cabinet-nod-for-more-urban-civic-bodies/article33428347.ece
27 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Mandalapuja performed at Sabarimala||Marking the culmination of the 41-day annual Mandalam pilgrim season at Sabarimala, Mandalapuja was performed at the Ayyappa temple here on Saturday. The rituals during the day were led by the chief priest (Tantri), Kandararu Rajeevaru. The Mandalapuja was performed between 11.40 p.m. and 12.20 p.m. Prior to the puja, the presiding deity was adorned with the Thanka Anki, a golden attire that had been brought to the temple in a ceremonial procession. The Ayyappa temple will remain closed till 5 p.m. on December 30 and the devotees will be permitted from December 31 onwards. The Petta Thullal at Erumeli will be held on January 11 while the customary procession carrying the Thiruvabharanam to Sabarimala will set off from Pandalam a day later. The Makaravilakku day falls on January 14 and the Guruti ritual, marking the culmination of the annual Makaravilakku festival, will be performed on the Malikappuram Devi temple premises on January 19 evening. The Ayyappa temple will be closed after the customary holy darshan permitted exclusively to the royal representative on January 20 morning. As per estimates by the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), as many as 71,706 persons visited the temple on the first 39 days of the season. This, however, was just 5% of the total footfall recorded during the same period last year. Drastic fall The income during the period, meanwhile, stood at Rs. 9.9 crore as against Rs. 156.60 crore collected during the same period last year. The number of persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 at Sabarimala was 390 and of this, 289 were employees of various departments. According to TDB president N. Vasu, as many as 5,000 pilgrims will be permitted to the temple on a daily basis and the online booking till the Makaravilakku festival has already been completed. “While the TDB is now making use of the virtual queue system implemented by the State police this year, the agency is now considering taking over the system and operating it on the lines of the systems in place at Guruvayur or Tirupati,” he said. Based on the directions by the State government and the High Court of Kerala, only those who have undergone RT-PCR, RT Lamp, or Express NAT tests will be permitted entry to the temple from December 26, added Mr. Vasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mandalapuja-performed-at-sabarimala/article33428045.ece
27 December 2020||Khammam,||BJP activist stabbed to death in Wyra||A senior BJP activist , who was also party State RTI Cell co-convener, was stabbed to death in Wyra town on Saturday. The deceased was identified as N Rama Rao, 45, of Wyra. The incident triggered tension in the town as local BJP leaders alleged that the murder was politically motivated. ‘No political angle’ However, the Wyra police ruled out any political rivalry behind the murder. Preliminary inquiry suggested that personal enmity owing to financial disputes between the deceased and the accused was the motive, police said. Sources said M Rajesh, 35, of Wyra allegedly barged into the house of Rama Rao and stabbed him with a knife repeatedly, leaving the latter critically injured in a pool of blood. As the frightened mother of Rama Rao raised an alarm, the accused fled from the spot. A profusely bleeding Rama Rao was rushed to the district headquarters hospital in an ambulance. But he succumbed to the stab wounds soon after reaching the hospital, sources said. BJP Kisan Morcha State president K Sridhar Reddy and BJP district president G Satyanarayana paid their last respects to the slain BJP activist. In a statement, Mr Sridhar Reddy alleged that Rama Rao was targeted by vested interests for trying to expose scams by the RTI Act. “There is a conspiracy behind his murder,” he charged, demanding that a detailed investigation be ordered into the incident to unravel the facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-activist-stabbed-to-death-in-wyra/article33428804.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||Bangladesh convict held in India||A 40-year-old man from Bangladesh, who had been sentenced to death and was living in India illegally, has been arrested, the police said on Saturday. Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Shibesh Singh said the man, identified as Masum, a resident of Bagirhat in Bangladesh who was living in India since 2010, was involved in many criminal cases. Police said the accused and his associates kidnapped a man in 2005 and killed him later. In 2013, they were sentenced to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangladesh-convict-held-in-india/article33428061.ece
27 December 2020||Jaipur,||Hanuman Beniwal’s RLP pulls out of NDA||Miffed with the BJP over its “obstinate stance” on the recent agriculture sector laws, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), a constituent of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) from Rajasthan, on Saturday withdrew its support to the BJP-led government at the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hanuman-beniwals-rlp-pulls-out-of-nda/article33428064.ece
27 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Hooda says BJP govt in Haryana scared of facing no confidence motion||The Leader of Opposition and former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said that the ruling BJP-JJP government in Haryana was scared of facing a ‘no confidence motion’ and therefore was not convening a special session of the State Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hooda-says-bjp-govt-in-haryana-scared-of-facing-no-confidence-motion/article33428071.ece
27 December 2020||Srinagar,||Brazen horse trading discrediting democracy in J&K: Omar Abdullah||National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Saturday said democracy was being discredited in Jammu and Kashmir by “brazen horse trading”, a day after two newly elected District Development Council (DDC) members belonging to the NC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) joined the Apni Party. Winning candidates are being threatened and coerced by the State administration, he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brazen-horse-trading-discrediting-democracy-in-jk-omar-abdullah/article33428072.ece
27 December 2020||Kolkata,||Trinamool supporters target Suvendu||Protests erupted outside the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office in Hastings area of Kolkata when newly inducted party leaders Suvendu Adhikari and MP Sunil Kumar Mondal arrived at the office on Saturday. The new inductees, earlier with the Trinamool Congress, had come for a welcome ceremony. After being inducted into the BJP last week, this was the first visit of the former Trinamool Congress leaders to the BJP party office. Trinamool supporters blocked the car of Sunil Mondal and started shouting slogans against him. The protesters surrounded his vehicle and also sat on the road to prevent the vehicle from moving forward. This led to a scuffle between the Trinamool and BJP supporters. The police had to intervene to ensure that the MP from Bardhaman Purba got into the party office safely. Mr. Mondal had contested and won the 2019 Lok Sabha election on the Trinamool Congress ticket. He had joined the BJP with a host of other legislators on December 19 this year. Referring to the protests against him, Mr. Adhikari said that he was ashamed that he had been a part of the Trinamool for 21 years. “Our primary responsibility is to win the State and hand it over to Modiji,” Mr. Adhikari said, emphasising his commitment to the BJP. Slogans were also raised against Mr. Adhikari but the protesters could not reach his vehicle. Meanwhile, senior BJP leaders like Kaliash Vijayvargiya accusing the ruling party in the State of erecting a stage near the BJP party office in Hastings. State BJP vice-president Pratap Banerjee lodged a complaint in a local police station stating that the “BJP was shocked to find that a stage has been erected in front of Hastings party office”. “ We call upon you to immediately take steps to have this stage removed, ensure that the Trinamool Congress does not hold any gatherings and also arrange appropriate deployment of force to maintain law and order,” said the letter by the BJP leader addressed to the officer-in-charge of Hastings Police Station. The Trinamool leadership said the party had nothing to do with the protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-supporters-target-suvendu/article33428084.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Container-trailers cause traffic jam on roads near port||For the past week, hundreds of container-trailers have been blocking roads leading to Chennai Port. At many places, there are three columns of trailers blocking the carriageway, leaving only the service lane for other vehicles. M.S. Arun, chairman of the National Association of Container Freight Stations (Chennai chapter), said that bunching of unscheduled ships from Singapore and Colombo had caused traffic inside the port to spill over, which meant export trailers were unable to enter the port carrying their containers. “Both export and important trailers are made to wait together, causing congestion on the roads. Delays due to the two cyclones that hit the State have added to the problems,” he said. E. Kalimuthu, a driver, said it took three or four days for vehicles to enter the port and till then they had to wait on the roads. “The police are not helping but are allowing trailers randomly. The police are present at five locations on these roads but do not do anything to ensure smooth flow of traffic,” he said. J. Raja, joint secretary of the Iron and Steel Trailer Owners’ Association, said they were unable to enter or exit the yard at Sathankadu because of the congestion. “The police are not allowing us to leave the yard. We are asking drivers to leave the trailers in the yard and go home at times. Ordinary buses and other vehicles too are getting stuck in the snarls,” he said. Port Chairman P. Raveendran urged exporters to ensure that they send out containers only after they have Form 13 from the shipping line and terminal. “We have asked the Customs Department to have two more locations for checking of seals and Form 13. We have arranged for the movement of containers by rail with a guarantee of 12 hours of being placed on the ship. If the exporters use this facility, it will help bring down congestion on the roads,” he said.  We have asked Customs to have two more locations for checking of seals and Form 13 P. Raveendran Chairman, Chennai Port Trust||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/container-trailers-cause-traffic-jam-on-roads-near-port/article33428827.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thazhambur lake brimming with water||Thazhambur lake, off Rajiv Gandhi Salai, is brimming with water this season and helped improve the water table, thanks to the restoration efforts. Like many waterbodies in the suburbs, the inlets to Thazhambur lake, which is under the control of the Water Resources Department, were clogged and encroached upon. Rampant mining had caused serious damage to the lake bed. Spread over 30.6 hectares, the lake can now store up to 22 million cubic feet of water, which is 6 mcft more than its original capacity. The restoration project was executed by Care Earth Trust, a city-based biodiversity research organisation, with funding from Hinduja Leyland Finance (HLF). One of the key features of the restoration project has been the establishment of a live lab with two observation decks to enable children to develop expertise on wetland conservation. Information boards have been put up about wetland ecology and hydrology, apart from 20 murals depicting biodiversity. The trust is developing a wetland ecology manual for children in consultation with schools. According to the trust, the lake bund’s height was increased by 2.3 m to 2.5 m and widened up to 6 m depending on the location. About 1.40 lakh cubic metres of earth were removed from the lake and used to consolidate the bund and create five nesting islands. S. Nagarajan, executive vice-chairman of HLF, said besides sinking five recharge wells, restoring 1,200 m of canals and fencing the lake, nearly 2,000 m of green cover surrounding the lake had been added. The Rs. 2 crore wetland restoration project had helped increase water level in the lake and the adjoining wells. Muthu Karthick from the trust said, “The lake has 200 species of plants, 70 species of birds, 24 varieties of butterflies and 10 species of dragonfly and damselfly after rejuvenation. We documented climbing perch ( Panaieri Kendai in Tamil), an indigenous fish variety thriving in the lake.” The trust aims at replicating this model in many other waterbodies. Jayshree Vencatesan, its managing trustee, said: “This was a science-based restoration to address floods and droughts and natural regeneration of biodiversity. Species typical to wetlands act as indicators of the lakes’ health. Similar efforts are planned at Oonamanchery lake near Vandalur, for which funds are awaited.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thazhambur-lake-brimming-with-water/article33428845.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jayakumar rejects Javadekar’s view on CM candidate issue||A day after Union Minister Prakash Javadekar gave an evasive response to a question if Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was the NDA’s candidate for the top job in 2021, a few State Ministers expressed their opinions on the issue on Saturday. Fisheries Minister D.Jayakumar, regarded the spokesperson of the State government, rejected Mr. Javadekar’s contention that the BJP central leadership would decide on the Chief Minister candidate. “This will certainly not apply to our State. I don’t know which State he is talking about. We [AIADMK] have won seven out of 10 elections in our State with a majority,” Mr. Jayakumar said. National party Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju had a different take. “The BJP is a national party. The national leader can announce it [CM candidate]. If it is a regional party, anyone can announce,” he said in Madurai, implying that since the BJP and the AIADMK were part of the NDA, the national party might want to declare the candidate. In Kovilpatti, Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju said, “Like how Narendra Modi was the Prime Minister and faced the elections saying he would be the PM candidate, we have nominated our leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the CM candidate.” He pointed out that the AIADMK leadership had declared in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah that the alliance would continue for the Assembly polls. “BJP president J.P. Nadda has to say it [now]. And Prime Minister Narendra Modi has to say it. All the statements made by the BJP functionaries here could not be considered,” he felt. Meanwhile, senior AIADMK leader and Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam has hinted that there was a conspiracy to freeze the party’s ‘Two Leaves’ symbol. At an internal party meeting on Friday evening, Mr. Shanmugam said, “[AIADMK founder] MGR’s political heir is ‘Two Leaves’... But there is a big threat to it. We have been in power, we are in power, we have the Chief Minister. But, there is a big conspiracy going on.” ‘Life or death’ Calling on party cadre to work hard towards securing a win in the 2021 polls, Mr. Shanmugam said: “This election is life or death for us. To realise the words of Amma [former CM Jayalalithaa] that this movement would live on for over 100 years, we have to win this election.” “We have to celebrate the golden jubilee [in 2022] of the AIADMK while we are in power,” he added.  I don’t know which State he is talking about. We [AIADMK] have won seven out of 10 elections in our State with a majorityD. JayakumarFisheries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jayakumar-rejects-javadekars-view-on-chief-minister-candidate-issue/article33428185.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five more U.K. returnees test positive||Five more persons who had returned from the United Kingdom tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, taking the total number of such cases to 10. The bulletin released by the Health Department said the five persons had travelled from the U.K. between November 25 and December 21. The State has stepped up vigil after a mutant strain of the novel coronavirus was reported in the U.K. All the persons who returned from the U.K. since December 21 were tested, and one of them was found positive. The State has so far traced and tested 1,362 of the nearly 2,300 persons who had travelled from the country in the previous month. Of them, nine have tested positive. The results in respect of another 318 were awaited, the bulletin said. Of the 81 contacts of these 10 positive cases, four have tested positive, while the results in respect of another 44 are awaited. Tamil Nadu recorded 1,019 cases on Saturday, taking the total number to 8,13,161. Eleven persons died, taking the toll to 12,059. As many as 1,098 patients recovered, taking the total number of recovered patients to 7,92,063, which is 97.4% of all the reported cases. Of the new cases, Chennai topped the list with 295. Coimbatore, Chengalpattu, Salem, and Tiruvallur reported 93, 78, 59 and 55 cases respectively. Fourteen districts reported cases in single digits. Six of the 11 deaths occurred at government hospitals and the remaining at private hospitals. Except one, the others had co-morbidities. Chennai reported five deaths, Chengalpattu three, Coimbatore two and Salem one. The youngest among the deceased was a 45-year-old man from Chengalpattu, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai on Thursday after testing positive 10 days ago. He did not have any co-morbidity and died on the same day he was hospitalised. Besides three persons who were in their 40s, the other eight were aged above 60. The oldest was an 82-year-old man from Chennai with diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. He was admitted to a private hospital on Thursday after complaining of fever and difficulty in breathing for three days. He died the next day. The bulletin said 64,075 persons were tested in the last 24 hours, with the test positivity rate standing at 1.59%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-more-uk-returnees-test-positive/article33428175.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The pandemic and poll campaigns in Tamil Nadu||Political parties are campaigning at full blast for next year’s Assembly election, a scenario no one would have conceived as possible months ago following the COVID-19 outbreak. Even though the ruling AIADMK is slated to begin its formal campaign on Sunday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami already hit the ground in Salem a few days ago. Besides, he has toured almost all districts in his official capacity. The DMK, the BJP, Makkal Needhi Maiam and other parties have also begun electioneering through different modes. The pandemic, though, has brought in restrictions, and parties are likely to rely on technology to complement their physical campaigns. AIADMK’s plans “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will launch campaign videos, highlighting the achievements of the government and party at the YMCA, Royapettah, on Sunday. It will be one of the highlights of our campaign,” said ‘Ma Foi’ K. Pandiarajan, Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture. He said digital campaigns would be accorded high priority and the party had decided to appoint around 80,000 IT professionals. “Our virtual campaign will use the most advanced technology to counter the rivals. There will be a Facebook group at the booth level to give a cascading effect. They will create a database, retweet messages and propagate our achievements,” Mr.Pandiarajan explained. He said the pandemic had given an opportunity to concentrate on the structure of the organisation. The AIADMK had created 73 district units and 31 zones and appointed senior leaders and Ministers and in-charge of these zones. “The objective is to decentralise the campaign. In every booth, there will be 75 persons who will be doing the campaign. There is an all-women group, a youth group and a regular group,” he said. DMK strategy The DMK, which had roped in Prasant Kishore’s Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) to evolve a political strategy, is not lagging behind. It first launched, ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for dawn) and sent youth wing head Udhayanidhi Stalin and women’s wing leader Kanimozhi, among others, on a State-wide tour. Senior leaders are also participating in the campaign. Now, the party is simultaneously holding ‘makkal gram sabha’ meetings in villages. “Today, there is a situation that is almost like December 2019. People are participating in our meetings and campaign in large numbers and we insist on following precautionary measures such as wearing a mask and sanitising hands,” said former DMK Minister Thangam Thennarasu. He said that unless an extraordinary situation emerged, nothing would prevent or hinder political parties from organising intensive campaigns in the form of public meetings and rallies. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member G. Ramakrishnan also felt that the election would witness a regular campaign as life had “returned to normal” in the State. “Except schools and colleges, all other institutions, industries, commercial establishments and other activities have resumed. When Bihar underwent Assembly election successfully at a time COVID-19 was raging, nothing can prevent Tamil Nadu from witnessing a full-fledged campaign since the cases are decreasing,” he said. Mr. Ramakrishnan said though a second-wave now in countries like Britain was a matter of concern, scientists had opined that the vaccine would apply to all variants of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-pandemic-and-poll-campaigns-in-tamil-nadu/article33428849.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin boycotts meeting to elect SHRC chairman||Opposition leader M.K. Stalin on Saturday boycotted the meeting of a committee convened to select the chairman of the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC), stating that no purpose would be served by the selection since the post had remained vacant for a year. In a letter to the government, he said in the last 10 years, the AIADMK government had done nothing to uphold the lofty ideals of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. “The post became vacant a year ago. Though the State witnessed unprecedented events of human rights violation, the government did not bother to appoint a Chairman,” the DMK president said. Police firing Mr. Stalin said that whether it was police firing on those who participated in the protests against the Sterlite Copper unit in Thoothukudi, the custodial murder in Sathankulam, the suicide of police officer Vishnupriya or the attack on farmers in Kathiramangalam, the AIADMK government had treated human rights with scant regard.  Though the State witnessed events of human rights violation, the government did not bother to appoint a Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-boycotts-meeting-to-elect-shrc-chairman/article33428853.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Motorcyclists cautioned against revelry on Dec. 31||The city traffic police have warned motorcyclists against indulging in bike racing and drinking and driving on New Year’s eve. The police said the culprits could face a jail term and their vehicles would be seized. Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) N. Kannan said: “We will take action as per law on violators who indulge in bike racing, drunken driving or overspeeding. We will seize their vehicles, besides booking cases. In case of revellers roaming on roads indulging in racing and drunken driving, we will definitely arrest and remand them.” The State government has banned New Year’s eve revelry on beaches and at hotels, clubs and resorts on the night of December 31 and January 1 to prevent the spread of COVID-19. There will be no entry into beaches on these days and midnight revelry would not be allowed on beach road, restaurants, hotels, clubs, beach resorts and similar places on New Year’s eve and the following day. During Christmas, the traffic police put up barricades at several places in the city and checked vehicles. Traffic police registered cases against 175 motorists for overspeeding and 50 for rash driving and seized 25 two-wheelers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/motorcyclists-cautioned-against-revelry-on-dec-31/article33428833.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Virtual fests draw younger audience to classical music’||Roshini Nadar Malhotra, chairperson, HCL Technologies, and CEO, HCL Corporation, said virtual music festivals helped bring younger audiences into the fold of classical music, as they were the biggest consumers of online content.  Inaugurating the 94 annual concerts (Digital), she said even though 2020 had been an unprecedented year with COVID-19 forcing people to stay within the safety of their homes, bringing cultural events globally to a halt, digital media had been able to connect people.  “We live in a connected digital world where geographical boundaries have been transcended and the Internet connects all corners of the world. Interactive digital media and various technological tools have ensured that people remain connected to each other from the safety of their homes,” she said.  She said the virtual platform also offered opportunities to artistes to perform and connect with their audiences, since virtual festivals reached diverse and global audiences.  “The Music Academy’s virtual concerts this year allow access to larger audiences, enabling them to enjoy the profoundness of carnatic music, the mainstay of the festival, from their homes. The digital format will also cut through the barriers of age, time and distance. People across different time zones and countries can comfortably enjoy the concerts with their families,” said Ms. Nadar.  She appreciated the Academy for upholding the core values of classical music and maintaining high standards of excellence, while evolving to balance the demands of the modern world and the audience, in nine decades.  N. Murali, president of the Academy, said it was indeed a strange and unusual experience for him to welcome an invisible audience, standing at the famed stage of the Music Academy’s empty auditorium.  “Undoubtedly, it reflects the extraordinary and challenging times the whole world has been through, for most of the eminently forgettable year in the wake of the still raging, once in a century, global pandemic,” he said.  Mr. Murali said to maintain the uninterrupted tradition of annual festivals, the Academy had decided to hold a festival, but of a shorter duration, without all the usual features, and in a different but exciting format.  “The whole festival will be digitally streamed to listeners. There will totally be 27 concerts — fifteen in the senior category and twelve in the junior and sub senior categories. In keeping with the general online preference, concerts will be of a shorter duration than usual,” he said.  He said the sensitive and delicate task of selecting artistes for a significantly reduced number of concerts presented a dilemma. “As is our wont a fair, an objective and transparent process was followed. Artistes who won prizes for their performances in last year’s annual festival, as evaluated by independent judges, have been chosen, plus, of course, some recent Sangita Kalanidhi awardees, in addition to a slot each for nagaswaram and harikatha ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-fests-draw-younger-audience-to-classical-music/article33428847.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||15 hamlets pay homage to tsunami victims||Hundreds of fisherfolk from Chennai, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts on Saturday paid homage to those who died in the tsunami of 2004. Photos of those who died were exhibited in fishing villages, pots of milk and flowers were offered to the sea, silent processions taken out and candles were lit at small memorials in the villages. Jalandhran Chettiyar of Arangamkuppam in Pulicat said the people from the 15 fishing villages did not venture into the sea on Saturday as had been the practice all these years. “We held early morning prayers. It was in 2004 that we learnt that the sea could be so ferocious and there was something called a tsunami. From our area, two children and an elderly woman lost their lives in that tsunami,” he recalled. K. Bharathi of South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association said that though the tsunami had brought in unimaginable damage and loss of lives, it turned the government’s focus on fishing hamlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-hamlets-pay-homage-to-tsunami-victims/article33428843.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No need to demand test results from devotees visiting Tirunallar temple||The Madras High Court on Saturday ordered that it is not necessary to insist upon the production of the result of a COVID-19 test, taken within 48 hours, by devotees visiting Dharbaranyeswara Swamy and Saneeswara Bhagwan temple at Tirunallar in Karaikal forSani Peyarchibetween December 27 and February 12. Justices R. Mahadevan and R.N. Manjula made it clear that it would be sufficient for the authorities concerned to subject all devotees to thermal screening and then conduct a rapid test only on those having high temperature. However, wearing of masks and maintaining physical distance must be made compulsory and implemented scrupulously, they said. The directions were issued on a writ appeal filed against a ruling by a single judge who had, on December 23, ordered the constitution of a special team comprising representatives of the Lieutenant-Governor, Government of Puducherry; the Karaikal Collector; and the temple administration for working out the modalities for the festival. Accordingly, the team met on December 24 and decided to insist upon COVID-19 test results from all devotees as was being done in Sabarimala. Aggrieved against such insistence, a third party had preferred the appeal on the ground that it would be highly impossible to obtain the test results at the eleventh hour. Finding force in the submissions made by senior counsel T.R. Rajagopalan, appearing for the appellant, the Division Bench passed an interim order clarifying that it would not be necessary for all devotees to produce test results. It kept the appeal pending and directed the respondents to file their counter by January 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-to-demand-test-results-from-devotees-visiting-tirunallar-temple/article33428856.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. warns Collectors over new coronavirus strain||With a new strain of the novel coronavirus reported in the United Kingdom, the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday instructed all Collectors to remain on guard, though the State has reported no case of the new variant. During a video-conference held from the Secretariat here, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam asked the Collectors not to drop their guard while taking steps to contain the spread of COVID-19, a top official told The Hindu . The Health Department has opened a ward with 120 beds at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) in Chennai for patients suspected to have contracted the new strain and their contacts. The Collectors were also asked to consolidate their efforts to reduce the case fatality rate below 1% and eliminate it ultimately. Since Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Salem, Erode and Nagapattinam districts had a positivity rate above 2%, officials were advised to take steps to bring it below 1%. “All districts have been advised to further bring down the absolute number. We also reviewed the rural housing and regularisation of encroachment scheme,” the official said. CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami would chair a meeting on Monday, and thereafter, the government is likely to take a decision whether or not to extend the lockdown beyond the year-end.  Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Salem, Erode and Nagapattinam districts have a positivity rate above 2%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-warns-collectors-over-new-coronavirus-strain/article33428179.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ISRO for ‘green propulsion’ tech||Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Chairman K. Sivan on Saturday said the organisation was developing “green propulsion” technology, believed to be less harmful to the environment, for its human spaceflight missions. Delivering the convocation address, virtually, at the 16th annual convocation of the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), he said, “In future, all propulsion stages may adopt green propulsion.” ISRO recently said the country’s first human spaceflight mission, ‘Gaganyaan’, was experiencing delays due to COVID-19. Mr. Sivan pointed to the technology transfer done by ISRO of its space-grade lithium ion batteries to industry, which he said would help in mass adoption for electric vehicles without being dependent on foreign technology. Highlighting that the space sector reforms, rolled out by the Central government, would enable greater participation from non-governmental agencies in space activities, he said the next PSLV launch of ISRO would have satellites from start-ups. Nano-satellite Recollecting the nano-satellite, ‘SRMSAT’, launched by SRMIST, in collaboration with ISRO, he invited the former for more collaborations in future. SRMIST founder-chancellor T.R. Paarivendhar, pro-chancellors Ravi Pachamoothoo and P. Sathyanarayanan participated. The annual report was presented by Vice-Chancellor Sandeep Sancheti. A total of 17,204 students, including 129 Ph.D. scholars, received their degrees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isro-for-green-propulsion-tech/article33428181.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No takers for tenders to run share cabs from Metro stations||Commuters will have to wait a bit longer before they can hail a share car or auto from Metro stations. According to Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) officials, tenders were invited sometime ago for operating share cars for the phase I project with 32 stations. So far, there have been no takers. “We think one or two contract conditions, like for instance, the number of years of contract, have to be modified only after which some companies may show interest. We understand that in the present situation, with many firms facing losses owing to COVID-19, they think they may not be able to survive. If that is changed a little, we can surely find a firm soon,” a source said. In the interim, CMRL is looking at allowing Ola or Uber kiosks outside the stations. “We want passengers to have at least some option to reach home after they exit our stations. While the youth can easily use the app and book a cab, senior citizens may need help,” said an official. “Unless the last mile connectivity resumes, we cannot expect a good increase in ridership,” another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-takers-for-tenders-to-run-share-cabs-from-metro-stations/article33428835.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constable found dead in lodge||A 27-year-old constable from the Armed Reserve Police was found dead on Friday night at a lodge in Periamet in Chennai. Police identified him as Suresh of Palayavandipalayam in Cuddalore district. He joined the police in 2013 and was serving in the Armed Reserve Police unit, Pudupet. The police said Suresh had not reported for duty since December 16 and had been staying at a lodge in Periamet since December 19. When his colleagues called him, he told them that he had some personal work. Since he did not come out of his room for dinner, the lodge staff, who grew suspicious, broke open the door and found his body. Police personnel from Periamet station reached the spot and found a note left by Suresh. His body was sent to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for post-mortem. Further investigation is on. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-found-dead-in-lodge/article33428836.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Auto union launches voter awareness drive||Need help with voter registration? Your friendly neighbourhood autorickshaw driver may be available to help you out. In a move to create awareness and provide assistance to voters for registration, the Federation of All Party Autorickshaw Union organised camps in different parts of Mylapore on Saturday. “On Saturday, camps were held on Ranga Road, Madha Koil Street and Radhakrishnan Salai. This is the second week we are holding the camps. Last week, we conducted them in Appu Street, Mandaveli and Trust Puram. We will continue to do it every week at different auto stands,” said Americai Narayanan, honorary president of the union. He said all public and political parties know the importance of autorickshaw drivers in the political realm. However, for the first time, they were taking part in the process of adding voters. “We are hoping that the auto drivers or our union’s voice will be heard in the Assembly after the upcoming election,” said Mani, a working committee member. A few autorickshaw drivers went to apartments to create awareness about the importance of voting and about the camps. Milk sachets The union has spoken to residential welfare associations and watchmen about recycling Aavin milk sachets at the milk parlours. “This will fetch them a minimum Rs. 300 a month,” said Mr. Narayanan. Many Aavin parlours are not aware of the milk sachets recycling scheme. “We have been contacting senior officials of Aavin and making sure the sachets are taken,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-union-launches-voter-awareness-drive/article33428829.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MTC top brass holds meeting on poor patronage||The Transport Department conducted a review meeting of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) on Saturday to take stock of various issues, including poor ticket collection, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The review meeting, attended by K. Elangovan, Managing Director, and senior officials of the MTC and chaired by Transport Secretary C. Samayamoorthy, was held at the headquarters at Pallavan Salai on Saturday. Among the main topics of discussion was improving the revenue of MTC, which has been badly affected because of poor commuter patronage despite the State government allowing 100% occupancy in all public buses since December 7, said a senior official of the MTC. Citing the migration of commuters to private transport, officials said that at present only 50% of the monthly passes were sold as against 1.5 lakh monthly passes sold before COVID-19. The Transport Secretary instructed the officials to identify new routes, particularly on ring roads, for improving the patronage. He wanted the officials to commission the Intelligent Transport Management System (ITMS) to improve the operational efficiency of the fleet. Officials gave an update about the progress made with regard to fixing of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras and the testing of the mobile app called Chalo, which would later be integrated with Locate and Access My Bus (LAMB) app. Mr. Samayamoorthy urged MTC officials to speed up the work on developing commuter facilities at the Ambattur and Avadi bus termini. He later chaired a meeting with the officials of the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-top-brass-holds-meeting-on-poor-patronage/article33428831.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Youth must realise their responsibility to nation’||The youth should realise their responsibility to the nation, Madras High Court judge V. Bhavani Subbaroyan has said. In her convocation address at the Vellore Institute of Technology, Chennai, held virtually, she called upon graduands to “realise their responsibility as the youth of this great nation; keep acquiring skills, contribute towards more productivity and efficiency; innovate and learn to relearn for sustenance and solve contemporary, real world complex problems”. In his presidential address, G. Viswanathan, founder and Chancellor, VIT, requested the Union and State governments to spend more on higher education. “Development of a country depends on the development of higher education which is not for academic qualification alone. It increases employment opportunities, economic productivity and growth.” Degrees were bestowed on 2,039 graduands. Rambabu Kodali, Vice-Chancellor, welcomed the gathering and spoke about the achievements of VIT.  Development of a country depends on the development of higher education ,which is not for academic qualification alone||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-must-realise-their-responsibility-to-nation/article33428169.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for selling single-digit lottery||The police arrested a 43-year-old man in Chintadripet for selling banned single digit lottery and other lotteries. Police arrested Murugesan, 43, a resident of Velachery. Police raided a house on Kalavai Chetty Street in Chintadripet, and seized single digit lottery tickets and lotteries smuggled from other States. During questioning, he said he was selling single digit lottery tickets. He was selling other State lotteries to regular customers after receiving money through mobile wallets for the last two years. The police seized Rs. 5.26 lakh from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-selling-single-digit-lottery/article33428825.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||90 more suburban trains to be run from tomorrow||The Chennai division of Southern Railway, having announced relaxations allowing the general public to travel in workmen special trains during non-peak hours, will be operating additional services from Monday to cater to the increased footfalls. Southern Railway had allowed the public to travel on suburban special trains during non-peak hours from December 23. A railway official said 90 additional train services on all the four sections would be operated. This would be in addition to the 410 trains run at present. Suburban train services were being resumed from Pattabhiram Siding, which was shut for nearly nine months. Southern Railway has been increasing train services in a phased manner while announcing relaxations in travel norms. A senior official of Southern Railway said that more than 600 services were operated before the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/90-more-suburban-trains-to-be-run-from-tomorrow/article33428828.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two youth held for theft of temple kalasams||The Korattur police arrested two youth who had allegedly stolen from a temple in Padi. Police said a priest who came to open the Siva Vishnu temple in T.N.B. Nagar, Padi, on Friday morning found locks of the temple broken, and 15 brass kalasams and a lamp kept in a room missing. The Korattur police started investigation. After sifting through CCTV footage, police traced the suspects and arrested Gowtham, 19, at Thirumullaivoyal and his associate in Ambattur. Based on information given by the duo, the police recovered the stolen kalasams and other articles from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-youth-held-for-theft-of-temple-kalasams/article33428834.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crocodile Bank director suspects animal trade||The most likely reason for the theft of the giant tortoise could be exotic animal trade, says Madras Crocodile Bank director Allwin Jesudasan. On the morning of November 12, the staff of the Crocodile Bank noticed that an Aldabra tortoise had gone missing. After searching the zoo premises thoroughly, a complaint was lodged on the same day with the Mamallapuram police. The female Aldabra tortoise – named Master Shifu by the team after the incident – weighed between 60 kg and 80 kg. “It is likely that thieves may have entered by jumping over the south side wall. The particular enclosure, being one of the southern most ones within the approximately eight-acre premises, the outer wall separates it from a public lane that is not used frequently,” Mr. Jesudasan said. The tortoise, he said, had been with the crocodile bank since 2008. Besides the possibility of exotic animal trade, there were other motives such as perceived medicinal uses. The IUCN status of the species was vulnerable, he said via e-mail. “The Aldabra tortoises were part of a zoo-exchange programme between Prague Zoo, Czech Republic, and the Madras Crocodile Bank Trust. They were brought to the zoo in exchange for seven gharials,” he said and added that the tortoise, like most reptiles, had a personality of its own. “Master Shifu is quite shy and reserved except when it comes to food, especially favourites such as banana and apple. She loved getting neck massages but used to make it clear when she had had enough.” First crime in 44 years Mr. Jesudasan said this was the first such crime reported at the Crocodile Bank in its 44-year history. “We are in the process of redoing the CCTV network anyway to include enclosures, and have decided to increase the height of the wall and to increase the number of security personnel. This work started soon after this incident.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crocodile-bank-director-suspects-animal-trade/article33428842.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No cash payments at toll plazas in State||From January 1, toll plazas managed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in the State will not have cash payment lanes. Around 7 lakh vehicles (this is only the number of vehicles that pay the toll fee) cross the 46 plazas in the State every day. Motorists crossing the plazas in vehicles without radio frequency-controlled FASTag cards, which enable electronic payments, will be asked to buy the tags, be charged double the due amount and then allowed to pass. Presently, lanes at the extreme end of the plazas are specifically for vehicles making payments by cash. These will now be removed, and all lanes will only permit FASTag-enabled vehicles to pass. However, not all vehicles have FASTags as its coverage in Tamil Nadu hovers around 71%. Kumaraswamy, a member of the Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Association, said the move would cause problems, including traffic jams, at the plazas. “We are raising the issue at the national level,” he said. ‘Unfair move’ Motorists said the option to pay cash should not be removed. Charging double from those who don’t have FASTags will be unfair, said Kannan Bhaktavatsalam, who makes frequent road trips around the State. “It is being implemented across India and not just in Tamil Nadu. FASTags were first introduced in Tamil Nadu in 2015, on the Chennai-Bangalore Highway, and since have been expanded to all the 480-odd lanes in our plazas. Internet connectivity has improved and recharging of cards takes less than a minute,” said an NHAI official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-cash-payments-at-toll-plazas-from-jan-1/article33428186.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Remove unauthorised fitments on govt. vehicles’||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday instructed authorities across the State to immediately remove unauthorised fitments, such as crash guards and bull bars, from government vehicles. “Crash guards/bull bars and other unauthorised fitments/accessories pose a serious threat to pedestrians as well as occupants of the vehicle,” a communication from Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam to authorities across the State said. The communication also referred to a judgment of the Madras High Court, delivered on November 10, asking authorities for reports on action taken to remove crash bars/bull bars fitted on the vehicles, especially official vehicles of VVIPs, VIPs and other officials. It also said that the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had issued orders in December 2017, saying that fitting of crash guards/bull bars in vehicles were in contravention of Section 52 of the Motor Vehicles Act, attracting penalty under Section 190 and 191 of the Act. The Union Ministry had also said that strict action should be taken against those with unauthorised fitments of crash guards/bull bars on motor vehicles, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-unauthorised-fitments-on-govt-vehicles/article33428167.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Appoint panel for fishers’ welfare: TTV||AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Saturday urged the AIADMK government to appoint a panel under an IAS officer to implement welfare schemes for fishermen. On the occasion of the 16th anniversary of the tsunami that struck the Tamil Nadu coast, Mr. Dhinakaran said relief measures provided by the government and NGOs had not been implemented in coastal areas. “Housing programmes for fishermen have not been completed,” he said. The panel must have disaster management experts and members from fishermen bodies, he said. In a separate statement, Mr. Dhinakaran took a dig at Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju for his remarks that people were not able to receive ration owing to a server problem. In tweets, Mr. Dhinakaran said: “Shouldn’t they have reviewed available infrastructure before rolling out the new project?” Mr. Dhinakaran urged the government to resolve the server issue which has been affecting the ration shops for three days so that the distribution of the Pongal gift hamper was not affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appoint-panel-for-fishers-welfare-ttv/article33428218.ece
27 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNIC penalises Corpn. officials for ignoring RTI query||The Tamil Nadu Information Commission has imposed a maximum penalty of Rs. 25,000 on the Public Information Officer/Assistant Revenue Officer, Greater Chennai Corporation, for not sharing information sought under the Right to Information Act, 2005. The case relates to a petition filed by R. Natarajan, a research scholar of Chennai, who sought property documents relating to the Sai Baba temple in Mylapore. In his petition filed four years ago, he wanted copies of the building plan, documents pertaining to assessment of property tax, the area of actual construction of the building, whether any poromboke land was annexed to the temple and so on. Not satisfied with the replies of the PIO and the First Appellate Authority, the petitioner moved the TNIC. “Despite specific orders, the PIOs did not share the information relating to the land on which the Sai Baba temple has been constructed in Mylapore,” Mr. Natarajan said. Noting that the information called for by the petitioner was not provided, State Information Commissioner K. Murugan sought an explanation from PIO/ARO (Zone-8) P. Joseph Thangarajan and PIO/ARP (Zone-13) P. Tamil as to why disciplinary action should not be initiated against them for not complying with the orders of the commission. Rejecting the explanation of Mr. Thangarajan, the TNIC imposed a penalty of Rs. 25,000 and directed the Corporation Commissioner to take disciplinary action against the official. The State Information Commissioner recommended disciplinary action against Mr. Tamil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnic-penalises-corpn-officials-for-ignoring-rti-query/article33428168.ece
27 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Transport Dept. warns public against fitting bull bars in vehicles||The Transport Department warned the public against the illegal fitting of bull bars in front of their four-wheelers during a special drive conducted here on Saturday. Bull bars are grill-like structures usually made of metal, which are placed on the bumper of any four-wheeler to act as an additional shock absorber in case of collision. However, these bull bars could cause damage to the vehicles or the persons that the vehicle collides with, while minimising the damage for the four-wheeler, officials said. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in 2017 directed all the State governments to take action against its usage. Identification and removal of bull bars has been intensified across the State for the past 10 days by the Transport Department, officials said. In a bid to create awareness among the public, about 27 four-wheelers, including cars and mini trucks, that had bull bars were brought to the V.O.C. Park Grounds on Saturday. Under the supervision of four Regional Transport Officers (RTOs) – J.K. Baskaran (Central), S. Saravanan (South), K. Kumaravel (West) and T. Sivagurunathan (North) and Coimbatore City Police officers, mechanics arranged by the Transport Department removed the bull bars from the vehicles. The vehicle owners were fined and the vehicles were released, according to the officials. Mr. Baskaran, who organised the awareness event, said that the bull bars had been removed from around 300 vehicles in the past 10 days within the limits of the four RTOs in the special drive. Noting that there are no provisions in the Motor Vehicles Act that permits this fitting, he added that the public must remove these bull bars from their four-wheelers at the earliest to avoid paying fines. “The special drive will continue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transport-dept-warns-public-against-fitting-bull-bars-in-vehicles/article33428864.ece
27 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Residents oppose construction of pumping station under UGD project||Residents of Sai Nagar, Sathyanarayana Nagar and Fathima Ummar Avenue – all in Podanur – have opposed the Coimbatore Corporation using a portion of a reserved site in the area for constructing a pumping station. The Corporation is constructing the pumping station as part of the Rs. 442 crore underground drainage (UGD) project for Kurichi and Kuniamuthur with funds from the Central Government under the AMRUT scheme. The Corporation will use the pumping station to collect and pump the sewage to a treatment plant it is constructing in Vellalore. The residents, who have written to the Corporation Commissioner on December 24, said that they had filed two petitions in the Madras High Court praying for restraining the civic body from interfering with their possession of the reserved site and proceeding with the construction of the “sewerage plant.” They had also told the Commissioner that the court had granted a stay order in one of the two petitions and that the civic body would do well not to proceed with the construction. Sources in the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board, which is executing the project on the Corporation’s behalf, said the residents were misled because it was not a sewerage plant. It was only a pumping station, where there would be no stagnation. The Corporation would be pumping round-the-clock to the Vellalore treatment plant the sewage that fell into the sump. The board would install generators to ensure that disruption in power supply did not impact the pumping. Besides, it would also be installing odour control mechanism, which was a new feature, for even in the underground drainage project that the Corporation had implemented in the old city area, it had not installed such a facility. The sources further said that the pumping station in the reserved site near Sai Nagar was one of the 30 such stations that the board had planned. It had completed 15 such stations and not encountered resistance from any other place. The residents would do well to understand that the underground drainage project would only improve the quality of the groundwater in the area as the board had designed it in such a way that it collected, pumped and treated all sewage generated in the area. The residents, however, maintained that the Corporation through the board constructed a treatment plant and not pumping station. They had reasons to believe that it was a treatment station because the board had dug three wells, said S. Sreekala, secretary of the Residents’ Welfare Association. Besides, their other objection was to the Corporation allowing the reserved site, meant to be used as a playground for children, for constructing a sewage pumping station. She also said that the Corporation going ahead with the construction at a time when the court had granted stay amounted to contempt and that the association would proceed with contempt proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-oppose-construction-of-pumping-station-under-ugd-project/article33428860.ece
27 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Books donated to ESI Hospital for library||The Hindu in collaboration with Nallaram Trust donated 100 books for a library to be established at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Saturday. The books were presented as part of The Hindu ’s ‘Read and Rise’, an initiative to cultivate the reading habit. Coordinators of Nallaram Trust S. Suresh Kumar and G. Murugavel presented the books to the Dean of ESI Hospital A. Nirmala. Apart from books, Nallaram Trust also donated 3,000 personal protective equipment kits to the hospital, which treats COVID-19 patients from Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts. Prior to this, Chairman of Nallaram Trust S.P. Anbarasan had donated 650 books to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. A total of 750 books worth Rs. 1.67 lakh had been donated to both the hospitals under the ‘Read and Rise’ initiative, a release said. Dr. Nirmala told the mediapersons that the ESI Hospital will soon set up a library for COVID-19 patients. “Some patients are getting depressed after getting admitted for COVID-19 treatment,” she said, adding that reading will provide a “diversion” for the patients. Despite the decline in the COVID-19 cases reported in Coimbatore district, Dr. Nirmala urged the public to continue adhering to the precautionary measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/books-donated-to-esi-hospital-for-library/article33428223.ece
27 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner inspects development works||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian on Saturday inspected development works in a few wards South Zone. Stormwater drain A release said that after inspecting the newly-developed children’s play area on a reserved site in Rainbow Colony in Ward 92, the Commissioner inspected the stormwater drain in Kumaran Garden. After finding the drains choked with solid waste and earth, he asked the officials to ensure that the drains were cleaned. He then inspected the quality of bitumen and construction on Church Street, the communique said and added that in is interaction with the residents of the area and nearby Amman Colony, Mr. Pandian inquired about the quality and duration of water supply and urged them to handover waste only after segregating it into wet, degradable and dry, and recyclable waste. Executive Engineer T. Gnanavel and Assistant Executive Engineer C. Sundarraj were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-inspects-development-works/article33428861.ece
27 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Car stolen from Kerala businessman found in Coimbatore||Nearly 24 hours after a gang stole a car at Navakkarai here that allegedly had Rs. 27.5 lakh cash, the Coimbatore district police located the vehicle at Madhampatty near the city in the early hours of Saturday. Around 4 a.m. on Friday, a gang waylaid the car at Navakkarai, attacked a real estate businessman from Kerala Abdul Salam (50), who was travelling in it, and drove off the vehicle. The car was found on Siruvani Main Road around 1 a.m. on Saturday, but no cash was found in the vehicle. Fingerprint experts visited the spot, police sources said. On Friday, the police conducted an inquiry with Mohammad Ali (65), a gold businessman from Malappuram in Kerala for whom Salam claimed he was carrying the money from Bengaluru. However, Ali claimed he had nothing to do with the cash. Hence, there are no claimants for the stolen cash in this case at present, the sources said. Meanwhile, a truck driver brought two mobile phones, which purportedly belonged to Salam, to Perur police station on Friday evening. Both had their SIM cards intact and the police analysed its contents, according to the sources. Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu said that various clues were collected from these phones regarding the case and that further investigation was on. “We expect to solve the case within a few days,” he said. Special teams formed Three special teams were formed to nab the accused involved in the robbery. K.G. Chavadi police registered a case under Section 394 (Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-stolen-from-kerala-businessman-found-in-coimbatore/article33428221.ece
27 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman admits to abandoning girl: police||A day after a girl was found abandoned and unconscious near Avinashi, the Tiruppur district police said on Saturday that a woman from Bengaluru admitted to have abandoned her daughter. On Friday afternoon, the five-year-old girl was found lying unconscious at a bus stop at Thandukkaranpalayam, near Cheyur. She was rescued by the residents and hospitalised. The Cheyur police found a 39-year-old woman at Thandukkaranpalayam on Friday night, who claimed that she was a doctor working in Bengaluru and had left her home with her daughter due to financial stress and issues within family. The woman also claimed that her daughter became unconscious due to excessive medication, due to which she left her at Thandukkaranpalayam. She also claimed to have consumed rat poison, following which she was rushed to Avinashi Government Hospital for treatment. The police found a bag containing biscuits, toothbrush and medicines with her. The bill present in the bag had also listed rat poison, which was missing. Tiruppur Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal said on Saturday that the girl was also administered stomach wash as a precautionary measure. The woman was referred to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, while the girl was referred to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Both were out of danger and remained stable, Ms. Mittal said. The Cheyur police registered a case under Section 75 (Punishment for cruelty to child) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-admits-to-abandoning-girl-police/article33428862.ece
27 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA, cadre held||The Coimbatore City Police arrested Singanallur MLA N. Karthik and over a hundred DMK functionaries and cadre on charges of organising unauthorised ‘gram sabha’ meetings at Sowripalayam on Saturday. The police said that the DMK organised meetings at seven locations in the city on Saturday despite the State government asking the respective district administrations to not allow the conduct of such meetings in the name of gram sabha. On Saturday evening, the Peelamedu police did not allow the meeting at Sowripalayam. The cadre staged a dharna at the spot, and were removed by the police. All those detained were released later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mla-cadre-held/article33428224.ece
27 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Free coaching for civil services exam||Anna Centenary Civil Service Coaching Academy in Madurai Kamaraj University, has invited application for the free civil services coaching it offers. A release said persons who had completed a degree from any recognised university in the 10+2+3 format, were 21 years of age but less than 32 years (for general category), 35 for persons from BC, 37 for persons from SC/ST and 42 for differently abled can apply. It offered free accommodation for those from outside Madurai and a monthly stipend of Rs. 3,000. Those interested can download the form for entrance exam fromwww.mkuniversity. co.in The last date for submission of applications was January 20, 2021 and the test will be held on Jan. 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-coaching-for-civil-services-exam/article33428858.ece
27 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dies of burns||A 90-year-old bed-ridden woman, Lakshmiammal died of burns she sustained in a fire at her residence in Vellakinar on Friday. Neighbours saw smoke emanating from her room and alerted the family members. Personnel from Kavundampalayam fire station doused the fire that had engulfed her bed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dies-of-burns/article33428865.ece
27 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||HC gives traders three months’ time to vacate shops on bus stand premises||The Madras High Court has given time till March 31, 2021 to the 34 traders at the Central Bus Terminus to vacate their shops, as the Corporation, under the Smart Cities Mission, has planned to demolish the old building and construct a new complex. The bus stand, established in 1973, is spread over 12 acre and is owned and maintained by the civic body. Mofussil buses, town buses and minibuses utilise the premises everyday, while shops in the commercial complex and a two-wheeler parking lot on the premises generate income for the civic body. Under the Smart Cities Mission, the civic body had proposed to modernise the terminus, including demolishing the structurally unstable building and constructing a new complex, at a total cost of Rs. 24.72 crore. In September, the civic body served notices on 34 traders asking them to vacate the shop. But the members of the Erode Bus Stand Merchants Association filed a writ petition in the court saying that the lease agreement ends only on March 31, 2025 and wanted the notices served on them cancelled. The case was in trial before the single judge bench Justice N. Anand Venkatesh, and the Corporation, represented by the commissioner, and the merchants presented their arguments. The judge in his order said that implementing projects under the Smart Cities Mission was the government’s policy decision and ordered the traders to look for alternative places and vacate the shops by March 31, 2021. The judge also said that if shopkeepers failed to vacate the shops, the Corporation could initiate action against them and dismissed the petition. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that work was proposed to be carried out in four packages, modernisation at Rs. 12.48 crore, improvement works at Rs. 7.61 crore, construction of mini bus shelter at Rs. 4.63 crore and construction of commercial complex. Work order for the first three packages will be issued next week, he said. After the traders vacate the shops in the old building in April 2021, tender will be floated, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-gives-traders-three-months-time-to-vacate-shops-on-bus-stand-premises/article33428209.ece
27 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Issuance of tokens for Pongal cash dole begins in Erode||The issuance of tokens to family card holders to receive cash dole of Rs. 2,500 and Pongal gift hamper began in the district on Saturday. During the launch of the AIADMK’s Assembly election campaign at Edappadi in Salem district on December 19, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced cash dole and Pongal gift hamper for rice card holders across the State. He said that the tokens would be issued from January 4 at the doorstep of the card holders. On Saturday, the issuance of tokens to 7,10,966 rice card holders through 1,144 ration shops in the district began with the supervisors of the ration shops visiting the houses of the card holders. Officials said that there were 33,000 sugar cards in the district and of those 15,000 were converted as rice cards. Distribution of tokens will be completed in four days, they said. The distribution of cash and hamper containing one kg each of raw rice and sugar, a sugar-cane piece and 20 g cashew nuts, raisins and cardamom will be held from January 4 to 13. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the PDS shops have been instructed to give the Pongal hampers to 100 cardholders in the morning and 100 in the evening, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/issuance-of-tokens-for-pongal-cash-dole-begins-in-erode/article33428214.ece
27 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for sexually harassing minor girl||A 21-year-old polytechnic college student was arrested on the charges of abducting and sexually harassing a minor girl in Bhavani Taluk here. The 17-year-old girl, a student of the same college where the youth studied, left home on December 20 and did not return. Her parents lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station in Bhavani. Since there was no progress in the case, her parents and relatives staged a road roko at Appakudal Four Road on December 22. Following this, police expedited the inquiry. Police traced the mobile number of the youth, K. Vignesh of Bhavani, to a location at Ammapettai. There they found the youth and the girl in a house. Both were taken to the police station. A case under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, was registered against the youth and he was lodged in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-sexually-harassing-minor-girl/article33428212.ece
27 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two held for trespassing into forest||U. Murugan of Karnataka and C. Ramachandran of Kadambur were fined Rs. 25,000 each for trespassing into the reserve forest area of Germalam Range in Hasanur Division. During patrolling, the forest staff found the two inside the forest area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-trespassing-into-forest/article33428207.ece
27 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rani Mangammal Palace, Madurai Collectorate to be renovated||The Public Works Department (PWD) is going to restore two heritage structures in Madurai - the Collectorate and the Rani Mangammal Palace located on North Avani Moola Street. These buildings are part of the 29 heritage buildings identified across the State for which the government has recently sanctioned funds for restoration. A senior official said that Rs. 247.82 lakh has been sanctioned for the restoration of the Collectorate. The Collectorate, which has the offices of the Collector, Tahsildars and other government departments, was constructed in 1916. This Victorian-era building is constructed in random rubble masonry and has huge corridors and arches. As part of the restoration process, the damaged portion of the arches would be restored with Gothic stones. Cracks that have developed on the arches and walls will be repaired. Leaks from roof, which has remained a major problem for several years, will be arrested. Damaged windows and doors will be replaced. “Around 20 years back, repair works were undertaken at the Collectorate using concrete. But, during this current restoration work, we will replace the concrete with materials that were originally used,” said the official. The State government has sanctioned Rs. 197.01 lakh for the restoration of the Rani Mangammal Palace. This heritage building currently has the office of the Superintending Engineer of the PWD (Periyar-Vaigai Basin). The official said that the plaster has peeled off in several spots in the building, which will be addressed under this project. The damaged wooden doors and pillars will be repaired. “Water usually seeps into the building from the terrace. This will be rectified during the restoration process,” said the official. The restoration work will commence from the second week of February after completion of the tender process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-collectorate-to-be-renovated/article33428183.ece
27 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘50 Amma Mini Clinics will function in Madurai district’||Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju inaugurated two Amma Mini Clinics at Palanganatham and Keeraithurai here on Saturday. Addressing the mediapersons after the inauguration, the Minister said that 50 Amma Mini Clinics will function in Madurai district. While 10 clinics will function in the city, the remaining will function in the rural areas. The clinics will function from 8 a.m. to noon and 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. The clinics will be closed on Saturdays. Each clinic will have one doctor, nurse and a medical assistant. The residents suffering from cold, fever and other non-communicable diseases like diabetes, hypertension, can get treated for free at the Amma Mini Clinics, said Mr. Raju. “The private hospitals charge a hefty sum in treating patients. These clinics will help the poor patients to get free treatment,” he added. The Mullaperiyar drinking water project worth Rs. 1,295.76 crorewill be completed in 36 months, he said. “The completion of the project will solve the drinking water crisis in Madurai city,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-amma-mini-clinics-will-function-in-madurai-district/article33428934.ece
27 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC: no bar on authorities to issue patta after verification||Pointing to the fact that several petitions were pending before the court pertaining to prevention of encroachments, land grabbing and other such issues, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that those cases would not stand in the way of a Tahsildar or any other authority to issue patta in the absence of any interim or stay order. Justice S. Vaidyanathan observed that there was no bar on the authority concerned to issue patta after verifying the records available in the Sub-Registrar’s office and revenue records. Also, nothing prevents the authority to inspect a place as it would ensure removal of encroachments and violations in constructions in order to restore land sites. The court made the observations while dismissing a petition filed by P. Periyakaruppan of Melur who challenged rejection of his application for name change in patta. The court took into account the fact that the application was rejected on the ground that a civil suit was pending before the Melur Sub-Court in connection with the property. The court observed that though the civil court could appoint an advocate commissioner to ascertain whether there were any encroachment, the Civil Procedure Code (CPC) itself authorised the court to inspect the site in question. The court directed the Melur Sub-Judge to take up the issue and decide the case expeditiously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-no-bar-on-authorities-to-issue-patta-after-verification/article33428927.ece
27 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Cap of pain balm bottle removed from boy’s throat at GRH||Doctors of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) successfully removed a bottle cap stuck inside the throat of a nine-month-old boy through surgery. A press release from the GRH said that the parents brought the boy to the hospital on December 20 as he was suffering from breathlessness and had difficulty in swallowing. The doctors of the ENT department examined the boy and found a cap of pain balm bottle stuck in his throat. A surgery was immediately performed and the cap was removed successfully from the throat and he was discharged from the hospital after full recovery. Dean J. Sangumani congratulated N. Dinakaran, Head of the Department of ENT, and the team of doctors who successfully performed the surgery, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cap-of-pain-balm-bottle-removed-from-boys-throat-at-grh/article33428928.ece
27 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Separate wards at GRH to treat variant of coronavirus cases||Separate wards have been earmarked at Government Rajaji Hospital and the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur to treat patients infected with the new variant of the novel coronavirus, first reported in the United Kingdom. GRH Dean J. Sangumani said that there is no confirmed case of the new variant of the novel coronavirus yet in Madurai district. A 38-year-old man, who had travelled to Madurai from the U.K. in the last week of November, had tested positive for COVID-19. He is currently under treatment at the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur and his samples have been sent to verify if he had been infected by the new variant of the coronavirus. K. Senthil, treatment coordinator for COVID-19 speciality wing of the GRH, said that two special rooms, which can accommodate four patients, have been earmarked for patients infected with the new variant of the coronavirus. “Depending on the case load, we will increase the number of beds,” said Dr. Senthil. At the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine a separate isolation ward has been earmarked for treating the patients infected with the new coronavirus strain, said the hospital’s Resident Medical officer S. Gandhimathinathan. Dr. Senthil said that there was no difference in the treatment protocol for patients infected with the new variant of the coronavirus. “But, the new virus strain spreads more rapidly and hence it is even more important to isolate the patients,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/separate-wards-at-grh-to-treat-variant-of-coronavirus-cases/article33428190.ece
27 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC comes to the aid of watershed project team||Coming to the aid of a batch of agronomists, sociologists and engineers involved in an integrated watershed management programme in Madurai district for over 10 years, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court asked the government to consider engaging them in its upcoming projects. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by members of the watershed development team, challenging the decision to terminate their services. The team members sought a direction to the authorities to retain them till the end of the project, funded by both the Centre and the State. The petitioners said they had been engaged for more than 10 years in the project and after utilising their services for all these years, their services were terminated against their interest. They said the team members had crossed the age of 40-45, and at this stage, they could not go anywhere and seek employment. The State argued that the appointments were temporary. The project involved three phases — preparatory, work and evaluation. The first two were completed and services of the petitioners were not required in the third phase. The State intended to carry out the third phase by utilising services of regular employees, it was submitted. Taking cognisance of the submissions, Justice Krishnan Ramasamy observed that the employer had a right to take a decision with regard to the provision of employment. In the present case, the employer had come to a conclusion that no work was available for the petitioners. The judge said it was for the State to decide on the utilisation of their services. But taking a sympathetic view, the court said the State should consider engaging them in upcoming projects. Though the petitioners had no legal right over the employment, it was the duty of the government to protect their interest. The court also directed the State to consider age relaxation in case of direct recruitment for the project so that the petitioners can participate in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-comes-to-the-aid-of-watershed-project-team/article33428225.ece
27 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Consider employing experienced members in watershed projects: HC||Coming to the aid of a batch of agronomists, sociologists and engineers who were involved in an Integrated Watershed Management Programme in Madurai district for a period of more than 10 years, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has asked the government to consider engaging them in any forthcoming projects. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by the Watershed Development Team members who challenged the decision to terminate their services. The team members sought a direction to the authorities to retain them till the end of the project that was funded by both Centre and State. The petitioners said that they had been engaged for more than 10 years in the project and after utilising their services for all these years, their services were terminated against their interest. They said that the team members had crossed the age of 40-45 years and at this stage they cannot go anywhere and seek employment. The State argued that the appointments were temporary. The project involved three phases: preparatory phase, work phase and evaluation phase. The first two phases were complete and services of the petitioners were not required in the third phase. The State intended to carry out the third phase by utilising the services of regular employees, it was submitted. Taking cognisance of the submissions made, Justice Krishnan Ramasamy observed that the employer has a right to take a decision with regard to the provision of employment. In the present case, the employer has come to a conclusion that no work was available to avail the services of the petitioners. The judge said that it is for the State to decide as to the utilisation of the services of the petitioners. The petitioners cannot insist the employer to provide work, when there was no work to be provided. However, taking a sympathetic view towards the plight of the petitioners, the court said that the State should consider engaging them in forthcoming projects of similar nature. Though it is not a matter of right for the petitioners to claim any legal right over the employment, it is the duty of the State government to protect the interest of the petitioners to the extent of their survival as the State has utilised their services extensively. The petitioners cannot go and seek any new employment, the judge said. The rich experience of the petitioners will be useful for the State, the judge said and directed the State to consider the petitioners and give priority in employment to them in forthcoming watershed projects. The court also directed the State to consider age relaxation in case of direct recruitment for the project so that the petitioners can participate in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-employing-experienced-members-in-watershed-projects-hc/article33428930.ece
27 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dak adalat on December 31||The Department of Posts will conduct a divisional-level Dak Adalat at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Virudhunagar division, at 3 p.m. on December 31. Complaints Customers must send their complaints on or before December 29. The purpose of the meeting was to settle all types of grievances related to postal services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-december-31/article33428189.ece
27 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Heritage buildings up for a makeover||The Public Works Department (PWD) is looking at restoring two heritage structures in Madurai city — the District Collectorate and the Rani Mangammal Palace, located on the North Avani Moola Street. The buildings are part of the 29 heritage buildings, identified across the State, for whose restoration the government recently sanctioned funds. A senior PWD official said that Rs. 247.82 lakh had been sanctioned for the restoration of the Collectorate, which was constructed in 1916. The Victorian-era building, constructed in random rubble masonry, has large corridors and arches. The State government has sanctioned Rs. 197.01 lakh for the restoration of Rani Mangammal Palace. The restoration will commence from the second week of February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heritage-buildings-up-for-a-makeover/article33428852.ece
27 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||brief||The Department of Posts will conduct a divisional-level dak adalat at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Virudhunagar division, at 3 p.m. on December 31. Customers must send their complaints on or before December 29. The purpose of the meeting was to settle all types of grievances related to postal services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief/article33428936.ece
27 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Tsunami victims remembered||Victims of 2004 tsunami were remembered on its 16th anniversary here and across the coastal villages in the district on Saturday. Children of the victims orphaned in the disaster, who reside at the Annai Sathya Illam, participated in a candlelight vigil, while students from various colleges also joined them in paying homage to the deceased. Handlooms and Textiles Minister O.S. Manian paid floral tributes to the victims at the memorial park located on the Collectorate campus in the presence of Collector Praveen P. Nair. Nagapattinam MP M. Selvarasu and Superintendent of Police Om Prakash Meena were present. Residents of various coastal villages also participated in prayer sessions and memorial services. The tsunami claimed the lives of more than 6,000 personsin the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tsunami-victims-remembered/article33428155.ece
27 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||FCI to procure 45,000 tonnes of paddy from U.T.||The Food Corporation of India has agreed to procure around 45,000 tonnes of paddy from the Union Territory. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by Minister for Power R. Kamalakannan, who also holds the Agriculture portfolio, and attended by Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy, Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) V. Vaithilingam and FCI officials at the Legislative Assembly on Saturday. Mr. Vaithilingam, who coordinated the meeting between the Ministers and FCI officials, told The Hindu that the harvest season was about to commence in the next few days. As per the estimate of the Agriculture Department, around 50,000 tonnes of paddy are ready to be harvested in Puducherry and Karaikal. This time, they had agreed to procure 45,000 tonnes of paddy, he added. The agency had agreed to procure paddy in the next two weeks from the five marketing committees in Puducherry and one at Karaikal, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fci-to-procure-45000-tonnes-of-paddy-in-puducherry/article33428838.ece
27 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One more succumbs to COVID-19 in U.T.||The Union Territory on Saturday registered 33 new cases, even as one more person succumbed to the infection. The Health Department said a 77-year-old person died of COVID-19 at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute (IGGMC&RI). He was undergoing treatment for diabetes and hypertension. The Union Territory’s toll now stands at 630. As many as 3,391 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, a total of 4,70,201 persons have been tested. Of the 33 new cases, 18 were reported in Puducherry, nine in Mahe, four in Karaikal and two in Yanam. Currently, 172 patients are undergoing treatment at various government hospitals, including 51 at IGGMC&RI, and 183 are under home isolation. The Union Territory’s case tally touched 37,947, and the number of discharged persons 36,962. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, in her weekly message, asked people to continue to stay vigilant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-ut/article33429004.ece
27 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Temple festival: Puducherry CM joins issue with Bedi||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday joined issue with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi over the latter for imposing a last-minute condition on devotees to get COVID-19 negative certificate forSani Peyarchidarshan at Sri Dharbaranyeswarar temple in Karaikal. Addressing a press conference in Puducherry, the Chief Minister said the government had taken a decision to hold the festival by following COVID-19 protocols prescribed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs in its last communication in November. Accordingly, the temple authorities launched online bookings around 15 days ago. Around 17,000 online applications were received for darshan. However recently, a person approached the High Court seeking a ban on the festival, citing the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. A few days ago, the court asked the four respondents, including the Lt. Governor and Secretary in-charge for HRI, to arrive at a consensus on the conduct of the festival after consulting the petitioner, the Chief Minister said. He said the Lt. Governor held a meeting with the petitioner and other respondents and arrived at certain decisions to conduct the festival in a low-key manner. “One of the conditions put by the team is to make RT-PCR or antigen tests mandatory for devotees visiting the festival. Putting such a condition at the last minute will cause inconvenience to devotees. The condition should have been made before the online booking started,” he said. Appealing to the petitioner and respondents to withdraw the condition, the Chief Minister said a devotee had already approached the Madras High Court challenging the need for a COVID-19 negative certificate for darshan. Claiming that Ms. Bedi wanted to stall the festival, he said she should explain why she has taken an “anti-Hindu stance”. “A secular party like the Congress has questioned Ms. Bedi’s stand. But the BJP, which claims to be the champions of Hinduism, is silent on the issue,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Narayanasamy said he wrote a letter to the Lt. Governor on December 25, making the government’s intent clear to hold New Year celebrations as discussed at the State Disaster Management Authority. The Lt. Governor, in a “predetermined” manner, issued a statement on social media that New Year celebrations on Beach Road would be banned, he claimed. “The Lt. Governor has no independent right to issue any orders or directions according to the Madras High Court judgment,” he said in the letter. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka and Goa had not banned New Year celebrations on the beach, considering livelihood means of the people. The Lt. Governor should refrain from interfering in day-to-day administration, the Chief Minister said. Housing award The Chief Minister also informed that the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had selected Puducherry as the “Best Performing Union Territory” under special awards in implementing the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The Prime Minister would honour three people from the Union Territory for best house construction under the PMAY scheme. The Chief Minister said two years ago, with the consent of the Centre, the government re-worked the scheme by involving financial institutions. Beneficiaries could construct houses at a cost of Rs. 4 lakh, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-fest-puducherry-cm-joins-issue-with-bedi/article33428187.ece
27 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to tsunami victims||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Speaker V.P. Sivakolundhu, Ministers, legislators and fishermen organisations paid tribute to the people who lost their lives in the 2004 tsunami in the Union Territory. Leaders offered milk and flowers to the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-tsunami-victims/article33429003.ece
27 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Eat Right Pudukottai’ launched||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Thursday inaugurated ‘Eat Right Pudukottai’ - an initiative to ensure safe and healthy food, besides sustainable food to all. Pudukottai is one among the 150 districts identified in the country for the initiative by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. Activities were planned to create awareness of objectives of initiative. Collector P. Uma Maheswari, and Designated Officer, Food Safety R. Ramesh Babu participated, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eat-right-pudukottai-launched/article33428148.ece
27 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DVAC arrests former panchayat president||Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) have arrested a former president of Kongupatti panchayat in Omalur Taluk after he received Rs. 2.35 lakh from a sub-registrar, promising that he would influence vigilance officials into not filing a case against the latter in court. In October, the DVAC raided the office of the sub-registrar at Suramangalam and seized Rs. 2.43 lakh unaccounted cash. The DVAC registered a case against sub-registrar Kanagaraj, and an inquiry is on. Ammasi, former panchayat president and a realtor, approached Kanagaraj saying the DVAC would soon file a case in court after which the trial would begin. Ammasi allegedly claimed he could influence DVAC officials into not filing the case in court and that only a departmental inquiry would be conducted. He allegedly demanded Rs. 2.35 lakh for this. Kanagaraj alerted DVAC officials who laid a trap. On Saturday, Kanagaraj asked Ammasi to come to a spot at Alagapuram to receive the money. When Kanagaraj handed over the money to Ammasi, officials caught the latter red-handed. He was taken to the DVAC office and a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-arrests-former-panchayat-president/article33428202.ece
27 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Changes in timings of special trains||The railways have announced the following changes in the timings of special trains with effect from December 28. A press release from the Salem Railway Division said Train No. 02675 Chennai Central – Coimbatore Intercity Special train would arrive at Morappur railway station at 10.09 a.m. and leave at 10.10 a.m. The revised arrival and departure timings of Train number 02679 Chennai Central – Coimbatore Intercity Special Train at the following stations are: Salem 7.12 p.m. and 7.15 p.m., Erode 8.15 p.m. and 8.20 p.m. and Coimbatore North 9.39 p.m. and 9.40 p.m. respectively. Train number 06340 Nagercoil – Mumbai CSMT Special Train will arrive at Tirupattur railway station at 5.34 p.m. and depart at 5.35 p.m. Train no. 06236 Mysore – Tuticorin Special train will arrive at Salem at 2.02 a.m. and leave at 2.05 a.m. It will reach Erode at 3.25 a.m. and leave at 3.35 p.m., the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changes-in-timings-of-special-trains/article33428220.ece
27 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects new law college construction work||District Collector S.A. Raman on Friday inspected the construction work of a new law college at Kadathur Agraharam on Salem – Kochi National Highway. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had in July 2019 announced the establishment of a new Government law college at Rs. 96.54 crore in Salem. Students were admitted to various courses last year and classes were held in a temporary building at Nethimedu. In August 2019, the CM announced the construction of a new building at Kadathur Agraharam, 20 km from the city, to house the law college. Work is under way to construct the main block, administrative building, auditorium, women’s hostel and library. Tahsildar office Later, Mr. Raman inspected the construction work of Sankari Tahsildar office at Rs. 2.54 crore. District Revenue Officer R. Dhivakar, Sankari Tahsildar Amritalingam and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-new-law-college-construction-work/article33428210.ece
27 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||25 U.K. returnees test negative||Twenty-five persons who returned to the district from the United Kingdom tested negative for COVID-19. After the emergence of a mutated variant of COVID-19 in the U.K., the Health Department identified 26 persons, who had returned from the country. Swab samples lifted from them were tested at the laboratory at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. While 25 persons tested negative, the result of a child, whose parents tested negative, is expected by Sunday. Deputy Director of Health Services R. Selvakumar said that all the returnees were asked to remain under home isolation for 14 days, after which they will be tested again. A total of 1,455 persons returned to the district from various countries and States in the last one month and swab samples were lifted from them. Of the total 615 persons tested, three tested positive. Two were admitted to the Salem GH, and one was admitted to a private hospital, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-uk-returnees-test-negative/article33428215.ece
27 December 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Wild animals damage crops along Western Ghats||Farmers are worried about wild animals like elephants and gaurs damaging their crop along the Western Ghats in Kansapuram. “Not a day passes without wild elephants or gaurs or wild boars damaging the crops,” complained P.M. Radhakrishnan, 54, who has his farm in Pandaram Parai. He said that mango trees and coconut palms in his neighbour, K. Dharmalingam’s farm were damaged by wild elephants on Friday night. “Invasion of wild elephants, gaurs, bears and wild boars have become so frequent that farmers are afraid to stay back in the farms at night to keep vigil,” he said. He said that five coconut palms and four mango trees were uprooted in Mr. Dharmalingam’s farm. Elephants have been raiding the farms for the last few months and damaging the crops, said another farmer, Pon Arunachalam, 69, of Aththikoil. Forest officials have not supplied crackers to farmers to drive away the wild animals. Damaging trees and palms that are more than 10 to 15 year old causes lot of loss to farmers, he said. District president of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam, N.A. Ramachandra Raja complained that the officials were not coming forward to find a permanent solution to the wild animal menace which is rampant in farms in Rajapalayam, Watrap and Srivilliputtur taluks. “The trenches they had dug up a few years back have failed following rains. Besides, officials should provide solar fencing to prevent wild animals,” he said. Farmers complained that they were not suitably compensated for damages. “The officials who show keen interest in imposing fine on farmers for their cattle straying into reserved forest areas, were ignoring us when it comes to wild animals attack,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Collector R. Kannan has promised to form a committee comprising officials from the Departments of Forest, Revenue and Agriculture to give compensation to farmers, said Mr. Ramachandra Raja. But officials were not acting fast to help the farmers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wild-animals-damage-crops-along-western-ghats/article33428195.ece
27 December 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of Pongal gift tokens begins||Given the COVID-19 pandemic situation, Collector G. S. Sameeran has instructed all ration shop outlets to distribute 100 tokens in the forenoon and 100 in the afternoon for the Pongal gift of Rs. 2,500, rice, sugar and sugarcane to card holders. In a press release, he said that there were 4,38,515 rice card holders and another 178 card holders residing in the Sri Lankan refugee camp in the district. Instead of the card holders thronging the ration shops, it would be advisable to ensure that the tokens reached the dwellings before December 30. The district administration has appealed to the card holders not to crowd the ration shops. They should use face masks and maintain physical distancing. The ration shops have been instructed to distribute the hampers well before the deadline. The officials also said that there was no need for panic as all eligible card holders in the district would get the gift. Tirunelveli There was heavy rush in some ration shops in Tirunelveli. A shop at Vannarpettai could not manage the crowd and the salesmen shut the outlet and left the place abruptly, residents said. According to officials, there are 796 shops in Tirunelveli and peripheries. There were 4,57,098 card holders and another 635 in the Sri Lankan refugee camp. As the people thronged the shop here, the salesman downed the shutter and left the place fearing action by senior officials. He said that despite repeated pleas to maintain physical distance, none of them heeded to the call. Repeated assurance that none of them would be left out did not convince thge card holders. So, he had no option but to leave the place in a huff after shutting down the shop. Social activists in the locality said that senior officials should educate the people and post adequate police personnel, which could bring some order during distribution of cash and other Pongal hampers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-pongal-gift-tokens-begins-in-tenkasi/article33428937.ece
27 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Corporation office besieged||Members of All India Farmers Protest Coordination Committee, Thanjavur district unit, besieged Thanjavur Corporation on Saturday urging the civic body to decide on the application submitted by the committee to conduct a rally and public meeting in the town on December 29. The committee, which has expressed solidarity with the agitating farmers at New Delhi, decided to organise a rally and public meeting at Thanjavur on December 29 and submitted an application to the Thanjavur Corporation seeking the civic body’s permission for the events. Since the civic body did not responded immediately as expected by the committee, it decided to stage a dharna on Saturday. Thus, the committee members led by the coordinator, N.V.Kannan went to the Corporation headquarters on the Gandhi Road at around 10 a.m. and squatted at the entrance to the office. On hearing about the `dharna’ by the committee members, police tried to pacify the protesters in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-office-besieged/article33428150.ece
27 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Call to apply for licence within 30 days||The Thanjavur Corporation has directed the saloons, beauty and massage parlous and spas to apply for licence within 30 days. According to a press release, the civic body has made it clear that licence was mandatory for hair cutting saloons, beauty parlours, spas and massage parlours under section 360 of Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981) as amended by the Tamil Nadu Municipal Laws (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2018 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 2018) read with section 8 of Thanjavur City Municipal Corporation Act, 2013 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 2013) for the purposes specified in the schedule IV of the Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981. Penal action Failing to obtain licence would lead to penal action including sealing of the premises, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-apply-for-licence-within-30-days/article33428152.ece
27 December 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||Sivakumar, 44, of Melatheru, Pattukottai, working in a ration shop at Adhiramapattinam, was reportedly hacked to death by an unidentified gang on Saturday. The police said a gang barged into the PDS outlet located on Beach Road, Adhiramapattinam, around 4 p.m. and attacked the victim with lethal weapons before fleeing. Sivakumar, who was rushed to the Government Hospital, Adhiramapattinam, was declared dead on arrival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered/article33428932.ece
27 December 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Info centre opened||A centre to provide information about the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission in Thanjavur district has been set up at the District Collectorate. Stating that the Jal Jeevan Mission is being implemented with an objective to provide protected drinking water supply to each family in the district, the Collector, M.Govinda Rao, in a press release, has stated that the information centre can be reached by the people over the toll-free phone number: 18004252666 for availing information about the implementation of the project and doubts/clarification about the project, if any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/info-centre-opened/article33428151.ece
27 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Remembering tsunami victims with floral tribute||As a mark of respect to those who died in the tsunami that hit the coastal pockets here 16 years ago, fishermen and their families paid floral tributes by offering flowers and lighted candle here on Saturday. The tsunami, which had claimed thousands of lives, struck on December 26, 2004. Apart from loss of lives, many people lost their homes and boats in the calamity. The families, in remembrance, offered flowers at the sea shore after a prayer meeting. Similarly, some of the fishermen also lit candles in memory of their dear ones, who were killed in the disaster. The fishermen did not venture into the sea on Saturday as a mark of respect, the association office-bearers said. Earlier, silent processions were taken out to the sea shore in the district from the churches. Kanniyakumari In Kanniyakumari district also, the fishermen observed silence for a few minutes and offered flowers to the departed souls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remembering-tsunami-victims/article33428199.ece
27 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||ASI team inspects Aditchanallur||Armed with a drone, the Archaeological Survey of India team surveyed the areas at Aditchanallur on Saturday to select the right place for establishing a world-class museum for displaying the artefacts retrieved from this archaeologically significant site. After the Union Government announced that the museum for showcasing the artefacts would be created at Aditchanallur, an ASI team, led by Superintending Archaeologist Arun Raj, visited five probable sites along with Tahsildar of Srivaikundam Gopalakrishnan on December 11 last. As the team led by Mr. Arun Raj visited the site again on Saturday, the team surveyed one of the sites with an extent of 114 acres with a drone in the presence of Mr. Gopalakrishnan. Since the Union Government has given its nod to the Department of Archaeology, Government of Tamil Nadu, for carrying out excavation at Agaram, Maaranmangalam and Arumugamangalam near Korkkai, Kaalvaai and Puliyangulam near Aditchanallur, Sivakalai Chekkadi, Srimoolakkarai, Petmanagaram, Paeroor hillock, Velli hillock, Paraakiramapandi, Pottal Kottai hillock and Aavarankaadu areas, the artefacts, which are likely to be retrieved from these areas can also be kept in the upcoming museum. After inspecting the fencing work around the archaeologically important sites of Aditchanallur, Mr. Arun Raj said the work that started in 2018 with the objective of conserving the artefacts, would be completed at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asi-team-inspects-aditchanallur/article33428192.ece
27 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Plan to earmark exclusive space for cyclists||As part of the ‘Fit India’ programme, the Thoothukudi Corporation had organised a cycle awareness rally here on Saturday. Flagging off the 20-km awareness-cum-environment protection campaign, Corporation Commissioner V. P. Jeyaseelan said that the Central government had launched the ‘Fit India’ programme for all Smart Cities across the country. By using bicycles, the issue of air pollution can be addressed considerably. Moreover, it would be an opportunity for two-wheeler riders and other motorists to have a self-appraisal about their physical fitness by cycling. There were plans to lay exclusive space for the cyclists under the Smart City programme, said Mr. Jeyaseelan and suggested the parents encourage the children to use cycles rather than motorcycles. Accompanied by a large number of residents, the officials including Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran, Sub-Collector Simranjeet Singh Kahlon, City Health officer Arun Kumar and others pedalled across the city. Beginning from Roche Park, the rallyists covered South Beach Road, Port Trust By-pass, Thermal Roundabout and returned to the Park. The officials expressed happiness over the overwhelming response from the public and hoped to bring down the pollution levels in Pearl City as the new year was set to start in less than a week’s time. A resident said that by using the cycle, not only air pollution can be kept under check, but also noise pollution as high decibels of using horns in vehicles can be avoided. The participants suggested to the officials to have certain areas in the city only for cycle mode of transport, which they said that would encourage cycling in a big way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycle-rally-held/article33428188.ece
27 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Scheme for vaccination coming||The Health Department has begun the process of formulating a scheme for vaccination in the district. “The State government has asked health officials to collect data for the COVID-19 vaccination drive. Frontline workers will be administered the vaccine on priority,” said Collector S Sivarasu. He said  that a meeting had been conducted with officials of various departments to figure out the people to be vaccinated. The details of all frontline workers, who were involved in COVID-19 treatment and control measures, had been collected. Sanitary workers of Tiruchi Corporation, Manapparai, Thuraiyur and Thuvakudi municipalities and town and rural panchayats, village health nurses and personnel, who were collecting specimen of swab and blood of patients would be included in the priority list. Similarly, details of doctors of government and private hospitals, faculty members of K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College and private medical college, nurses, paramedical staff, personnel of urban and rural primary health centres, ambulances crew, personnel of public health and family welfare were being collected. As per a preliminary report, there were about 15,000 frontline workers in the district. Of them, about 10,000 personnel were working for the government. Remaining 5,000 were in private service. The Collector said that the health officials had been asked to list out the facilities for storing the vaccine at the prescribed temperature. Based on the directions and specifications of the State government, vaccine storage infrastructures would be established. He said that the COVID-19 virus transmission had been effectively controlled in the district. There was no significant spike in any part of the district for the last one month. It was encouraging to note that virus transmission was under control even after the people visiting the commercials streets in the run up to Deepavali in large number to buy dress materials and the resumption of public transports. The daily count was between 20 and 30 a day for the last one month. Nearly half of the cases were found to have been residing in outside of the Tiruchi district although they belonged to Tiruchi district. The total active cases of COVID-19 hovered around 200. It was expected that it would come down further in the weeks to come, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scheme-for-vaccination-coming/article33428154.ece
27 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No strain in ties between NDA allies, says Vanathi||BJP women’s wing national president Vanathi Srinivasan on Saturday said the AIADMK would lead the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the State and there was no strain in ties between the allies. “There is no strain in the NDA in the State. Former president of the BJP Amit Shah had announced during the parliamentary elections that the AIADMK would lead the NDA alliance in the State. It is still continuing, and the AIADMK would lead the alliance for the Assembly election too,” Ms. Srinivasan said. Speaking to reporters in Tiruchi, she said that a controversy had been created by the media on whether the BJP accepted the Chief Ministerial candidate announced by the AIADMK or not. The AIADMK had announced its decision. Since a meeting of the alliance partners had not been held in the State to announce the Chief Ministerial candidate, the State BJP maintained that its national leadership would make an announcement on the issue. There was nothing more to it, she maintained. CM candidate Asked whether the BJP would accept incumbent Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the CM candidate, she said the BJP national leadership would take a call after the NDA meeting was held. When asked about the reported view that the BJP should be accommodated in the next Cabinet of the State, she maintained that the objective of any party would be to capture power. The question of joining the cabinet would depend upon the number of MLAs that the party wins and the decision of the national leadership. Ms. Srinivasan added that the BJP had been conducting meetings across the State to strengthen the party. If the party was strong, it would be good for the alliance. However, it was the duty of any responsible party to point out the misdeeds of the rulers. The BJP was playing the role of a constructive party in highlighting the misdeeds of the AIADMK without violating the “alliance dharma,” she maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-strain-in-ties-between-nda-allies-says-vanathi/article33428166.ece
27 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Title conferred on Veeramani Raju||R. Nataraj, MLA, and former Director General of Police, conferred the title ‘Naadha Baktha Sironmani’ on singer Veeramani Raju during the Vaikunda Ekadasi art festival. Naadhabrahmam, an organisation working for promotion of music and arts, hosted the festival virtually in view of the pandemic. Its founder N.Subramanian was present. The festival featured 12 hours of music concerts from 6 p.m. on Friday. It began with a devotional music presentation by Veeramani Raju and troupe, followed by concerts by Sirkazhi G.Sivachidambaram, Sai Sharan, Savita Sreeram and Jayashree Vaidyanathan. It concluded with namasankeerthan by Sivasri Skandhaprasad, says a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/title-conferred-on-veeramani-raju/article33428164.ece
27 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||92 test positive for COVID-19 in central region||The central region on Saturday recorded a slight drop in COVID-19 cases with 92 patients testing positive for the viral infection. No COVID death was reported in the region, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Thanjavur district saw 30 patients testing positive for the infection while in Tiruchi, 27 fresh cases were reported. Among the patients who tested positive in Tiruchi were local index cases with no travel or contact history or patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their immediate contacts. Three patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for COVID-19 were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Saturday. Nagapattinam reported 14 fresh cases among whom were primary contacts and local index cases. All other districts in the region reported a sharp drop in cases with less than 10 patients reporting positive for the infection. Pudukottai reported seven fresh cases, while Tiruvarur reported six. In Karur, five patients tested positive, among whom were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents from Thanthonrimalai and Thirukampuliyur. Interdistrict travellers too tested positive for COVID. Two patients tested positive in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur, one fresh case was reported for COVID-19, recording a sharp fall in COVID cases in the two neighbouring districts. Meanwhile, 325 throat swabs were lifted in Perambalur and 302 in Ariyalur from people with symptoms or primary contacts and sent to testing facilities in the district for processing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/92-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-central-region/article33428156.ece
27 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli to get a wholesale market at an outlay of Rs. 13.81 cr.||A wholesale market to sell fruits, vegetables and flowers is coming up at Old Pettai on an outlay of Rs. 13.81 crore. The project was approved at a recently held virtual meeting of Board of Directors of Tirunelveli Smart City Limited. It is to come up near the Truck Terminal and will be built under the Smart City Projects in ward 50 of the corporation. The facility will receive agro produce directly from farmers and send them to various destinations. Tirunelveli handles 470 tonnes which include vegetables (391.20 tonnes), fruits (72 tonnes) and flowers (6.80 tonnes), which are distributed to retailers through wholesale markets and ‘mandis’ located at various locations in the city. This causes hardship in distribution and traffic congestion in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai. The new market is to come up on 35.74 acres with a built up area of 1.41 acres with state-of-the-art cold storage facility through renewable energy (rooftop solar power panels). It will have 85 shops with 1,538.25 square metre area and 10 each loading / unloading bays for lorries and light commercial vehicles (LCVs). Moreover, 105 LCVs and 205 two-wheelers can be parked. The market has the advantage of being located near the existing truck terminal and micro composting centre for solid waste management. “Since, trucks carrying a range of commodities come to the truck terminal everyday from various destinations, the market can tap this facility without affecting traffic in the city. While the unsold agro products can be safely stored in the cold storage facility which has a capacity of 100 tonnes, the perishable waste can be converted into the manure in the nearby micro compost centre,” V. Narayanan Nair, Chief Executive Officer, Tirunelveli Smart City, said on Saturday. According to the projections made, the market is expected to generate annual revenue of Rs. 1.25 crore and make a net income of Rs. 90.72 lakh after a gross expense of Rs. 35 lakh. Smart bus shelters The board meeting also cleared the proposal to create ‘smart bus shelters’ at 15 places in Melapalayam and Palayamkottai Zones on an outlay of Rs. 2.12 crore. The shelters will have a passenger information display board, CCTV cameras, advertisement panel, LED lighting, stainless steel roof and seating, safety railing, ramp for ensuring easy access to the physically challenged commuters and mobile phone charging points. The shelters will come up at Kurichi Junction, near Melapalayam Zone Office, opposite Melapalayam Zone Office, in front of VST mosque, opposite VST mosque, Xavier Colony, NGO Colony bus-stop on Thiruvananthapuram Highway, Tuckerammalpuram bus stop (towards new bus-stand) and Tuckerammalpuram bus-stop (towards Reddiyarpatti), all under Melapalayam Zone and VOC Stadium, Krishna Hospital, Christhu Raja Higher Secondary School, Anna Nagar (near Salvation Army church) and Anna Nagar (Junction Roadside) and Shanthi Nagar (Junction bus-stop), all in Palayamkottai Zone. “Each shelter will be established at a cost of Rs. 14.13 lakh,” he said. The board has also approved the proposal for creating 2-meter-wide ‘cycle track’ in NGO Colony between the Periyakulam and Annai Kalyana Mandapam for about 1.80 km at a cost of Rs. 2.84 crore.  On the cards  The new market is to come up on 35.74 acres with a built up area of 1.41 acres  There will be a cold storage facility powered with rooftop solar power panels  There will be 85 shops and parking space for 105 LCVs and 205 two-wheelers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-to-get-a-wholesale-market-at-an-outlay-of-rs-1381-cr/article33428191.ece
27 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Former Union Minister Janardhanan dies at 91||Senior AIADMK leader and former Union Minister Kadambur M.R. Janardhanan passed away following brief age-related ailments at a private hospital in Thoothukudi on Saturday. He was 91. Born at Kadambur, a hamlet near Kovilpatti in Thoothukudi district, on October 22, 1929, he did his graduation in science at Presidency College, Chennai. He was a farmer and was involved in an agro-based business. Multiple portfolios Elected to the Lok Sabha from Tirunelveli in 1984, 1989, 1991 and 1998, Janardhanan served as Union Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension, with the additional charge of Minister of State for Finance, in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee between 1998 and 1999. After defeating D.S.A. Sivaprakasam of the DMK in 1984 and 1989, Janardhanan defeated DMK stalwart K.P. Kandasamy in the 1991 general election held after the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. He was denied a nomination from the same constituency in the 1996 election, in which the AIADMK was routed. He was again elected to the Lok Sabha from Tirunelveli in 1998 when he defeated actor and DMK candidate R. Sarath Kumar by 6,904 votes.  Janardhanan defeated DMK stalwart K.P. Kandasamy in the 1991 general election held after the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-union-minister-janardhanan-dies-at-91/article33428176.ece
27 December 2020||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||From a hut, he sets out to become a doctor||In a small thatched hut, S. Govindaraj, 18, of Periyakannalampati, a hamlet in Tirupathur, pores over a few textbooks with the help of an emergency lamp. Hailing from a poor family, he is elated as he has got admission to the Tiruvannamalai Medical College, thanks to the 7.5% quota announced by the Tamil Nadu government. A long-winding road through sugarcane fields leads to the hut of Govindaraj, where he helps his grandmother Veriamma collect firewood. A wide grin appears on his face while speaking about the medical college admission. “My parents are not educated. I did not have any hope of getting admission to the medical college as I secured 240 out of 720 in NEET. I did not go to any coaching class, but relied on the free coaching given by the government when I was in Class XI and the guidance of my teachers,” he says. He is among the few government school students from Tirupathur district who got a medical seat through the horizontal reservation. Motivated by this, the district administration has planned measures to encourage more students to appear for NEET next year. Govindaraj lost his father Singaran many years ago and his mother Murugamma, a daily wage earner, struggled to make ends meet and educate him. His brother Tirumalai, 15, is in Standard X. “He locks himself up in the thatched hut adjacent to our small house and studies till 11 p.m. and again starts preparing from 4 a.m. It is a big relief for us that he got medical admission,” says his grandmother. Govindaraj, however, does not have proper clothes to wear in college, and the Tirupathur administration has offered to help him. “I started preparing for NEET with the guidance of my teachers at the Sevathoor Government High School and the Periyakannalampatti Government Higher Secondary School. During the initial days, snakes used to crawl into the hut. But I was determined to prepare well and lift my family out of poverty. My brother, too, does not have a smart phone to study, he prepares on his own,” he explains. The entire village is hopeful that Govindaraj will motivate many others to study well. “We are proud of him,” says Periyasamy, a villager. Help to more students There are close to 90 government higher secondary schools in Tirupathur with over 60,000 students. “We have asked the District Education Officer to select students who are interested in preparing for NEET and guide them. We have formed special teams to familiarise students with the subjects and coaching them in specialised subjects and other nuances of the examination,” Collector M.P. Sivanarul said. He said the horizontal reservation had boosted the confidence of many government school students. “Till now they were thinking that only those studying in private schools and with access to coaching will be able to clear NEET. Now, they see a ray of hope.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-a-hut-he-sets-out-to-become-a-doctor/article33428178.ece
27 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Biometric authentication not needed for Pongal gift’||Family cardholders can receive the Pongal gift, which includes a hamper and Rs. 2,500 in cash, without biometric authentication, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said in Tiruvarur on Saturday. Old system Handing over bank loan sanction letters to women self-help groups from Panangudi, Aanaikuppam, Srivanchiyam and Vazhkkai hamlets in Nannilam taluk, Mr. Kamaraj said the Pongal gift would be distributed in the old system. Tokens would be distributed to eligible cardholders till December 30 and they could receive the Pongal gifts by submitting the tokens at the ration shops from January 4. Those who had converted their sugar cards to rice cards recently were also eligible to get the gifts. The Minister distributed sanction orders to 324 women SHGs enabling them to receive a total of Rs. 78.45 lakh as direct loans from financial institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biometric-authentication-not-needed-for-pongal-gift/article33428172.ece
27 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Loss of Strobilanthes plants worries researchers||In a little under a decade, one of the strongholds for four species of native Strobilanthes plants in the upper Nilgiris has lost more than 90 % of its iconic plant population. According to the researchers, they had recorded four species of Strobilanthes – S.homotropa , S.perrotettiana , S.wightiana and S.kunthiana in 2011 in large numbers. “We documented all four species in one particular region of the upper Nilgiris,” said Pradeep A.K., a naturalist and researcher, who along with Bince Mani, from the department of botany in the St. Thomas College, Palai, in Kottayam, Kerala, has been researching the plant species in the Nilgiris. Shocking results After almost 10 years, the researchers returned to the same location to ascertain the health of the ecosystem and to check on the Strobilanthes plants that they were researching. “The results have truly shocked us,” said Mr. Pradeep. While three species of Strobilanthes were displaced from around more than 90 % of the area in which they were recorded in 2010, one species – Strobilanthes perrotettiana had become locally extinct. “While this is only a survey done in a small area of the Nilgiris, the displacement of the four Strobilanthes species points to fears of similar declines across the district,” said Mr. Pradeep. Mr. Mani, said this decline could be representative of the decline in native biodiversity across the Nilgiris. “As we are studying Strobilanthes species, we are seeing such declines in these plants. But other native plants and wildlife too are possibly being displaced by invasive species, habitat loss, climate change and other anthropogenic factors,” he said. The researchers said that habitat restoration was the only means to stop the decline in native species. “Each species of Strobilanthes grows in specific areas and specific micro-climates. For instance, S. zenkeriana , another species, grows along rocky outcrops, while S.homotropa grows inside patches of Shola forests,” said Mr. Pradeep. ‘Remove invasive flora’ The researchers said that after being seen gregariously flowering in 2011, Strobilanthes homotropa , which should flower again in 2021, is only seen in a fraction of the total area it was seen a decade ago. “There are only four to five plants left of S.homotropa and they will flower next year. My suggestion would be to remove the exotic and invasive flora in the area and help facilitate the species to re-establish itself. Such strategies need to be replicated across the Nilgiris, especially in hotspots for native biodiversity, to help native flora re-establish itself,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loss-of-strobilanthes-plants-worries-researchers/article33428217.ece
27 December 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA booked for flouting norms||The Marakkanam police have booked a case against Gingee DMK MLA K.S. Masthan and others for flouting COVID-19 norms at a ‘makkal gram sabha’ at Marakkanam in Villupuram district on Friday. DMK president M.K. Stalin had addressed the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mla-booked-for-flouting-norms/article33428854.ece
27 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||briefly||Grievances redressal meeting for LPG cooking gas customers would be held at Collectorate here at 4 p.m. on December 29. Customers, who are facing problems in distribution of cooking gas cylinders, can take part in the meeting to be chaired by the District Revenue Officer, and get their grievances redressed.       Traders who have registered themselves under Goods and Services Tax would be given training in monthly filing of returns at 3 p.m. on Monday. A statement said that Deputy Commissioner, (SGST), Sundaramoorthy would chair the meeting to be held at V.V.V. Hall on Ramamoorthy Road in Virudhunagar. The meeting would be held at Integrated Building of Commercial Taxes Office at Satchiyapuram in Sivakasi at 4 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article33428197.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||93 new cases reported in Coimbatore district||The COVID-19 daily caseload for Coimbatore district continued to stay below the 100-mark for the third consecutive day, with the reporting of 93 new cases on Saturday. The total case tally stood at 51,884 cases, out of which 50,369 have recovered and 870 were active cases, the Health Department said. Two men, aged 62 and 46, died during treatment, which led the death toll to reach 645. A total of 135 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 43 new cases, taking the overall tally to 16,861. No deaths were reported on Saturday. Out of the total cases, 16,292 have recovered and 354 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 215 deaths in total. As many as 63 patients were discharged from treatment centres on Saturday. Salem reported 59 cases taking the tally to 31,409. While 40 persons were discharged, 392 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 457. In Erode, 32 cases were reported taking the tally to 13,511. While 44 persons were discharged, 280 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal reported 25 cases taking the tally to 11,100. As many as 28 persons were discharged, while 183 continue to be under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 11 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 7,874. The number of deaths stood at 45 while 125 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/93-test-positive-in-coimbatore-district/article33428205.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No cash payments at toll plazas in State||Presently, lanes at the extreme end of the plazas are specifically for vehicles making payments by cash. These will now be removed, and all lanes will only permit FASTag-enabled vehicles to pass. However, not all vehicles have FASTags as its coverage in Tamil Nadu hovers around 71%. ‘Unfair move’ Kumaraswamy, a member of the Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Association, said the move would cause problems, including traffic jams, at the plazas. “We are raising the issue at the national level,” he said. Motorists said the option to pay cash should not be removed. Charging double the rate from those who don’t have FASTags will be unfair, said Kannan Bhaktavatsalam, who makes frequent road trips across Tamil Nadu. “It is being implemented across India and not just in Tamil Nadu. FASTags were first introduced in Tamil Nadu in 2015, on the Chennai-Bangalore Highway, and since have been expanded to all the 480-odd lanes in our plazas. Internet connectivity has improved and recharging of cards takes less than a minute,” said an NHAI official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-cash-payments-at-toll-plazas-in-state/article33428850.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth’s condition stable: hospital||Mr. Rajinikanth was admitted to the hospital on Friday morning after his blood pressure showed severe fluctuation. He had been shooting for a film in Hyderabad for the past 10 days. ‘Uneventful night’ On Saturday, the hospital said he had had an uneventful night (on Friday) and his blood pressure was still high, though it was under better control than on Friday. He was progressing well. In the evening, the hospital said his condition was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajinikanths-condition-stable-hospital/article33428170.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode||Atchayam Trust: Inauguration of Beggars Rehabilitation Centre, V. Nanda Kumar, Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, M. Elangovan, Corporation Commissioner and R. Sivakumar, Superintendent of Police, Prohibition Enforcement, Salem Zone, chief guests, Ram Nagar, Soolai, 10.30 a.m.    Paalam Book Stall: Readers’ Meet, P. Selvakumar introduces the book ‘Hasthinapuram’, author Joe D’Cruz participates, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33428211.ece
27 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||1,789 polling stations in Belagavi||Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath visited on Saturday a few of the villages where polling in the gram panchayat elections is being held in the second phase on Sunday. He spoke to poll duty personnel in Raibag and Chikkodi. He asked them to ensure that the polls were conducted in a free and fair manner, without law and order disturbances. A total of 1,789 polling stations have been set up in seven taluks in the district. As many as 9,325 personnel will be on duty, he said. Votes will be counted in the taluks on December 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1789-polling-stations-in-belagavi/article33428267.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. wants to start physical classes for i ntermediate semesters||With attendance for physical classes for final year degree students improving over the past one month, the Department of Higher Education wants to begin classes for intermediate semesters as well. Sources in the Department of Higher Education said that on an average, around 65% of the final year students under the Department of Technical Education, and 40% to 45% final year students in degree colleges were attending classes. Colleges had reopened on November 17 after a span of eight months. While regular physical classes were being held for final year students, students in intermediate semesters were having online classes and students were visiting the college to get their doubts clarified from their lecturers. Around 10% to 15 % of the students had opted to attend these contact classes. A senior official in the department said they would write to the Central government to get permission to conduct classes. “We are waiting for directions from the University Grants Commission to start classes,” the official added. However, they said that they may have to do this phase-wise to be prepared for a second wave of COVID-19 infections in Karnataka. College principals and lecturers feel that making COVID-19 test mandatory before attending classes and conducting regular testing on college premises from time to time has helped prevent spread of the infection on campuses. T.D. Kemparaju, Vice-Chancellor of Bengaluru North University, said the attendance of final year students in science courses was the highest with an average of 80% of the students attending the classes, while it was 65% for commerce students and 60% for arts. “We have told colleges to conduct more practical classes as soon as possible. In case there is a second wave or the mutated coronavirus strain that is spreading in the U.K. reaches the State, we may have to shift back to online classes. While we can conduct online classes for theory portions, we cannot do that for practical classes,” he said. Students and student organisations too want a short crash course for this academic year. “Although online classes are held regularly, the classes are not effective and we are not able to understand and grasp the core concepts,” said Srilekha S., a final year student from a degree college in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-wants-to-start-physical-classes-for-i-ntermediate-semesters/article33428281.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Flood damage, migration hardly become poll issues||While floods, reverse migration, and job losses have haunted thousands of people in North Karnataka, these have hardly become poll issues in the run-up to the gram panchayat polls. “Most villagers seem to accept these troubles as fate and not as examples of routine maladministration. That may be because they were not happy under the rule of other parties earlier,” said Jayashree Gurannanavar, a farmers’ leader. Ambavva Tirakappanavar, farm woman who has served as a gram panchayat member in the past, said there is a deep-seated scepticism among voters, who think that every GP member is corrupt. “Voters say you will anyway make money for the next five years,” she said. “It is difficult to tell them that they can demand accountability from the elected members by raising issues such as delay in flood relief [distribution].” No expectations Tangeppa Rathod, who has lived in a shed near the gram panchayat at Bhooranaki in Khanapur for a few months, said he would vote for his nephew, irrespective of other factors. Mr. Rathod does not think that the gram panchayat can help much in getting relief for the losses he suffered in the floods. His bull was washed away and crops on one and a half acres destroyed. His house collapsed too. “It is the State government that should give me compensation,” he said. Babagouda Patil, former Union Minister and farmers’ leader, said the Union and State governments were “blind” to the problems of farmers. “They want to deny flood relief to farmers as they don’t want farmers to be self-reliant. They want farmers to be dependent on the small amounts distributed by candidates before polls,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flood-damage-migration-hardly-become-poll-issues/article33428288.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All eyes on genome sequencing of COVID-19 positive samples||With the government deciding to do genome sequencing of samples of U.K. returnees who test positive for COVID-19, all eyes are now set on this process aimed at hunting the mutant strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus. According to virologists from NIMHANS where the genetic sequencing is being done, it will take a maximum of four days for the sequencing and subsequent analysis of the samples. In this context, the results of the 10 positive cases are likely to be known by Monday. Explaining the process of the sequencing, V. Ravi, former professor and head of the department of neurovirology at NIMHANS, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said it is a technique used to break down genetic code of any DNA. “Genomic sequencing involves extracting and isolating the RNA from the sample, converting it into a DNA sequence and amplifying to a large enough size to start analysis,” he said. “After extracting the RNA of the SARS-CoV-2 virus , it is converted into cDNA (complementary DNA synthesised from a single-stranded RNA template). Then multiple Polymerase Chain Reactions (PCR) are done on the cDNA. PCR is a method used to rapidly make millions to billions of copies of a specific DNA sample, allowing scientists to take a very small sample of DNA and amplify it to a large enough amount to study in detail. This is unlike a diagnostic PCR,” he said. Following this procedure, the product is cleaned up and put into a chip that will do the sequencing. This will take anywhere between 12 hours to 48 hours depending on how much material was there in the original specimen. Also, the cycle threshold (CT) value, which indicates the number of cycles needed in the RT-PCR test to amplify viral RNA, of the sample should be less than 30 for successful sequencing. Otherwise, the process may take a longer time or sequencing may not be successful, Dr. Ravi said. “After the sequencing, we need to analyse the data and subject it to comparison with the global SARS-CoV-2 database. This may take another 48 hours. Sometimes, we can get data in a short span of time when a specimen has lots of RNA and no other genetic material,” he said. The approximate cost of a genome sequencing test can vary between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 25,000. This if the sample is processed using Nanopore sequencing, where a total of 12 samples are loaded. “However, if the Illumina sequencing process is used, we can test 50 samples at a time, and the cost will also be less,” said Dr. Ravi.  Genomic sequencing involves extracting and isolating the RNA from the sample, converting it into a DNA sequence and amplifying to a large enough size to start analysis. V. Ravi former professor and HoD of neurovirology at NIMHANS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-eyes-on-genome-sequencing-of-covid-19-positive-samples/article33428275.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nine more U.K. returnees test positive||With nine more U.K. returnees testing positive on Saturday, a total of 23 samples are now lined up for genome sequencing at NIMHANS. Of the 2,127 persons who returned to Karnataka from the U.K. from December 1 till December 22, as many as 1,434 have been tested for COVID-19 so far. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the genome sequencing reports that are likely to be ready in another 48 hours will be sent to the Union Health Ministry. “About 38,500 people have returned from the U.K. to India. The Indian Council of Medical Research will collate reports from all States and then come up with consolidated data,” he said. “All necessary precautions are being taken at airports. We have also made arrangements to test people who do not have a negative COVID-19 report at airports itself,” he pointed out. Mr. Sudhakar said his department will soon come up with guidelines on prevention and containment of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 after discussing with the Union Home Ministry. “We will also issue guidelines for New Year celebrations. I will hold a meeting with the Home Department soon,” he added. Meanwhile, the State on Saturday reported 857 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,15,345. With seven deaths, the toll rose to 12,051. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 964 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,89,881. Of the remaining 13,394 active patients, 205 were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.89%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.81%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-more-uk-returnees-test-positive/article33428282.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) defends its stand||In another indication of the JD(S) being pliant on the issue of changes to farm laws, party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda on Saturday defended the party’s decision to support the passage of the Karnataka Land Reforms Bill, which has been opposed by farmers’ groups. Meanwhile, his son and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, in a series of tweets, advised the farmers agitating in Delhi to be open to the “experiment” of changing farm laws. Mr. Gowda, when asked about the JD(S) supporting changes to the land reforms law, shot back that many changes had been brought to the legislation by several regimesand that the JD(S)’s commitment to farmers was “beyond question”. “I have never let farmers down any time in my life,” he said. He also sought to know if those who were protesting had really studied the Bill carefully. Mr. Kumaraswamy, in one of his tweets, said, “I feel that farmers should have an open mind towards experimenting with the new legislation. But there has to be proper coordination between the Centre and the protesters.” In another tweet, he expressed apprehension that thestir had “started attracting the attention of not only the country, but the entire world”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-defends-its-stand/article33428291.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Phase 2 of GP polls today||The State Election Commission (SEC) has made arrangements to conduct polls in a fair and free manner in the second phase of polling to 2,709 gram panchayats on Sunday. As many as 1,05,431 candidates are contesting in the elections, to 39,378 seats in 109 taluks. Polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. in over 20,000 booths. Police and health workers have been deployed at all the polling booths to ensure social distancing and other COVID-19 precautions, according to the SEC. In all, 5,762 GPs in the State are going to the polls in two phases. Since these elections are conducted on a non-partisan basis, after the completion of counting, political parties start claiming their party-backed candidates won the highest number of seats in the State. In the 2015 elections, candidates supported by the Congress won a majority of seats in GPs in more than 20 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phase-2-of-gp-polls-today/article33428293.ece
27 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas coming under Jayadeva sub-station on December 28 and 29 between 10.30 a.m. and 6 p.m. in view of conversion and cable works. According to a Bescom release, the areas that will be affected are:  December 28 : F-3 feeder: N.S. Palya Industrial Area, B.T.M. Layout, second stage. F-11 feeder, 7th Main, 7th Cross, MICO Layout, B.T.M. Layout 2nd stage.  December 29 : F-1 feeder: I.A.S. Colony, Madeenananagar, EWS Layout, 16th Main, B.T.M.2nd stage and F-11 feeder: 7th Main, 7th Cross, Mico Layout and B.T.M. 2nd Stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article33428819.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested, three girls rescued||City police raided a flat in Jnanabharathi and rescued three girls who were allegedly held captive there for the last few days. Police also arrested Sunil, who is in his mid-thirties and is from Mandya, who held them captive in the flat. Sunil lured the girls promising them jobs as receptionists at marriages. Once they came to Bengaluru, he tried to convince them that working in bars and pubs would pay them better and even tried to force them to do so. But when the girls refused, he locked them up in his flat demanding they return the money he had spent on them. Jnanabharati police are now probing whether Sunil has cheated other girls and forced them to work in bars and pubs, or pushed them into the flesh trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-three-girls-rescued/article33428423.ece
27 December 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KMF discount||Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) is celebrating “Nandini Sihi Utsava” till January 7, with a 10% discount on all Nandini sweets. KMF is also offering 10 % off on all cheese variants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmf-discount/article33428286.ece
27 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ravi condemns PFI||Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary C.T. Ravi on Saturday condemned the protest by Campus Front of India (CFI) activists in front of party State president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s office, opposing the Enforcement Directorate inquiry into Popular Front of India, the parent organisation of CFI. Speaking to presspersons in Chikkamagaluru, Mr. Ravi said the government would not tolerate such conduct. “The government knows how to discipline them. If they continue to behave impudently, we will cut not just their tails and also their heads.” The government has initiated an ED investigation into the affairs of the PFI based on information that crores of rupees had reached the organisation from different places, including Arab countries, for anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests. “Did the money reach them from foreign countries to promote terrorism or create anarchy here? Should we not probe such dealings?” the BJP leader asked. CFI activists on Saturday attempted to picket the office Mr. Kateel in Mangaluru. They were protesting against the arrest of PFI leader Ravoof Sharief by the ED. Police took some of the activists into custody and released them later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ravi-condemns-pfi/article33428290.ece
27 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Growers’ federation appeal to CM||The representatives of Karnataka Growers’ Federation have appealed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa not to hurry in implementing the Dr. K.Kasturirangan’s report on the Western Ghats. The federation has urged the State government to survey the ground to identify revenue land, human habitation, and agriculture land. Federation president H.T. Mohan Kumar, secretary K.B. Krishnappa and others met Chief Minister during his visit to Chikkamagaluru on Friday and submitted a memorandum. The federation said the K.Kasturirangan Committee made recommendations considering the aerial survey. The State government should file an affidavit before the National Green Tribunal seeking more time to implement the report. The tribunal had directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests to notify the sensitive zone as per the report before December 31. The federation said the government should come up with a law to allow planters, who have encroached upon up to 10 ha of government land, to cultivate the same on the lease basis. The growers should also get free power supply to pumpsets with capacity up to 10 hp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/growers-federation-appeal-to-cm/article33428417.ece
27 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Stage set for polling in second phase of GP elections||The stage is set for second phase of gram panchayat elections with polling scheduled to take place from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday. In the first phase of the elections, polling took place on December 22 and concluded peacefully without any hassles. In the districts of Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttara Kannada, senior officials reviewed the preparations on Saturday and visited mustering centres from where polling officials and staff proceeded to their respective polling stations with all the polling paraphernalia. In the wake of the COVID-19 situation, the district administrations have taken elaborate precautions and steps for holding polling in accordance with the guidelines. The respective Superintendents of Police held meetings and also visited a few of the polling stations to review the bandobast in and around the booths. In Dharwad district, polling will be held for 385 constituencies in 71 gram panchayats of Hubballi, Kundgol, Navalgund and Annigeri taluks. In all, there are 1,65,319 male and 1,57,723 female voters and five of the third gender. The election is for a total of 1,032 seats of which 62 candidates have been elected unopposed already. Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant has said that a total of 1,035 police officials and personnel have been deployed for bandobast in the four taluks where polling is scheduled for Sunday. In Gadag district, election is being held for 64 gram panchayats in the taluks of Mundargi, Nargund, Ron and Gajendragad. Of the total 895 posts, 36 candidates have been elected unopposed and in nine wards, there are nil nomination papers. Consequently, elections are being held for 850 positions. Deputy Commissioner M. Sundaresh Babu has said that all steps had been taken for conducting free and fair elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stage-set-for-polling-in-second-phase-of-gp-elections/article33428272.ece
27 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Row over renaming Ashraya Colony||The issue of renaming of Ashraya Colony, which had been reportedly named as Mahatma Gandhi Colony, as Atal Nagar led to a protest and a heated exchange of words between Congress members, localites and BJP leaders in Hubballi on Friday. The incident happened during the bhoomi puja for the construction of B model houses under the Pradhan Mantri Avas Yojna at Amaragol in Hubballi, where the renaming of the area was also scheduled to take place. Staging the protest, local residents and Congress members led by Nagaraj Gouri condemned the renaming of the colony and said that by indulging in such an act, the BJP leaders were disgracing both Mahatma Gandhi and the former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Hubballi Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad and the former HDMC councillor Mallikarjun Horakeri tried to reason with them, saying that they were not renaming but naming the new Ashrya Layout. However, Mr. Nagaraj Gouri and the protestors were not satisfied. They said that flex boards had already been erected around the area indicating renaming. After the protestors stuck to their stand, the former councillor assured them that they would erect a board in the name of Mahatma Gandhi in the locality and invite them for the ceremony. The protestors were then pacified. Meanwhile, KPCC Media Analyst Pandurang Neeralakeri condemned the development and said that in 1992, KIADB had developed the layout in an area of 29 acres and allotted 825 Ashraya houses. Subsequently, the area was known as Mahatma Gandhi Colony. In a statement, he said that it was highly condemnable that Mr. Arvind Bellad and Union Minister Pralhad Joshi were behind the act of renaming the locality. Mr. Neeralakeri also said that no decision had been taken by the municipal corporation on renaming the locality. Both the leaders should apologise for bringing disgrace to the late leaders, he has said. Bhoomi puja After these developments, Mr. Pralhad Joshi performed bhoomi puja for the construction of 137 houses that are being built at a total cost of Rs. 7 crore. A sum of Rs. 5.10 lakh is being spent for each house of which the contribution from the beneficiaries is Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/row-over-renaming-ashraya-colony/article33428266.ece
27 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Seer to take out padayatra seeking reservation||Sri Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami, seer of the Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha at Koodalasangama, announced on Saturday that he would lead a padayatra from Koodalasangama, in Bagalkot, to Bengaluru from January 14, seeking the inclusion of the Panchamasali community under 2A category of backward classes. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad, the seer said that although two decades have passed since the demand was first made, nothing has happened and successive governments have not considered it positively. The seer, who was among those who spearheaded the independent religion movement for Lingayat, said that being a leader from the Lingayat community, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa owed a lot to the Panchamasali community as it had helped him climb the political ladder. “As a return gift to the community, he should include it under 2A category during his tenure as Chief Minister,” he said. The seer also said that although the Chief Minister had promised to consider their demand during an earlier ‘dharna’ in Bengaluru and a subsequent meeting in Bengaluru, nothing has been done so far. “We had announced it earlier that we would launch a padayatra if our demands were not met. We waited for the Chief Minister to act. Although we were told that a decision would be taken at the Cabinet meeting, the subject did not come up for discussion during the last Cabinet meet,” the swami said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-to-take-out-padayatra-seeking-reservation/article33428287.ece
27 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protest in Hubballi||Seeking immediate steps to sort out the traffic problems being caused due to unscientific execution of the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) between Hubballi and Dharwad, members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest in Hubballi recently. Staging the protest in front of the BRTS office, the protestors, led by Dharwad district unit president of AAP Santosh Naragund and other office-bearers, including Vikas Soppin, Shashikumar Sullad and others, sought immediate measures to sort out the contentious issues. The protestors submitted a memorandum to the BRTS officials in Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-in-hubballi/article33428255.ece
27 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Complaint filed||Stating that a doctor attached to Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (DIMHANS) was not allowing them to meet a patient despite a court order, a complaint has been filed in the Suburban Police Station of Dharwad. The case pertains to a woman from Madurai being treated at DIMHANS as per court order. In response, DIMHANS has said that the allegations are false.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaint-filed/article33428265.ece
27 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Agitators stage protest, burn Manusmriti||Niranta Pratibhatana Dharna Samiti, a consortium of various organisations showing solidarity with farmers and to protest against the Centre’s new farm bills, entered the 11th day in Kalaburagi on Friday. Members of the Karnataka Prantha Krishi Koolikarara Sangha, Janavadi Mahila Sanghatane, Bharata Gyan Vigyan Samiti, Karnataka, Pranth Raita Sangha, All India Kisan Sabha, and progressive thinkers took out a rally from Kannada Bhavan to Jagat Circle where the agitators burnt copies of Manusmriti to register their protest against the bills. The agitators demanded that the Centre scrap the new farm laws and reinstate the old ones. “We want a legal guarantee on the Minimum Support Price and the repeal of the farm laws enacted at the Centre,” said Janavadi Sanghatane leader K. Neela. The activists accused the Modi government of resorting to delaying tactics over the farmers demands to roll back the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agitators-stage-protest-burn-manusmriti/article33428259.ece
27 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Dakshayini conferred honorary doctorate||Vice-Chancellor of Davangere University Sharanappa Halse and other senior officials from the university conferred a honorary doctorate on the chairperson of Sharanabasaveshwar Vidya Vardak Sangha Dakshayini in Kalaburagi on Saturday. Dr. Halse, accompanied by Registrar (Evaluation) Anita H.S., Dean of Arts Faculty Rangappa and executive council members, visited Kalaburagi especially to confer the doctorate on Dakshayini in the presence of Chancellor of Sharnbasva University Sharnbaswappa Appa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dakshayini-conferred-honorary-doctorate/article33428269.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Damaging trees, using banned plastic to save the environment||A call to conserve nature on a plastic banner nailed to trees purportedly by a social organisation in Barkur town in Udupi district has kept many people amused. The plastic banner, about three foot wide and two foot tall bearing the name of Lions Club, Barkur, was found nailed to a tree on Barkur-Mandarthi Road on Friday with the message, Parisara Ulisi, by environmentalist and National Environment Care Federation general secretary H. Shashidhar Shetty. Finding one such banner while driving to Mandarthi, Mr. Shetty told The Hindu it was an irony that a responsible organisation was giving a call to save the environment by damaging trees with three inch nails and using banned plastic material. Despite the government prohibiting using nails on trees, such activities go on, he regretted and demanded that the organisation be made to remove the banner along with the nails. Club president U. Kotraswamy said that it was a newly formed club and they had little idea about displaying the material. “We used rivet nails as the material would not have remained stable if tied with ropes,” he said. “It was a mistake,” Mr. Kotraswamy admitted and said that the material would immediately be removed. Udupi Range Forest Officer Clifford Lobo said that the issue had not come to his notice. He added that he would ask his personnel to remove the material immediately. “We have periodically been carrying out awareness campaigns and drives to remove publicity material nailed to trees. Despite this, such things happen,” he said. Mr. Lobo added the organisation could have displayed the banner with good intention; however, the mode was not proper. In Kundapur too Meanwhile, the Udupi Jilla Nagarika Samithi has taken severe exception to displaying of publicity material by nailing them to trees in Kundapur town. In a statement, samithi members Nityananda Volakad and Taranath Mestha Shirur have said that hundreds of large trees have been offering shade to the general public along the main road connecting Shastri Circle and the New Bus Stand in the town. However, people have been driving nails into these trees to display their publicity material, they regretted. The Forest Department as well as the town municipality should immediately get nails removed from trees and take action against the concerned, they demanded.  Udupi Range Forest Officer Clifford Lobo says the organisation concerned could have displayed the banner with good intention but the mode was not proper||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/damaging-trees-using-banned-plastic-to-save-the-environment/article33428949.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Training in weaving begins at Talipady Co-op. Society||Kadike Trust, Karkala, has launched a six-month training programme in traditional Udupi handloom sari weaving and other skill development programmes for 20 trainees at the Talipady Weavers Cooperative Society, Kinnigoli, near Mangaluru. The training programme is being organised with financial assistance from NABARD. A release here said that a young generation is evincing keen interest in weaving with the relentless efforts by the trust after many years. It is an encouraging trend at a time when the number of weavers in the twin districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi was diminishing, the trust said. Chief Manager of Union Bank’s Kinnigoli branch Gerald Rego gave a detailed information to trainees during the inaugural session of the camp. He explained the features of basic banking, various loan facilities and benefits of forming self-help groups. NABARD’s Deputy General Manager in Mangaluru Sangeetha Kartha attended the programme online and explained the efforts NABARD was making to revive traditional culture and avocation. Trust president Mamatha Rai, secretary Chikkappa Shetty, Talipady Society president Ananda Shettigar, managing director Madhava Shettigar and trainers Sanjeeva Shettygar and Shantha Shettigar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-in-weaving-begins-at-talipady-co-op-society/article33428951.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Feedback sought on continuing Swatch Mangaluru Abhiyan||The Mangaluru Ramakrishna Mission that successfully carried out Swatch Mangaluru Abhiyan for five years has solicited feedback from social service groups, NGOs and citizens on whether to continue the abhiyan for a healthy and clean Mangaluru. Abhiyan Chief Convener Swami Chidambarananda in a release here said that the mission has planned a conclave of eminent citizens and representatives of about 150 service organisations on January 10 at Mangaluru Ramakrishna Mutt to chalk out the future course of the abhiyan. Feedback received from groups and citizens would be discussed during the meeting. Feedback may be sent to mangaloremath@gmail.com or to The Convener, Swatch Mangaluru Abhiyan, Ramakrishna Mission, Mangaluru 575001, before January 5. Swami Chidambaranand said that the Swatch Mangaluru Abhiyan did receive overwhelming response from the residents of Mangaluru who participated enthusiastically cutting across caste, creed and religion for a clean Mangaluru. While the abhiyan concluded in October 2019, there was demand to continue it for some more time. However, the future course of action could not be chalked out due to COVID-19 situation, he said. As such, the mission now intends to take forward the initiative as sought by people for a better Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/feedback-sought-on-continuing-swatch-mangaluru-abhiyan/article33428944.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man drowned in sea||Mahesh Jayaram (43), a software engineer from Bengaluru, drowned in the sea near St. Mary’s Island, off the Malpe Coast in Udupi, on Thursday evening. The Malpe Police said that Jayaram, who hailed from Kanakapura, had come along with his wife and two sons to the island. As the two children were playing in the water, one got stuck and Jayaram rushed to rescue it. However, Jayaram was carried away by the sea waters. Though he was rescued and taken to a local hospital in Manipal, he was declared dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-drowned-in-sea/article33428945.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Youth Parliament contest in Udupi on Dec. 29||The divisional level Youth Parliament contest being organised by the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports will be held online in Udupi, one of the four nodal centres in the State, on December 29. Those selected in this process will participate in the State-level contest and later at the national level. A release from the district youth officer, Nehru Yuva Kendra, Udupi, here said that Mysuru, Kalaburagi and Karwar were the other three nodal centres chosen for the contest. Udupi centre covers Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Shivamogga and Udupi districts. Candidates, aged between 18 and 24, would initially be screened at the district level and two found the best among them would represent the district at the nodal centre level. Participants may speak either in Kannada or English or Hindi up to State level and would have to speak in Hindi or English at the national level. As such, it would be better if they get prepared in Hindi or English, Youth Officer Wilfred D’Souza said. As many as 10 each participants representing associations affiliated to Nehru Yuva Kendra and National Service Scheme from Udupi district were eligible from the district to participate at the district level. They may register before December 28. Topics given for the district level contest are: National Education Policy 2020 will transform education in India; Unnat Bharat Abhiyan-Unleashing the power of communities and using technologies for their upliftment; Unlocking rural economy in the face of new normal and Zero budget natural farming is a boon for farmers. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha would inaugurate the divisional level contest on December 29. Applications may be obtained from the Nehru Yuva Kendra, B Block, District Office Complex, Rajatadri, Manipal, Ph: 0820-2574992. For details, call the Youth Officer on Ph: 9958325151 or the Accounts Officer on Ph: 8762114883.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-parliament-contest-in-udupi-on-dec-29/article33428952.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Periodicity of trains extended||The Railways has extended the periodicity of operation of three pairs of festival special trains running via Konkan Railway network, including the Matsyagandha Express special, for one more month. A release from Konkan Railway Corporation here said that periodicity of Train Nos 06338 and 06337 Ernakulam Junction-Okha-Ernakulam Junction bi-weekly express running on Fridays and Wednesdays and Mondays and Saturdays, respectively, was extended from January 1 to January 29, 2021. Periodicity of Matsyagandha Express, Train Nos 02620 and 02619 Mangaluru Central-Mumbai LTT-Mangaluru Central daily festival special was extended from January 2 to February 1. Similarly, periodicity of Train Nos 06072 and 06071 Tirunelveli-Dadar-Tirunelveli superfast festival special weekly express running on Wednesdays and Thursdays, respectively, was extended from January 6 to January 28, the release added. Passengers have to follow all COVID-19 protocols, including social distancing, sanitisation and wearing of masks/ face covers besides getting seats reserved in advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/periodicity-of-trains-extended/article33428947.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two people lose money as their cards are skimmed||In two instances, two persons lost a total of Rs. 60,000 from their bank accounts after their ATM cards were skimmed. In the complaint to the Cyber Crime Police, Janet D’Souza said that Rs. 40,000 was withdrawn from her account between 7.52 p.m. and 7.54 p.m. on Friday. This amount was withdrawn from her savings bank account with Canara Bank’s Balmatta Branch, she said. In the other compliant, Dayananda said that Rs. 20,000 was withdrawn from his savings bank account with Union Bank of India’s Baikampady branch on December 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-people-lose-money-as-their-cards-are-skimmed/article33428954.ece
27 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Boy drowned in swimming pool in Puttur||A three-year-old boy drowned in a swimming pool of a farmland in Apinimoole of Panaje village of Puttur on Thursday. The Puttur Rural Police said that the three-year-old Mohammed Sanid was playing outside the house. He was later found in the swimming pool. Sanid was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-drowned-in-swimming-pool-in-puttur/article33428955.ece
27 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Euphoria over high-speed rail travel premature||The euphoria over the proposed high speed rail travel between Mysuru and Bengaluru with onward journey to Chennai has been described as premature as it is a long- gestation project. There are speculations afresh of high speed travel between the three cities after the National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL) invited tenders for survey for identification of overhead and underground utilities along the Chennai-Bengaluru-Mysuru (CBM) stretch for high speed rail. 13 corridors However, as per the National Rail Plan (NRP)-India prepared by RITES, there are 13 High Speed Rail corridors including Chennai-Bengaluru-Mysuru and they are supposed to be implemented in a phase-wise manner. While the Mumbai-Ahmedabad corridor is supposed to be implemented by 2026, the Delhi-Ahmedabad corridor is scheduled for implementation by 2031 and the Chennai-Mysuru corridor via Bengaluru is slated for implementation in 2051 only and the cost has been pegged at Rs. 92,400 crore. The tenders that was floated early this week is for a survey of identification of overhead overground, underground utilities, and identification of power sourcing options for substations along the high speed corridor. Nine stations The NHSRCL said it is in the process of preparing a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for a new 450-km-long high speed rail corridor on the CBM stretch and has tentatively identified nine stations including Mysuru, Mandya, Channapatana, Bengaluru, Bangarpet, Chittoor, Arakkonam, Poonamalle and Chennai. The width of Right of Way has been pegged at 30 metres except at stations and depots. The tender document noted that proposed high speed corridor passes along major expressways and national highways, greenfield areas and may cut through arterial roads of the intermediate city road network along the corridor. It said there will be large number of overhead, surface and sub-surface utility services such as electrical transmission lines, electric distribution lines, poles, traffic signals, telephone cables, sewers, water mains, storm water drains, gas and oil pipelines along the proposed alignment. They have to be shifted to enable the construction of HSR infrastructure. The NHSRCL said these utilities may critically affect the construction works and project implementation time schedule and costs, for which necessary planning and action needs to be initiated in advance. Hence the tender has been invited so that the agency identify the infringing infrastructure such as electrical connections for borewells, railway overhead equipment, telecom towers, telephone lines, signal and telecommunication installations, UGD etc belonging to State and Central Governments and private entities. But senior officials in the South Western Railway said they are not in the loop and the NHSRCL is a special purpose vehicle implementing it. Based on the survey findings, the feasibility of implementing it and solutions to overcome the impediments will be studied after which the issue of financing the project will be taken up and this is a long gestation project, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/euphoria-over-high-speed-rail-travel-premature/article33428422.ece
27 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Lake desilting mooted to meet highway requirement||Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has urged the authorities to issue permission for soil extraction from the villages near the alignment of the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway in Mysuru taluk, for levelling the earth. The project has gained traction since the last few months and is making brisk progress and is slated for completion within another 2 years. But the agency implementing the project pleaded for soil in large quantities to level the earth along the highway. Mr. Simha suggested that the authorities should explore the possibility of desilting water bodies in the villages along the highway alignment and use the silt for the project. Shettynayakanahalliekre, Nagavalakere, Huyilalukere, Bommenahallikere, Jettihundikere, Huliyalukatte and K.Hemmanahallikere have been identified as potential water bodies for desilting based on the feedback and the local tahsildar should issue permission for desilting, said Mr. Simha. Later, he inspected some of the roads being repaired by the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) and directed the engineers to expedite the work on the stretch between Hebbal Junction and Kalidasa Road which was being repaired at a cost of Rs. 3.58 crore. There was also an inspection of the Mysuru-Hunsur road at Koorgalli Industrial Area where the imperatives of laying a turnaround (circle) was highlighted to ease traffic movement. The NHAI representative present at the spot was apprised of the importance ofi the work n view of high traffic density at the junction and a turnaround or circle would minimise the risk of accidents. Local residents were also supportive of the suggestion and called for its early implementation.  The project has gained traction since the last few months and is making brisk progress and is slated for completion within another 2 years.  MP inspects Mysuru-Hunsur road at Koorgalli Industrial Area to study measures to ease traffic movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lake-desilting-mooted-to-meet-highway-requirement/article33428420.ece
27 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||One U.K. returnee tests positive||One of the residents who had recently returned from the U.K. to Mysuru has tested positive for COVID-19 but it is not ascertained whether it is the new virus strain. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said the swabs have been sent to NIMHANS in Bengaluru for genomic sequencing. Authorities on alert She said the results are expected on Monday and the authorities were on alert and there was no cause for concern. The person had three primary contacts and 3 secondary contacts of whom one has tested positive. The individuals had come to Mysuru on December 14. The DC said 137 people have returned from the U.K. to Mysuru since December of whom all but 23 persons have undergone the RT-PCR test. The 23 persons who refrained from a test claimed that they had already under gone test and the results turned out to be negative. But the district administration will conduct another round of RT-PCR test as a precautionary measure. Active cases As on December 25, there were 539 active cases in Mysuru district with a cumulative case load of 52,124. The cumulative discharge as on Friday was 50,577 and the cumulative deaths so far is 1,008. In all, 195 persons are currently under home isolation, 57 are in dedicated COVID hospitals run by the government, and 179 are isolated in private hospitals. The rest are in COVID-19 care centresin the government or private domain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-uk-returnee-tests-positive/article33428418.ece
27 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||New additions to rail museum||Two life-size figurines of the most familiar faces in a Railway environment - member of the Indian Railway Protection Force Services and the Sahayak (earlier known as porters) were unveiled at the Rail Museum in Mysuru on Saturday. A release said the new attractions were unveiled by Sujatha Singh, President, South Western Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation, Hubballi, and theywill help visitors to get a sense of how these two distinctly different set of people have been significantly helping the Railways over the years. Kalika Agarwal, President, SWRWWO Mysuru and other office-bearers of Women’s Welfare Organisation of Mysuru Division were present on the occasion. The rail museum was renovated and expanded with a slew of new collections in March this year and has seen an increase in tourists footfall since then. Earlier, A.K.Singh, General Manager, South Western Railway, Hubballi, and Rahul Agrawal Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru Division, inspected Chamarajapuram Railway station in the city and commissioned the computerised Passenger Reservation System (PRS) installed for the benefit of rail users. Mr. Singh also inspected the Mysuru Railway station and the pit line to take stock of the situation following the gradual resumption of passenger services from Mysuru. Senior officials of Mysuru Division were also present during the inspection. Timings The release said the Passenger Reservation System at Chamarajapuram will operate from 10 a.m. to noon and from 3 p.m to 6 p.m. on all days except Sundays when it will function from 10 a.m. to noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-additions-to-rail-museum/article33428424.ece
27 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Nagpur oranges flood Mysuru market||The city is witnessing a virtual flood of the famed Nagpur oranges due to a bumper crop in the Vidarbha belt of Maharashtra this year. As against nearly 10 truck loads of the fruit that used to be offloaded in the city normally, the numbers have increased to nearly 20 truck loads per day this year. The wholesale merchants dealing exclusively with fruits aver that this year’s arrival is the highest in recent memory but is not doing either the farmers or the merchants any good. For, the prices have crashed due to the glut in the market. Merchants at the APMC yard said the price of good quality orange has dropped to nearly Rs. 25 per kg against the normal rate of Rs. 40 while a slightly inferior variety of the fruit is sold at around Rs. 20 per kg. The rate at which the oranges are being sold in the wholesale market is less than the transportation cost, according to the merchants. Mysuru was receiving around 150 tonnes to 200 tonnes of oranges daily since the last few weeks. This is against the regular load of around 60 tonnes to 70 tonnes during peak season all these years. In case the fruit remains unsold then it is dumped in the open causing loss to the merchants who have already placed the indent for the fruit, according to the wholesale traders. However, the entire consignment is not distributed to retailers in Mysuru. Nearly 50 per cent of the load is transported from the APMC yard in Mysuru to the neighbouring towns and even the border areas of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The fruit is transported to the hinterland in a radius of 150 km covering places as far as Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts as well. While the variety cultivated in central India is painting the town orange, the Kodagu oranges are yet to make their presence felt in the market this year. Merchants say it will be another two months before they hit the market ahead of the summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nagpur-oranges-flood-mysuru-market/article33428416.ece
27 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||56 GPs to go to the polls in Yadgir district today||All preparations for Sunday’s gram panchayat elections in the second phase have been put in place, Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir R. Ragapriya has said. As many as 56 gram panchayas — 22 in Yadgir, 17 each in Gurmitkal and Wadagera taluks — will go to the polls between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. A total of 858 candidates are contesting in 360 seats in Yadgir taluk, after 99 candidate were elected unopposed. There are 581 candidates fight for 234 seats in Gurmitkal taluk, after 68 candidates were elected unopposed. And, 631 candidates are facing elections to 243 seats in Wadagera taluk after 40 candidates were elected unopposed, Dr. Ragapriya said. There are 1,34,705 voters in Yadgir taluk and of these, 67,103 are male voters, 67,599 female and three are in others category. In Gurmitkal, 92,348 voters — 45,884 male, 46,463 female and one in the others category — are eligible to cast their votes. In Wadagera, a total 90,232 voters — 45,372 male, 44,558 female and two in the others category — are eligible to vote. Altogether, there are 3,17,285 voters and of these, 1,58,359 are male, 1,58,920 female and six from the others category. To ensure strict implementation of the model code of conduct, three FST and 11 sector officers have been deployed for Yadgir taluk, followed by three FST and seven sector officers in Gurmitkal taluk and three FST and nine sector officers have been deployed in Wadagera taluk. Elaborate security arrangements have been made to ensure fair, proper and peaceful elections, Dr. Ragapriya said. She said that one Deputy Superintendent of Police and three Circle Inspectors, 10 each Sub-Inspectors and Assistant Sub-Inspectors, 60 Head Constables, 138 Police Constables, 45 Home Guards and 11 mobile inspectors have been deployed for Yadgir taluk. One Deputy Superintendent of Police, two Circle Inspectors, three Sub-Inspectors, eight Assistant Sub-Inspectors, 40 Head Constables, 91 Police Constables, 51 Home Guards and nine mobile inspectors will be on election duty in Gurmitkal taluk. Two Circle Inspectors, four Sub-Inspectors, eight Assistant Sub-Inspectors, 35 Head Constables, 80 Police Constables, 23 Home Guards and seven mobile inspectors have been deployed for Wadagera taluk. Polling station As many as 72 polling stations have been identified as hypersensitive. Of these, 31 are in Yadgir, 23 in Gurmitkal and 18 are in Wadagera, the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/56-gps-to-go-to-the-polls-in-yadgir-district-today/article33428271.ece
27 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Tahsildars to inquire into candidates getting elected unopposed||Following an instruction from the State Election Commission, the Raichur district administration has asked tahsildars of all the seven taluks in the district to conduct a detailed inquiry into instances of candidates getting elected unopposed in the gram panchayat elections. The direction follows instances of candidates indulging in electoral malpractices, including offering donations to local temples to get elected unopposed. Already the police have registered a case and arrested nine persons in Hosalli (EJ) village in Sindhanur taluk after the panchayat seats were auctioned. The incident drew the attention of the State Election Commission, which, in turn, asked the district administration to conduct a detailed inquiry. “Following the instruction, we have directed all tahsildars to conduct a detailed enquiry into the process of electing members unopposed,” Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar told The Hindu . He said that barring one written complaint, there were no other complaints regarding any foul play in the unopposed election of candidates. The first phase of the election was conducted on December 22 and the second phase will be held on Sunday. Raichur district has a total of 172 gram panchayats with 3,377 seats. Of the 3,377 seats, 418 members have already been elected unopposed. The first phase election was held for 92 gram panchayats (Manvi-17 gram panchayats, Deodurg 28, Raichur 33 and Sirwar 14) with 1,612 seats after 203 members were elected unopposed. Of the 203 members, 30 were elected in Manvi followed by 58 in Deodurg, 93 in Raichur and 22 in Sirwar. The second phase of the election will be held on December 27 for 80 gram panchayats with 1,561 seats, as 215 members have been elected as unopposed. Of the 215 members, 89 are from Sindhanur taluk followed by 75 in Lingsugur and 51 in Maski.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tahsildars-to-inquire-into-candidates-getting-elected-unopposed/article33428262.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Undoing decades of gains in labour jurisprudence||The year that has passed by is the most momentous year that Indian labour has seen. The National Commission for Enterprises in the Unorganised Sector informed us that out of 500 million in the workforce, about 7% are in the organised sector and the rest (93%) are in the informal/unorganised sector. The year has witnessed the reversal of more than a century of labour jurisprudence. Workers and their trade unions took part in the independence movement fighting at once for their own rights and for the freedom of India. New laws relating to wages, dispute settlement, social security, working conditions were enacted. Lost spirit of truce Above all the spirit of “truce” between capital and labour was emphasised through “Industrial Truce Resolutions” in 1947 and again in 1962 (Chinese Aggression). Labour was seen as a partner, collective bargaining and tripartitism was fostered. However, the Congress brought in “Washington consensus” in 1991 and neo-liberalism promoted the idea of “flexible labour” (meaning no regulatory labour law). Under the BJP, this anti-labour policy reached a new peak. Repealing laws has now become a fetish. Four new Labour Codes have been introduced. During its drafting labour was not seriously consulted, but capital was deep in the green room. The outcome? Collective bargaining has been dismantled and consequences are visible. Workers in the iPhone manufacturing unit near Kolar went on a “wild cat strike” and caused severe damage to property. These workers were harshly exploited under a free for all contract labour adventure (not because there is no law but because labour administration is paralysed as never before). The political leadership believes that “ease of doing business” means doing away with all protection to labour not realising that too much of this business goes against the interest of business itself. In the 1970s industries came to Bengaluru in search of peace and good industrial relations. Now through the consequences of the ill-conceived labour policy many industries may get attracted to neighbouring Tamil Nadu (Hosur etc.) where labour administration is still working. People of nowhere Two calamities have come together. One is repealing labour law that has evolved through almost 10 decades and the other is COVID-19. Employers used both against workers. The sudden lockdown announced by the Prime Minister came in handy. They obeyed the Prime Minister to close the factory but ignored orders under the Disaster Management Act to pay wages, and protect workers. Lakhs of migrants who were working in Bengaluru from Bihar, U.P., Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, etc. were left without jobs, not even earned wages, no health facilities and no houses. The government listened only to the employers’ lobby and even tried to prevent the return journey. Some were able to go home, thanks to the untiring effort of trade unions, civil society, the labour department, and humanitarian orders of the Karnataka High Court. Those who reached home soon discovered that there was no livelihood there and hence the return journey has now begun. Back at the work spot, the situation is precarious. The old Inter-State Migrant Workers Act, 1979, which gave some protection is now repealed. The Wage Code, 2019, does away with “Scheduled Employments” which provide the frame work for enacting Minimum wages. The Industrial Relations Code, 2020, destroys the frame work of collective bargaining. The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 provided both for State abstention (through collective bargaining) and for State intervention (through reference for adjudication) along with the power of the appropriate government to ban strikes and lock-outs. This regime is foolishly abandoned and instead links it up with de-registration of trade unions. The Social Security Code, 2020, discriminates between the organised and the unorganised. Finally, the OSH Code, 2020, even contemplated doing away with the eight hour working day (ILO Convention No:1 of 1919) but fortunately restored the same-after the ILO also intervened.  Lacking political will Ironically, the silver lining comes from the “Apple” company. They have put Westron on probation for management failure and Westron has sacked its own top executive. Sadly, the Government of Karnataka is seen to be molly-cuddling the company, which itself feels they failed to maintain minimum labour standards. For the rule of law to prevail on the industrial front, we need political will (now absent), along with good labour laws and rules for Karnataka, a good labour department, and strong trade unions.  (Prof. Babu Mathew is Adjunct Professor and Director, Centre for Labour Studies at the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/undoing-decades-of-gains-in-labour-jurisprudence/article33428279.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Folk festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/folk-festival/article33428274.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Burglary case solved||Police have cracked the burglary in the house of S.K. Syed Ismail in Suddagunte Palya on December 14 and arrested his relative, who allegedly masterminded the burglary along with two associates. The arrested have been identified as Imran Ahmed, 30, Syed Zameer Ahmed, 28, and Atiq Pasha, 31. Police recovered 100 grams of gold jewellery worth Rs. 4.5 lakh from them. Recorded on camera The burglary was recorded by a CCTV camera. The video showed two youths enter the house using a key, raising suspicions of an insider job. The police detained Imran Ahmed, a relative of Syed Ismail, over his suspicious behaviour after the burglary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/burglary-case-solved/article33428818.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘BBMP marshal’ caught||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has appointed marshals to levy fines on those found to be not just littering, but also not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing. Recently, a man claiming to be marshal was found collecting fines from citizens in Jayanagar. He was allegedly in possession of a wireless instrument and a file said to be of BBMP. Suspicious citizens reported this to the BBMP. The person has been identified as Kiran, 19, who was handed over to the Tilak Nagar police. The BBMP is said to have filed an FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-marshal-caught/article33428820.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Restaurant in Kengeri gutted||Kick Out Restaurant in Kengeri was gutted in an accidental fire on Saturday around 5.30 a.m. A few workers, who were sleeping in the restaurant, had woken up by then. They woke up the others and rushed out before the fire engulfed the entire restaurant. No one was injured. Two fire tenders rushed to the spot. An electrical short circuit is suspected to be the cause. Estimated loss is around Rs. 25 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restaurant-in-kengeri-gutted/article33428821.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Enjoying the moment||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/enjoying-the-moment/article33428957.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cooking on the road||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cooking-on-the-road/article33428285.ece
27 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Revamped swimming pool to open in Jan.||Renovation of Raja Kesavadas swimming pool of the Kerala State Sports Council has been completed. According to officials, the pool near the Lighthouse will be inaugurated in January. It was renovated at a cost of Rs. 2.6 crore after remaining in a dilapidated state for more than a decade. Depth increased The pool has eight lanes and is expected to give a major boost for practising swimming. As part of the renovation works, the depth of the pool has been increased. Besides, tiles, chlorination system, electrical, and plumbing systems were replaced. The pool has facilities to conduct national-level swimming competitions. Filling of pool Water needed to fill the pool will be brought from Kerala Water Authority’s water treatment plant at Karumadi. The filling of the pool will be completed in two weeks. The foundation stone for the swimming pool in the name of Raja Kesavadas, the architect of modern-day Alappuzha, was laid in 1995 by former Chief Minister A.K. Antony. After its opening in 1997, it became a popular swimming centre having facilities for 60 people to practise at a time. Swimming classes were also provided by charging a fee. However, six months into its launch, the coach-cum-lifeguard quit as the Sports Council failed to pay him a salary. A fall in the number of students attending classes diminished the revenue. With the shortage of funds, the Sports Council failed to conduct maintenance of the pool, filtration plant, and other systems. In 2001, the Sports Council stopped the functioning of the pool and later handed it over to a private firm on lease. It was closed in 2006 after two youths lost their lives while swimming in the pool. The decision to reopen the pool was taken following a lack of facilities forcing young and talented swimmers in Alappuzha, Kuttanad and nearby areas to practice in canals and rivers. Although the renovation of the pool began in 2017, the work got delayed on various accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revamped-swimming-pool-to-open-in-jan/article33428375.ece
27 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Review of voters’ list||A district-level meeting to review the voters’ list prior to the Assembly elections will be held at the taluk office at 11.30 a.m. on Monday. Representatives of recognised political parties, MLAs, and officials of Election Commission will attend the meeting aimed at making a fault-free voters’ list, a release has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/review-of-voters-list/article33428376.ece
27 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Govt. extending special care to the marginalised: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday that the government had taken steps to help those who were marginalised in society. Mr. Vijayan was speaking at an event organised at the Kannur Nayanar Academy during his State-wide tour to interact with people from various walks of life as part of the preparation of the LDF manifesto for the upcoming Assembly election. He said there were some who were left behind even when there was general development in society. Drinking water Special consideration was given to their uplift and welfare. Measures were taken to protect such communities, especially during the COVID-19. Projects aimed at providing drinking water to all were being implemented. These activities as part of the Jal-Jeevan Mission were progressing at a good pace. This government had been able to fully implement the promises made to the people in their manifesto, he said. Ports and Archaeology Minister Ramachandran Kadannappally presided over the function. CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan; Ministers E.P. Jayarajan, K.K. Shailaja; MLAs C. Krishnan, James Mathew, T.V. Rajesh, former MPs Panniyan Raveendran, P.K. Sreemathi, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-extending-special-care-to-the-marginalised-cm/article33428319.ece
27 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Two more held in DYFI activist’s murder case||The police have registered the arrest of two more persons, including a Muslim Students Federation (MSF) leader, in the murder case of Ouf Abdul Rahman, a DYFI activist in Kanhangad. The arrest of MSF leader Hassan and Ashir, a native of Mundathode, was recorded on Friday night. Muslim Youth League leader Irshad, the first accused in the case, had been arrested earlier. The police said the three were part of a group that waylaid Ouf, who was riding a motorcycle, and stabbed him to death on Wednesday night. Irshad, who was remanded, was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Pariyaram. He was injured in the attack and was being treated at a Mangaluru hospital. He was shifted to the MCH as per the court order. District Police Chief D. Shilpa said tension that erupted over counting of votes in the recent local body election had led to the killing. She said the case would be handed over to the Crime Branch. Strongly condemned Meanwhile, MYL State president Panakkad Munavarali Shihab Thangal visited the house of Ouf on Saturday morning. Mr. Thangal said the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) was against political violence. Though Mr. Thangal had come along with the local League leaders, only he was allowed to enter the house. Local people blocked the vehicle and refused to let other leaders in. Mr. Thangal said local-level issues had resulted in the murder. There was no conspiracy involved. Strongly condemning the murder, he said a preliminary investigation was under way and the family should get justice. The IUML would not protect those accused in murder cases. No one should be killed in the name of politics, he said. “We want a detailed inquiry into Ouf’s death. The Youth League member arrested in the case was expelled from the organisation on Friday,” he added. ‘Conspiracy’ Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel too visited Ouf’s house. He told the media afterwards that the IUML was continuing its violent politics and that there was a political conspiracy behind the murder. Relatives meet CM Meanwhile, Hussain Moulavi, uncle of Ouf, and other relatives met Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at Padannakad in Kasaragod. Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan, CPI (M) central committee member P. Karunakaran, and district secretary M.V. Balakrishnan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-held-in-dyfi-activists-murder-case/article33428391.ece
27 December 2020||Kerala,KERALA||Concern over KWA move to replace pipelines||The proposal of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) to do away with the two existing cast iron pipelines carrying water into the city could be unscientific and lead to major disruption of water supply, in case the single mild steel pipeline that will replace them on Pipeline Road bursts, Martin Gopurathingal, an environmentalist, has said. Three large existing pipelines, two cast iron and one mild steel, carry drinking water from the Aluva pump house into the city and surrounding municipalities and panchayats. While the two cast iron pipelines are along the western road from Aluva, the single mild steel pipeline was laid along the HUDCO Pipeline Road. Under the KWA project, the two cast iron pipes will be done away with, and a mild steel pipeline will be laid alongside the existing mild steel pipeline. “If the single mild steel pipeline, which will now be laid, bursts, water supply will be disrupted from Kalamassery all the way up to Fort Kochi. When water is supplied through three pipes, and if one of them bursts, supply may be disrupted only in a few areas,” Mr. Gopurathingal said. “Mild steel pipes are more prone to damage and have a shorter life span. The KWA has failed in keeping heavy vehicles away from Pipeline Road. The movement of heavy vehicles will only increase chances of damage to this single pipeline that will be on the eastern road,” he added. Shifting of pipelines from the western road will cater to real estate interests, he alleged. A new 143-mld treatment plant at Aluva is set to come up where the two cast iron pipes are laid, which means the pipes will have to be shifted, said a KWA official with the Perumbavoor project division. The pipelines and quarters of the KWA are being replaced in the first phase of the Rs. 300-crore project geared towards setting up the new plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-kwa-move-to-replace-pipelines/article33428914.ece
27 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB to prepare list of units letting effluents into drains||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) will soon prepare a list of hotels, lodges, and other establishments under the jurisdiction of the Kochi Corporation found discharging untreated effluents into drains leading to Edappally thodu and Perandoor canal. Specific actions are being initiated by the board for violations noticed and to bring all erring units under the purview of the consent regime. The list will be forwarded to the corporation and the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) by the district office of the board, according to an assurance given to the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The response was given in a case pertaining to pollution caused by discharge of sewage generated by the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium at Kaloor and commercial establishments close to it into the nearby drains owing to the poor functioning of the sewage treatment plant. The Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta had entrusted a joint committee to submit a report on samples taken from the inlet and outlet of the plant to check its efficiency. It had also sought a report on collection and disposal of waste generated when the stadium and its premises were used for various events. It is reiterated that Perandoor and Edappally canals are severely polluted owing to discharge of effluents from certain establishments along their banks, and monitoring of the streams will be completed soon, according to the board. Meanwhile, corporation officials agreed that proper action would be taken to ensure that local establishments transfer sewage to the treatment plant at the stadium. The civic body will identify units near the plant, as the transfer of waste water can be done without much logistical hurdles. The board informed the tribunal that it had asked the GCDA to install an ultra-filtration system and a soak pit in the plant. However, the authority has not yet submitted a follow-up report. Instead, the GCDA said it would seek the opinion of Kitco, the authority’s technical consultant, on setting up the tertiary system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-to-prepare-list-of-units-letting-effluents-into-drains/article33428920.ece
27 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||K.A. Ansiya to be Dy. Mayor||The Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district leadership zeroed in on K.A. Ansiya, the CPI councillor from the Mattancherry Division, for the post of Deputy Mayor of the Kochi Corporation. The decision was taken at a meeting on Saturday, said P. Raju, CPI district secretary. A meeting of the district secretariat of the CPI(M) on Saturday passed an agenda suggesting M. Anilkumar, a district committee member of the party, as the candidate for the post of Mayor. The district committee is likely to meet on Sunday to finalise the decision. Mattancherry, Division 5 of the corporation, had been a stronghold of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) for 50 years, before she won it for the LDF this year, Ms. Ansiya said. She had been a part of the All India Youth Federation (AIYF), the CPI’s youth wing, and is now an active member of the local Kudumbashree group. The 33-year-old contested for the first time this year and won by a margin of 23 votes. The CPI had earlier staked claim to the post of Deputy Mayor, suggesting the name of Ms. Ansiya, the party’s only woman candidate to have won. The party won four seats this time, its highest ever tally in the corporation. M. Anilkumar is returning to the council for the fourth time. He won from Elamakkara North this time, having represented the division in the 2010-15 council as well. He was the CPI(M) candidate for the Ernakulam constituency in the 2016 Assembly election. Elections to the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor are set to take place on Monday. Having won 34 seats and secured the support of the two Independents, the LDF has the backing of 36 councillors in the 74-member council, while the UDF won 31 seats and the BJP five. The posts of two standing committee chairpersons may be handed over to T.K. Ashraf and J. Sanilmon, the Independents who promised support to the LDF, though a final decision is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ka-ansiya-to-be-dy-mayor/article33428918.ece
27 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Twenty20 fails to wrest Chelakkulam yet again||For all its dominance, Twenty20, the corporate-backed outfit that swept Kizhakkamabalam panchayat in two successive local body polls, has failed to wrest the ward, which, incidentally, houses its major garment unit that is reportedly pivotal to its export business, both the times. Chelakkulam, Ward 6, had bucked the trend in 2015 and did so again this time, despite the outfit expanding its sphere of superiority to three more nearby panchayats. On both occasions, UDF-backed Independents won. “My victory is a response of the people against the polluting ways of the company. Nine years of my experience as a Community Development Society member gives me the confidence to perform my job and strike strong positions whenever warranted,” said Asma Aliyar, the only non-Twenty20 member in the 19-member council. However, Twenty20 chairman Sabu M. Jacob alleged trade-off of around 200 votes between the UDF and the LDF for Rs. 10 lakh, without which, he claimed, the outfit would have won by 400 votes. He said the beneficiaries of cash-for-votes were even made to pledge on their sacred religious texts that they would vote accordingly. “The LDF’s disparity of around 200 votes in the ward and block and district panchayats exposes the unholy nexus between the two fronts,” said Mr. Jacob, who further underplayed the loss at Chelakkulam, saying that the company’s units were spread over three wards, and that Twenty20 had won even the ward where the company’s processing plant was located, despite allegations of pollution. P.H. Anoop, a member of Chelakkulam ward in the last term, shot down charges of vote-trading, saying if that was the case, the CPI(M) candidate would not have polled 132 votes. He added that the defeat of Twenty20 candidate by 105 votes as against 37 last time, despite the outfit enrolling 213 fresh names in the voter’s list, proved how the electorate stood united to defeat the outfit. “Excessive groundwater exploitation and discharge of waste water polluting the environment remain the scourge of the ward. During my term as member, I had to face discrimination from the governing committee dominated by Twenty20 and had to even seek court intervention to get a drainage work executed. Since the block and district panchayats were ruled by the UDF and the local MLA is also from the front, I could fend off the discrimination, including in fund allocation,” said Mr. Anoop. Nijo Purackal, a voter, said Twenty20’s defeat in successive polls was testimonial to how the much acclaimed development model could not sway the electorate.  My victory is a response of the people against the polluting ways of the garment companyAsma Aliyar Independent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twenty20-fails-to-wrest-chelakkulam-yet-again/article33428922.ece
27 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||GCDA mulls using treated water for turf maintenance||The Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) will consider using treated sewage from the plant at the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium at Kaloor to maintain turf. The recommendation was made by the State Pollution Control Board (PCB) while exploring ways to ensure the proper functioning of the plant. The authority will consult Kitco, its technical consultant, on the suggestion of the board. According to the original proposal, treated water had to be let into drains, it said. The authority claimed that the plant was functional despite having a tertiary filtration system. The Kochi Corporation has informed the board that the flow in the drain to which treated water is discharged now will not be affected. It will monitor Perandoor canal (to which the drain leads) and Edappally canal, the two main streams connected to the Edamula stretch of the Periyar. The civic body said the drain was recently reconstructed under the AMRUT project. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had pointed out that the only question to be considered in the case was the ‘precautionary principle’ applied for proper management of the stadium, which is used for public functions and games, and that it was likely to generate waste and sewage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gcda-mulls-using-treated-water-for-turf-maintenance/article33428921.ece
27 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||403 new cases, 432 recoveries in Ernakulam||The district recorded 403 new COVID-19 cases and 432 recoveries on Saturday. Eight health workers tested positive on the day and the source of infection of 59 people could not be confirmed. Kottuvally recorded 17 new cases of the infection, while Kothamangalam registered 16 and North Paravur 14 cases. A total of 28,700 people remain in quarantine. The district’s active case load is 8,254. While 6,610 people are recovering at home, 86 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, 49 are at PVS Hospital, 150 people are being monitored at first-line treatment centres and 370 patients are at second-line treatment centres. So far, 298 patients have succumbed to the infection in Ernakulam. As many as 80,247 people have been infected so far. According to the State Health Department weekly bulletin for December 14 to 21, the absolute number of new cases reported in a week in Ernakulam saw an increase of nearly 1,000 cases when compared with the preceding week from December 7 to 13. The test positivity rate has risen from 8.2% in the first week of December to 10.2% in the third week. The report notes that Ernakulam was one of the districts were the positivity rate and the absolute number of new cases in a week had increased significantly in the third week of December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/403-new-cases-432-recoveries-in-ernakulam/article33428916.ece
27 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Five booked for brawl at apartment complex||The Nedumbassery police have charged five persons, including two women, in two cases following an alleged skirmish between two groups at an apartment complex. Among the charges levelled are IPC 351 (assault) and 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty). Women from both sides have got themselves admitted to hospital, claiming to have been injured. The incident, the police said, was the culmination of a long-standing feud between separate associations of residents and that of the builder. Closure of a gate by an employee engaged by the builder’s association a couple of days ago led to the latest tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-booked-for-brawl/article33428915.ece
27 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 361 new cases||Kollam district reported 361 new cases of COVID-19 and 192 recoveries on Saturday, of whom 353 contracted the infection through local contact. There were two NRIs, three persons from other States, and three cases with no known source on the list of new patients. Cases with no known source have been reported from Chavara, Punalur and Kottarakara. Mayyanad, Kulakkada, Elampalloor are the places that reported highest number of new cases with 135 persons testing positive in Mayyanad. Active cases in Kollam The district currently has 12,895 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,67,880. While 1,192 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 1,35,523 primary and 12,614 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present the number of active cases in Kollam is 4,602. Alappuzha district registered 259 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. It also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. As many as 245 of the fresh cases contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection of 14 patients was unidentified. The 259 cases include 22 logged from Mannar, 21 from Alappuzha, and 17 each from Aroor and Panavally. Meanwhile, 356 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,449. Parts of ward 4 in Puliyoor, ward 15 in Muthukulam and ward 20 in Thanneermukkom grama panchayats were declared as containment zones. As many as 250 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 246 patients, including three health workers, contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 26 children and 44 persons aged above 60. With 65 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Mulakkulam with 14 cases. With 413 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,312 active cases. In Pathanamthitta, 177 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, of whom 167 contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of 16 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Ayiroor reported 26 cases, followed by Adoor and Pathanathitta municipalities with 14 cases each. Four deaths Meanwhile, four more COVID-19 patients died in the district. The victims were identified as a 41-year-old Ranni native, 48-year-old woman from Pandalam, 57-year-old woman from Vallikodu, and a 55-year-old Pallickal native. With 147 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,579 active cases.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-361-new-cases/article33428378.ece
27 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||New seafood restaurants in nine districts||The Society for Assistance to Fisherwomen (SAF) is all set to open a chain of 46 customised seafood restaurants in nine coastal districts across Kerala under the Theeramythri project. Aimed to provide sustainable to income to its 230 beneficiaries, the restaurants will follow a slightly different template from other Theeramythri units. “The project cost is around Rs. 6.67 lakh for each unit and the women will receive a grant of Rs. 5 lakh. Apart from the 75% government grant, 20% will be bank loan and the rest will be beneficiary contribution. We have already approached Kerala Bank for the loan. The restaurants are likely to be functional from early February,” says Sreelu N.S., Executive Director, SAF. As per the current list, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Ernakulam will be the districts with the highest number of restaurants. Theeramythri, the flagship programme of SAF that facilitates alternative livelihood for women from fishing community, already has a string of restaurants operating in various parts of the State. Though launched under the project, the new set of restaurants will be five-member units with an exclusive logo and more professional outlook. “The women will be given a 10-day non-residential training initially and on-the-job sessions in the next phase. Apart from sessions to improve culinary skills, they will be briefed on how to manage customers and run a business,” says Ms. Sreelu. Reasonable rates She adds that though the concept is similar to Kudumbashree’s Janakeeya hotels, prices will be slightly different and the menu more elaborate. “Depending on the catch the menu will vary, but the focus will be on Kerala cuisine that will include regional recipes and those developed by the women. The idea is to provide seafood delicacies at reasonable rates, making them affordable to all sections,” she says. All the beneficiaries of the project were screened from Fisherfolk Family Register, including those engaged in fish vending and other allied activities. SAF is also exploring the possibilities of upgrading the current Theeramythri restaurants so that all the units can be brought under one logo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-seafood-restaurants-in-9-districts/article33428383.ece
27 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Interview for temporary lecturer||The interview for temporary chemistry lecturer at Government Polytechnic College, Ezhukone, will be held from 10 a.m. on December 28. Qualification required is MSc, NET/MSc, PhD. Interested candidates can walk in with original certificates. For details, contact 0474-2484068.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temporary-lecturer-post-at-polytechnic/article33428379.ece
27 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||LPG shortage leaves auto drivers high and dry||The shortage of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) has left the drivers of LPG-powered autorickshaws in Kozhikode district a worried lot. With the supply at a pump in Payyoli stopping, drivers of such vehicles from Koyilandy and Vadakara taluks have been forced to depend on fuel stations located in remote areas for over a month. In Kozhikode rural area, there are only two LPG filling stations. Often, poor stock at the stations at Payyoli and Mukkom affects the operation of autorickshaws. Many drivers are now using petrol as a temporary alternative in their vehicles. Drivers from Koyilandy and Vadakara taluks say there are around 500 vehicles in the region affected by fuel shortage. If the situation continues, it will drive them to a big financial crisis during the pandemic and lead to vehicle loan payments getting delayed, they add. In Kozhikode district, there are a total of five LPG filling stations, including two within the city limits. According to the LPG autorickshaw drivers’ union, the supply of LPG from the two filling stations at Sarovaram and Puthiyangadi in Kozhikode city gets affected without prior notice. Though drivers have been seeking the intervention of the authorities to end the uncertainty, they are yet to have a permanent solution. Despite the support promised by the State and Union governments for green energy initiatives, drivers of LPG-fuelled vehicles feel that they are being neglected. “There are over 1,000 autorickshaws that depend on the availability of LPG to carry out service. Though we were the first to cooperate with the government’s green energy drive to promote LPG-fuelled vehicles, we were abandoned midway with the entry of electric-powered autorickshaws,” says Sajeev Kumar, a member of the LPG autorickshaw drivers’ union. He says all official directives and interventions have failed to address fuel shortage. Drivers from Koyilandy and Vadakara say they have urged the District Collector and people’s representatives to take up the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lpg-shortage-leaves-auto-drivers-high-and-dry/article33428313.ece
27 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||LDF partners eyeing posts of corpn. panel chiefs||An uneasy calm prevails in the Left Democratic Front (LDF), as minor partners in the coalition have sought a slice of the electoral pie - the post of chairperson of standing committees - in the Kozhikode Corporation. Already, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M], which has a brute majority in the 75-member council with 45 seats on its own, is unlikely to concede the post of chairpersons of seven committees to any of the constituents. The LDF has 51 seats, including a seat each won by Communist Party of India (CPI), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), Congress (S), Indian National League (INL), and an Independent, who received support from the Left parties. The Congress-led UDF has 17 and the BJP, seven members. Considering its major affiliate, the CPI(M) leaders, may at the most, offer a seat to CPI leader, P.K. Nazar, who captured the Palayam division, which is usually held by the Congress. He had won after defeating the Congress nominee and former councillor Zakariya.P. Hussain. The last time, the CPI(M) had offered the posts of Standing Committees on Welfare and Tax and Appeal to Anitha Rajan and Asha Sasankan of the NCP and the CPI respectively. Now, both have lost the polls. The performance of the LDF constituents compared with the CPI(M) was also dismal. The (LJD) and the Janata Dal (Secular) had contested five and two seats respectively. The JD(S) drew a blank. In the previous council, the LJD, which was then Janata Dal (United), and was in the UDF camp, had three councillors. The CPI nominees also contested four seats on its symbol while in the fifth seat the party got in the seat-sharing arrangement, it did not field a candidate. Instead, the the LDF supported the UDF rebel candidate, T.K. Chandran, from Vellimadukunnu, who romped home. The election to the standing committee chairmanships will be held only after the election of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor on Monday. Out of the eight standing committees, the Finance Committee will have 10 members whereas other committees will have nine members each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-partners-eyeing-posts-of-corpn-panel-chiefs/article33428310.ece
27 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CM to hold meeting in city today||As part of his “Kerala Pariyadanam,” (State-wide tour), Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will hold a meeting with significant personalities in the social and cultural spheres in Kozhikode district at the Karaparamba Government Higher Secondary School in the city at 10 a.m. on Sunday. The district-wise tour of the Chief Minister began from Kollam district on December 22 to finalise the proposals for the LDF’s election manifesto. He will meet prominent personalities and subject experts in each district. Before the previous Assembly polls, Mr. Vijayan had toured all the 14 districts in a similar manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-hold-meeting-in-city-today/article33428311.ece
27 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Three killed in road accident at Koduvally||The death toll in a road accident at Koduvally on Friday involving a lorry and a motorbike has reached three. V. Sasi, a native of Padanilam, who was travelling on the motorbike, succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Saturday. The accident took place on Christmas day at Koduvally Madrasa Bazaar. The two others on the motorbike, Santhosh and P.M. Sasi, died on Friday. According to witnesses, it was the reckless driving by the lorry driver that claimed the lives of the bike riders. A merchant said poorly planned pipeline work near the road was leading to a rise in the number of accidents in the area. He added that proper measures were not being taken to divert vehicles or control the flow of traffic. Another local resident said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was not responding to residents’ concerns over accidents on the Koduvally stretch during the pipe-laying work. Meanwhile, the Koduvally police have registered a case and begun investigation into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-killed-in-road-accident-at-koduvally/article33428314.ece
27 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||522 cases in Kozhikode; active caseload 6,315||Amidst growing concerns over the new strain of the pandemic, the Health Department on Saturday confirmed COVID-19 in 522 more persons in Kozhikode district. With this, the latest figure of patients undergoing treatment for the viral infection has reached 6,315. Of the newly reported cases, 488 persons contracted the infection through local transmission. The source was found unknown in 23 of the remaining cases. In Kozhikode district, the highest number of cases through local transmission was reported as usual from Kozhikode Corporation limits. Among the newly confirmed cases, there were four Gulf returnees and seven others who came to the district from other States. There were also some health workers and medical staff who tested positive for the viral infection on Saturday. Health Department officials said that 356 persons, who were undergoing treatment in various hospitals, were discharged on Saturday. At the same time, 4,229 persons were screened to detect the viral infection. Over 1,000 persons were added to the updated list of people now under observation. According to the latest figures, there were 192 COVID-19 patients from other districts as well who got admitted to various hospitals in Kozhikode district for treatment. The number of Kozhikode natives undergoing treatment in other districts stood at 62. On Friday, the total number of confirmed cases was 588. In Wayanad As many as 68 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. Of the new cases, 67 patients, including a health worker, were infected through local contact and a person had returned from Tamil Nadu. The district has so far reported 15,892 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 13,445 have recovered from the disease, including 109 persons on the day. In Malappuram As many as 513 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Malappuram district on Saturday. While 493 of them had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, there were 15 cases whose source of infection could not be traced. Four persons came from across the borders. There was a health worker among the new cases. As many as 5,313 active cases are under treatment across Malappuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/522-cases-in-kozhikode-active-caseload-6315/article33428315.ece
27 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ganja seized, two arrested||The Koduvally police have arrested two Kasaragod natives with six kg of ganja and more than half a kg of costly hashish oil during a surprise road check. The suspects, Abdul Muneer, 31, and S.V. Mansoor, 30, were arrested with the support of the District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force (DANSAF) at Kumaraswami near Narikkuni. Police sources said that the drugs were smuggled into the city on Friday ahead of New Year celebrations. A car used by the two was also seized. Nearly 20 days ago, two other Kasaragod residents were arrested by the same squad for possessing a huge quantity of drugs. The latest stock has a market value of about Rs. 10 lakh. DANSAF sources said that the State and National Highway patrol squads would stay alert to track the shipping of narcotic substances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-with-6-kg-of-ganja/article33428321.ece
27 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||History congress postponed||The 41st annual conference of the South Indian History Congress scheduled for January in Dindigul in Tamil Nadu has been postponed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, P. Sivadasan, its general secretary and Professor, Department of History, Calicut University, has said. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the congress functionaries held on Saturday. The new schedule would be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/history-congress-postponed/article33428392.ece
27 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Youth hacked to death||A young man was hacked to death allegedly by his wife’s father and uncle, citing ‘pride and honour’ of the family, at Thenkurissi near here on Friday, the Christmas day.  Aneesh, aka Apu, 27, son of Arumughan from Ilamandam, was returning from a shop along with his brother Arun when he was attacked around 6.30 p.m. The attackers reportedly came on a motorbike, hit Aneesh with an iron rod, and hacked him with a long blade. He suffered wounds on the neck and legs, and died on the way to hospital. The police arrested Aneesh’s father-in-law Prabhu Kumar and wife’s uncle Suresh in connection with the murder. The police said they were being questioned. Aneesh, a painting worker from Viswakarma community, had married Haritha, belonging to the Pillai community, three months ago. They were long-time friends and had registered their marriage resisting opposition from Haritha’s family. Aneesh’s father Arumughan and brother Arun said the couple lived under constant threat from Prabhu Kumar and Suresh, who had allegedly threatened to finish him off in three months. They said the police had ignored their complaint against Prabhu Kumar. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, and Shafi Parambil, MLA, criticised the police for their failure. They said if the police had acted in time on the complaint, the murder could have been prevented. The Kerala State Youth Commission (KSYC) has registered a case and sought a report from the District Police Chief. KSYC chairperson Chintha Jerome said the commission would strive to ensure justice to the widowed woman. National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations district president K. Karthikeyan demanded strong action against the culprits. He said stringent action was needed to prevent recurrence of such incidents. The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), demanding stern action to prevent recurrence of honour killings, described the incident as a shame on the civilised Kerala society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-hacked-to-death/article33428386.ece
27 December 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||All field is a stage for them||A group of artistes are going from farm land to farm land across the district staging a unique play to create awareness among the farmers about their rights. Farmers and their families are coming forward in hoards to watch the night play titled ‘Annam’. The artistes are staging the play on the field without any stage or canopy or chairs. Traditional torches and kerosene lanterns are used and all artistes are dressed in traditional farmer costumes. Apart from creating awareness against surrendering before corporate monopolies, the play also registers solidarity with the agitating north Indian farmers. “We could touch the hearts of the farmers here by doing a play in the traditional manner. It is also a familial gathering of farmers from different localities,” said Boban Mattumantha, chairman of the Samskarika Sahithi, who scripted and directed the play. The play, staged under the banner of the Samskarika Sahithi, also exposes the flip side of the Farm Bills passed by the Central government. Debates and discussions are also being held as part of the ‘farm  Girish Nochully, Deepam Suresh, Umer Farook, Kaladharan Uppumpadam, T.P. Ayyappan, Mohammedali Pirayiri, Girish A., and Poovakkode Sajeevan are acting in the play. Sajit Sankar, Anagha Mohan, Kala, and Lijo Panangadan have given music. Rafeek Karalmanna has done the costume. Kisan Congress State general secretary G. Sivarajan inaugurated the play at Mathur-Thannithode Kunnamparamba paddy fields on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-field-is-a-stage-for-them/article33428388.ece
27 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||156 test positive in Palakkad||As many as 156 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Saturday. However, there were 297 recoveries.  District officials said that 56 of the new cases had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. There were 98 cases without an identifiable source of infection.  Active cases As many as 4,620 active cases were currently under treatment across the Palakkad. Most of them were under observation at their respective homes. Apart from them, 217 people from Palakkad were being treated in other districts. When 96 are in Malappuram, 34 are in Ernakulam, 61 in Thrissur, 18 in Kozhikode, two each in Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram, and one each in Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Kannur and Idukki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/156-test-positive-in-palakkad/article33428991.ece
27 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UK variant of virus may already be in circulation||Even as the State strengthens testing and surveillance of travellers from UK, in an effort to be on guard against the UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 named B.1.1.7, epidemiologists have flagged the possibility that the virus could already be in circulation in the State. The UK variant is believed to have first emerged in UK in September, and by November, it became prevalent in the southeast of England, accounting for 60% of recent cases in London. Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID) update on Saturday says that B.1.1.7 now amounts to 31% of all UK virus genomes collected since December 1. “This new variant has been in circulation in UK since mid-September and it has been found in other nations like Denmark, Australia, Brazil, etc. Kerala handles a significant volume of international air traffic through its airports and has one of the highest proportions of expatiate population. Right now, the State’s case graph of new COVID-19 cases is on the rise too. When all these facts are added up, one should naturally maintain a high level of suspicion that if the B.1.1.7 variant is getting around, it would have reached Kerala by now,” a senior epidemiologist said. In fact, the UK variant or even a hitherto unknown variant could have independently emerged anywhere in the country and be already in circulation because virus evolution is not dependent upon international borders or flight restrictions.  Genome sequencing The Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), the only scientific institution in the State which has full-fledged facilities for doing genome sequencing, has been randomly sequencing the SARS-CoV-2 samples it has been receiving for RT-PCR testing. “We have sequenced samples till last week and have been looking at all four genes of the virus expressing major proteins. We have not found the UK variant B.1.1.7 so far, but then, the RGCB is handling only samples from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts. Our repository of SARS-CoV-2 now contains the Wuhan, U.S., and Taiwan variants, all of which have minor or inconsequential mutations, said R. Radhakrishnan, Head of Laboratory Medicine and Molecular Diagnostics, RGCB. “The RGCB can easily do genomic surveillance in the State to check for the UK variant as there is no need to go for whole genome sequencing. To check for the mutation, we just have to look at the virus spike protein’s receptor binding region, which is just a small portion of the 4,000 nucleotide length of the spike protein,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said. Unless the State is regularly doing genomic surveillance, one would hardly know about virus mutations that could already be taking place. “In fact, Kerala is the only State that has recognised the importance of genomic surveillance and has already initiated the same,” said Vinod Scaria, senior scientist at CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB). The State government has already tied up with IGIB for initiating genomic surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 strains in Kerala, after a pilot study done by IGIB found that the predominant virus clade A2a circulating in Kerala was marked by the mutant variant D614G. The government has been sending samples from all districts since November to IGIB for genomic analysis. The final protocols were being drawn up and the study would commence soon, Dr. Scaria said. Genomic sequencing of some 4,300 samples from across the country during June to September has not detected this new UK variant. If it is already circulating in Kerala, all systems are in place to detect it, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uk-variant-of-virus-may-already-be-in-circulation/article33428400.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Tourism plans national campaign||Kerala Tourism, which is seeking a recovery path after the pandemic outbreak by opening destinations, resorts, hotels, hill stations and bars, is planning to promote the destination and niche tourism products and increase domestic footfall. “Two promotional films, in 30 seconds and 60 seconds, to increase footfall to the State post COVID-19 are ready for launch,” a senior tourism official told The Hindu . Before New Year Kerala Tourism’s plan is to launch an aggressive campaign, the maiden one for the first quarter of 2021, before the New Year. The domestic campaign, centred on key tourist destinations, focusses on the theme “Gods Own Country” is safe to travel and holiday. The campaign is to come up in the print media, social media, television channels, music streaming channels, and over-the-top media services (OTT) platforms that have become popular over the last few years. Banks on website Kerala Tourism will also use the official websitekeralatourism.orgfor attracting tourists and to reboot the tourism economy hit by the pandemic. In the Virtual Tour Campaign 2021, selected destinations across the State will be posted on the website every month and viewers will be asked to select their favourite destination. The destination that secures the highest number of votes in online voting will be featured on the website. Kerala cuisine is also being exploited on the digital platform to overcome the impact of the pandemic. As many 100 dishes will be featured on the website for viewers to see how the dishes are prepared. Non-Keralite viewers outside the State and country will have to prepare dishes of their choice at home and post the videos on the website. A judging committee will choose 10 videos and the winners and their families will be brought to the State on a fully paid trip for seven days. Their visit will be featured on the website. Those who join the contest will become ambassadors of Kerala and cuisine. A microsite has been created on the website along with 100 videos on cuisine and e-brochure on cuisine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-tourism-plans-national-campaign/article33428401.ece
27 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cases drop as testing slows down over holiday||The State’s graph of new COVID-19 cases dipped on Saturday as the number of samples tested in the past 24 hours went down substantially because of the Christmas holiday. The number of new cases reported was 3,527 when 35,586 samples were tested, with test positivity rate remaining a touch under 10 at 9.91%. With 3,782 recoveries also reported on the day, the active case pool of the State showed a slight decline at 63,752 cases. The cumulative recoveries reported till date in the State is 6,68,733. 21 more deaths The State’s cumulative COVID-19 toll reached 2,951 when 21 new deaths of the past few days were added to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Saturday. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for five deaths, Malappuram four, Ernakulam three, Kollam, Alapuzha, Kottayam, and Kozhikode two each, while Pathanamthitta reported one death. Official reports put the number of COVID-19 patients occupying ICUs at 832, with 209 on ventilator support. Of the 3,527 new cases, 63 cases have been found to have a history of travel outside the State while 3,464 are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining unknown in the cases of 324 cases. Of this, 34 are health-care workers. Among districts, Kozhikode reported 522 cases, Malappuram 513, Ernakulam 403, Thrissur 377, Kollam 361, Alappuzha 259, Kottayam 250, Thiruvananthapuram 202, Pathanamthitta 177, Palakkad 156, Kannur 120, Wayanad 68, Idukki 67, and Kasaragod 52 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-drop-as-testing-slows-down-over-holiday/article33428396.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Politics runs deep in Arya’s blood||The earliest memory of political activity for Arya Rajendran is of joining the Balasangham, a children’s organisation, as a 10-year old. She had begun accompanying her father K.Rajendran, an electrician who had become a member of the CPI(M) in 2000, to party meetings much before that. On Saturday evening, many young and old party workers who accorded her a reception at the Mudavanamugal ward, remembered the young girl who has been active on the ground as a red volunteer. The 21-year old who is set to become the youngest Mayor of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, is still reluctant to take any questions regarding Mayorship, until her party makes the official announcement. “Since my father has been an active party member, I had quite early developed the viewpoint that the Left’s path is the correct one. This understanding led me to politics. He has been of the opinion that his children can become active in politics if they wish to. During the stint in the Balasangham as well as the Students Federation of India, I got the opportunity to intervene in various issues concerning students and participate in protests. During the election campaigning, all this organisational experience came in handy, in interacting with the public and communicating my ideas effectively,” Arya told The Hindu . A second year B.Sc student at the All Saints College in the city, she had missed some of her examinations due to campaigning, but is confident of balancing her studies with the new responsibilities. She is the current State president of the Balasangham, a member of the SFI State Committee and the CPI(M)'s Kesavadev Road branch committee. Her mother Sreelatha, also a party worker, is an LIC agent. Waste management, improvement of primary health infrastructure and projects focussing on youth and women are her priorities as a councillor. Among the leaders she looks up to are the whole gamut of leaders of the Left, yet she points out the name of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as someone who has inspired her as a crisis manager. The news of a 21-year-old being the Mayor designate has received much appreciation from across the spectrum, including Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who tweeted that it ‘time for a representative of the 51% of India's population that's under-25 to lead.’ Mohanlal’s call One of the calls Arya received on Saturday, wishing her luck, was from actor Mohanlal, who is a voter in her Mudavanmugal ward. The Guinness world record for the youngest Mayor is now held by Michael Sessions, who became Mayor of Hillsdale in the USA at the age of 18 years in 2005. In India, Suman Koli who became the Mayor of Bharatpur in Rajasthan at 21 years in 2009 is one of the youngest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/politics-runs-deep-in-aryas-blood/article33428996.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||202 cases in capital||The district recorded 202 COVID-19 cases and 221 recoveries on Saturday as the number of active cases fell to 3,462. The death toll currently stood at 639. The district administration quarantined 1,204 people on the day, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 21,895 in houses and 76 in various institutions. Protocol violation The Pozhiyoor police arrested eight people in connection with a Christmas celebration for which hundreds of people congregated in Pozhikkara in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. A case had been registered for holding the 13-hour-long ‘DJ party’ that continued till the wee hours of Saturday without obtaining prior permission of the local police. Besides, the celebrations continued despite attempts made by the police to bring an end to the programme, sources said. The speakers used for the programme have also been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/202-cases-in-capital/article33429020.ece
27 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sugathakumari remembered||Poet Sugathakumari’s favourite song ‘Kattile Kilikalkku Maram Venam’ was rendered by the MBS Youth Choir at a musical tribute held in association with the non-governmental organisation Tree Walk at Manaveeyam Veedhi on Saturday evening. The association of the MBS Youth Choir with the late poet who was known for her environmental activism began at the time of its inception in 1988. On Saturday, the choir and the Tree Walk came together at Manaveeyam to sing songs Sugathakumari really liked and remember her. Not only did they sing ‘Kattile...’ that was penned by her with music by S. Sreekumar, two other songs that are a tribute to nature - ‘Manishada’ by poet ONV Kurup and M.B. Sreenivasan and ‘Sooryamshu’ by S. Jayakumar and S. Sreekumar – and her favourites were also rendered. It was also at Manaveeyam that Sugathakumari had planted a Ficus tree gifted to her by ONV Kurup on his 84th birthday for safe planting. Housing Board chairperson P. Prasad, a close associate of Sugathakumari, reminisced about the poet, her humanity, and her role in environment protection and the need for everyone to step up to fulfil her dreams Sapling planted Santhi Samithi remembered Sugathakumari who was also its chairperson by planting a sapling on the premises of Bishop House at Vellayambalam as per her desire. The sapling of her favourite jackfruit tree variety of Thenvarikka was planted by Santhi Samithi patrons Thiruvananthapuram Archbishop (Latin rite) Soosa Pakiam M., Palayam Imam V.P. Suhaib Maulavi, Gururatnam Jnana Thapaswi, and Swami Aswathi Tirunal. A memorial meeting that followed was addressed by religious leaders and Santhi Samithi office-bearers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sugathakumari-remembered/article33428320.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Anil Nedumangad, a promising talent gone too soon||In 2014, filmmaker Rajeev Ravi was on the lookout for an actor to play an important cameo role in his second directorial Njan Steve Lopez . In one of the discussions came up the name of Anil Nedumangad, whose work on the stage he was familiar with. That role of Freddie, a lean, bearded, perpetually drunk man who wore his carefree attitude on his sleeves stood out even though it was relatively short. But, Anil, who died at the age of 48 on Friday evening after drowning while taking bath in the Malankara dam in Thodupuzha, was familiar to the public much before that. Before memes and troll groups ushered in a new kind of humour on social media, Anil had experimented with such a format on television as the presenter of shows such as Jurassic World , splicing together film clips and making commentaries on contemporary happenings. Two years after his film debut came Rajeev Ravi’s Kammatipadam , in which he played the main antagonist role of a scheming local businessman who uses the bloodshed between local gangs to further his interests. It was a kind of break into the big league for him, as the role enabled him to showcase his acting range. In the years that followed, he played a series of meaty roles which established him in the rung of a new generation of character actors. One of his most appreciated roles came early this year in Sachy’s Ayyappanum Koshiyum , in which he played Circle Inspector Satheesh Kumar, caught in between the egoistic fight between a policeman and a haughty upper class man. He was last seen on screen in Shambhu Purushothaman’s Paapam Cheyyathavar Kalleriyatte as Rajan, a humorous role lampooning the self-destructive tragic heroes of 1970s Malayalam cinema. On Friday morning, hours before his death, Anil had shared a Facebook post in tribute to director Sachy, who had passed away earlier this year. “You’ll remain my Facebook cover photo till death,” he had written. The same evening Anil became another of the promising young talent that Malayalam cinema lost this year, after Sachy and Naranipuzha Shanavas, who died two days back following a heart attack. Condoled Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the passing away of actor Anil Nedumangad on Friday. Kerala State Chalachitra Academy Chairperson Kamal also condoled his death. The body of the actor was handed over to his relatives on Saturday. After COVID-19 test at the Thodupuzha taluk hospital, the post-mortem examination was held at Kottayam Medical College Hospital on Saturday. Anil drowned at the dam around 5.30 p.m. on Friday while bathing with friends. (With inputs from A Correspondent in Idukki)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anil-nedumangad-a-promising-talent-gone-too-soon/article33428405.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for wife’s murder at Karakkonam||A newly-wed 28-year-old man was taken into custody by the Vellarada police in connection with the death of his 51-year old wife in Karakkonam on Saturday, The police apprehended Arun of Pathamkallu, Neyyattinkara shortly after his wife Shakakumari had allegedly died of electrocution in her home in Thresiapuram in Karakkonam during the wee hours of the day. According to the Vellarada police, Shakakumari was taken to a private hospital in Karakkonam around 6 a.m. The police were alerted by their neighbours who sensed something amiss on learning that there was allegedly a delay in hospitalising her. Arun apparently told them that Shakakumari was electrocuted after coming in contact with a live wire that was connected to the electricity meter. While he allegedly attempted to project the incident as an incident that occurred while handing the Christmas lighting, blood stains that were found in the house raised eyebrows. Besides the couple, Shakakumari’s aged bed-ridden mother resided in the house. The couple was married only two months ago apparently under suspicious circumstances. Some of Shakakumari’s relatives told the police that there were certain marital disputes since the early days of their marriage. Arun purportedly had taken Rs. 10 lakh from Shakakumari before the marriage. He has been accused of attempting to usurp her properties. “The difference is their ages has been a matter of consternation for him. Despite his insistence for a divorce, Shakakumari did not relent to his demand,” an official said. While Arun has allegedly confessed to have orchestrated the crime, the police will proceed to record the arrest only after the post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-wifes-murder-at-karakkonam/article33429021.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Banana farmers seek increase in support price, petition Minister||Banana farmers have urged Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar to raise the support price for Nendran banana to Rs. 40 to help them overcome financial crisis. The Banana Farmers Association, in their petition, pointed out that the government had earlier announced Rs. 30 as the support price. However, for more than a month now, the farmers are getting only Rs. 25 a kg on an average. Now it has dipped below Rs. 20 a kg, association president Sreekumar and secretary G. Pavithra Kumar said in a statement. The association urged the government to provide the support price directly by collecting the produce through government procurement centres and temporary centres. The association also sought financial assistance for the farmers and urged the government to either arrange vehicle facilities for transporting the produce to the markets or meet the expenditure in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/banana-farmers-seek-increase-in-support-price-petition-minister/article33428402.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mob lynches youth||Saju who hails from Vizhavoor in Malayinkeezhu is set to travel to Tamil Nadu. According to the police, Saju’s son Deepu, 20, is suspected to have died after being allegedly assaulted by a group of people in Allur in Tiruchi on Friday. Deepu and his friend Aravind alias Mittu Aravind of Poojappura were purportedly rounded up after being accused of burgling houses. Aravind is known to be admitted to a Tiruchi hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mob-lynches-youth/article33428395.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested for attack||The Pettah police on Saturday arrested two people in connection with the attack on an office-bearer and two others workers of a library in Chakka on Christmas day. The police identified the accused as Suresh, 43, of Vayyamoola, and Athul, 34, of Karikkakom. The incident occurred around 7 p.m. on Friday in the YMA and Social Library in Chakka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-for-attack/article33429022.ece
27 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Seized||The city police have seized banned tobacco products to the tune of Rs. 1 lakh. Shuhail Ahmed of UP was arrested in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seized/article33429025.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prelim for Stream 3 of KAS on Dec. 29||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) will on December 29 conduct the preliminary examination for Stream 3 of the Kerala Administrative Service (KAS) for higher secondary teachers who were unable to apply earlier as the earlier rules notified made them ineligible for the same. The teachers had approached the Kerala Administrative Tribunal, which ruled them eligible for the examination. The commission appealed against the decision in the High Court, which also ruled in their favour. Though the commission moved the Supreme Court, it chose to go by the High Court ruling. Subsequently, the PSC issued an addendum notification on December 1 for the higher secondary teachers to apply in Stream 3, with December 15 as the last date. PSC officials said around 1,800 applications were received in the latest call. The preliminary examinations for a section of the Stream 3 applicants from Schedule 1 departments, as per the earlier notification, had already been conducted. The mains exam for Stream 3, including both these categories of applicants, will be held on January 15 and 16 across six centres in the three regions of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, and Kozhikode. “Once these exams are completed, the results of the three streams of the KAS will be published. The first recruitments will be made by March,” said a PSC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prelim-for-stream-3-of-kas-on-dec-29/article33428384.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3 held for theft, attack on police||The Fort police arrested three persons, Jaseen, Adarsh and Anoop, who were part of a 13-member gang who burgled shops in the region and attacked the Thiruvallam police few days ago. During a operation to nab them on Friday evening, they attacked the team and managed to flee from the area. A subsequent search led to the seizure of 2.5 kg of ganja. Assistant Commissioner, Fort, R. Prathapan Nair, said the gang escaped after injuring a senior civil police officer,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-held-for-theft-attack-on-police/article33429019.ece
27 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Short-term agri loans to be continued||Kerala Bank and Primary Agricultural Credit Societies will continue with 1% interest on short term agricultural loans. The reduced interest will also be available to NABARD refinance short term agricultural loans as per the director board meeting, Gopi Kottamurikkal, president, Kerala Bank said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/short-term-agri-loans-to-be-continued/article33428397.ece
27 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||BJP suspends 9 workers||The BJP on Saturday suspended nine workers, including Hindu Aikyavedi district secretary K. Keshavadas and former councillor Lalithambika, from the primary membership of the party for six years for alleged rebel activities. There were allegations that rebel activities of these people were the reason behind the defeat of BJP State spokesperson B. Gopalakrishnan at Kuttankulangara division of the Thrissur Corporation, a sitting seat of the BJP. Lalithambika was the sitting councillor at Kuttankulangara. She resigned from the party positions in protest against denial of seat for her. BJP candidate Suresh Gopi had a majority of 700 votes in the LS elections at Kuttankulangara division. Earlier, Keshavadas had complained at the cyber cell that Gopalakrishnan was unleashing cyber attack against him and his family. Showing some photos of a birthday party at his house, Gopalakrishnan was alleging that it was a celebration for the BJP’s defeat, Keshavadas said in his complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-suspends-9-workers/article33428992.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||377 cases in Thrissur||There were 377 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Saturday while 391 people recovered from the disease. There are 6,068 active cases in the district, and 136 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far, 72,253 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 65,666 people have recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 350 people, including 14 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 77 patients are above the age of 60 and 25 children are below the age of 10. In all, 4,380 patients are under home observation. In all, 112 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19, and 3,411 samples were collected for the test on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/377-cases-in-thrissur/article33428994.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dispelling gloom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dispelling-gloom/article33428382.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Painful memories||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/painful-memories/article33428999.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Munnar sees minus 2 degrees Celsius||IDUKKI The temperature dropped to minus 2 degrees Celsius at Munnar on Saturday. It was recorded in the Devikulam ODK division and Mattuppetty Aruvikkad. Sub-zero temperatures were recorded at Thenmala, Chenduvara, Chittuvara, and Lakshmi on Saturday. The temperature recorded at the Munnar town was 1 degree Celsius. In the coming days, the mercury may continue to remain at sub-zero levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/munnar-sees-minus-2-degrees-celsius/article33428389.ece
27 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||HLC plagued by poor maintenance||After a long wait of more than a decade, the tail-end ponds of the Tungabhadra High-Level Main Canal (HLC) received water thanks to sufficient rain and good water inflows from Tungabhadra Dam, but it turned out to be only a short-lived joy as the 60-year-old canal system is crumbling due to lack of maintenance. Water reached Tadimarri West and East Tanks, Medimakulapalli, and will be released to M. Agraharam tank from tomorrow. “This year we have already received 1.52 tmcft KC Canal diversion quota from the Tungabhadra and have written to the board to release another 2 tmcft,” said HLC Superintendent Engineer Nayakanti Rajasekhar. The district has another 8 tmcft of the regular quota of water to be received out of the 25.52 tmcft. Farmers would suffer in the end due to lack of water as the district, which despite having been allotted 10 tmcft under the KC Canal Diversion quota from the Tungabhadra, cannot draw water to its fullest capacity due to lack of proper maintenance of the canal system. The modernisation works have stopped and the tenders have been pre-closed. As per government norms, these tenders cannot be reopened for 5 years. “If immediate modernisation or essential repairs are not taken up, a day will when the entire supply of water through HLC would be stopped,” opined CPI(M) State Committee member Obul Konda Reddy. Sluice gates in bad shape Things have come to such a pass that if more than 2,000 cusecs of water is received through the HLC from the entry point at Andhra Pradesh, against a possible 4,000 cusecs, the canal could breach at many places. The structures at Mopidi need immediate repair and the sluice gates of the Kannekal tank inlet and outlet are in such a bad shape that they cannot be operated and water flow cannot be regulated there. Currently, the capacity of the Link Canal from the HLC Main Canal to the PABR is only 800 cusecs and that needs to be immediately widened to 2,000 cusecs to evacuate water while it is available. Storage capacity at MPR Dam and the PABR is currently close to 5 tmcft each and beyond that water needs to be let out into the river and no power generation can be done. A geo-membrane needs to be applied on the interior side of the PABR to make use of the entire storage capacity of a little over 10 tmcft. If emergency repair works and restoration of damaged portions in the HLC system is not taken up in the next two seasons, Anantapur might again go dry soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hlc-plagued-by-poor-maintenance/article33428131.ece
27 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Girl’s murder a clear case of police failure’||The murder of Snehalatha, a 19-year-old outsourced employee of the SBI Credit Card division, is a clear case of failure of the police machinery and lack of immediate action by the Circle Inspector concerned, MRPS founder Manda Krishna Madiga has alleged. “The response of the government has not been adequate in all cases of atrocities against the Dalits, BCs and Minorities,” Mr. Krishna Madiga told the media here on Saturday after meeting the parents of the victim. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had responded well in the Disha case (a veterinary doctor who was gang-raped and killed in Hyderabad) and even supported the police encounter of the accused. Stern action is missing with regard to the Dalit victims in Guntur, Gudur, or in Prakasam district,” Mr. Krishna Madiga said. After meeting Superintendent of Police B. Sathya Yesu Babu, the MRPS leader alleged that the One Town CI had taken the complaint of Snehalatha’s mother lightly. While lauding the role of the District Collector and the SP after the incident, he said, “We will not hesitate to bring down the government by launching a joint agitation of the SCs, STs, and minorities against the atrocities,” he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girls-murder-a-clear-case-of-police-failure/article33428982.ece
27 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs worth Rs. 3 cr. seized near T.N. border||A lorry loaded with 227 logs of B-grade red sanders was seized near Pichatur on the Chennai NH early on Saturday by a special party of the Andhra Pradesh State Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force . The logs, said to be worth over Rs. 3 crore in the international market, Deputy SP (Task Force) K. Venkatiah told mediapersons at Tirupati that acting on reliable information that a gang of smugglers were on the job of dispatching a lorry with a huge consignment to Chennai, the task force had formed a special party five days ago which kept a thorough watch at the exit and entry points at vulnerable areas connected to the national highways towards Tamil Nadu. Sensing trouble, the smugglers too had delayed dispatching the lorry for four days and finally hit the road in the early hours of Saturday.  Preliminary investigation The vehicle was seized on the NH along with the red sanders logs and was moved to the task force office at Tirupati. While the lorry driver was arrested, others in the vehicle had escaped under the cover of darkness. Special parties were sent to search for the elusive accused in the border villages. The Deputy SP said that as per preliminary investigation, some more logs were still dumped in some hideouts in Seshachalam hills. The hand of local operators was also suspected. A case was registered and further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-3-cr-seized-near-tn-border/article33428044.ece
27 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kiran Kumar occupied govt. land’||Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy on Saturday alleged that former Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh, Nallari Kiran Kumar Reddy, had grabbed government lands in Piler Assembly constituency during his regime. Addressing a public gathering at Piler, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that Piler had slipped into backwardness by at least three decades compared to the rest of the State, and alleged that the former Chief Minister was interested only in developing areas close to his native place of Kalikiri, while ignoring the rest of Piler constituency. Taking a dig at TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, the Minister said that during the 2014 elections, Mr. Naidu had at a public meeting in Piler termed N. Kishore Kumar Reddy (Mr. Kiran’s brother) a ‘red sanders’ smuggler. “It is ridiculous that Mr. Naidu has now made the same person the TDP’s general secretary,” Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said. The Minister observed that those who never worked for the constituency’s development had no moral right to seek votes. Earlier, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy laid the foundation stone for a 100-bed hospital in Piler. Senior party leaders and government officials were present. Later, the Minister inaugurated additional blocks constructed at a cost of Rs. 5.5 crore at the Government Cluster Hospital at Punganur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kiran-kumar-occupied-government-land-minister/article33428966.ece
27 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 killed, 6 hurt in road mishap||Three persons were killed on the spot and six others were grievously injured when the SUV in which they were travelling collided with a lorry at Gandanki, a village in Pakala mandal, on the Naidupeta-Puthalapattu NH on Saturday. According to information, three families from the border town of Nangili in Karnataka were returning home after darshan of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala in two vehicles, including an SUV and a car. The police said that at around midnight, the vehicle carrying ten persons met with an accident. The impact of the collision was such that the residents of the roadside village could hear a loud sound. The deceased were identified as Annapurna (60), Rajamma (80) and Jyothy (14). The injured were rushed to the SVRR Hospital at Tirupati in 108 ambulance. Lorry seized The Pakala police seized the lorry which collided with the SUV. A case has been registered, and further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-killed-6-hurt-in-road-mishap/article33428132.ece
27 December 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unauthorised flex boards pose problems to motorists||Unauthorised hoardings and flex boards, mushrooming at many areas here in the city, are posing a threat to commuters. Many people are placing flex boards and hoardings without prior permission from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). Most of these boards, including political flex boards, which are being placed beside roads, on medians and on such spots, blocking the view on roads and might cause accidents. In September 2019, a young software employee was run over by a truck after a hoarding fell on her in Chennai. After the incident, many corporations, including the GVMC, have started to take strict action against such violations. However, in the recent past, culture of placing cut-outs and hoardings/flex boards has increased. People are just erecting the flex boards to the electric poles on the medians. There are occasions, sometimes due to high gale or rains, these flex boards fall on roads. There are many occasions when workers have arranged banners and flex boards on medians of NH-16 at critical junctions, just to draw attention of party heads while they drive to the city from the airport. Many citizens complain that hanging such flex boards on medians causes difficulty to motorists while taking a U-turn. “Sometimes these flex boards are seen falling on the roads. What if these fall and hit a motorist?,” questioned P. Jayaraj, a student. According to GVMC officials, arranging such banners, cut-outs, flex boards and hoardings illegally top the chart in encroachments. A number of such encroachments are being removed by the Town Planning Department on a daily basis. “Despite warning a number of times, some commit violations. However, the GVMC removes them instantly. The civic body can give permission if someone wants to put such flex boards but only at specific places for a specific time. Political leaders should also request their followers and party workers to not to place such boards which could lead to untoward incidents,” said a senior GVMC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unauthorised-flex-boards-pose-problems-to-motorists/article33429047.ece
27 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||50 surveyors deployed for distribution of house pattas in East Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has said that a team of 50 surveyors has been deployed for distribution of house site pattas to the beneficiaries of the Pedalandariki Illu scheme in the district to be able to complete the patta distribution exercise by January 1. In an official release, Mr. Muralidhar said that the surveyors would help the secretariat staff to identify the sites and hand over the respective documents to the beneficiaries on the ground. “As many as 46 counters have been set up to complete the patta distribution exercise on the 322-acre housing site at Komaragiri, where Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had launched the distribution exercise on Friday. A team of officials is also monitoring the exercise on the Komaragiri site, that is spared for the above 16,800 beneficiaries,” Mr. Muralidhar said. On the choice of proposed three options in construction of the houses on the housing sites, the Collector has said that the beneficiary’s option would be respected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-surveyors-deployed-for-distribution-of-house-pattas-in-east-godavari/article33428967.ece
27 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Proposed projects make no headway in 2020||When the authorities first proposed a series of big-ticket projects, including a central port at Ramayapatnam, an international paper mill at Ravuru, a ‘defence cluster’ at Donakonda and National Investment and Manufacturing Zone(NIMZ), near Kanigiri, people in Prakasam district had held their hopes high. But with the projects making no headway, they have now become impatient. The projects could not come to fruition for various reasons, including lack of coordination between the Union and State Governments and change of the ruling dispensation in the State. Major port It was at Ramayapatnam where a major public sector port with an investment of over Rs. 20,000 crore was proposed by the State government after the BJP-led Central government ruled out setting up the port at Dugirajapatnam in Nellore district. BJP MP G.V.L.Narasimha Rao took up the district’s cause and worked for revival of the port project even as the previous Telugu Desam Party government proposed a non-major port in the sleepy village. The present YSR Congress Party government suggested to the Centre to go ahead with the major port project in Prakasam disrict. However it went ahead with the proposal to set up a port on its own when the response was lukewarm. Global tenders have been floated and the same will be opened later this month and a private player will be finalised for the project during early next year, official sources here gave an indication. Already about 3,500 acres of land has been identified for the purpose. Meanwhile, elite sections of the people in the district are worried over the proposal to shift a major part of the port project to Kavali revenue division in neighbouring SPSR Nellore district. Paper mill Another big ticket project proposed was was the 5-million tonne paper mill of the Asia Paper and Pulp at a cost of Rs. 24,000 crore at the coastal Ravuru village in view of abundance of social forestry plantations in the district. After the change of government the Indonsia-based MNC seems to have lost interest in the project. It had sought 2,500 acres of land from the State Government as also assured water processing. Yet another project which did not come to fruition was the defence cluster at Donakonda, an erstwhile strategic air strip during the colonial era, proposed by Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy under the Make in India initiative. Naval authorities had also zeroed in on Donakonda for Very Low Frequency Transmitter towers in Donakonda, where a large tract of government land was available. “We are hoping that these projects see the light of day at least during 2021,” says Prakasam District Development Forum President Ch.Ranga Rao who has been spearheading a series of stirs to see the projects become a reality sooner than later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/proposed-projects-make-no-headway-in-2020/article33428135.ece
27 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contact tracing of UK returnees keeps health staff on toes||Health officials swung into action and identified 485 primary and secondary contacts of the UK returnees in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. Even as fresh cases fell to a low of 17 in the region during the period, tracing primary and secondary contacts of UK returnees kept the health professionals on toes. After accounting for duplicate entries, the number of UK returnees was put at 128 in the region. As many as 378 primary and secondary contacts of the UK returnees underwent COVID test so far in the districts of SPSR Nellore and Prakasam, according to official sources. Health officials in Nellore alerted their counterparts in Chittoor, where the wife of a UK returnee who had tested positive, resided. Health professionals heaved a sigh of relief as except for 62 persons whose test results were awaited, the other persons tested negative for the disease in the two districts. Nellore District Medical and Health Officer S. Rajyalakshmi told The Hindu that all the UK returnees had been traced. In Prakasam district, 138 primary and 103 secondary contacts of the UK returnees were tested. Except for 20 persons whose test reports were awaited, rest of them had tested negative, Prakasam DMHO P.Ratnavalli said. Prakasam district reported just one new case in a span of 24 hours, taking the cumulative confirmed cases to 61,983, a health bulletin released by the State Government said on Saturday night. The active cases fell to just 136 as 75 patients were cured of the disease during the period. In SPSR Nellore district, 16 fresh cases took the total number of positive cases to 63,609 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contact-tracing-of-uk-returnees-keeps-health-staff-on-toes/article33428136.ece
27 December 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIV, CCMB to share reports with govt. on new strain||East Godavari District Coordinator of Hospital Services Ramesh Kumar on Saturday said the medical reports of a 47-year-old Anglo-Indian woman were expected in a week from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad. The woman, who arrived from the U.K. last week and tested positive for COVID-19, is undergoing treatment at the District Government Hospital in Rajamahendravaram. “There is no need for panic about the spread of the new strain. We are expecting the reports from NIV and CCMB within a week, after which we can ascertain whether the woman and her 27-year-old son have been infected by the new strain or not,” Dr. Ramesh Kumar said. “The condition of the woman and her is stable condition at the hospital, where they are being treated in the COVID isolation ward,” Dr. Ramesh Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/niv-ccmb-to-share-reports-with-govt-on-new-strain/article33428983.ece
27 December 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID and intensified combing hit Maoists hard in AOB region||The banned CPI (Maoist) in the Andhra-Odisha Border region has been facing a tough task to keep their movement afloat, as the COVID-19 pandemic and intensified combing by the security forces of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, have hit them hard. During the initial days of the pandemic, they were forced to lie low and in April the Left Wing Extremists (LWE), even circulated a letter declaring an informal ceasefire. But this was violated by them, when in July during the Martyrs Week, they placed landmines near Chintalaveedhi village in Pedabayalu mandal, and two innocent tribals were killed, when they accidentally stepped on them. On the other hand, joint operations, aided by intelligence sharing, by the security forces of A.P., Odisha and Chhattisgarh, have pushed them on the back foot. As a result of the joint operations, security forces of Odisha and A.P. had gunned down about 18 Maoists, including a couple of ACM and DCM ranked leaders, in the cut-off region of AOB. Odisha alone contributed close to 16 hits. Both A.P. and Odisha have gained considerable foothold in the AOB region by setting up a number of Company Operating Bases and Armed Outposts, as deep as Jantapayi and Gurasethu on the Odisha side of the cut-off area. This has pushed them back to a small tract of land in the Gumma region on the Odisha side and a few villages in Pedabayalu mandal on the A.P. side, said a senior officer from AP-SIB.  Waning support There is a feeling that the popular support base is waning in the AOB region, with tribals coming forward for development activities such as construction of roads, PHCs, school and mobile towers. Tribals had come out openly in many villages such as in Vakapalli, Balapam and Busuputtu which were once Maoist strongholds, supporting the development agenda of the government. This practically dried up the recruitment base, and to gain some lost ground through the element of fear, the Maoists in this month killed two tribals, Gemmeli Krishna in Vakapalli and Chikkudu Satish in Chintagaruvu in Pedabayalu, after branding them as police informers. To beef up their depleting cadre strength, they have been importing manpower from Chhattisgarh, which again has become a problematic affair for the leaders in the AOB. “It is learnt that the Chhattisgarh cadres are not able to adjust to the terrain and are facing cultural issues with the local tribals. There are issues over acceptance and many of the imported cadres are opting to go back,” said a senior officer engaged in anti-Maoist operations. The Galikonda Area Committee, which has been suffering setbacks since last couple years, was hit further in this year with a number of surrenders and arrests of hardcore cadres and militia members. In total, there were about 104 surrenders and arrests, with majority of them from Galikonda area. From a point of time, when the Maoists boasted of maintaining companies in AOB with over 30 cadres in each company, they are now left with a few platoons with 15-odd men in each, said Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam, B. Krishna Rao. Another area of concern is lack of tribal leadership in the AOB region. After the deaths of tribal leaders such as Bakkuri Venkataramana, Kudumula Ravi and Jambri, who were worshipped as heroes, there has been a dearth of tribal leaders. Now it is left to Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan, Sudheer and Kora Nageswara Rao, who do not enjoy that status as the former.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-combing-hit-maoists-hard-in-aob-region/article33428907.ece
27 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC Chief Justice prays at Tirumala||Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Jitendra Kumar Maheswari on Saturday offered prayers at the Lord Venkateswara temple here. He was accompanied by his wife and other family members. Justice Maheswari also passed through the Vaikunta Dwaram, the passage encircling the inner sanctum. Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy presented him with a memento and laddu prasadam. Justice V. Rama Subramanian of the apex court also had the Vaikunta Dwadasi darshan at the temple along with his family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-chief-justice-prays-at-tirumala/article33429038.ece
27 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chakrasnanam performed||Chakrasnanam marked the Vaikunta Dwadasi celebrations at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Saturday.  COVID restrictions. The idol of Lord Chakrathalwar was taken around the mada streets in a grand procession to the pushkarini where the priests immersed the idol in the tank waters. The ritual was performed in ekantham and no devotee was allowed to take part in the celebrations in view of COVID restrictions. The pushkarini has been kept out of reach for the public since March in the aftermath of the outbreak of coronavirus. Even during the annual Brahmotsavams, the Chakrasnanam was organised in a makeshift tank inside the temple. There were conflicting reports that a small group of pilgrims who had purchased the Srivani-linked VIP darshan tickets reportedly entered into a verbal dual with the temple staff, miffed over not being permitted beyond the idols of Jaya and Vijaya inside the temple. Maha Laghu darshan Tirumala ASP Muniramaiah, however, said that no untoward incident took place and urged the devotees to take note of the implementation of Maha Laghu darshan system at the hill temple. Meanwhile, Justice Indra Banerjee of the Supreme Court also visited the temple and had the Vaikunta dwara darshan. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy accorded her a warm reception at the main temple, and facilitated the darshan of the deity and presented her with a memento and laddu prasadam of the Lord.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chakrasnanam-marks-dwadasi-celebrations/article33428049.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s lone death reported in Kadapa||The State has reported one COVID-19 death and 282 new infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. For the 11th consecutive day, the single-day tally was less than 500. The lone death was reported in Kadapa district. These figures increased the tally to 8,80,712 and the toll to 7,092. The death rate was put at 0.81%. The number of active cases came down to 3,700 with 442 patients recovering during the period. So far, 8,69,920 patients recovered, pushing the overall recovery rate to 98.77%. The daily positivity rate of the 42,911 samples tested in the last one day was 0.66% and the overall positivity rate of the 1.15 crore samples tested so far came down to 7.61%. The tests per million ratio increased to 2,16,744. Meanwhile, Guntur reported the highest single-day tally, while Kurnool and Prakasam reported one new case each. The district-wise tallies are as follows: Guntur (56), East Godavari (53), Chittoor (39), Krishna (38), West Godavari (27), Visakhapatnam (18), Nellore (16), Kadapa (15), Anantapur (10) and Srikakulam (4). The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,23,556), West Godavari (93,756), Chittoor (85,831), Guntur (74,532), Anantapur (67,248), Nellore (62,043), Prakasam (61,983), Kurnool (60,530), Visakhapatnam (59,026), Kadapa (54,898), Krishna (47,501), Srikakulam (45,905) and Vizianagaram (41,008). Of the 3,700 active cases, more than 68%, that is 2,526 cases, were in Krishna, Nellore, Guntur, East Godavari and Chittoor districts. U.K. returnees Meanwhile, the Health Department announced that 1,214 U.K. returnees had been identified, and six of them tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 1,158 returnees were traced, while 56 were yet to be identified. Of the returnees who tested positive, one each was from East Godavari, Krishna, Anantapur and Nellore, and two were from Guntur district. So far, 1,101 U.K. returnees were placed under quarantine. The results of the test for the new COVID-19 strain were yet to be received from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-lone-death-reported-in-kadapa/article33428980.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State changed Central scheme as Jagananna Thodu: Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Saturday alleged that the YSRCP government changed the name of ‘PM Street Vendors’ Atma Nirbhar Nidhi’, the scheme of financial assistance for petty businesses hit by COVID-19 introduced by the Centre, to ‘Jagananna Thodu’, and exerted pressure on the banks to provide loans to the traders in the villages against norms. Due to their refusal to toe the State government’s line, a few banks were attacked, Mr. Veerraju alleged. “Even worse, garbage was dumped at the entrances of the banks at the behest of the State government officials,” Mr. Veerraju alleged in a press release. Mr. Veerraju said the Central government contemplated giving Rs. 10,000 each to the traders in towns whose businesses were badly hit by the lockdown, and many had registered themselves to avail of the beneft. However, the State government insisted that the scheme be applied to the rural businesses also, he said. The attacks on banks would be treated as attacks on the Central government, Mr. Veerraju said, and demanded that the State take action against those involved in such incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-changed-central-scheme-as-jagananna-thodu-somu/article33428984.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Overspeeding caused most of the accidents, says Collector||Krishna district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that the district saw 244 deaths due to accidents in the year 2020 and most of the accidents occurred due to overspeeding. Addressing the District Road Safety Committee meeting here on Saturday, Mr. Imtiaz said overspeeding, driving without helmet and seatbelt led to many accidents and fatalities. Accidents on NH The Collector said 155 of the total accident deaths occurred on the National Highway 65 (Hyderabad-Machilipatnam). He said police department booked 3,73,579 riders for not wearing helmet and 5,407 for not wearing seat belts. Cases booked Similarly, 3,551 motorists were booked for overspeeding. Also, the transport department has booked 10,339 cases of violations by motorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/overspeeding-caused-most-of-the-accidents-says-collector/article33428128.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SW school students shine in science contest||The projects of 59 students drawn from schools run across the State by the AP Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions’ Society (APSWREIS) have been selected at the State level under the Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE) award scheme. Each of the 59 selected project will be awarded a grant of Rs. 10,000 to further work on them and showcase them at an exhibition. If qualified in the State-level contest, the participants will become part of the national-level competition. “ In spite of the lockdown that prevented students from attending regular classes, it is heartening to see participation of such large number of them and 59 of them getting short-listed for the next round,” said Col. V. Ramulu, Secretary, APSWREIS. He said agriculture, COVID and health care were some of the themes of the selected projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sw-school-students-shine-in-science-contest/article33429040.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PRSI Amaravati chapter gets new office-bearers||AP Transco former chief general manager (corporate communications) V.S.R. Naidu was unanimously elected as the chairman of Public Relations Society of India (PRSI)-Amravati chapter in its annual general body meeting held here on Saturday. ANU staffer elected vice-chairman G. Anita, coordinator of Department of Journalism & Mass Communication, Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU), was elected vice-chairman and K. Partha Sarathy, director of Madhyam Communications (P) Ltd, Vijayawada was elected secretary. C.M. Vinaya Kumar, assistant professor of Department of Journalism & Mass Communications of Krishna University, Machilipatnam and Durga Bhavani Kota, associate editor of ‘Journalist Nighaa’ Telugu Daily News Paper, Vijayawada, were elected joint secretary and treasurer respectively, according to a press release. Executive committee members T. Kasturi Bai, joint director of Department of I&PR of Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP), P. Basheer, assistant manager (PR) of AP-Transco, senior journalist G. Venkatramana Rao, J. Madhubabu, assistant professor of (Journalism & Mass Communications Department of ANU and S.S.N. Phaneendra Kumar, coordinator of Department of Disaster Management of GoAP were elected executive committee members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prsi-amaravati-chapter-gets-new-office-bearers/article33428137.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 years on, no sign of Ayesha Meera’s killer||It is an unending wait for justice for the parents of Ayesha Meera, a 19-year-old pharmacy student who was raped and murdered inside her hostel in Vijayawada 13 years ago. The case saw many twists and turns over the years, and is now being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after the victim’s parents filed a petition in the High Court. The 19-year-old, a resident of Guntur district, was murdered inside her room at the Sri Durga Ladies Hostel at Ibrahimpatnam on the night of December 26, 2007. Her body was found in a toilet on the second floor of the hostel building. Police who arrived at the scene found her head smashed in and her clothes soaked in blood. They collected follicles, blood samples and other evidence from the crime scene. In 2008, a man named Pidatala Satyam Babu, who was an accused in a cell phone theft case, was arrested by the police and charged with the murder. In 2010, the Mahila Sessions Court in Vijayawada found Satyam Babu guilty and awarded him life imprisonment. After a year, Satyam Babu filed an appeal in the High Court at Hyderabad, pleading innocence. In April 2017, he was acquitted by the High Court and directed the police to launch a fresh investigation into the case. The court pulled up the investigating officers over the botched-up probe and directed the government to take action against the police officers who were in charge of the investigation. The State government later constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to re-investigate the case, under the supervision of the High Court. Later, the court handed over the case to the CBI in November 2018 after a petition was filed in this regard by the victim’s parents, and directed the Central agency to also probe the aspect of missing evidence related to the case that was destroyed. The CBI’s Visakhapatnam branch booked cases against the trial court employees in Vijayawada, namely Y. Subba Reddy (superintendent) and P. Venkata Kumar and T. Kumari (junior assistants), under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant and Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. In December 2019, CBI officials exhumed Meera’s body in Tenali and conducted a second post-mortem. Investigation is still on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-years-on-no-sign-of-ayesha-meeras-killer/article33428990.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recruitment drive in Nuzvid, Gudivada||AP State Skill Development Corporation has invited applications from eligible candidates for Commerce Sales Officer and Customer Service Associate jobs in marts by a multinational company. In a release, Krishna district Skill Development Officer E. Thammaji Rao said a recruitment drive would be conducted for positions in marts in various mandals including Gudivada, Nuzvid, Vuyyuru and others. He said selected candidates would be given a salary between Rs. 11,000 and Rs. 14,000 apart from ESI, PF and fuel allowance of Rs. 2,600. Interested candidates aged between 20 and 30 can walk in at Sri Siddhartha Degree College of Science and Computers in Nuzvid on December 28 and at Vidyalaya Degree College in Gudivada on January 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recruitment-drive-in-nuzvid-gudivada/article33428129.ece
27 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Lit Expo’ unfolds in city||A two-day ‘Lit Expo’ featuring unique small businesses in Vijayawada, unfolded at Ncoli Pasticceria near ‘A’ Convention hall in city on Saturday. Organised by LIT Flea, the event brings unique products, fun activities, creative workshops and some delicious food stuff, all under one roof. “The idea is to promote cultural awareness and provide a common platform to operators of small businesses in the online space,” said Prudhvi Kaja, founder of LIT Flea.  Brand promotion Mr. Prudhvi Kaja said the event would help brand promotion and provide visibility to the home-grown businesses and an opportunity to exhibit their merchandise. Maintaining social distance in view of the prevailing pandemic, the number of stalls put up are confined to a little over 10. There are games and other events, workshops, exclusive bands and an open mic stage. “The concept is new and I am sure people of the city will extend their patronage,” said Mr. Kaja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lit-expo-unfolds-in-city/article33429039.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers being misled by Opposition: Purandeswari||BJP national general secretary D. Purandeswari has said the farm laws enacted by the Centre are intended to provide better returns to the farmers and protect them from exploitation. But unfortunately, the farming community is being misled by the Opposition, Ms. Purandeswsari told the media here on Saturday. Reforms in the agriculture sector had been discussed for decades by successive governments, but only the Modi government dared to introduce them. ‘MSP will be provided’ “Now, after the passage of the Acts, the opposition parties are spreading canards for their vested political interests. Farmers normally seek Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their produce, but the Acts will not only provide MSP but also give them the freedom to sell the produce anywhere,” she said. Denying the charge that the Centre was planning to do away with market yards altogether, she said, on the contrary, the BJP-led NDA government was committed to protecting the interests of the farmers by providing infrastructure like warehouses at the yards. Referring to the charge on contract farming, Ms. Purandeswari said there was nothing new in it as there were already companies such as ITC and Pepsico in the field. “The present contract farming laws do not have adequate safeguards to protect the farmers when some unscrupulous companies reduce the price,” she explained. She said the laws provide for farmers to take legal recourse if they felt cheated, and the dispute would be resolved within a fixed time frame. She said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised to double the income of farmers by 2022, and in the last six years, several welfare programmes were being implemented for their welfare such as import of urea and Atal Pension Yojna to provide security to the farmers on attaining the age of 60. Compensation was being paid to the farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna within one month now against two to three years in the past, the BJP leader said. Referring to the demand for implementation of the M.S. Swaminathan Commission recommendations on agriculture, she wondered as to why the Congress government had failed to implement it during its rule. She, however, added that the Prime Minister already clarified that he was ready for talks with the farmers to address their concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-being-misled-by-opposition-purandeswari/article33428051.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||151 U.K. returnees test negative in Vizag||Out of 199 persons who returned to Visakhapatnam from the United Kingdom in the recent past, 151 tested negative for COVID-19, according to DMHO P. Surya Narayana. “We are awaiting the lab results of 40 others. Eight more persons are yet to be traced,” Dr. Surya Narayana told The Hindu . The Health Department had received information from the Ministry on Thursday (December 24) that 218 persons had reached Visakhapatnam from the U.K. between November 23 and December 24. The department immediately swung into action to trace the persons with the given list. Out of the 218 persons in the list, we found out that 199 were from Visakhapatnam district, said the DMHO. Out of them, we traced 191 by Saturday evening and conducted COVID-19 tests for them. The reports of 151 persons showed that they did not contract the virus. “We are yet to get reports of 40 others,” he said, and added that efforts were on trace the eight persons with the help of the Police Department. “Samples of contacts have also been collected,” he said. “Those testing positive will be shifted to hospital. Their samples will be sent to Pune to ascertain whether it is the new strain or not. Their contacts will also be also traced. If they test negative, they will be asked to stay under strict isolation for two weeks,” he said. Dr. Surya Narayana said the staff under all the PHCs were alerted. “They have to keep a watch on the health of all the persons for the next 14 days,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/151-uk-returnees-test-negative-in-vizag/article33428986.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land grabbing charges: YSRCP, TDP trade barbs||A tense situation prevailed outside the Shirdi Sai Baba temple at East Point Colony here on Saturday morning as YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders and workers, led by the party’s East Constituency in charge Akramani Nirmala, gathered there and awaited the arrival of Telugu Desam Party MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu. It may be recalled that the TDP MLA had offered to take an oath at this temple and quit politics, if the YSRCP general secretary and Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy could prove his allegations that he (the MLA) had grabbed land in the city. Ms. Nirmala offered to take the challenge of behalf of the MP and asked the MLA to come to the temple and prove himself. The YSRCP waited for sometime, and left as the MLA failed to turn up. Police personnel gathered in large numbers anticipating trouble and kept the situation from going out of control. Meanwhile, the TDP workers gathered at the office of Mr. Ramakrishna Babu and raised slogans against the YSRCP. While the YSRCP leaders alleged that the TDP MLA had failed to keep his promise, the MLA said that the MP had not accepted his challenge and there was no need for him to accept Ms. Nirmala’s challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-cong-tdp-trade-charges-over-oath-taking/article33428972.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six-member gang arrested for ‘dacoity’||The district police on Saturday arrested a six-member notorious dacoit gang, which allegedly made good with 10 tolas of gold, eight tolas silver and Rs. 80,000 cash from a house after assaulting the inmates with arms at Chodapalli of Yelamanchali mandal in Visakhapatnam district on November 22. The arrested were identified as P. Lakshmi Narayana (52) and P. Rambabu (55), both belong to various areas of East Godavari district, P. Naveen (21), G. Mosi (21), G. Prakash (23) and G. Balaji (23), all from Vizianagaram district. The police recovered five tolas gold, 8 tolas silver and Rs. 73,000 from them. Addressing press conference here on Saturday, Narsipatnam Assistant Superintendent of Police Tuhin Sinha said that in the the early hours of November 22, the six accused armed with knives and sticks had entered the house of the complainant K. Satyanarayana and assaulted him, his father and mother, before decamping with the property worth Rs. 2.06 lakh.  Based on the complaint, the police authorities formed teams, under the supervision of Mr. Tuhin Sinha, and sent them to Guntur, Bhimavaram, Nidadavolu, Bikkavolu, Aakiveedu, Pithapuram, Gokavaram, Narsipatnam and Kothavalasa and collected information on old offenders. Acting on a tip-off, the gang members were arrested by Inspector CCS, Anakapalli, Ranganadham, CI, Yelamanchili Circle, V.Narayana Rao, and team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-member-gang-arrested-for-dacoity/article33429051.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amarnath dares Velagapudi to take oath today||Anakapalle MLA and YSRCP leader Gudivada Amarnath has challenged TDP MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu to come to Sai Baba temple at East Point Colony on Sunday at 11 a.m. and take an oath that he didn’t encroach the lands in Visakhapatnam. Mr. Amarnath said that the TDP leader did not come to Simhachalam when he asked him to come for taking oath on Saturday morning. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday evening, Mr. Amarnath said that Mr. Ramakrishna Babu was not qualified to challenge Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. The Anakapalle MLA demanded that Ramakrishna Babu declare the ‘illegal assets’ he had amassed along with TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Mr. Amarnath alleged that TDP leaders were trying to divert attention of people from the housing scheme being implemented in the State. “While TDP created hurdles for the distribution of house site pattas by moving courts, it was Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who provided house sites to lakhs of people within 18 months of coming to power,” he said. Mr. Amarnath criticised the TDP leaders for opposing the distribution of house site pattas in Amaravati region saying it would cause demographic imbalance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-grabbing-charges-amarnath-dares-velagapudi-to-take-oath-today/article33428974.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU inks MoU with BSNL||A Memorandum of Understanding(MoU) was reached between Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and Andhra University (AU) to organise skill development courses for engineering and MBA students. BSNL Principal General Manager P. Paul Williams and Vice Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy signed and exchanged MoU papers at the university, here on Saturday. BSNL AGM M. Satya Prasadand others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-inks-mou-with-bsnl/article33429054.ece
27 December 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag is best performing municipal corporation||Visakhapatnam has been selected as the Best Performing Municipal Corporation in the annual awards announced by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for implementing the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban Mission. Announcing this here on Saturday, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that Satraboina Durga, a housing beneficiary of Ward No. 50 of Gajuwaka, was selected under the ‘best house construction’ category. The GVMC officials said that the civic body has provided all the civic amenities such as water supply, underground drainage, C.C roads, street-lighting and the family is leading a happy life. The corporation will be receiving the award and the beneficiary will be felicitated on January 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-is-best-performing-municipal-corporation/article33429041.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dhanbad-Alappuzha special train from Jan. 8||The introduction of 03351/03352 Dhanbad-Alappuzha-Dhanbad special express has been postponed by a week in view of safety-related modernisation works, non-interlocking works in connection with the Yard remodelling at Rajahmundry railway station of Vijayawada Division of South Central Railway. Train no. 03351 Dhanbad – Alappuzha special express train will leave Dhanbad daily at 11.40 a.m. with effect from January 8 (instead of January 1 as announced earlier) and will reach Visakhapatnam on the next day at 8.15 a.m. and depart at 8.35 a.m. to reach Alappuzha at 3.25 p.m. on the third day of its journey. Train no.03352 Alappuzha- Dhanbad special express train will leave Alappuzha daily at 6 a.m. with effect from January 11 (instead of January 4 as announced earlier) to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 1.10 a.m. and depart at 1.30 p.m. to reach Dhanbad at 10.20 a.m. on the third day of its journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dhanbad-alappuzha-special-train-from-jan-8/article33429048.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 18 new COVID cases||The district reported 18 fresh COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 59,538. The toll stands at 518 as no deaths were reported during the same period. A big relief for the Health Department officials is that no deaths have been reported in the last 10 days. The last death was reported on December 16. The bulletin also informed that the active cases and recoveries are 282 and 58,738 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-18-new-covid-cases/article33429053.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die, two injured in accident||A woman and her son died, while her husband and another son sustained injuries when the two-wheeler on which they were riding was reportedly hit by a lorry here on Saturday. The Sabbavaram police said the accident occurred when they were returning home after receiving patta from the house site distribution programme organised by the State government. The deceased were identified as A. Atchiamma (28) and her sosn A. Ramudu (9). Her husband A. Appalaraju and another son A. Lakshmanudu (9) suffered injuries. The accident occurred near NTR Junction at Sabbavaram. The lorry driver was taken into custody. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-in-accident/article33428975.ece
27 December 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeter ‘murdered’||A rowdy-sheeter was allegedly murdered by a group of unidentified persons at Arilova area here on Saturday night. Police have reached the spot and are yet to ascertain the facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeter-murdered/article33429055.ece
27 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mutation may not change virus effect: expert||Praja Arogya Vedika and the Prajarogya Parirakshana Committees organised a seminar at the Public Library on the impact of the second phase of coronavirus and the new mutant of the virus and the issues to be taken up by the governments. P.J. Srinivas, vice president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), and K. Phaninder, eminent pulmonologist, were the keynote speakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mutation-may-not-change-virus-effect-expert/article33429049.ece
27 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MANSAS loses people’s trust in 2020||The MANSAS Trust, one of India’s trusted and respected organisations, has found itself in the midst of a credibility crisis in 2020, thanks to bitter infighting among the Pusapati royal family. The tussle among the three families has become a weapon in the hands of the State government, which is now seeking to control the affairs of the trust while at the same time claiming that the infighting is an internal issue of the Pusapati family.  Sanchaita’s appointment The State government had removed former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju and appointed Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju, daughter of his elder brother P. Ananda Gajapathi Raju, on March 4, 2020. Mr. Ashok strongly objected to her appointment, saying that only male heirs of the Pusapati family were eligible to handle the affairs of the MANSAS Trust as per its by-laws. He then approached the High Court seeking that Ms. Sanchaita be removed from the post. Mr. Ananda Gajapathi Raju’s second wife Sudha Gajapathi Raju and their daughter Urmila Gajapathi Raju also claim rights over the Trust which controls properties worth Rs. 50,000 crore in the North Andhra region. The Maharaja Alak Narayana Society of Arts and Science (MANSAS) Trust, which was established by P.V.G. Raju on November 12, 1958, was instrumental for the development of higher education and development of existing famous colleges such as Maharaja College, Music College and Sanskrit College which have a history of over a 100 years. Educational hub After Madras, Vizianagaram used to be the second major educational hub in Southern India during British rule. Famous writers Gurajada Appa Rao and Chaganti Somayajulu were associated with MR College. Ms. Sanchaita’s decision to stop admissions into the famous MR College for the 2020-21 academic year drew a lot of public outcry as well as renewed attention on the affairs of the trust. The college, which was on the list of financially aided institutions, used to offer higher education at an affordable fee structure. As many as 4,000 youngsters pursued various courses in the college. The MANSAS Trust reportedly tried to privatise the institution completely while asking the government to stop financial aid. The government would have had a say in fee structure if the institution continued to be on ‘aided’ college list. Almost all parties including the TDP, CPI(M), CPI, BJP and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) strongly opposed the trust’s move and organised many rallies and protests for the protection of MR College. “The internal fight among Pusapati family turned into a bane for students of downtrodden sections. The government started a degree college with a few courses only in the 2019-20 year. It would not cater to the needs of all the students. They will be forced to join private colleges which have little infrastructure and faculty compared to MR College,” said Bugata Ashok, CPI(M) Assistant Secretary of Vizianagaram district. Big blow Vizianagaram Pattana Powra Samskshema Sangham leader Reddi Sankara Rao said that 2020 was a big blow for every family thanks to the decision of MANSAS. “It has stopped walking in Ayodhya Maidan which has been the public property for many decades. The trust was established to protect the interests of the people. But now it has turned into a commercial organisation. The government will pay a heavy price in the future if it fails to correct the decisions of the trust,” he said. Opposition parties have planned to make it a poll issue ahead of the Vizianagaram municipal corporation elections. The ruling YSRCP is worried that the issue would damage the party politically in Vizianagram and other parts of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mansas-loses-peoples-trust-in-2020/article33428969.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safe-keeping||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safe-keeping/article33429043.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For a roof over their head||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-a-roof-over-their-head/article33428988.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Popular destination||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crossing-paths/article33428977.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||City lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-lights/article33429058.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||A fiber show 2020, displaying innovative fiber products, was organised at Novotel here on Saturday. Andhra Medical College Principal PV Sudhakar, who participated as the chief guest, inaugurated the show. Ballary shipping Enterprises MD B. Satish Prasad said that Fiberglass, developed in the late 1940s, was the first modern composite and was still the most common.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc/article33429050.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||India needs consensus because of its diversity: Vice President||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday called for an introspection about co-existence exemplified by ‘Vasudeva Kutumbakam’ during the time of COVID. “Introspect about our philosophical roots during COVID pandemic. Let’s reset our minds. India needs consensus because of the diversity,” said Mr. Naidu while speaking at the third Atal Bihari Vajpayee Memorial Lecture organised by a think tank. Memories The Vice President shared his memories about Vajpayee when he helped organise public meetings for him in Nellore. “Vajpayee is the father of coalition practices. He held power for 13 days, then 13 months and then for a full term. The coalition had 23 parties,” said Mr. Naidu, who saw the inner workings of the Vajpayee government as Minister for Rural Development. Identifying the economic reforms during Mr. Vajpayee’s regime, Mr. Naidu said, “P.V. Narasimha Rao initiated the economic reforms but it was Mr. Vajpayee who pushed them through along with infrastructure projects like Golden Quadrilateral, electrification and PM Gram Sadak Yojana. He created Ministry of Disinvestment and brought in laws to bring in fiscal discipline.” Consensus building Mr. Vajpayee’s parliamentary career was a lesson in consensus building with shared democratic values, Mr. Naidu said. “We need to raise the level of debates and speeches in Parliament. Avoid unruly behaviour. Disturbance gets prominence in the media. Unruly behaviour, destructive and obstructive things are reported. The smoothly functioning part goes unnoticed. You are destroying the health of the nation,” said Mr. Naidu during the course of the 50-minute lecture. The VP went on to add that people should elect their representatives on the basis of character, calibre, capacity and conduct and not caste, community, cash and criminality.  Vajpayee is the father of coalition practices. He held power for 13 days, then 13 months and then for a full term. The coalition had 23 parties.  Venkaiah Naidu  Vice President||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/india-needs-consensus-because-of-its-diversity-vice-president/article33428888.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Honey trap to rob men||Striking a family chord with unknown ‘wealthy’ men in busy public areas and drawing them to a secluded place to rob them of their valuables has become the latest trend in Jagtial district. A woman accosting seemingly wealthy strangers by posing questions like ‘You just look like my husband, and What is your name?’ has thrown a salacious net that has come to the light. Jagtial police have arrested a woman and three of her aides, who were involved in tricking men into believing that they had a ‘relationship’ that eventually ended in looting them. Though the gang robbed around a dozen men, the victims could not reveal the matter with anyone, not even with the police, fearing social stigma and break up from families. To hide the matter and to avoid family disharmony, some even went to a jewellery shop and purchased the same model of ornaments by shelling out huge amounts of money. Others followed suit by purchasing similar models of mobile phones, which they ‘lost’ in the honey trap laid by the con woman’s gang. The daylight robbery by the gang came to light earlier this week after one of the victims approached Medipalli police in the district by lodging a complaint of chain-snatching. But it was not long before the police realised that his chain was not snatched and it was a cock and bull story that he had been weaving all along to divert the attention of police and to placate his family. When police started questioning about the sequence of events, he spilled the beans and narrated the entire episode to the investigators. Speaking to The Hindu , Jagtial Superintendent of Police Sindhu Sarma said that in some cases, accused Mamidi Jamuna (40) approached men she knew from before, while in others, the victims were strangers. “She narrows down on middle-aged men wearing gold ornaments and strikes up a conversation, offers favour, and takes them to an isolated place. Within no time, the other gang members, who were following them, attack the victim, threaten and rob of the gold, cash and other valuables,” she said. The other members of the gang are Jamuna’s alleged boyfriend Kukati Rajkumar (21), and his friends Naluvala Thulasi (21) and Kolapaka Dinesh (21), all residents of different villages in the district. According to Ms. Sarma, the accused has been committing the offences for the past two months and so far, they have robbed more than eight men. She said that Jamuna met Rajkumar in October and hatched a conspiracy to rob men by luring them with sexual favour. “Initially, we apprehended Jamuna after tracking the looted mobile phone of one of the victims, and after analysing her call records, the other three were picked up,” she said, adding that another woman from Raikal was still at large. Police recovered 145 grams of gold ornaments, three mobile phones and a bike, all worth Rs. 8 lakh, from the possession of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/honey-trap-to-rob-men/article33428885.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tension in Jagtial during Bandi Sanjay’s tour||Tension prevailed in Jagtial town on Friday during a visit of BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on the occasion of former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary observed by the party. TRS cadre stage protest TRS workers comprising several sarpanches of Jagtial constituency led by the local MLA Sanjay Kumar and Zilla Parishad chairperson D. Vasantha staged a protest on Jagtial - Tharoor road ahead of the BJP leader’s arrival demanding release of Rs. 1,024 crore due by the Centre to gram panchayats for National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme works. The TRS workers entered into an argument with the police seeking the arrest of protesters but the latter insisted they would not leave until they submit a memorandum to Mr. Bandi Sanjay as he is also an MP. The police later arrested the MLA and other TRS workers to clear the obstacles for the BJP programme. CM faulted Addressing a farmers awareness meeting later, the BJP leader charged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of “shedding crocodile tears” as his government has not bothered to come to the rescue of the farmers who had grown fine rice, on official orders, and are now facing difficulties in selling the produce. “None of the TRS leaders tried to meet or console the farmers affected during the recent floods but they are cheating them by opposing the new Farm Acts blindly without even studying them. Farmers are going to benefit from freedom to sell at any place or price throughout the country now. I wish to ask the Chief Minister if he is selling his farm produce to corporates or in the market yards,” he asked. Mr. Sanjay Kumar accused the government of diverting funds to the tune of Rs. 120 crore which the Centre had released for conducting soil testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-in-jagtial-during-bandi-sanjays-tour/article33428893.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Adilabad firing: ex-councillor succumbs to bullet injuries||A former councillor of Adilabad municipality, Syed Zameer (55), who suffered bullet injuries after Adilabad’s AIMIM president opened fire on December 18, succumbed while undergoing treatment at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) here on Saturday morning. The bullets hit him on the chest and abdomen, and he succumbed at around 3 a.m. His body was taken to his house at Tatiguda in Adilabad town after the autopsy at OGH. Zameer’s death had escalated tension in the Tatiguda area, which forced the police personnel to deploy additional forces to pacify the issue and maintain peace. Before the body reached Adilabad, Ramagundem Commissioner of Police and Adilabad in-charge Superintendent of Police V. Satyanarayana and Officer on Special Duty M. Rajesh Chandra spoke to Zameer’s family and assured them justice. On the evening of December 18, the accused, Farooq Ahmed, who was also the former vice chairman of Adilabad municipality, opened fire following a brawl between two groups of children over a cricket match. “Soon, parents of the children from the two groups picked up an argument, and when Farooq Ahmed saw some people from another political party at the spot, he suddenly opened fire,” Mr. Chandra said. He said that one Syed Mannan suffered head injuries after the accused attacked him with a knife. A case of attempt to murder was registered against Ahmed and he was remanded to judicial custody. “Now, we will alter sections, and he will also be charged with murder,” Mr. Chandra said, adding that they have already requested the District Collector to cancel the accused’s firearm licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adilabad-firing-ex-councillor-succumbs-to-bullet-injuries/article33428883.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||317 COVID-19 cases on Friday||Telangana recorded 317 more COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the total to 2,84,391. Less cases were detected as only 30,376 samples were put to test. Results of 384 were awaited. Two more people have died. The new 317 cases include 71 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 27 from Rangareddy, 25 from Medchal Malkajgiri. Zero cases were recorded in Narayanpet and Wanaparthy, and one in Kamareddy. From March 2 to December 25, a total of 66,86,363 samples were examined and 2,84,391 have tested positive for coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 6,618 were active cases, 2,76,244 have recovered, and 1,529 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/317-covid-19-cases-on-friday/article33428895.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Phone nos., addresses of 184 UK returnees incorrect||Of the 1,216 people who have come to Telangana from the United Kingdom (UK) from December 9, comprehensive details of 184 are not available. Their addresses and phone numbers are not correct. The State’s Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said that efforts are on to trace them. From December 9, 1,216 people have come. Out of them, 937 were traced and tested. And 18 have tested positive for coronavirus. Of the remaining 279, 184 are yet to be traced, while 92 more belong to other States. Officials of the respective States were informed about it. The Health Department did not specify the status of three more. Dr. Srinivas appealed to people who have returned to the State from the UK or via UK after December 9 to provide their details by calling on 040-24651119, or send them through WhatsApp on 91541 70960. Samples for coronavirus tests would be collected at their home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/phone-nos-addresses-of-184-uk-returnees-incorrect/article33428901.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Averest to set up shop in Hyderabad next month||Averest Hotels and Resorts India on Wednesday formally announced foray into the hospitality sector and plans to open its first property, coming up in the city, next month. A Hyderabad-headquartered entity, it aims to have 20 Averest branded properties in the country and abroad in three years. The first property, which is coming up at Gachibowli is a mid-segment hotel and targeted at both corporate and leisure travellers with pocket friendly luxury offerings, a release said. It plans to expand in a phased manner, including opening three properties in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttarakhand in six months. Going international The brand will spread wings to an international destination by early 2022, while entry into premium luxury segment will be by 2024, the release said. Averest Hotels and Resorts India founder-MD N. Rajendra Prasad said, “With an able team of experts from the hospitality industry, the group will soon have its footprint in multiple States in India and also make an international debut with a property in Gulf or European region.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/averest-to-set-up-shop-in-hyderabad-next-month/article33428905.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eight cross-dressers held for extortion||Eight cross-dressers and two autorickshaw drivers were arrested by Bachupally police of Cyberabad on charges of extortion and creating nuisance. On Friday morning, a Pragathi Nagar resident, Panchangam Chalapathi, approached police stating that a group of cross-dressers had barged into his house a day after his son’s wedding and demanded Rs. 20,000. They even threatened him and created nuisance by removing their clothes and using foul language. When Mr. Chalapathi refused to pay money, they started abusing them in vulgar language, creating panic among his family members, Madhapur in-charge DCP M. Venkateshwarlu said. “His family got frightened and paid Rs. 16,500, after which the cross-dressers left the place,” he said. Based on Mr.Chalapathi’s complainant, a case was registered and eight cross-dressers and autorickshaw drivers Karan Gupta and Mohd. Masi were arrested by the police. According to Mr. Venkateshwarlu, the gang members get information about weddings, shop inaugurations, and other functions through autorickshaw drivers and rush to the spot demanding money. “If one doesn’t pay money, the cross-dressers create nuisance and threaten and abuse them in front of all the relatives and friends,” the DCP said. ‘Call police for help’ Mr. Venkateswarlu requested people not to fall into the trap of cross-dressers. “Instead, people should inform the police about the nuisance by calling up the nearest police station or lodging a complaint on ‘Dial 100’,” he added.  If one doesn’t pay money, the cross-dressers create nuisance and threaten and abuse them in front of all the relatives and friends. M. Venkateshwarlu, Madhapur in-charge DCP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eight-cross-dressers-held-for-extortion/article33428910.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Don’t resort to extreme act: CP to online loan app victims||With increasing number of suicide owing to harassment and public shaming by app-based instant loan providers, Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar appealed to the public not to download unauthorised instant loan apps. He also advised the loanees not to resort to any extreme act, and instead approach police in case of harassment. Personal details “Don’t give personal details and bank credentials to anyone. Always go through the terms and conditions and verify the licences of the companies which offer loans, whether they obtained from the concerned authorities like RBI or the District Collector,” he said. He urged people not to download any such mobile application which asks access to the contacts, files and gallery. People were cautioned not to fall into the trap of unscrupulous elements but instead, verify the antecedents of the company/firm offering loans online or through mobile apps. Mentioning that the names and addresses of the NBFCs registered with the RBI can be accessed on RBI’s website, the officer suggested that the public can report information about unverified/unauthorised apps to the concerned law enforcement agencies or use RBI’s Sachet portal (https://sachet.rbi.org.in) for filing on-line complaints. “Complaints against the entities regulated by the RBI can be accessed through RBI’s Complaint Management System (https://cms.rbi.org.in),” Mr. Sajjanar said. Harassment He also asked the people to approach police in case of any harassment by these apps. “People can contact Cyberabad police through Dial 100 or WhatsApp 9490617444 of Cyber Crime police station number 9490617310 and not to resort to extreme steps,” Mr. Sajjanar added.  Always go through the terms and conditions and verify the licences of the companies that offer loans, whether they obtained it from RBI or District Collector. V.C. Sajjanar Cyberabad Commissioner of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-resort-to-extreme-act-cp-to-loan-app-victims/article33428911.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Firing range in Jagtial inaugurated||A dedicated firing range for Jagtial district police was inaugurated by Karimnagar range in-charge DIG P. Pramod Kumar on Saturday. The spacious firing range, which has come up near Venugumatla village in Gollapalli mandal, about 25 km from the district headquarters, is first-of-its-kind in the north zone. Addressing officers, Mr. Pramod asked them to make the best use of range to upgrade their skills in using firearms. He paid compliments to District Superintendent of Police Sindhu Sarma, Additional SP Suresh Kumar and all those who made efforts to set it up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/firing-range-in-jagtial-inaugurated/article33428881.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||College denies discrepancies||Malla Reddy College of Engineering has denied discrepancies in the self-study report submitted to the National Assessment and Accreditation Council, which led to its blacklisting from accreditation for five years. The college management clarified that it had applied for NAAC accreditation and received B ++ ranking for 2018. NAAC certification was only an additional accreditation status for the college rankings. So, the college reapplied for NAAC for reassessment for getting better grade. In response to this, the college submitted a list of students who did internships or project work in certain organisations. Later, it was found that there was a mismatch in the number of students. NAAC had withdrawn the accreditation because of this documental error. There was no intentional forgery of any official signatures from the certificates of certain organisations or letterheads. The management was looking forward to verify the documents and was in the process of sending compliance in response to the letter received from NAAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/college-denies-discrepancies/article33428886.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Union faults TS-Genco for hasty issuance of artisans’ service rules||Telangana Electricity Employees’ Union (TEEU-1104) has faulted the managements of four power utilities – TS-Genco, TS-Transco, Southern Discom and Northern Discom – for issuing the “standing orders, service rules and regulations for artisans” without even consulting the trade unions. The trade union has demanded withdrawal of the lopsided service rules immediately. President of the union N. Padma Reddy and general secretary G. Saibabu said on Saturday that they had been demanding the unconditional implementation of APSEB service rules for the artisans since the day one when the State government had agreed to absorb all the artisans working for the four power utilities. However, TS-Genco has issued the service rules for artisans unilaterally on December 19. They have pointed out that the practice during the last 40-50 years with regard to absorption of contract workers, non-muster roll (NMR) staff, casual labour, contract labour, village electricity workers, staff of rural electricity supply cooperatives, prior to the present absorption of 20,903 artisans in December 2016, was implementation of APSEB rules for such absorbed staff too.  ‘Directions violated’ However, the power utilities appear to have taken to a new path of violating the rights of workers in the name of artisans service rules, the TEEU-1104 functionaries said adding that it was literal violation of courts’ directions to give equal salary with equal service rules to all the staff doing similar work in an organisation. The managements of the power utilities are trying to create rift between the regular employees and artisans by increasing the variation in pay and service rules, they alleged. They have also mentioned that all employees working in the power utilities under the tripartite agreement of February 1999 and others recruited later were extended the APSEB service rules. Requesting the managements to re-examine the service rules for artisans and implement the APSEB rules, they threatened to take up an agitation in case they prefer to continue with the discrimination. On the one hand the managements had been assuring the trade unions of examining into the aspects of given variable dearness allowance instead of dearness allowance, house rent allowance, maternity leave, dependent jobs on compassionate grounds and others and on the other hand they issued service rule unilaterally in a hurry, Mr. Padma Reddy and Mr. Saibabu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/union-faults-ts-genco-for-hasty-issuance-of-artisans-service-rules/article33428894.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI’s 96th foundation day celebrated||The 96th Foundation Day of CPI was celebrated by party leaders and workers with a procession being taken out from the office of the All India Trade Union Congress at Narayanguda to Makhdoom Bhavan, where a public meeting was held later. Addressing the meeting, CPI former general secretary Suravaram Sudhakar Reddy said there was no need for leaders of Left parties to be demoralised at electoral losses since those were part of the game. After the Congress, it was only the CPI that has the longest history. National council member of CPI Azeez Pasha said the struggle of farmers against farm laws will succeed. CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy also spoke. Artistes of Praja Natya Mandali staged cultural performances during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpis-96th-foundation-day-celebrated/article33428912.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rythu Bandhu through post office ATMs||In view of release of Rythu Bandhu amount for rabi to farmers’ bank accounts by Telangana government on December 27, India Post has made Micro ATM arrangements to make cash payments to needy farmers at 4,860 post offices in the State. The Micro ATM services could be availed by farmers having Aadhaar linked accounts in any of the banks. They could withdraw the amount credited to their accounts from village post offices, said a release of Postmaster General of Hyderabad, P.V.S. Reddy. The Micro ATM facility is very useful to farmers who are not in a position to visit banks/fixed ATMs. For using the facility, they have to visit the nearest post offices with their Aadhaar card and mobile phones linked to their bank accounts. They could withdraw cash by impressing finger print and informing the OTP received on their phones to the post master. A maximum of Rs. 10,000 could be withdrawn in a day. The service is free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rythu-bandhu-through-post-office-atms/article33428897.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Award for IICT scientist||A senior principal scientist at the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) Chada Raji Reddy has been selected for the prestigious ‘NASI- Reliance Industries Platinum Jubilee Award (2020) for application oriented innovations covering under physical sciences’. He has been selected for his contributions in the development of processes of APIs for drugs, including Favipiravir, Remdesivir and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/award-for-iict-scientist/article33428879.ece
27 December 2020||POTHULAPALLY (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Plastic recycling industry coming up at Narayankhed||Kantale Pandu Ranga Rao, a class 3 dropout, made headlines back in March 2017 when he received an award from former President Pranab Mukherjee for developing sealant for motorcycle and autorickshaw tyres. He is back in the news now for making the best of plastic waste. Mr Pandu Ranga Rao, a resident of Sukkaltheerth, a remote village in Kangti mandal about 10 km from the constituency headquarters of Narayankhed, recycles single-use plastic along with silt collected from drains. The material prepared by him is three times stronger than the original plastic, according to tests conducted by a private engineering college. Usually, single-use plastic like wrappers of biscuit packets or gutka packets are not collected by ragpickers as they are difficult to collect and fetch less price in the market. So, they find their place in road-side drains. Mr Pandu Ranga Rao uses that as raw material for his innovation. He has fashioned flower pots that can be used for growing saplings. He claims that road-side stoppers and soak pit tanks can can also be prepared with that material. On December 23, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao laid foundation stone for the construction of a plastic recycling unit in Narayankhed at an estimated cost of Rs. 48 lakh under Rurban Mission. J. Durga Prasad, CEO of Grama Bazar, an organisation working with rural innovators, says the industry will recycle single-use plastic waste. “We are trying to encourage rural innovators like Mr. Pandu Ranga Rao. Collector M Hanumantha Rao has accepted our proposal for recycling single usage plastic. This will be the first industry in country to make such products. We have tied up with VNRVJIT to test the strength of the pots developed by Mr. Pandu Ranga Rao. We are trying to identify the types of products that can be made with this material,” he adds. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr pandu Ranga Rao said, “There is no recycling for plastic wrappers which we will be taking up. I worked on this for about a week and found solution for reuse of single-use plastic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plastic-recycling-industry-coming-up-at-narayankhed/article33428899.ece
27 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Sangareddy police cracked a murder case and arrested one person. According to the police, the body of an unidentified woman was found on Narsapur road on December 17. Police formed 10 teams and investigation revealed that the body was that of Jyothi, a resident of Rajampet. On December 14, Chinnaiah of Nagasamudram in Vikarabad district took Jyothi to Narsapur road, raped and murdered her. The accused was sent to remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33429013.ece
27 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Sangareddy DSP A. Balaji said that there was no permission for New Year celebrations and those who violate would be sent to remand. Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Mr. Balaji said that in view of the prevailing coronavirus pandemic, it was decided not to allow any celebrations. Public is warned not to violate restrictions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33428889.ece
27 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||One more dies of food poisoning case||Anasuya, who was admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad for food poisoning, and getting treated for the past three days, passed away on Saturday. On December 21, as many as three people - two at Sangareddy hospital, and another in Hyderabad, died of food poisoning at Palvatla in Vatpally mandal. One more person is being treated at the hospital and it was stated that the condition is serious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-more-dies-of-food-poisoning/article33428900.ece
27 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Brf||Two persons were killed in a road accident at Siddipet on Saturday. P. Ramesh and K. Sagar while coming back from Hyderabad on a motorcycle lost control and hit the divider at Rajiv Rahadari near Ravindranagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33429014.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||New attraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-attraction/article33428892.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Novel intiative||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/novel-intiative/article33428904.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||High on fun||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-on-fun/article33429017.ece
27 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||RLP chief leads stir on Delhi-Jaipur route||A day after protesters from Maharashtra reached Shajahapur at the Haryana-Rajasthan border to block the Delhi-Jaipur Highway, a large number of farmers led by Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) chief and Nagaur Lok Sabha MP Hanuman Beniwal held a protest on the highway on Saturday. The traffic on the highway has been diverted by the Haryana and the Rajasthan police in view of the blockade. Around a thousand protesters from Maharashtra reached Shajahapur at Haryana-Rajasthan border on Friday afternoon and sat on a dharna on the Delhi-Jaipur Highway, completely blocking traffic. The traffic on the route has been partially disrupted since December 13. “Around a thousand protesters reached the border point and sat on a dharna blocking the Delhi-Jaipur carriageway of the national highway. The other carriageway was already blocked. In view of the blockade, the traffic headed towards Jaipur from Delhi has been diverted at several points in Rewari and Gurugram,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police, Bawal, Rajesh Chechi. The Gurugram police have diverted the heavy commercial vehicles at Panchgaon, Kapdiwas and Bilaspur Chowk towards Nuh and Alwar to reach Jaipur. “The Maharashtra farmers joined at Shajahapur and together started travelling towards Delhi on the Delhi-Jaipur Highway, but the Harayana police blocked both sides of the road to stop them from entering Haryana. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha strongly protest the anti-farmer undemocratic stand of the Modi government,” said a press statement issued by All-India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee. Earlier, led by Narmada Bachao Andolan’s Medha Patkar and Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, hundreds of farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and several other States, including Maharashtra and Gujarat, had sat on a dharna on the Delhi-Jaipur Highway, blocking the carriageway going towards the Capital on December 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rlp-chief-leads-stir-on-delhi-jaipur-route/article33428431.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||Tightening the noose on white-collar frauds||The Delhi police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has been successful in solving 98.3% of white-collar crime cases this year. Lesser number of such crimes were reported in 2020 compared to previous years. The EOW takes up cases involving fraud of Rs. 2 crore and above.  Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P. Mishra said he gets job satisfaction when the victims of white-collar crimes get justice because people often fall prey to lucrative schemes sold by “cheaters” and end up spending their hard-earned money. The EOW also receives a large number of complaints from homebuyers who have been cheated by builders offering them flats in Delhi-NCR.  In 2018, a total of 493 cases were registered and only 238 were disposed of by the EOW. In 2019, the number went down to 392 cases of which 269 were solved. In 2020, a total of 243 cases were registered till December 4 of which 239 cases have been disposed off and 198 people were arrested — the highest since 2017.  The police said there are three categories of frauds — real estate, Ponzi schemes and cybercrime.  Land pooling scam “The biggest fraud in recent times was flats promised under DDA’s land pooling policy. The policy was never notified but ‘fraudsters’ cheated hundreds of investors by collecting more than Rs. 100 crore from them. After we started cracking down on such ‘fraudsters’, the number of cases has come down drastically. The gravity of the fraud can be imagined from the fact that one of the ‘fraudsters’ had invested Rs. 2 crore in bulk messaging service to lure investors,” said Mr. Mishra.  In a recent case, a retired government employee was duped by a Noida-based builder who had promised him a flat around 10 years ago. The victim approached the Delhi police as the developer’s registered office was in the Capital. There were 22 complaints against the accused who had allegedly duped investors to the tune of Rs. 7.5 crore. Thanking the Delhi police, the victim mentioned that he had invested his career savings and had even withdrawn money from his provident fund for the flat. Despite launching the project 10 years ago, the accused had not given the possession of the units and had siphoned off crores of rupees. Despite multiple representations and visits to the accused’s office, the builder did not come forward to settle the investors’ dues.  The EOW team arrested the accused during the pandemic when all, including the investors, were scared to step out of their homes. It was only after the accused was arrested that his office settled the dues.  Mr. Mishra said they request the investors to verify the antecedents of the builders or the schemes before investing in them. “Always cross-verify the details from the government departments concerned. And never fall for schemes that promise to double the money in a short period of time. Like in Ponzi schemes, the company will always gain trust by initial payments of the assured amount for some time and later flee with the funds,” he added.  The Delhi police have registered a number of FIRs against fraud developers or Ponzi schemes functional in NCR. The victims prefer to approach the Delhi police because of their expertise in handling big financial frauds, but an FIR is registered in Delhi only if the accused have their registered offices in the city, said Mr. Mishra.  Latest techniques “We are the nodal office for many agencies that help in getting access to data during investigation of any case. We monitor latest techniques used by the fraudsters and organise professional skill enhancement training for investigating officers according to the requirements. This year, we held around 25 such training programmes. Even during the pandemic, we held training sessions online. We always take feedback from the investigating officers to know the areas where they need more skill enhancement,” said Mr. Mishra.  The police said the accused in multicrore Ponzi schemes, like Bike Boat and Hello Taxi, were arrested from outside Delhi. They were some of the biggest Ponzi schemes being operated in Delhi-NCR. “The court is also very strict in cases where the investors are cheated and the accused get bail only when he/she settles the matter with the cheated investors. We also ensure that investigations in the cases finish within a given time period,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tightening-the-noose-on-white-collar-frauds/article33428440.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||One killed, two rescued after fire breaks out at mask factory||A 45-year-old man died while two persons were rescued after a fire broke out at a mask manufacturing factory in west Delhi’s Mayapuri on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said the deceased has been identified as Yugal Kishore. A Delhi Fire Services official said that a call was received at 3.54 a.m. regarding the fire in a factory in Mayapuri Phase-I after which six fire tenders were rushed to the site. “The fire broke out on the third floor of the factory where machines and raw materials were kept and the area was as big as 200 square yards. A total of three persons were found inside the premises and they were rescued. One of them was unconscious and was rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital,” the fire official said, adding that the man was declared brought dead at the hospital. The two rescued were identified as Aman Ansari (18) and Feroz Ansari (24). The police said that a case has been registered and further investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-killed-two-rescued-after-fire-breaks-out-at-mask-factory/article33428433.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Vandalism-proof’ police beat booth installed at India Gate||A ‘modern and vandalism-proof’ police beat booth was installed at India Gate on Saturday. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Eish Singhal said that the booth has unique features and is also water, dust and fire proof. The police said that the booth is solar energy-enabled, having storage capacity for 10 hours. It also has remote Wi-Fi capability for digital display of informative and awareness messages on LED panels installed on the top, as well as a public announcement system. “The cabin is also equipped with extreme weather regulator for maintaining ideal temperature, a movable wardrobe, first-aid facility for emergencies and public facilitation desk for public interface,” he said. The police said the model beat box will enhance the image of Delhi Police and also provide a comfortable environment in extreme weather conditions to police personnel manning it. Public outreach Mr. Singhal said that this booth is an attempt at public outreach and that the look of the booth is such that people will be able to see it from a distance and approach police personnel easily. The police said the model booth, which was inaugurated by Special Commissioner of Police Satish Golcha, has been installed at India Gate because it attracts visitors from across the globe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vandalism-proof-police-beat-booth-installed-at-india-gate/article33428437.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||Can clear CM’s doubts on farm laws: Tiwari||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari on Saturday invited Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to his residence, offering to clear his “doubts” and explain to him the benefits of the Centre’s three controversial farm laws. The North East Delhi MP tweeted the offer a day after Mr. Kejriwal alleged that the laws will not benefit farmers in any way and, instead, harm their interests. Farmers benefit “Delhi CM @ArvindKejriwal ji, you do not allow anyone to enter your house and do not meet the public representatives sitting outside, let me invite you to come to our government residence on 27 December 3 pm - I will tell you the benefits of agricultural law in front of the media. lets do constructive politics for farmers benefit,” Mr. Tiwari tweeted. Reacting to PM Narendra Modi’s address to farmers on Friday, Mr. Kejriwal had questioned how the farm laws would benefit them. “BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what will be the benefit? They say that now the farmer will be able to sell the crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold for half the price? How did this “benefit” happen? The truth is that there are a lot of harm from these laws and not a single benefit,” the CM had tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/can-clear-cms-doubts-on-farm-laws-tiwari/article33428435.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||New laws will empower, strengthen farmers: BJP||The BJP on Saturday organised a Kisan Mahapanchayat in support of the three farm laws at Ghevra Mod, a few kilometres from the farmers’ blockade at west Delhi’s Tikri border here. Addressed by National Secretary and Delhi BJP co-incharge Alka Gurjar and Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, the programme sought to inform attendees, including city farmers, about the “positive changes” the three laws would bring to farmers. “The three new laws are a historic step towards strengthening and empowering the ‘ annadata ’. They will give rights to farmers who are being suppressed by middlemen for years. The contract will only be for crops and not for land; only the farmer will have the right to grow crops in the field,” Ms. Gurjar said. The laws, she also said, would give farmers the opportunity to increase the quality of farming by connecting to technology which would also increase the quantity of their product. Mr. Bidhuri said that agricultural production had increased during the tenure of the Modi government and farmers had been given good prices for their crops. “Under the farm Acts, the MSP will continue, the mandis will expand but due to political ambition, the Opposition parties are opposing these laws,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/new-laws-will-empower-strengthen-farmers-bjp/article33428429.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Declared guilty in 2013, Bangladeshi man held||A 40-year-old man from Bangladesh who was sentenced to death and was living in India illegally has been arrested, the police said on Saturday. Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Shibesh Singh said that the man has been identified as Masum, a resident of Bagirhat in Bangladesh who was living in India since 2010 and was involved in many criminal cases. The police said that the accused and his accomplices kidnapped a man from his shop in 2005 and killed him later. In 2013, they were sentenced to death after being declared guilty of the crime. The police said that he had come to India in 2010 through a broker and had started living in Bangalore where he got married and started a business of scrap which eventually grew. “Some persons known to him reside in Seemapuri and Sangam Vihar in Delhi whom he used to come to meet,” Mr Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/declared-guilty-in-2013-bangladeshi-man-held/article33428428.ece
27 December 2020||Fatehgarh Sahib (Punjab),||Ex-MP quits BJP over farmers’ issue||Former MP Harinder Singh Khalsa on Saturday quit the Bharatiya Janata Party accusing its leadership of having an indifferent attitude towards farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws. Mr. Khalsa won the Fatehgarh Sahib Lok Sabha seat in 2014 as an AAP candidate but had been suspended from the party for his alleged anti-party activities. He joined BJP in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ex-mp-quits-bjp-over-farmers-issue/article33428449.ece
27 December 2020||GURURGARM,||AIDWA questions Haryana move to give honorarium to sports awardees||All-India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) national vice-president and Bhim Awardee Jagmati Sangwan on Saturday said the context in which the Haryana government had announced honorarium to national and State sports awardees seemed “suspicious” and appeared to be a “bribe” to the sportspersons to keep mum on the farmers’ agitation. “After a large number of sportspersons from Punjab announced their intention to return their honours, it was only natural that Haryana sportspersons would also join hands. Ever since boxer Vijender Singh and Ashan Singh Sangwan announced that they would return their honours if the government didn’t accept the farmers’ demands, the Haryana government has been perturbed. This increased honorarium seems like an effort to stop this growing tirade against the present regime,” said Ms. Sangwan. She added that the disparity in the amounts announced for the State and national awardees also indicated a desire to appease the bigger names more. ‘Timing suspicious’ “The previous government under the chief ministership of Bhupender Singh Hooda had started the process of offering these honorariums. The present timing of this announcement is very suspicious and will be seen as a bribe to not open one’s mouth against the anti-farmer policies of this government,” Ms. Sangwan alleged. She called upon all sportspersons from Haryana to decline the offer in one voice. “How can we forget that the road to these awards and honours run through our fields? Let us not lose this opportunity to show our solidarity with and respect towards our farmers,” said Ms. Sangwan. The Haryana Chief Minister had on Friday announced the increase of honorarium to Arjuna, Dronacharya and Dhyan Chand awardees from Rs. 5,000 per month to Rs. 20,000 per month with effect from January 1, 2021. The move will benefit 80 Arjuna, 15 Dronacharya and nine Dhyan Chand awardees. It has also been decided that Bhim awardees will receive an honorarium of Rs. 5000 per month. This decision will benefit 130 Bhim Awardees of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aidwa-questions-haryana-move-to-give-honorarium-to-sports-awardees/article33428451.ece
27 December 2020||Mumbai,||MIDC land case: ED sends notice to Eknath Khadse||Months after he quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to join the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Eknath Khadse has now been served a notice by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to appear for inquiry in Mumbai on December 30 in a case related to a land in Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation area in Pune. Mr. Khadse, was the Revenue minister in the Devendra Fadnavis government when he resigned in 2016 after allegations over misuse of his position in a land purchased by his wife and son-in-law. “Yes, I have received a notice from the ED. Do you really think I am going get scared by such notices? Do you really think, I was not anticipating some dirty tricks?” Mr. Khadse said speaking to The Hindu from Jalgaon. Interestingly, Mr. Khadse, while joining the NCP, had expressed the possibility of ED notices being served to him. “If you are going unleash ED on me, then I am going to project CDs,” he had warned BJP leaders, hinting that he held evidence against the wrongdoings of the BJP state unit leaders. The former minister has been probed by Nashik and Pune units of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) by the previous BJP government. A Zoting Committee too was set up by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to probe allegations of land grab in this case against Mr. Khadse. As a BJP MLA, Mr. Khadse had repeatedly demanded that the committee report be made public, which according to his aides gave him a clean chit. However this demand was not accepted. “I am well-prepared to appear in front of any committee or probe agency. I have faced inquiries before and I am ready to face them again,” said Mr. Khadse, who will be reaching Mumbai on Sunday night. The NCP reacted strongly to this development and said people have realised the ED’s game. “ED is being unleashed on political opponents by the BJP. Eknath Khadse is capable of dealing with such notices and was aware that such a thing will happen,” said senior NCP leader and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/midc-land-case-ed-sends-notice-to-eknath-khadse/article33428367.ece
27 December 2020||Mumbai,||ATS to probe Himachal drug trail||A team from the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has gone to Himachal Pradesh to probe the supply chain of a drugs racket, which was unearthed by the Pune railway police following the seizure of charas worth Rs. 1 crore, an official said on Saturday. The Railway Police last week had arrested two people from Himachal Pradesh for alleged possession of 34 kg of charas at Pune station. During the investigation, it came to light that the arrested accused were in Pune to distribute the drug during New Year celebrations in Goa, Mumbai and other cities, the ATS official said. It was also found that the narcotic substance was being supplied regularly from Himachal Pradesh to Maharashtra and other States, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ats-to-probe-himachal-drug-trail/article33428359.ece
27 December 2020||Mumbai,||Farmers from State reach Delhi border||A group of farmers from Maharashtra on Saturday joined protesters at one of the borders of Delhi, an All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) leader said and added that they have expressed willingness to discuss issues with the government but wanted certain clauses from the three farm laws removed. Thousands of farmers from Maharashtra had left for Delhi from Nashik earlier this week in vehicles to join the ongoing agitation seeking the repeal of the legislations. “We received a rousing welcome at Shahjahanpur border. Farmers sitting on protests here welcomed us and thanked us for joining them,” secretary of Maharashtra unit of All India Kisan Sabha, Ajit Navle, said in a statement. He said that farmers have expressed willingness to discuss their issues with the government, “but we want some clauses in the recenty-passed laws, which do not protect the interests of farmers, removed”. Cultivators from 21 districts in Maharashtra had joined the “vehicle march” to Delhi led by AIKS leaders. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and the protesting farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have failed to break the ongoing impasse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-from-state-reach-delhi-border/article33428361.ece
27 December 2020||Nagpur,||Gadkari credits sanskar of RSS stalwarts for success||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said the sanskar and lessons learnt from stalwart leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) helped him succeed in his political life. He was writing a book on the value system of the RSS and its “karya-paddhati” (working methodology) and how it can impact corporate and management sectors, the senior BJP leader said. Mr. Gadkari was speaking at the Yeshwantrao Kelkar Yuva Award program at the 66th national convention of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of RSS, here. Journalists in India and abroad ask him how he was able to execute big infrastructure projects successfully, the Union Road Transport Minister said. “I am neither engineer and techno savvy nor was I a genius or brilliant student. I ask them (journalists) do you know the RSS, its ideology, its style of functioning?” he said. He got the opportunity to work closely with Sangh leaders of the past such as Yeshwantrao Kelkar, Dattopant Thengdi and Bhaurao Deoras, Mr. Gadkari said, describing them as geniuses. “The success I achieved is certainly due to the sanskar (lessons on values) received from the ABVP and RSS and these leaders,” he said. “For the last few months, I am trying to put into book the sanskar and working methodology learned from Yeshwantrao Kelkar, Dattopant Thengdi and Bhaurao Deoras. (On) How can this working methodology can impact the working in corporate and management sectors,” the Union Minister said.Manish Kumar, who is working on organic farming, was awarded the Kelkar award by Mr. Gadkari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gadkari-credits-sanskar-of-rss-stalwarts-for-success/article33428362.ece
27 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Five who stole cigarettes from Customs godown arrested||Nhava Sheva police has arrested five members of a gang who stole Gudang Garam cigarettes worth Rs. 4.19 crore, from the godown of customs department. The customs department had seized the cigarettes in February 2019 at JNPT port a year and stored them in a godown of Speedy CFS in Sonari village, Uran. Of the stolen stock, cigarettes worth about Rs. 1.70 crore were seized from the five. “The theft occurred between February 5 and December 8. On December 11, the customs department opened the godown to destroy the seized cigarettes and that is when they learnt about the missing boxes. The cigarettes were beyond there expiry date and could pose a threat to the health of the people who would consume it. Hence the team had been trying to trace the accused on priority,” said Shivraj Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone 2. During investigations senior inspector of police Pramod Jadhav from Nhava Sheva and his team found that a Custom House Agent (CHA) was involved in the theft. He was arrested from Pune on December 13. His accomplices were arrested from Nerul, Dongri, Mazgaon and Ghatkopar. “Most of the cigarettes have been sold. We are trying to trace two more people wanted in the case,” Mr. Patil said. The arrested accused have been remanded to magisterial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/five-who-stole-cigarettes-from-customs-godown-arrested/article33428363.ece
27 December 2020||Raina Assainar Navi Mumbai,||Contact us, NMMC chief requests flyers from U.K.||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has urged those people who have flown in from the United Kingdom, especially after November 25, to get in touch with them. “We request anyone who flew in from the U.K. within the last 28 days to get in touch with us. We have a list of people who have come in after November 25 and they are being contacted by us. But as responsible citizens, they should not wait for us to contact them,” said NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar. The NMMC will conduct their RT-PCR test.  The NMMC has received a list of 84 passengers, forwarded by Thane Collector after getting it from the airport authorities, who returned from the U.K. of whom 43 have been tested. “On Thursday, we tested 23 people all of whose reports were negative. On Friday 20 others were tested and their reports are awaited,” Assistant Municipal Commissioner Sanjay Kakade said. The NMMC can be contacted at special toll free numbers 1800222309 and 1800222310.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/contact-us-nmmc-chief-requests-flyers-from-uk/article33428358.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Goodbye corona||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/goodbye-corona/article33428365.ece
27 December 2020||London,||Britain and EU release full text of post-Brexit trade deal||Britain and the European Union on Saturday published the full text of the post-Brexit trade agreement aimed at governing their relationship when the U.K. definitively leaves the bloc’s single market in just five days’ time. The document, which is more than 1,200 pages long, lays out detail on trade, law enforcement and dispute settlement among other arrangements between Britain and the EU after the U.K. leaves the single market and customs union on December 31. In the foreward to the copy of the text published by the U.K. government, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the agreement had been “carefully judged to benefit everyone” and preserve “free trade for millions of people in the United Kingdom and across Europe”. “While we made our fair share of compromises during the negotiations, we never wavered from the goal of restoring national sovereignty,” he added. Senior U.K. government Minister Michael Gove wrote in The Times newspaper that Thursday’s agreement would allow Britain to bring “innovation and investment to parts of the country that have endured economic decline”. He added there were still “significant changes” to be prepared for by businesses in the short term. To ratify the deal, Britain’s Parliament has been recalled to sit on December 30. U.K.’s main opposition Labour Party said its MPs would back it. In Brussels, the European Commission has proposed the agreement be applied on a provisional basis until 28 February. The European Parliament will be asked for its consent to the deal in 2021 and for the process to be concluded the Council, which brings together the executives of all 27 member states, must adopt the decision. The EU has offered Britain unprecedented tariff- and quota-free access to its single market of 450 million consumers. But it has in return secured London's commitment to respect its always-evolving rules in some areas such as environmental protection, labour regulation and tax, aiming to avoid Britain undercutting companies inside the bloc. The U.K. has also signed up to guarantees that it will not abuse state aid to firms to seek an unfair advantage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/britain-and-eu-release-full-text-of-post-brexit-trade-deal/article33428025.ece
27 December 2020||Paris,||As new virus strain spreads, EU begins vaccine rollout||Hungary started vaccinating healthcare workers against the coronavirus with the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday, upsetting the European Union’s plans for a coordinated rollout of the first shots across the 27-nation bloc on Sunday. The first shipments of the vaccine arrived at hospitals across the EU in super-cold containers late Friday and early Saturday after being sent from a manufacturing center in Belgium before Christmas. It was not immediately clear why Hungarian authorities began their vaccinations a day early. Authorities in Slovakia also announced that they planned to begin administering their first doses on Saturday evening. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen released a video celebrating the vaccine rollout, calling it “a touching moment of unity.” Today, we start turning the page on a difficult year. The COVID-19 vaccine has been delivered to all EU countries. Vaccination will begin tomorrow across the EU,” she said. Coordinated effort The rollout marks a moment of hope for a region that includes some of the world’s earliest and worst-hit virus hotspots, including Italy and Spain, and others, like the Czech Republic, that were spared the worst early on only to see their health care systems near their breaking points in the fall. Altogether, the 27 EU member States have seen at least 16 million cases of the coronavirus and more than 3,36,000 deaths. The vaccine rollout will help the bloc project a sense of unity in a complex mission after it faced a year of difficulties in negotiating a post-Brexit trade deal with Britain. It also brings a sigh of relief for EU politicians who were frustrated after Britain, Canada and the U.S. began their vaccination programmes earlier this month. Priority for elderly The first doses, however, are limited just under 10,000 doses in most countries, with the mass vaccination programmes expected to begin only in January. Each country is deciding on its own who will get the first shots — but they are all putting the most vulnerable first. French authorities said they will prioritise the elderly, based on the high impact on older populations in previous virus surges in France. The French medical safety agency will monitor for eventual problems. Germany, where the pandemic has cost more than 30,000 lives, will begin with those over 80 and people who take care of vulnerable groups. Spanish authorities said that the first batch of the coronavirus vaccine to reach the country had arrived in the central city of Guadalajara — where the first shots will be administered on Sunday morning at a nursing home. In Italy, which has Europe’s worst virus death toll at over 71,000 people, a nurse in Rome at Spallanzani Hospital, the main infectious diseases facility in the capital, will be the first in the country to receive the vaccine, followed by other health personnel. In Poland, the first two people to be vaccinated on Sunday will be a nurse and a doctor at the Interior Ministry hospital in Warsaw, followed by medical personnel in dozens of other hospitals. In Bulgaria, where suspicions also run high, the first person to get the shot will be Health Minister Kostadin Angelov, who has promised an aggressive campaign to promote the benefits of the shots. In Croatia, where the first batch of 9,750 vaccines arrived on Saturday, a care home resident in Zagreb, the capital, will be the first to receive the vaccine on Sunday morning, according to state HRT TV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-new-virus-strain-spreads-eu-begins-vaccine-rollout/article33428029.ece
27 December 2020||Washington,||Major blast hits Nashville after bomb warning||A huge blast tore through a section of downtown Nashville early on Friday, after police responding to reports of gunfire discovered a parked motorhome blaring a warning that it carried a bomb. The powerful explosion shattered windows and ripped apart trees, wounding several people when it detonated at 6.30 a.m. (1230 GMT) in a section of the southern U.S. city that was largely deserted due the Christmas Day holiday. Police chief John Drake said there were no confirmed fatalities, but authorities were examining tissue found at the blast site that they believe could be human remains. He added the city — known as a hub for American country music — had not received any threats, and a possible motive for the attack was unknown. The explosion could be felt miles away and damaged dozens of businesses — scattering glass, debris and bricks as well as provoking the collapse of one building in an area with numerous bars, restaurants and shops. In a dramatic sequence of events that shattered the Christmas morning calm, police rushed to the area after getting reports of gunshots and noticed the vehicle as they arrived on the scene. A recorded message playing from the motorhome warned that a bomb would detonate within 15 minutes — enough time for a bomb squad to clear the area before the explosion, Mr. Drake told reporters. Witnesses told the Tennessean newspaper the warning, spoken in a woman’s voice, counted down to the blast. “Evacuate now. There is a bomb. A bomb is in this vehicle and will explode,” one recalled the chilling recording saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/major-blast-hits-nashville-after-bomb-warning/article33428033.ece
27 December 2020||MOSCOW,||U.K.-Soviet double agent George Blake dies at 98||George Blake, who died in Russia on Saturday at the age of 98, was the last in a line of British spies whose secret work for the Soviet Union humiliated the intelligence establishment when it was discovered at the height of the Cold War. Britain says he exposed the identities of hundreds of Western agents across Eastern Europe in the 1950s, some of whom were executed as a result of his treason. His case was among the most notorious of the Cold War, alongside those of a separate ring of British double agents known as the Cambridge Five. Unmasked as a Soviet spy in 1961, Blake was sentenced to 42 years in London's Wormwood Scrubs prison. He escaped in 1966 with the help of other inmates and two peace activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-soviet-double-agent-george-blake-dies-at-98/article33428027.ece
27 December 2020||WASHINGTON,||Judge delays execution of woman on death row||A federal judge said the Justice Department unlawfully rescheduled the execution of the only woman on federal death row, potentially setting up the Trump administration to schedule the execution after President-elect Joe Biden takes office. U.S. District Court Judge Randolph Moss also vacated an order from the director of the Bureau of Prisons that had set Lisa Montgomery’s execution date for January 12. Montgomery had previously been scheduled to be put to death at the Federal Correctional Complex in Terre Haute, Indiana, this month, but Justice Moss delayed the execution after her attorneys contracted coronavirus visiting their client and asked him to extend the amount of time to file a clemency petition. Justice Moss prohibited the Bureau of Prisons from carrying out Lisa Montgomery’s execution before the end of the year and officials rescheduled her execution date for January 12. But Justice Moss ruled on Wednesday that the agency was also prohibited from rescheduling the date while a stay was in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/judge-delays-execution-of-woman-on-death-row/article33428031.ece
27 December 2020||London,||U.K. scientists explore drug for COVID-19||Scientists in the U.K. have begun trials of innovative antibody drug treatments that they hope could provide instant protection against COVID-19. The University College London Hospitals NHS Trust (UCLH) said that the researchers in the Storm Chase study believe a Long Acting AntiBody (LAAB) known as AZD7442, developed by AstraZeneca, may offer immediate and long-term protection to people who have been recently exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 and prevent them from developing COVID-19. The study, led by Dr Catherine Houlihan, recruited the first participant in the world to the study earlier this month and has recruited 10 participants since then. UCLH said its new vaccine research centre is running two clinical trials to protect against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-scientists-explore-drug-for-covid-19/article33428036.ece
27 December 2020||Mali,||French soldier in Mali shoots two others in drunken fight||A French soldier deployed to Mali as part of the Barkhane force fighting jihadist insurgents has wounded two of his comrades with a pistol under the influence of alcohol. “Two soldiers from the same unit were getting on each other’s nerves. One soldier wounded two of his comrades with his service weapon,” the Army said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/french-soldier-in-mali-shoots-two-others-in-drunken-fight/article33428030.ece
27 December 2020||Tripoli,||Turkish defence minister in Libya to discuss cooperation||Turkey’s Defence Minister Hulusi Akar made a surprise trip to Libya on Saturday, two days after strongman Khalifa Haftar urged his fighters to drive out Turkish forces from the country. Turkey said Mr. Akar would inspect Turkish forces in Libya during the visit, while Libyan officials said talks would focus on military ties between Tripoli and Ankara.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turkish-defence-minister-in-libya-to-discuss-cooperation/article33428035.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rule of 1% GST liability payable in cash may impact 45,000 units||The mandatory requirement of 1% cash payment of GST liability effective January 1 would be applicable to about 45,000 taxpayers, Revenue Department sources said on Saturday. This comes to only 0.37% of the total businesses registered in the Goods and Services Tax system, they added. To curb tax evasion by way of fake invoicing, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) had recently made it mandatory for businesses with monthly turnover of more than Rs. 50 lakh to pay at least 1% of their GST liability in cash. The new rule restricts use of input tax credit (ITC) for discharging GST liability to 99% effective January 1, 2021. However, this restriction will not apply in cases where the managing director or any partner has paid more than Rs. 1 lakh as income tax or the registered person has received a refund amount of more than Rs. 1 lakh in the preceding financial year on account of unutilised input tax credit. Sources said data analysis showed that of the total GST taxpayer base of 1.2 crore, only about 4 lakh have monthly supply value greater than Rs. 50 lakh. Of these, only about 1.5 lakh pay less than 1% of their GST liability in cash. “When exclusions in the rule are applied, around 1.05 lakh taxpayers get further excluded from these 1.5 lakh taxpayers. Thus, the rule would apply only to 40,000 to 45,000 taxpayers,” sources said.  The CBIC has booked about 12,000 cases of ITC fraud and arrested 365 persons in such cases so far. In the last 6 weeks alone, more than 165 fraudsters have been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rule-of-1-gst-liability-payable-in-cash-may-impact-45000-units/article33428008.ece
27 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Demand for home-relocation, storage services rising due to WFH trends’||Work-From-Home (WFH) norms and the preference to move to hometowns — to save on rent or to seek alternative sources of livelihood amid the COVID-19 pandemic — has led to a spurt in demand for relocation and storage services, said Anjani Kumar Agarwal, CEO, Agarwal Packers and Movers (DRS Group, Hyderabad). “Although there was no activity in the initial period of the lockdown, the real action started from August with the easing of lockdown. WFH has been driving the relocation business over the last three months,” he said. “During the pandemic, people have realised the importance of owning a house and many of them also temporarily moved homes to other towns and cities. The need for hygiene and safety measures during the pandemic has moved some of the relocation business from unorganised to organised players as we have pre-defined safety measures and undertake audits,” he added. He said the company had also seen more demand for storage solutions and capitalised on the opportunity. Secure storage “We have seen a massive increase in storage solutions usage in the last few months. Some individuals are moving back to their hometowns, pushing up demand for storage solutions, where household items and other belongings are stocked securely in warehouses for a desired period at a nominal rental cost,” he said. “We are witnessing an increase in usage by 25% during the last couple of months, indicating the trend is here to stay. Some of our patrons have been from banking, defence, ITeS, and public sector,” Mr. Agarwal added. Generally, 80% of the relocation business comes from defence, ITeS, PSU and private sector employees moving from one city to another following transfers. Now, the work-from-home trend is driving the business, according to the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/demand-for-home-relocation-storage-services-rising-due-to-wfh-trends/article33428006.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to become fifth-largest economy in 2025: think tank||India, which appears to have been pushed back to being the world’s sixth-biggest economy in 2020, will again overtake the U.K. to become the fifth-largest in 2025 and race to the third spot by 2030, a think tank said on Saturday. India had overtaken the U.K. in 2019 to become the fifth-largest economy. “India has been knocked off course somewhat through the impact of the pandemic. As a result, after overtaking the U.K. in 2019, the U.K. overtakes India again in this year’s forecasts and stays ahead till 2024 before India takes over again,” the Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR) said in an annual report published on Saturday. The U.K. appears to have overtaken India again during 2020 as a result of the weakness of the rupee, it said. CEBR forecast that the Indian economy would expand by 9% in 2021 and by 7% in 2022. “Growth will naturally slow as India becomes more economically developed, with annual GDP growth expected to sink to 5.8% in 2035.” Indian would overtake “Germany in 2027 and Japan in 2030,” it said. The U.K.-based think tank forecast that China would overtake the U.S. to become the world’s biggest economy in 2028, five years earlier than estimated due to the contrasting recoveries of the two countries from the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-to-become-fifth-largest-economy-in-2025-think-tank/article33428010.ece
27 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Year 2021 to see massive digital acceleration: HCL Tech||Technology service companies are seeing strong interest across sectors to invest and capitalise on the opportunities created through faster cloud migration, cybersecurity, blockchain, analytics and Internet of Things-based solutions and managed services, according to HCL Technologies. “The year 2021 will see massive digital acceleration across all sectors. COVID-19 has proven that technology can be the single greatest factor in enabling businesses to survive and thrive,’’ said the company. Sectors such as energy, manufacturing and auto may see slower recovery while others such as technology, telecom, life sciences and financial services would continue to record strong growth, it said. Additionally, sectors heavily impacted by the pandemic, such as retail and hospitality are in the process of transforming and redefining their business models and customer engagement for ‘zero-touch’ interactions, by leveraging conversational AI, analytics and numerous digital innovations, as per the company. In its outlook, the firm said the COVID-19 pandemic had been responsible for a year of uncertainty and fear across the world, yet the tech sector as a whole, and tech services in particular, had been able to manage through the turbulence and will emerge stronger overall. Global IT companies, including those of Indian origin, are experiencing business recovery and strengthening outlook as clients seek and shift their investments to more technology and automation to drive their businesses forward, enable remote working and ensure that their data is secure, the firm added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/year-2021-to-see-massive-digital-acceleration-hcl-tech/article33428001.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Pandemic revived demand for nanotech protection’||The Luxor Group has expanded the scope of its business by unveiling nanotechnology-based products for long-term protection in the health and hygiene space under the brand Luxor Nano. Pooja Jain Gupta , MD, says the firm would make a difference in this segment as it did with writing products. Excerpts from an interview:  What is the thought behind nanotechnology products? The concept was envisioned by my late father D.K. Jain. He dreamed of making India a cleaner and healthier country by bringing in nanotechnology products for long- term protection against bacteria. He had thought about these products in 2008 and had engaged scientists. We had discussed the broad strategy but back then it was very complex. Bringing about a habit change in the end consumer was an uphill task. Having realised that altering consumer habit would be an uphill task, we put this project on the back burner. We recently revived the project as the pandemic had created fear in the minds of consumers who were now looking for enhanced safety and protection, creating a much stronger need for this category. We were convinced that our products would make a difference. What are your plans in the nanotechnology space? We have already introduced five products in the category of ‘All in One’ disinfectants for hard and soft surfaces with long-lasting protection and also some products in the ‘Protection On the Go’ category which are convenient sizes of hand sanitisers and disinfectants that can be carried by people of all ages at all times. The investment has been around Rs. 50 crore, including in R&D. We have partnered with a German company. We plan to introduce more product categories for home and personal hygiene. What is your target? We plan to make Luxor Nano a Rs. 100-crore revenue business in the four years. We have introduced it through the digital route but with our strong distribution network we will cater to the entire country by next year. Luxor Nano will also foray into international markets. What is unique about these products? Luxor Nano is based on nanotechnology wherein molecular structures are conducted at nanoscale metres Extremely small particles bind together to create a layer of impregnation on any surface protecting it from bacteria, viruses and dust particles. Luxor Nano will be bringing in technology for long-term protection.  We plan to make Luxor Nano a Rs. 100-cr. revenue business over four years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-revived-demand-for-nanotech-protection/article33428004.ece
27 December 2020||MUMBAI,||SEBI appoints ex-CEC as observer for FTMF voting||The Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has appointed Taruvai Subayya Krishnamurthy, former Chief Election Commissioner of India, as observer for the process of e-voting by unitholders of six schemes of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund. Voting is scheduled to take place between December 26 and December 29, it said in a statement. The Supreme Court had December 9 directed SEBI to appoint an observer for the e-voting and had asked for the results of the e-voting to be produced before it in a sealed cover, along with the report of the observer appointed by the SEBI. In a statement, SEBI said Mr. Krishnamurthy had been appointed on December 18 as observer. SEBI has also constituted a technical assistance team comprising B.N. Sahoo, CGM, SEBI; Nayana Ovalekar, COO, Central Depository Services Ltd.; K. Sriram, practising company secretary and Scrutiniser; and M. Krishna and Ch E. Sai Prasad, Assistant Directors of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad, to assist the observer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-appoints-ex-cec-as-observer-for-ftmf-voting/article33428013.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||’Rajasthan may borrow Rs. 2,731 cr. more’||The Finance Ministry on Saturday said it had permitted Rajasthan to borrow an additional Rs. 2,731 crore after the State successfully undertook ease-of-doing-business reforms. Rajasthan joined five others — Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana — that have completed the reform to be eligible for additional borrowing. The six States have been granted permission for additional borrowing of Rs. 19,459 crore. Ease of doing business is indicative of the investment-friendly business climate. The Centre had in May decided to link grant of additional borrowing approval to States that undertake these reforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rajasthan-may-borrow-rs-2731-cr-more/article33428002.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||DLF arm to buy out Hines in Gurugram unit for Rs. 780 crore||Realty major DLF’s rental arm DCCDL has agreed to acquire the entire 52% stake of U.S.-based Hines in a premium commercial project in Gurugram for Rs. 780 crore. In a regulatory filing, DLF said its joint venture firm DLF Cyber City Developers Ltd. (DCCDL) had “entered into a securities purchase agreement with funds managed by Hines for acquisition of their stake in Fairleaf Real Estate, which owns and operates ‘One Horizon Center’.” DCCDL is a joint venture firm of DLF and Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund GIC. DLF holds 66.66% stake in DCCDL while GIC has the rest. “The purchase consideration for this acquisition is approximately Rs. 780 crore, subject to customary closing adjustments,” DLF said.  ‘Income of Rs. 150-160 cr.’ The commercial tower ‘One Horizon Center’ has a leasable area of about 8,13,000 sq. ft. The acquisition is expected to be completed in the next quarter. DLF’s MD-Rental Business, Sriram Khattar, said, “We will fund this acquisition from internal accruals and bank loans.” The deal is likely to be completed by February, he said, adding that the firm would get an additional annual rental income of Rs. 150-160 crore after this deal is concluded. Market sources said the deal had been struck at an enterprise value of Rs. 2,000 crore. The project has debt of Rs. 500 crore. Post acquisition, DCCDL will have 34 million sq. ft of operational rental portfolio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dlf-arm-to-buy-out-hines-in-gurugram-unit-for-rs-780-crore/article33428011.ece
27 December 2020||Melbourne,||India bounces back from Adelaide debacle||A resilient India bounced back from an embarrassing first Test debacle to bundle out Australia for just 195 and take a grip on the second Test in Melbourne after a riveting opening day on Saturday. After their horror show in Adelaide last week, where they lost by eight wickets and were skittled out for 36 in their second innings, the tourists were desperate to start well. And they delivered after Australia captain Tim Paine won the toss and chose to bat in front of 27,615 socially-distanced fans, just short of the maximum allowed under coronavirus restrictions at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Tough going On a pitch offering turn and bounce, the hosts found it hard going against a high-quality attack led by Jasprit Bumrah (4/56), Ravi Ashwin (3/35) and impressive debutant Mohammed Siraj (2/40). Marnus Labuschagne top-scored with 48. It left India openers Shubman Gill, also on debut, and Mayank Agarwal needing to negotiate 40 minutes at the end of the day. Mayank was trapped lbw by a Mitchell Starc inswinger in the first over. Gill was dropped on five by Labuschagne,. but otherwise looked comfortable, smacking five boundaries to reach 28 and help steer India to 36 for one at close with the experienced Cheteshwar Pujara unbeaten on seven. With Ajinkya Rahane captaining in place of Virat Kohli, who has returned home for the birth of his first child, India got off to a perfect start, getting Burns (0), Matthew Wade (30) and Smith (0) before lunch. It left Australia in trouble but Labuschagne rode his luck, surviving two review decisions, to lead a recovery, putting on 86 with Travis Head (38). Head had a nervous start but grew in confidence before Bumrah enticed an edge which carried to Rahane at gully. Labuschagne looked set for a ninth half-century but a brilliant catch by Gill ended his vigil and handed Siraj his first Test wicket. All-rounder Cameron Green ground out 12 before he too fell to Siraj, then an excellent catch by Hanuma Vihari off Ashwin accounted for Paine (13). Nathan Lyon hit a cameo 20 but Australia’s tail otherwise failed to wag. Wade started finding the gaps before attempting a big hit off Ashwin, which proved his downfall for 30. Ravindra Jadeja took the catch, but only just with Gill also underneath it. The pair collided but Jadeja managed to hang on. Ashwin then claimed the crucial scalp of Smith, who was undone by an off-break with Pujara holding a catch at slip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-bounces-back-from-adelaide-debacle/article33427986.ece
27 December 2020||Mount Maunganui,||Williamson drops anchor||An unbeaten 94 by a gritty Kane Williamson had New Zealand at 222 for three in the face of a concerted Pakistan attack at stumps on day one of the first Test here on Saturday. The Kiwi captain and Ross Taylor put on 120 runs for the third wicket. Henry Nicholls was the other not out batsman (on 42) as New Zealand recovered from 13 for two after Pakistan’s baby-faced pacer Shaheen Afridi removed openers Tom Latham and Tom Blundell cheaply on a green, seaming wicket. Meanwhile, injured opener Imam-ul-Haq has been ruled out of the second Test due and will return home on Sunday, the Pakistan Cricket Board said in Karachi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/williamson-drops-anchor/article33428016.ece
27 December 2020||Leicester,||Leicester ends Manchester United’s away streak||Leicester City came back twice to end Manchester United’s away winning streak in the Premier League with a 2-2 draw at the King Power stadium on Saturday. A Jamie Vardy shot which deflected off United defender Axel Tuanzebe, five minutes from the end, secured a point for Brendan Rodgers’ side after Bruno Fernandes appeared to have secured another victory on the road for United. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side, which had won its last ten away games in the Premier League, stays third on 27 points, a point behind second-placed Leicester. Liverpool is top of the standings on 31 points and has a chance to extend its lead when it faces West Bromwich Albion on Sunday.  Marcus Rashford had missed a wide-open header but put United ahead in the 23rd minute with a cool finish after being slipped in by Fernandes before Harvey Barnes equalised eight minutes later with a fine shot from the edge of the box. Well saved Rashford had a great chance to put United back in front on the hour but his powerful drive was well saved by the right hand of Kasper Schmeichel. Two minutes later Anthony Martial had an effort disallowed for offside but the influential Fernandes restored United’s lead in the 79th minute, drilling into the bottom corner after being found inside the area by substitute Edinson Cavani.  Again though, the lead was short-lived as Vardy’s first time shot on the half-turn from a low cross from Ayoze Perez, went in off Tuanzebe and earned a point for the Foxes. “Disappointed we didn’t win today because we had loads of big chances and we could’ve finished it off but they’re a dangerous side,” said Solskjaer.   The result: Leicester 2 (Barnes 31, Vardy 85) drew with Manchester United 2 (Rashford 23, Fernandes 79).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leicester-ends-manchester-uniteds-away-streak/article33427999.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Labuschagne lauds India’s bowling strategy||Australia’s Marnus Labuschagne appreciated the Indian bowlers’ strategy of stifling the batsmen with a leg-side field after his side was bowled out for 195 on Saturday. “In the modern game, people are coming up with new ways and thinking. They came with a leg-side field and bowled very straight, not giving us a scoring chance on the off-side,” said Labuschagne. The batsman also felt that some set batters, including himself, did not make use of the start. “We had three innocuous dismissals that we probably did not need and I think all were guys who were set in.” Still in the game The 26-year-old, however, felt the host is very much in the game citing how things unfolded in Adelaide where India squandered a first-innings lead to lose the Test. “We showed in the last game that it doesn’t matter how many you have, you are in the game.” Not an easy wicket When asked if Australia’s score was sub-par, Labuschagne felt the wicket was not easy to bat on. “You have to let both teams bat on the wicket. “This wicket had a little bit more seam and even swing, around the 50th over mark which you don’t see at the MCG at that time.” Commenting on pacer Mohammed Siraj’s performance, who hit him on the helmet early on in his innings, Labuschagne said, “He is a bit of swing bowler than a seam bowler. He got the ball to swing away from the left-hander Head and showed his skills, especially around the 60th over. We have to make sure we understand what they are trying to do and combat that.”  Watch the second Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy Live on Sony Ten 1, Ten 3 and Sony Six .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/labuschagne-lauds-indias-bowling-strategy/article33427993.ece
27 December 2020||Hyderabad:,||Conscious Gift for Crack Regiment Plate||L. D’ Silva-trainee Conscious Gift, who ran third in his last start, should make amends in the Crack Regiment Plate, the main event of Sunday’s (Dec. 27) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  GALACTICA PLATE (1,200m), Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.30 p.m.: 1. Ashwa Raudee (9) Trevor 56, 2. Baudelaire (5) Zervan 56, 3. Grand Duke (8) Nakhat Singh 56, 4. Indian Glory (3) Irvan Singh 56, 5. Paladino (10) Arshad Alam 56, 6. Special Effort (12) Surya Prakash 56, 7. Ashwa Pushkin (1) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 8. Galwan (2) Suraj Narredu 54.5, 9. Golden Amaris (6) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 10. Lifes Song (11) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 11. New Look (7) Ajit Singh 54.5 and 12. Southern Act (4) Kuldeep Singh 54.5.  1. GALWAN, 2. ASHWA RAUDEE,   3. LIFES SONG   ZURBARAN PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.00: 1. Amyra (6) Trevor 60, 2. Just Incredible (5) Suraj Narredu 58, 3. Lightning Pearl (16) Ajeeth Kumar 57, 4. Belle Springs (3) Arshad Alam 56, 5. Sterling King (12) Gaddam 55.5, 6. Echoes Of Heaven (9) Kuldeep Singh 55, 7. King Roger (4) Akshay Kumar 55, 8. Thunder Road (10) Gaurav Singh 55, 9. Greek Soul (1) Irvan Singh 54.5, 10. Turf Monarch (11) G. Naresh 54.5, 11. Blickfang (14) Md. Ismail 54, 12. Castlerock (7) Ashad Asbar 54, 13. Felix Flame (13) B.R. Kumar 53.5, 14. Star Dancer (8) Kiran Naidu 53.5, 15. Sugar An Spice (2) Jodha R S 53 and 16. Ice Berry (15) Jitendra Singh 51.5.  1. AMYRA, 2. CASTLEROCK,   3. JUST INCREDIBLE   SOLITAIRE PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.30: 1. Horus (6) Suraj Narredu 62.5, 2. Nova Scotia (9) Gaurav Singh 60.5, 3. Royal Pal (1) Nakhat Singh 59, 4. Platinum Classz (5) Afroz Khan 58.5, 5. That’s My King (2) Md. Ismail 55.5, 6. Healthandhappiness (7) Gopal Singh 54.5, 7. Farmville (3) Kuldeep Singh 53, 8. Shanu Shanu (10) Ajit Singh 52.5, 9. Sun Dancer (8) Arshad Alam 51.5 and 10. A Hundred Echoes (4) B.R. Kumar 50.  1. HORUS, 2. ROYAL PAL,   3. A HUNDRED ECHOES   ZURBARAN PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Maiden 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.00: 1. Aibak (10) Surya Prakash 60, 2. Crazy Horse (6) A.A. Vikrant 59, 3. Detonator (8) Jitendra Singh 57, 4. Saffron Art (15) Suraj Narredu 57, 5. Berkeley (3) Afroz Khan 56.5, 6. Golden Forza (5) Kiran Naidu 56.5, 7. Lamha (11) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 8. N R I Sun (12) Irvan Singh 56.5, 9. Look Of Love (7) Gaurav Singh 56, 10. Forever Bond (2) Ajeeth Kumar 55.5, 11. Certitude (1) Santosh Raj N R 55, 12. Mahavi (13) Ashad Asbar 55, 13. Art In Motion (16) Ajit Singh 54.5, 14. Melting Ice (9) Nakhat Singh 54, 15. Dillon (4) G. Naresh 53.5 and 16. Sweet Brandy (14) B.R. Kumar 51.5.  1. SAFFRON ART,   2. CRAZY HORSE,   3. AIBAK   SOLITAIRE PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.30: 1. Explosive (2) Irvan Singh 61.5, 2. Forever Splendour (4) Trevor 60, 3. Sublime (6) Gopal Singh 59, 4. Super Angel (3) Gaurav Singh 58, 5. Super Act (1) Gaddam 55, 6. Secret Command (7) Santosh Raj N R 54.5, 7. Diesis Dream (8) Arshad Alam 53.5, 8. That’s My Star (9) Md. Ismail 53 and 9. Royal Avenger (5) G.Naresh 51.  1. FOREVER SPLENDOUR,   2. EXPLOSIVE,   3. SUPER ANGEL   CRACK REGIMENT PLATE (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.00: 1. Her Legacy (4) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Meka’s (2) G. Naresh 60, 3. Marinetti (6) Kuldeep Singh 59.5, 4. King Maker (11) Surya Prakash 58, 5. Loch Stella (9) Jitendra Singh 58, 6. Apollo (14) Ashad Asbar 56, 7. Incredulous (1) A.A.Vikrant 55.5, 8. La Mer (7) Md. Ismail 55, 9. Ashwa Arjun (3) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 10. Conscious Gift (13) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 11. Wah Ms Zara (12) Irvan Singh 54, 12. Rhythm Selection (Ex. No Compromise) (10) Afroz Khan 53.5, 13. Sporting Smile (8) B.R. Kumar 53.5, 14. Flamingo Fame (5) Santosh Raj N R 52.5 and 15. Mind Reader (15) Nakhat Singh 52.5.  1. CONSCIOUS GIFT,   2. APOLLO,   3. WAH MS ZARA   ZURBARAN PLATE (Div. III) (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.30: 1. Chuckit (1) Irvan Singh 60, 2. Team Player (12) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 3. Lifetime (3) Ajeeth Kumar 58.5, 4. Peaky Blinders (6) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 5. Fashion Universe (5) Koushik 57.5, 6. Amaretto (10) Gaddam 57, 7. Charcoal (9) Ajit Singh 57, 8. Dead Centre (11) Jodha R S 57, 9. Grand Finale (8) A.A. Vikrant 57, 10. Machismo (Ex. Rathasapthami) (13) Gaurav Singh 57, 11. Twenty Twenty (2) Kuldeep Singh 57, 12. Beautiful Luv (7) Afroz Khan 56.5, 13. Kenya (14) Trevor 55.5, 14. Queen Blossom (4) Kiran Naidu 55.5 and 15. Moringa (15) Surya Prakash 55.  1. PEAKY BLINDERS,   2. CHUCKIT, 3. GRAND FINALE  Day’s best: AMYRA  Double: HORUS   — PEAKY BLINDERS  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Mini jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5, 6 & 7; Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7; Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/conscious-gift-for-crack-regiment-plate/article33428014.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Good interaction paid off: Bumrah||Jasprit Bumrah, who starred with four-wicket haul on Saturday, said good communication amongst the bowlers helped India seize the advantage on day one of the second Test. “We decided to help each other and have good communication with regards to how the wicket is changing and what the batsman is doing,” said Bumrah. Commenting on the game-plan of trying to squeeze the Australian batsmen with a heavy leg-side field, a ploy that came under praise from Marnus Labuschagne, Bumrah said “there was a constant discussion between the bowlers and the captain. The wicket got better to bat on after the first session as the moisture had dried out. “When there was less help, we tried to change the line and set fields accordingly.”  Explaining the strategy of using a spinner as the first-change, when R. Ashwin was introduced in the first hour of play, Bumrah said “there was some moisture on the wicket and you saw Ashwin and Jaddu (Ravindra Jadeja) get some spin. Ashwin was getting good bounce as well.” The 26-year-old pacer praised Siraj, who got the crucial wickets of Labuschagne and Cameron Green, for his efforts. “He was eager to bowl in the first session. When he started after lunch, there wasn’t a lot happening but he bowled with a lot of control. Then he started getting some movement and tried to make the best of it. “He had the confidence in using all his skills,” Bumrah added. “We don’t want to be conservative in our mindset but be positive. Not being reckless but playing with confidence will be the motive going forward,” said Bumrah on what the batting approach should be.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-interaction-paid-off-bumrah/article33427990.ece
27 December 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Tanmay Agarwal to lead||Tanmay Agarwal will lead Hyderabad in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 cricket championship to be held from January 10.  The team: Tanmay Agarwal (capt), Tilak Varma, Abhirath Reddy , Himalay Agarwal, B. Sandeep (vice-cap), Buddi Rahul, Sai Pragnay Reddy, K. Sumanth (wk), C.V. Milind, T. Ravi Teja, Ajay Dev Goud, Yudhvir Singh, TanayTyagarajan, Mickhil Jaiswal, Hitesh Yadav, Rakesh Yadav, Prateek Reddy, Rakshan Reddy, Karthikeya Kak and M.S.R. Charan.   Head coach: Zakir Hussain. Assistant coach: Shashank Nag .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanmay-agarwal-to-lead/article33428874.ece
27 December 2020||Pune:,||In It To Win It appeals||The six-year-old gelding In It To Win It, who has claimed a 5kg allowance, stands a good chance over his rivals in the M H Ahmedbhoy Trophy, the feature event of Mumbai races to be held here on Sunday (Dec. 27). Rails will be announced one hour before the start of the first race.  VIJAYS PRIDE PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 1.45 p.m.: 1. Falconette (3) J. Chinoy 59, 2. Menilly (10) Sandesh 58.5, 3. Turmeric Tower (5) Dashrath 58, 4. Isinit (4) Joseph 54.5, 5. Michelangelo (2) T.S. Jodha 53.5, 6. Fendi (1) Merchant 52.5, 7. Gravitas (9) Kirtish 52.5, 8. Little More (Late Finalist) (11) Kaviraj 52.5, 9. Suarez (7) N.B. Kuldeep 52.5, 10. Suited Aces (8) Peter 52.5 and 11. Dashing Image (6) Malam 51.  1. MENILLY, 2. TURMERIC TOWER, 3. FALCONETTE .  M H AHMEDBHOY TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 2.15 : 1. In It To Win It (1) Malam 59, 2. Square Moon (2) Santosh G 59, 3. Gloriosus (4) Sandesh 55 and 4. Golden Era (3) Neeraj 51.  1. IN IT TO WIN IT   BANGALORE TURF CLUB TROPHY (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 2.45: 1. Desert Fire (8) Kaviraj 56, 2. Flash Force (9) Ayyar 56, 3. Market King (10) Sandesh 56, 4. Royal Castle (2) Nazil 56, 5. Spanish City (4) Neeraj 56, 6. Vincenzo (12) Parmar 56, 7. Anoushka (5) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 8. Falaknuma (7) Ajinkya 54.5, 9. Farahnaaz (3) J. Chinoy 54.5, 10. Isle Of Skye (6) T.S. Jodha 54.5, 11. Smokin’ Hot (11) Chouhan 54.5, 12. Sparkling Glory (1) A. Gaikwad 54.5 and 13. Springbok (13) Aniket 54.5.  1. MARKET KING, 2. ISLE OF SKYE, 3. SMOKIN’ HOT   SIACHEN PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 46, 3.15: 1. Speed Air (8) Yash 62, 2. Belenus (2) Chouhan 61, 3. Oui Sauvage (14) Santosh G 59.5, 4. Sandman (6) Sandesh 59, 5. Properly Posh (4) Neeraj 58.5, 6. Ms Boss (9) Parmar 58, 7. Cipher (13) T.S. Jodha 56, 8. Twinspire (3) Kaviraj 56, 9. Between Friends (10) Ayyar 55, 10. Mikayla’s Pride (11) J. Chinoy 53, 11. Marianne (5) S.J. Sunil 52.5, 12. Thunderclap (7) C.S. Jodha 52.5, 13. Ellysia (12) Peter 51 and 14. Sehmat (1) Nazil 51.  1. SPEED AIR, 2. BELENUS, 3. SANDMAN   M M T PANDOLE PLATE (1,200m), Cl. III, 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 66, 3.45: 1. Sharareh (12) Parmar 62, 2. Barack (4) Kirtish 60.5, 3. Highland Lass (7) Sandesh 60, 4. Sea Quest (11) Vishal Bunde 58.5, 5. Ebony (2) Neeraj 58, 6. Pokerface (3) Chouhan 58, 7. Auspicious (6) Aniket 55.5, 8. Red Carnation (10) Kaviraj 53.5, 9. Untitled (1) Shubham 52, 10. Arc Shine (8) Merchant 50.5, 11. Epiphany (9) T.S. Jodha 50.5 and 12. Agrami (5) Nazil 49.5.  1. SEA QUEST, 2. SHARAREH, 3. HIGHLAND LASS   MRS PATMORE PLATE (1,600m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 4.15: 1. Sachertorte (7) Vishal Bunde 62, 2. Arrecife (3) Bhawani 61, 3. Gracida (9) Nirmal 59.5, 4. Victorious Spirit (6) Peter 59.5, 5. Brianna (8) C.S. Jodha 59, 6. Dowsabel (5) Merchant 59, 7. Miss Scarlett (11) Sandesh 58.5, 8. So Splendid (4) Kirtish 58.5, 9. Take It Easy (10) Nazil 58, 10. Principessa (12) Dashrath 52.5, 11. Big Ben (1) Parmar 50.5 and 12. Cristo Boss (2) Prasad 50.  1. ARRECIFE, 2. BRIANNA, 3. MISS SCARLETT   VIJAYS PRIDE PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 4.45: 1. Godsword (11) Dashrath 61, 2. Exotic Queen (6) Peter 60, 3. Intense Approach (5) Sandesh 60, 4. Warrior Clan (8) Malam 60, 5. Julio Cesaro (7) J.Chinoy 59.5, 6. C’est L’Amour (2) Kaviraj 58, 7. Alauddin Khilji (1) Bhawani 57.5, 8. Dance Emperor (10) Prasad 56, 9. Power Of Neath (3) Merchant 55, 10. Enlightened (4) T.S. Jodha 54 and 11. Fire Princess (9) Aniket 52.5.  1. EXOTIC QUEEN, 2. GODSWORD, 3. INTENSE APPROACH  Day’s best: MARKET KING  Double: MENILLY — SPEED AIR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/in-it-to-win-it-appeals/article33428958.ece
27 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Suryakumar Yadav to lead Mumbai again||Suryakumar Yadav has been reinstated as Mumbai captain for the league stage of Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, to be played in Mumbai from January 10 to 19. The selection committee, headed by former India pacer Salil Ankola, has announced a 20-member squad for the group stage after witnessing eight practice games involving four squads over the last week. Aditya Tare has been announced his deputy in the enlarged squad that includes T20 specialists like medium-pacer Prathamesh Dake, power-hitter Sujit Nayak and aggressive batsman Sairaj Patil. Left-arm spinner Atharva Ankolekar has been included too.  The squad: Suryakumar Yadav (Capt.), Aditya Tare (Vice-capt., w.k.), Yashasvi Jaiswal, Aakarshit Gomel, Sarfaraz Khan, Siddhesh Lad, Shivam Dube, Shubham Ranjane, Sujit Nayak, Sairaj Patil, Tushar Deshpande, Dhawal Kulkarni, Minad Manjrekar, Prathamesh Dake, Atharva Ankolekar, Shashank Attarde, Shams Mulani, Hardik Tamore, Akash Parkar, Sufiyan Shaikh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suryakumar-yadav-to-lead-mumbai-again/article33428960.ece
27 December 2020||Paris,||Barca looms for expected new PSG coach Pochettino||Mauricio Pochettino is widely reported to be Thomas Tuchel’s successor as Paris Saint-Germain coach and the number one item on the Argentine’s in-tray will be February’s date with Barcelona. Tuchel was reportedly given his marching orders on Thursday, four months after guiding the Qatari-backed club to its first ever Champions League final, August’s 1-0 defeat to Bayern Munich. The German, whose dismissal has yet to be officially confirmed by the club, leaves the Parc des Princes having secured a last 16 Champions League clash with Barca and PSG sitting third in Ligue 1, a point shy of leader Lyon. Pochettino’s opening match in charge will be January 6’s trip to Saint-Etienne on Ligue 1’s resumption after the winter break. Then, on February 16, the 48-year-old has his first massive test against his compatriot Lionel Messi’s Catalans, with the return leg on March 6. Pochettino was let go after five and a half years at Spurs in the aftermath of leading the north London side to its first ever appearance in a Champions League final against Liverpool in 2019. Although he has yet to win any silverware the former PSG defender’s stock is high in managerial circles. The Parisians will be keen to complete his signing and avoid missing their man who has been linked to the likes of Real Madrid, Manchester United and Barca in recent months. Well-heeled company Pochettino is due to team up with Neymar, Kylian Mbappe and other well-heeled company at PSG’s first post-Christmas training session on January 3. While the club refrained from making any public comment about the abrupt change in personnel, France World Cup winner Mbappe took to Instagram to note Tuchel’s departure. “Unfortunately it’s the law of football but no-one will forget your time here,” Mbappe said. “You wrote a great line of the club’s history and I say thank you coach,” he added. Pochettino arrives in the French capital with his successful stint at Spurs preceded by a season at Southampton. His maiden post as a coach was at struggling Espanyol, where in 2009 his first match in charge was against his expected February foe, Barcelona. Earning plaudits He earned plaudits for saving the Spanish outfit, where he played under Marcelo Bielsa in 1998, from relegation. With his expected new employers hungry to finally fulfil their Champions league desire Pochettino will have little time to settle in before getting his new team firing on all cylinders for Barca. Like Tuchel, as Mbappe’s tribute illustrated, Pochettino is at ease in man-managing a dressing room crammed with a galaxy of stars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barca-looms-for-expected-new-psg-coach-pochettino/article33428370.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna holds Vachier||P. Harikrishna drew with Frenchman Maxime Vachier-Lagrave, following perpetual checks in 27 moves, and made a quiet start in the $200,000 Airthings Masters online rapid chess tournament. In the remaining three rounds of the opening day, Harikrishna was due to play with white pieces against Daniil Dubov (Russia), black against David Anton Guijjar (Spain) and finally, white against Magnus Carlsen (Norway). Following draws on five boards in the first round, Hikaru Nakamura emerged as the lone winner at the expense of Alexander Grischuk.  The results (first round): P. Harikrishna drew with Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra);   Magnus Carlsen (Nor) drew with Levon Aronian (Arm); Alexander Grischuk (Rus) lost to Hikaru Nakamura (USA);   Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus); David Anton Guijarro (Esp) drew with Wesley So (USA);   Daniil Dubov (Rus) drew with Teimour Radjabov (Aze).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-holds-vachier/article33427981.ece
27 December 2020||Los Angeles,||Lakers make merry at Mavericks’ expense||Anthony Davis scored 28 points while LeBron James added 22 as defending NBA champion Los Angeles Lakers routed Dallas Mavericks 138-115 in Friday’s feature game of a record-setting Christmas slate. James rose to second on the NBA’s all-time Christmas points list with 383, passing Oscar Robertson by six to pull within 12 of matching the late Kobe Bryant’s career record. It was the 10th Christmas victory in 15 holiday appearances by James, who equalled former Miami Heat teammate Dwyane Wade for the most career Christmas NBA wins.  Brooklyn’s Kyrie Irving and Miami’s Duncan Robinson each matched an NBA Christmas record with seven 3-pointers, the Heat stretching its holiday win streak to eight games. Also rolling to a holiday triumph was Milwaukee Bucks, who had a game-high 31 points from Khris Middleton to beat Golden State Warriors 138-99 — the second-most lopsided blowout in NBA Christmas history.  The results: Los Angeles Lakers bt Dallas Mavericks 138-115; Boston Celtics lost to Brooklyn Nets 123-95.   Miami Heat bt New Orleans Pelicans 111-98; Milwaukee Bucks bt Golden State Warriors 138-99.   Denver Nuggets lost to Los Angeles Clippers 121-108.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakers-make-merry-at-mavericks-expense/article33427988.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||EB holds Chennaiyin||A brilliant brace from Matti Steinmann allowed SC East Bengal to come back from behind twice to salvage a 2-2 draw against Chennaiyin FC in the Boxing Day match of the Indian Super League at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco, on Saturday. In the 13th minute, Sylvestr lobbed one from the centre-line to release an unmarked Lallianzuala Chhangte. The latter then used his speed to produce a good run on the left side and shot through the pursuing defender and keeper to put CFC ahead. It was Chhangte’s first goal of the season and a much-needed one for the Indian who has squandered more than half a dozen chances so far in this tournament. East Bengal’s best chance came in the 38th minute when Mohammed Rafique received a ball over the CFC defenders and dodged the keeper to get into an open goal position. However, Deepak Tangri produced a sliding clearance from behind as Rafique delayed taking his shot to steady himself.  In the 59th minute, Steinmann, who was unmarked, headed in a corner from Bikash Jairu to equalise. Soon, CFC pulled ahead once again when Rahim Ali scored after starting a good run on the left side. He combined well with Rafael Crivellaro and Sylvestr, who gave the final assist to the Indian striker. But within moments, CFC surrendered the lead yet again from a set-piece when goalkeeper Vishal Kaith failed to collect a header from Daniel Fox, the ball falling in front of Steinmann, who drilled it in without trouble.  The result: SC East Bengal 2 (Steinmann 59, 68) drew with Chennaiyin FC 2 (Chhangte 13, Rahim 64).   Sunday’s match: Kerala Blasters vs Hyderabad FC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eb-holds-chennaiyin/article33427997.ece
27 December 2020||Melbourne,||Dean Jones remembered||Dean Jones was paid tributes at his home ground, the MCG, on Saturday by Indian and Australian players, who were joined by his wife, daughters and former Australia captain Allan Border. Jones’ family and former Border participated in the farewell during the tea break of the ongoing second Test. Border, Jones’ wife Jane, and daughters — Augusta and Phoebe — walked to the centre, carrying his baggy green, sunglasses and Kookaburra bat and laid the items on the stumps at the Great Southern Stand end of the ground. Later, the 12th men from both sides — K.L. Rahul and James Pattinson — collected the items and rested them on a seat by the boundary. Jones died in September this year at the age of 59 in Mumbai, where he was commentating for the Indian Premier League, after suffering a stroke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dean-jones-remembered/article33427982.ece
27 December 2020||CENTURION,||De Silva and Chandimal come good||Dhananjaya de Silva and Dinesh Chandimal put Sri Lanka in a strong position on the first day of the first Test against South Africa here on Saturday. De Silva made 79 (105b, 11x4, 1x6), before retiring hurt with what appeared to be a left-hip injury, and former captain Chandimal hit 85 (161b, 11x4) as the visitors reached 340 for six at the close. Their stand of 131 stabilised the Lankan innings after a helter-skelter start in which it lost the first three wickets for 54 runs. Chandimal and Niroshan Dickwella (49) added another 99 runs before Chandimal fell to medium-pacer Wiaan Mulder, who finished the day with three for 68.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-silva-and-chandimal-come-good/article33427983.ece
27 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Second title for Jinan Jomon||Jinan Jomon (Wayanad) won the K.C. Sebastian memorial online chess tournament organised by Chess Kerala. Jinan Jomon, 8 points, pipped Thrissur’s T.J. Suresh Kumar (8) to the first place for having a better tie-break score. John Veni (Thrissur) finished third with 7.5. This is the second title for Jinan Jomon who had earlier won the T.K. Joseph memorial online tournament. The three players qualified directly for the mega finals.  Other placings: 4. M.B. Muraleedharan (Ekm 7.5 points), 5. M.A. Unnikrishnan (Tvm 7.5), 6. Vishnu Surendran (EKM 7.5) .    Soham Bhattacharya and Reeva Anna Michael completed a double in the Alappuzha district table tennis championships held at the YMCA TT Arena on Saturday. Soham won the men and youth boys’ title to complete the double while Reeva won the youth and junior girls’ title.  The results (all finals): Men: Soham Bhattacharya bt Udit Bhattacharya 9-11, 11-5, 11-8, 11-8. Youth boys: Soham bt Adithya V. Joseph 11-8, 11-9, 4-11, 11-3. Junior boys: Amir Afthab bt Adithya 12-14, 11-7, 9-11, 11-7, 11-6.   Sub-junior boys: Milan B. Nair bt Jithu Jacob 11-8, 11-4, 11-8.   Cadet boys: Rohan Jose bt Blaze P. Alex 4-11, 11-9, 11-4, 13-11.   Youth girls: Reeva Anna Michael bt Maria Cicily Joshy 11-8, 11-7, 12-10.   Junior girls: Reeva Anna bt Maria Cicily 11-4, 8-11, 11-5, 11-6.   Sub-junior girls: Maria Cicily bt Reeva Anna 11-5, 9-11, 11-7, 11-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/second-title-for-jinan-jomon/article33428368.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||Tejas Dahiya hits 111 as Lal Bahadur Shastri Club posts a big win||Tejas Dahiya’s 111 was the high-point of Lal Bahadur Shastri Club’s easy 111-run victory over Ravi Brothers Club in the B. R. Sharma memorial tournament.  The scores: L. B. Shastri Club 263 in 39.5 overs (Tejas Dahiya 111, Vikas Dixit 53, Eash Paliwal 3/35, Saqlain Haider 3/43) bt Ravi Brothers Club 152 in 29.2 overs (Sidhant Dogra 43, Arun Pundir 3/24) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tejas-dahiya-hits-111-as-lal-bahadur-shastri-club-posts-a-big-win/article33428868.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 08:41 IST,||Sudoku - December 27, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-27-2020/article33429081.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A box full of tales||Sowmya Vikram gave up a career in the corporate field to volunteer as a special educator in Chennai. She followed this up with another passion: crafts such as crochet, macramé and doll-making. And in what eventually turned out to be a winning combination, Sowmya, in 2017, went on to found Little Hive Crafts, an online portal that combines handwork with storytelling and ‘co-creating’ art with children. “Human hands are a unique instrument, a means to express oneself in creative ways,” says Sowmya over phone from Mumbai, where she now lives. “Whether it is crafting, cooking, cleaning or holding a baby, there is a healing quality to everything our hands can do. It is in the voluntary, purposeful and creative work of hands that man can become more human,” she adds. Handmade success story Besides doll-making kits and craft workshops, Sowmya launched the Story in a Box, which contains crocheted characters and other elements to match the story booklet inside. “The story is basically a guide, but children being children, they make up their own stories with the toys. These box sets are like a space for them to use their imagination and then grow on their own,” she says. Her first story was Two Little Mice . She decided to collaborate with her talented student, 22-year-old Akshay Nathan, who is on the autistic spectrum, and is a brilliant writer, for her second book, Little Barry Beetle Beard . “I gave Akshay the specifications even though I doubted if he would be able to write something for children. But he sent me the draft of his story the very next day, and it floored me and my husband. We were both left wondering what we could do to justify Akshay’s work. It took us around four months to design the second box in the series, which we launched in 2018,” says Sowmya. Unsurprisingly, the popularity of these stories increased during lockdown. Some 50 Story in a Box sets have sold in the past three months largely due to positive word of mouth. To make the business model sustainable, Sowmya has taught three homemakers in Mumbai to crochet the characters, and shares the sale proceeds with the artisans and the writer. “I am trying to use eco-friendly materials and fair trading practices so that we can be socially responsible,” she says. Her interest in craft, intermittently nurtured during her school days, blossomed when she shifted to the UK after marriage in 2013. “Looking at the knitters and craft supply stores in London, I realised that I should do something more about learning these skills. I feel that knowing a craft like crochet, knitting or sewing is like having a superpower. How else does one create such wonderful things with just a needle and thread?” she says. Crochet chain Aided by online tutorials and a stock of threads and needles, Sowmya went on to specialise in crochet, and gained enough expertise to become a teacher on the British website craftcourses.com. However, seeing children being entertained by electronic gadgets bothers her. “Simply banning gadgets is not the answer. As a kindergarten teacher, I have seen that till the age of seven, children learn mostly by imitation. As grown-ups, we have to be worthy of their imitation, and also create an atmosphere which facilitates that imagination. So basically they need open-ended toys to play with,” she says. With a conscious decision to stay off the e-commerce grid all these years, Sowmya hopes to create a small community of “heads, hearts and hands”. Little Hive Crafts is mulling an open-air family craft camp in 2021 besides coming up with more Story in a Box sets and related ideas to keep the imagination alive.  The popularity of these stories increased during lockdown||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-box-full-of-tales/article33428336.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Sketches that make stories||When the hat-toting soul of Joe Gardner (Jamie Foxx) accidentally tumbles into the ‘Great Before’, his surrounding worlds shift dramatically, not just in look but energy too. The differences between these two worlds are remarkable. Although Soul is spearheaded by co-directors Peter Docter and Kemp Powers, it is the work of Bobby Podesta, Jude Brownbill and MontaQue Ruffin, the film’s animators, that sells the story home. Brownbill, who along with Podesta, was the film’s animation supervisor, recalls the most intimidating animation project within the film — creating the otherworldly-looking counselling characters found in the ‘Great Before’. Though these characters are single scribbles, there were some difficulties in crafting their anatomies, and Brownbill, whose work we have seen in Brave and Inside Out , says the team was not entirely sure just how long working on the counsellors would take. She explains, “Usually, we have characters with arms and legs. These characters don’t have that typical skeletal structure. We would have given them that, but they would come away and turn into, for example, a bus, or come out from the ground. That flexibility is a scary proposition.” It is not just the counsellors’ physical formation but also the vitality they give off as sentient beings which mattered. “We also wanted these characters to have an energy as if they were drawing it from the ground. And inside this line, there is a membrane that appears or disappears when a limb crosses it. So there was a lot of complicated stuff that couldn’t be done just by hand. It had to be made into a rig that not just one animator could use,” Brownbill adds.  Soul was not an easy project. However, Podesta believes in “boiling down the clarity of intent” with such projects. “Most of the time, we are not sure if something is going to work out; because, what we are trying to do is make something new that also surprises. When you are on that bleeding edge, there are no guarantees. We turn to each other, trust that we have done our research and be honest about what is working and what is not.” Ruffin came into Soul eager to play in not just one world but two. He commends the sense of unity at Pixar in times of uncertainty as this fuels better storytelling. “It doesn’t matter what subject we are talking about — whether it is a monster, a toy, a Latino, or an African-American. We are open and honest,” he explains, adding, “If we are not familiar, we will admit it and rely on one another. Peter [Docter] also has a universal story to tell, and he was so inviting. He was always willing to hear what I, or anyone, had to say. Pixar created a space for us to share our experiences which impacted the film.” Soul is streaming on Disney+ Hostar   Charming counsellors The counsellors have been a favourite of the Pixar film’s team. Screenwriter Mike Jones has likened them to “kindergarten teachers filled with immeasurable patience”. Meanwhile, executive producer Dan Scanlon explains, “The team also went to great lengths to create characters that defied logic, yet were overflowing with charm and personality. The first time I saw a screening of the film that featured the wiry three-dimensional You Seminar characters (The Jerrys) in motion, myself and other people in the theater audibly gasped. I had never seen that type of 2D animation done in 3D before, and seeing something you have never seen before is why I go to movies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sketches-that-make-stories/article33428328.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Hard-hitting verse||Kerala hip hop artiste Abhijith Gopinadh, who goes by the initials A.B.I, uses his music to speak as much about the personal as he does about issues which afflict society. He channelises his struggles — with mental health and addiction — to create songs that resonate with listeners. His recent single ‘RISE’, uploaded a week ago on his YouTube channel, is about rising above the challenges life throws at a person. “With this song, I wanted to speak about our fears and anxieties due to what is happening right now. We are all afraid and anxious... we need to rise above these fears,” says the 26 year-old. Rapping for relief  A.B.I turned to rapping when he was 13 years old as a means of coping with the bullying he encountered in school. Rapping, in particular, was a way of venting his feelings. “[Rapping] helped me deal with the stress of life. I have been diagnosed with borderline personality disorder and music helps me cope; it is release and relief. There are times when one feels there is no one to communicate with. This is when music helps,” he says. None of his early experiments are available on his channel although he did upload them at the time. “I wasn’t comfortable with how they were,” he remarks, referring to what he feels are its imperfections. Until 2015, A.B.I was rapping solely in English, but later he started writing in Malayalam as well; some of his compositions are a combination of both. “I started rapping in Malayalam in 2015, and since I had been rapping before, I could do it with ease. The practice during the previous years were helpful. Rhymes are an important aspect in rap verse, so I try to keep words as poetic as possible,” he says. The stylish videos are edgy and offbeat. A.B.I is unapologetic about the subjects he sings about. “I talk about self and society. For instance, I rap about mental health issues because by talking about it we remove the stigma attached to it. It helps mainstream issues that are being swept under the carpet,” he says. When A.B.I started rapping, there weren’t many Malayalam rappers. The scene is very different now with a number of them. “Hip hop evolved as counter culture, as a reaction to the inequities in society... and we are reacting to what we see around us; it is a reaction to the suppression and taboos,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hard-hitting-verse/article33428332.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Gadwalls join the party||In the field, no two birders would identify a rare bird in facsimile fashion. It is especially true of the first deci-second of the encounter. “What marker did you see first?” would invariably elicit fascinating answers from birders that have clapped eyes on a rarity, together as a group. Take a birding episode from Sholinganallur two weeks ago, for how three birders responded to this question. Members of Madras Naturalists Society (MNS), the three were part of a small group on a casual weekend jaunt to the birding site. They sighted five Gadwalls, two male and three female, at an unlikely waterbody, one sandwiched between tall and swanky office buildings at the Sholinganallur IT Special Economic Zone. To its north lies the Pallikaranai Marsh, within hearing distance of a dabbling-duck symphony. To its south lies the famous spit of land that is referred to as the Perumbakkam wetland, but is part of the Pallikaranai Marsh. Now, on to the first markers their minds registered. Umesh Mani recalls that his eyes landed on a male Gadwall’s all-black bill. In the same sweep of the eye, he noticed that there was “no white line running across the eye and down the nape”. Taking in these facts, his mind instantaneously registered that that it was not a Gargany, and that there was a Gadwell out there. Chandrasekar Sundaram first saw the same male Gadwall’s greyish colour, and it was the black rump that settled the question for him. Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi saw the orange bill of a female Gadwall, paddling not too far away from this male, and he had found his bird. As he would explain later, Gnanaskandan had in fact had his eyes peeled for Gadwalls during the visit. He was specifically looking for the orange bill of a female Gadwall, while scanning a flock of Wigeons. “To be honest, when we were talking at that point, Gnanaskandan is the one who spotted it first, identifying a female Gadwall by the orange bill. And then we were certain by looking for the features in a male Gadwall,” says Umesh. Various markers  “Supposing there is only a mixed flock of female ducks — many a time, that happens, right? — you would have to look for differentiators between female ducks from different species. A birder has to know what to look for. When it is just female ducks, you need to have a separate set of features to look for.” In their usual plumage, which they may carry well into their wintering grounds, male ducks are easier to differentiate from other duck species. However, adult males would go through what is called eclipse plumage after the breeding season. During this period, they would resemble the female of their own species. Fortunately, this period is short, and usually, the adult male duck would easily recognisable. Adult male ducks would be largely be wearing their usual, colourful finery even in the wintering, non-breeding grounds. However, when a male sub-adult duck transforms into an adult, things can get really confusing. “The plumage that sub-adult male ducks wear during their transition to adulthood not only make them resemble the female of the species, but also set them up for being mistaken for some other duck species,” explains Gnanaskandan. “Sub-adult Northern Pintail males that are in this ‘transformative plumage’ — which is still known as eclipse plumage — will also wear a grey similar to the Gadwall male’s. In these circumstances, you have to look at the bill shape. Consciously, I have been looking for the bill. Just like that, we caught sight of a female, and then a male. Then, on the other side of the waterbody, we saw one more male and two female gadwalls,” says Gnanaskandan. Wigeon flocks There was a huge flock of Wigeons, and these Gadwalls were not too far removed from them, strengthening an already well-entrenched idea that a very small number of Gadwells can be expected to arrive even in a place not known to draw Gadwells, as long as it is known to play host to Wigeons. Gadwell sightings remain an extremely rare occurrence in Chennai, and birders in the metro hold to this view. Observations from elsewhere also support it. Having lived in Hyderabad, Umesh points out that in waterbodies there, he had seen Gadwalls with Wigeons. Gadwall sightings are rare in Hyderabad too, but not as rare as in Chennai, adds Umesh. “It helps to know which ducks Gadwalls associate with. So, when you see these ducks, you should look for Gadwalls. When you know they are seen with Wigeons, ideally, when you see a Wigeon, you should also look for a Gadwall. It is quite likely they are also there,” Umesh makes it clear. While admitting that there is no clear-cut explanation for why Gadwalls are found around Wigeons, Gnanaskandan draws attention to the fact that they are both of the genus Mareca . He echoes the view that a few Gadwalls could be migrating along with a large Wigeon flock, to southern parts of the country, certainly not seen as the Gadwall’s favoured wintering pit-stop. Gadwalls are found in greater numbers in certain northern sections of India during winter. The possibilities Responding to a question about Gadwalls and Wigeons, ornithologist V. Shantaram says, “They might have travelled together? We still do not have that kind of study in India to tell how they travel, but it is still possible that they may associate with each other for a longer period than they would with any other species. They either travelled together, or found affinity with each other after arriving here.” Shantaram also underlines that association could spring out of necessity and convenience: “If you went into the forest, you would see what is known as mixed hunting parties. Bird species may be coming together because they stand to benefit from the association. Or, it can also be coincidence. They do not need to be closely related. In fact, if they are, they need to be slightly away from each other, because they will be looking for similar kind of food.” ( ‘Migrant Watch’ is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gadwalls-join-the-party/article33428650.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Has the battle for Puzhal lake begun?||There is now a glimmer of hope that garbage dumping at Puzhal lake in Thirumullaivoyal just may be effectively checked. Over the years, garbage-laden lorries queueing up along the one-kilometre-long Arikamedu Main Road, that is along the bund of the lake, at night has become a common sight. These lorries disgorge tonnes of refuse and discards including construction material into the lake. Without street lights, the street is plunged in darkness and many motorists avoid this road, a factor making this operation easier to be carried out, says A. Giri Ravanan, secretary, Venketachalam Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Another factor is that the nearest neighbourood — Venketachalam Nagar — is quite some distance away. Now, residents of Venketachalam Nagar have formed small teams, most of which constituted by youngsters, to monitor the movement of these lorries and send an alert to office-bearers of Venketachalam Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Shopkeepers at a few shops found in the vicinity of the lake are allies in this monitoring work. “Following repeated petitions from residents, the Avadi Corporation, with the help of the Public Works Department, which maintains the waterbody, cleared tonnes of garbage along the bund a fortnight ago. LED lights were also installed to deter motorists from dumping garbage in the lake,” says Giri Ravanan. A six-feet-high steel fence is also being erected by the Corporation. Besides, CCTV cameras are being installed at strategic locations on the road. Further, crash-barriers are being planned to prevent lorries and other heavy vehicles from entering the stretch. The Puzhal lake is located on Grand Northern Trunk Road, a national highway that connects the city with Kolkata. Despite being a rain-fed waterbody, it supplies water to the city round the year. The lake is situated on the northern side of Thirumullaivoyal. In terms of groundwater recharge, localities like SVT Nagar, Venketachalam Nagar, Subramaniya Nagar and Thendral Nagar East benefit from the lake. In fact, the lake has kept most of the borewells in the neighbourhood going dry. It may be noted that with the heavy showers brought it brought, cyclone Nivar led to inundation of many residential localities in Thirumullaivoyal, and these included areas round the Puzhal lake. Though it sprawls across 4,500 acres, the waterbody could not hold the water that drained into it, resulting in the flooding of areas around it. It was plain to see that waste pile-ups in the lake had reduced its water storage capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/has-the-battle-for-puzhal-lake-begun/article33428655.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Key road in Perungudi gives motorists a bumpy ride’||A section of Corporation Road in Perungudi, off Rajiv Gandhi Salai, is battered, and poses a risk to the safety of cyclists and motorcyclists. Even auto-rickshaws face the risk of toppling over, if the driver do not negotiate the road carefully. Due to the lack of a dedicated space for them, pedestrians are forced to walk on the carriageway. Apart from the safety of motrcyclists being compromised, the tyres of their vehicles gets damaged. Years ago, this stretch was dug up by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) to lay water pipes. The pipes were meant to supply piped-drinking water for the residents of Kottivakkam, Palavakkam, and Perungudi. However, the works are yet to be completed. And therefore, the road has not been relaid and continues to be in a bad shape. When it rains, the road turns slushy, making it difficult for both pedestrians and motorists to navigate it. Hence, the CMWSSB and the Greater Chennai Corporation must do the needful at the earliest before any untoward incident takes place. Because, every day a good number of sewage lorries frequent this stretch. S. Swaminathan is a resident of Perungudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/key-road-in-perungudi-gives-motorists-a-bumpy-ride/article33428630.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A calendar project||Artistic excellence Twenty-year-old Pragadeesh Thiyagarajan has put his love for dates, numbers and art together to design a table calendar. “Pragadeesh, who is on the spectrum, has the uncanny ability to instantly give the exact day of any date in any year that is given to him. He is also good at sequencing and dabbles in painting. The calendar project showcases all that he is adept at, and this exercise seems to go a long way towards boosting his confidence,” says Nirmala Thiyagarajan, Pragadeesh’s mother. Another reason for choosing to design and market calendars is to encourage him to put all the lessons he has learnt to practice. Pragadeesh is a second-year visual communication student of Kumararani Meena Muthiah College of Arts and Science in Adyar and has also been learning multimedia from AIMS Media. “His mentor K. Gowri Shankar has been encouraging us to get him to take up some independent project and that is how we came up with this initiative,” says Nirmala. Pragadeesh has used patterns to creatively design home décor, cutlery in his work. Fifty copies were printed and all of them have been booked. “I did not expect such a response, so we have placed orders for re-printing,” says Nirmala, adding that she posted details about her son’s work in two parent support groups – SCAN and VOICE – that she is part of. “We look at this as a big encouragement for our son in his journey towards becoming independent,” she says. The calendar is priced at Rs. 250 (for those in Chennai) and can be ordered by calling 9940347472. ** Financial independence More than 40 adults from five Chennai-based institutions have partnered for Project SNEH (Special Needs Empowerment Hub), a network for the special needs community, to design various marketable products that would make an ideal gift for the New Year. The institutions are: Sankalp, Sarva Mangala Vihar Trust, Sri Arunodhayam Charitable Trust, Swabhimaan and V-Excel Educational Trust. “Students of Gowrin Special School, SpasTN and HLC International School also joined us recently,” says Anuradha Mahesh, team lead. The network also invites parents of special children to join them so that they can market products of adults with special needs, and work towards ensuring their financial independence. To place an order, call 9840076322 / 9884281527. Visit www.snehindia.com for further details. ** A decade into art This is the 10th year Amrita Visweswaran is using art to give back to society. As a six-year-old, she started designing calendars with her artworks on it. The proceeds of the sale of these calendars would go to The Madhuram Narayanan Centre for Exceptional Children (now a part of Bala Mandir Kamaraj Trust); and this journey has continued to this day. MNC provides early intervention services for children with intellectual disability, and the proceeds from the sale of this calendar go towards Mooldhara, a project it runs. The 2021 version of the desktop calendar has evocative paintings — including sunset and sunrise — that illustrate the theme ‘New Beginnings’. “Every year, she chooses a new theme — flowers, pets, scenic settings are some of them — for the calendar series,” says Madhura Visweswaran, Amrita’s mother. Pocket notebooks and playing cards are a few other products that are sold. To place an order, call 9840074621  We look at this as a big encouragement for our son in his journey towards financial independence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-calendar-project/article33428619.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||How the tide turned for Santhome in 1983||The sixth and final Test on West Indies’ tour of India in 1983-84 is probably unforgettable for just one reason — a defiant 236 not out from a skullcap-wearing Sunil Gavaskar. For a bunch of Santhome alumni though, there is one more reason. Following the final Test match, which took place between December 24 and 29 (the additional day accounting for the rest day) at Chepauk, the winners and runners-up of the inaugural 1983 Thums-Up inter-school cricket tournament would be felicitated at a function at what was then known as Adyar Park hotel. West Indies captain Clive Lloyd would give away the winners’ trophy to the boys from Santhome Higher Secondary School, which included P. Unnikrishnan, now a heavyweight in Carnatic and playback singing. India captain Kapil Dev would honour the boys from St. Bede’s who ended up on the losing side in the finals. A brief report of the awards ceremony carried by The Hindu with a ‘December 30 Madras’ dateline, highlighted how Llyod kept his speech crisp, but crackling with wit. The report began: “ ‘My speech, like Roger Harper’s innings, will be brief,’ said Clive Lloyd and the entire audience including the West Indian team members (Roger Harper too) burst out in laughter.” Harper had a brief stay at the crease, and had less than nothing to show for it — a duck it was for the lanky spinner in the first innings. The report further noted: “During his speech, which was shorter than Lloyd’s, Kapil Dev exhorted the youngsters to ‘work hard and try to play for the country in the future. And if you do, you should play better than we did against these mighty West Indians.’ ” In the Test series, the rubber had gone to the West Indians with a convincing 3-0 result. The humiliation in the one-day series was total, as team India, the world champions, was handed out a 5-0 drubbing. Though Kapil’s address to the group of budding cricketers from Santhome and St. Bede’s on December 30, 1983 was marked by a sobering sense of defeat, the golden year of Indian cricket, just two flickers away from passing into history, had clearly changed the tide for India. Though disappointments would keep popping up along the way, the 1983 victory at Lord’s had forever changed the narrative for Indian cricket. It had put a spring in the successive players’ steps, instilling mammoth self-assurance in them. There are parallels to be drawn here, between the international and the hyperlocal. Year 1983 was also the golden year for Santhome cricket. As the captain of the Thums Up trophy-winning team of 1983 C.T. Natesan points out, that year Santhome hit a purple patch, winning seven titles. The culture of winning had set in, for Santhome. To illustrate, B. Srinivasa Rao, who would coach the school team between 1985 and 2012, with a couple of breaks in-between, underlines how Santhome would dominate the Thums Up inter-school tournament, managing a mind-boggling 90 percent success rate in winning titles. There is a general belief that in the early 1980s, Santhome announced its arrival as a superpower in school cricket. Cricket-playing alumni of the school may however slightly differ on when its star was on a noticeable ascendancy. “In 1979 and 1980, the first glimmer of greatness was evident. That is when B. Arun, who earned the India cap, was playing for Santhome,” says Natesan. “Though there was potential, it was yet to translate into results. The tide clearly turned in 1983.” V. Thulasidharan, who would captain the school team in 1984, believes it began around 1982. Unnikrishnan agrees with this timeline: “When I joined Santhome for Class XI, S. Ramakrishnan was the captain. Popularly known as Ramki, he is the man behind SportsMechanics, which pioneered by introducing sports analytics in cricket. He was with the Indian team for many years. After Ramki left, Natesan became the captain.” What Unnikrishnan is driving at is that from the players to the school administration, there was a impressive leadership. This factor was pivotal to how Santhome managed to create an atmosphere that youngsters pursuing cricket as a competitive sport found inspiring. So, there was the trend of students seeking admission in Santhome, because they were good at cricket, and wanted to get better at it. Unnikrishnan discloses that his move from Asan Memorial to Santhome for his higher secondary eduction was driven by the same expectation. The school management would always manage to create a space for a student who had proven cricketing skills. “Well, that is how I got admission. When I went for the interview, the principal, Bro. Camillus just asked me, “Do you play cricket?” and he did not look at my marks," laughs Unnikrishnan. Unnikrishnan points out that Bro. Camillus had learnt from S. Md. Hussain, who served as manager of the Santhome cricket team, about my exposure to competitive cricket. The singer further explains that Hussain would have seen him at the TNCA nets, and was aware that he had been part of the state Under-15 and Under-19 camps. “Hussain would have already told Bro. Camillus about this, and so, they would have already made up their mind to give me admission,” says Unnikrishnan. Thulasidharan says that from the 1980s to the mid-1990s, there was a succession of principals who would go to great lengths to promote cricket. “It began with Bro. Camillus. During his five-year stint as principal, Santhome was continually in the news for its cricketing exploits. He was succeeded by Bro. Selvanathan who also displayed a similar commitment to keeping Santhome at the summit of school cricket. Then, there was Bro. George. Successive principals wanted to carry on the legacy and that made all the difference,” elaborates Thulasidharan. The cricket-friendly culture that Santhome fostered showed up in tangible ways. “Those who were in the School cricket team need not attend the last period. The talent pool was quite wide that the school had ‘A’ and ‘B’ teams, which would play against each other, at St. Bede’s grounds. How many matches we have played at the St. Bede’s grounds. The principal was extremely encouraging towards cricketers,” says Unnikrishnan. At Santhome, cricket did not end at close of stumps on the cricket field, but branched into routes that enriched the youngsters’ lives well beyond the sports. “Because of the great showing in 1983, doors opened for many of us. Five of us were asked to join Vivekananda directly,” says Natesan, who found employment at Indian Bank on sports quota. “Out of this 1983 team, four joined Indian Bank. At present, three of them are still working for the bank, with the other one quitting the job to start his own business. Besides the four, two others work for State Bank of India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-the-tide-turned-for-santhome-in-1983/article33428645.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A call to to relocate sub-registrar office||Visitors to the sub-registrar office at Rajalakshmi Nagar in Velachery are put to inconvenience as it is not spacious. Although this problem has been around all these years, it has become conspicuous now, due to the need for social distancing. There isn’t enough space for everybody to sit and so, people can be seen waiting outside. Long-time residents of Velachery point out that the office functions from a rented building, and that it has had three different addresses in the past 20 years. Earlier, it operated from LIC Colony and was then shifted to Oradi Amman Kovil Street and then to Rajalakshmi Nagar. Residents of nearby areas have complained of haphazard parking of vehicles in the interior lanes by visitors to the office. A few residents’ welfare associations in Velachery have suggested that the sub-registrar office be shifted to the Tahsildar office on Gandhi Salai. “The Tahsildar office is a spacious facility with a parking lot. It was inaugurated two years ago. It has a ground as well as a first floor. While the sub-registrar office must be approximately 900 sq.ft in dimensions, the Tahsildar office should be around 10,000 sq.ft. Moreover, as per FSI rules, another floor can be added to the Tahsildar office. Further, both the offices come under Revenue Department. We therefore assume that there should not be any problem in implementing our suggestion. We request the authorities concerned to look into this requirement because, every day close to 100 registrations happen here. This includes property and marriage registrations. On auspicious days, it is terrible and simply impossible to enter the office. Besides residents of Velachery, those from Madipakkam also visit this sub-registrar office. For these reasons, it has to be relocated to a spacious facility,” says S. Kumara Raja, an office-bearer of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association and regular visitor to the sub-registrar office as he is in the real-estate business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-call-to-to-relocate-sub-registrar-office/article33428622.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Residents take out awareness rally against stormwater drains on ECR||Residents and fishing communities along the eastern side of East Coast Road (ECR) participated in an awareness rally about stormwater drains (SWDs) and their impact on the environment, on December 20 at Jagajeevanram Avenue, Injambakkam. According to Gautam Ramdas, resident of Juhu Beach Uthandi, “The residents and fisherfolk along ECR have been opposing the Greater Chennai Corporation’s SWD project as an unnecessary expense an environmental disaster. In our view, the rally brought to light the impact of this project on all citizens of Chennai and not just those on ECR. SWDs in the coastal side of ECR will ruin our beaches, kill the turtle nesting grounds and most importantly, deplete the delicately balanced aquifer that provides valuable freshwater to a water-starved Chennai year round.” A large number of residents from along ECR showed up for the hour-long rally wearing black masks that said “No to SWD on ECR”. They held banners and posters that bore slogans to save the turtles, the beaches and to conserve rainwater. Kamal Haasan, leader of the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) arrived at the spot before setting off on his campaign trail and surveyed the half-completed SWD site in his SUV. In his speech, Amarnath, a resident spending his retirement from business in Seashore Town, Panaiyur, said, “In the non-monsoon months these poorly-constructed drains will breed rats, snakes and other insects. In the event of flooding in the western part of the ECR, rainwater mixed with all types of garbage, grease and vehicle waste will flow into the sea through this drain leading to great damage to the natural marine environment.” The areas from Kottivakkam to Uthandi have not witnessed flooding even in the 2015 deluge. Isolated incidents of water-logging were due to man-made obstructions. They are also concerned that the imbalance in the aquifer will lead to greater salinity of groundwater and exacerbate the water shortages that Chennai suffers every summer. Residents hope to galvanise support for the “anti-SWD” movement across Chennai. They wish to alert not just the residents of ECR, but also the environmentalists, the hydrogeologists, social activists, community leaders, the judiciary and most importantly, the officials in charge, to the dangers of allowing such projects to be implemented without any checks or balances. (Lata Ganapathy is Secretary of VGP Residents' Welfare Association, Palavakkam)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-take-out-awareness-rally-against-stormwater-drains-on-ecr/article33428631.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Siblings Abhinandh and Ananya add one more feather to their cap||P.B. Abhinandh is 12 years old and Ananya is ten, and already they have garnered many laurels in table tennis. As the latest feathers to their cap, the siblings won the sub- junior boys (under-15) and cadet dirls (under-12) titles respectively, at the recent Tamizhaga State Table Tennis Championship in Chennai. Abhinandh was the runner-up in junior boys (under-18) event while his sister Ananya was the runner-up in the sub-junior girls event (under-15) and both of them beat several top players on their way to the finals. In 2019, Abhinandh was the national champion in the cadet boys (under-12) category. Representing India, he won a silver medal in the International Hopes and Cadet event in Nepal. Abhinandh is currently ranked state number one and India number 8 in the sub-junior boys (under-15) and state number 2 in junior boys (under-18) categories. M. Ananya is the current state number one 1 and India number 7 in the cadet girls (under -12) category while she is ranked state number 2 in the sub-junior girls (under-15) category. Both are trained by M.B. Subin Kumar. Abhinandh is in Class 8 and Ananya is in Class 5 at Sri Sankara Senior Secondary School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/siblings-abhinandh-and-ananya-add-one-more-feather-to-their-cap/article33428634.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Establish a composting yard soon in Perumbakkam’||We request the Perumbakkam Village Panchayat to set up a compost yard. At present, the waste generated from residential apartments, houses and commercial establishments, is being dumped in the spacious premises of the Panchayat office. It poses a health hazard, especially to the residents of Prabhu Nagar and Dhanalakshmi Avenue in Perumbakkam. Once in two-to-three months, the garbage is cleared from here. Earlier, around four to five gated communities in Perumbakkam were segregating their waste and sending decomposable waste to the compost yard run by the Greater Chennai Corporation at Jalladimapet. However, after the COVID-19 outbreak, the practice has been stopped. Even though people in the gated communities segregate the waste into decomposable and non-decomposable, such waste gets mixed up. Hence, a composting yard is necessary in Perumbakkam. N. K. Raja is a resident of Nesamani Nagar, Perumbakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/establish-a-composting-yard-soon-in-perumbakkam/article33428627.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Orthopaedic clinic at Adyar||Dr Bala’s Ortho Clinic offers orthopaedic and trauma care services. It also offers out-patient and physiotherapy services. Other facilities include computerised X-ray imaging, treatment room for minor procedures, says a press release. The centre is run by orthopaedic surgeon Dr. Balamurugan J. He offers treatment for bone and ligament injuries, orthopaedic disorders of children, sports medicine, pelvic and acetabular surgeries, complex joint injuries, foot and ankle problems, hand and upper extremities, says the release.Dr Bala’s Ortho Clinic is at No:1, Eighth Cross Street, Indira Nagar, Adyar. For appointments, call 97907 17766||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/orthopaedic-clinic-at-adyar/article33428620.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Beating the odds||Two special employees of the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities — N. Prabu, telephone operator, and D. Madhan, vocational training student — have received the State Award for Best Employee under the category of Locomotor Disability for the year 2019 and Best Self-Employed with Disability Male under the category of Multiple Disabilities for the year 2020 respectively. Both have fought various odds to come up in life. A road accident lead to a spinal cord injury for Prabu, who was then working as a supervisor at a spinning mill in Thiruvanamalai. But that did not dampen his spirits. He went in for a medical intervention and joined NIEPMD as a telephone operator on a session basis. With sheer hardwork he cleared various examinations including UGC’s NET examination and the Teacher Eligibility Test, says a release. As telephone operator, Prabu answers and receives calls on queries related to services available at NIEPMD as well as the various government schemes. He got a customised “powered wheelchair”, sponsored under CSR activities, that came attached with a typing adaptive device that he allows him to type independently. D. Madhan, 24 years, was diagnosed with cerebral palsy with intellectual disability at an early age but through sheer determination and hardwork he has come up in life. He joined NIEPMD in 2008 and underwent special education training and vocational guidance. Later, he joined the skill training institute to start his own tailoring shop. He now runs Madhan Tailoring work with his parents helping him in his venture. According to the release, Madhan is punctual and completes assigned tasks within the time frame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/beating-the-odds/article33428641.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33428632.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A calendar project||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-calendar-project/article33428623.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||How the tide turned for Santhome in 1983||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-the-tide-turned-for-santhome-in-1983/article33428625.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Object lesson in service||On Fiaz Mohammad’s book shelf, there is some space that is never meant for books. It is where he parks a kit bag, sometimes empty and sometimes packed ready for a weekend trip. While accompanying his father J. Sulaiman on these weekend trips to the outskirts of Chennai, 14-year-old Fiaz never fails to carry the kit bag with him. These are not jaunts for soaking in the natural settings that the outskirts offer, but to reach out to people on the economic fringes of society and who obviously need a leg-up. Sulaiman is with The New College in Royapettah as commerce professor for more than two decades, and also serves as National Service Scheme (NSS) officer at the institution, organising community work including medical camps in villages of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Villupuram districts. A new focus During the pandemic, they shifted the focus of their community work. The kit bag continues to be carried by Fiaz, but its contents are now way different from what they used to be — it is now a case of packing food parcels, face masks and sanitiser bottles into it. Professor Sulaiman, who is 44 years old, and Faiz head to streets in localities within the city limits — Thousand Lights, Anna Nagar, Royapettah, Triplicane, Chetpet and Tirumangalam, to name a few — and distribute food packets, face masks and hand sanitisers to the needy and homeless people. This service by the duo was at its height between April and June. It still continues, during the weekends. “During the complete lockdown, I would wait for my son’s online classes to come to a close and then the two of us would go from street to street, and distribute relief materials to the underprivileged and also those who clearly appear to need them. This year, the city’s streets have become my son's holiday destination. He has visited many new streets in the city,” says Professor Sulaiman. The professor hails from Vikaravandi, a town in Villupuram district, and much of his childhood having been spent at this Sulaiman spent most of his formative years in the town, where he went to a government high school and then a government college. Sulaimen joined The New College in Royapettah 21 years ago in the position of a lecturer, and worked his way up in his teaching career, ascending to the status of as a guide for Ph.D students in his college. Sulaiman has been managing his leisure efficiently, and this meant he is able to allocate a good amount for community work. It was the 2004 Tsunami that got his treading the path of social service. He had visited Kanathur on the East Coast Road and was witness to the ravages caused by the calamity. He got down to doing some extensive community work. Earlier, he had reached out to the needy, but following this intervention, his community work was marked by a rare intensity. He started visiting remote villages where he would organise medical camps, providing free medicines, and also create awareness on health and cleanliness. A monthly commitment Obviously, such commitment is not sustainable without resources and understanding from family and associates. “I keep aside 20-30 per cent of my salary for such relief work every month. My family never complains about it,” reveals Sulaiman. The college management is generous in terms of the funds and time they extend to Sulaiman to make it possible for him to carry out such works. Sulaiman has had a long association with the college’s NSS unit and in 2013, he won the “Best NSS Officer of the Year” award, which he received from the hands of the President of India. His track record in community service had won him this rare honour. During natural calamities, Sulaiman and his team of NSS volunteers would put themselves out there and reach succour to the affected, and sometimes even living out of suitcases as field work would take them far from home. That was the situation following cyclones Thane and Gaja. A joint effort During Vardah and the 2015 floods, Sulaiman et al similarly stepped up to the plate, distributing relief materials to affected families. During the lockdown, Sulaiman and his NSS volunteers successfully tried to broadbase the relief work by getting the entire 260 staff of the college and its management to take community service. With the funds raised by the group, dry rations including daal, cooking oil, wheat, rice and milk were bought for the needy in Chennai, which largely included homeless persons. Says Sulaiman, “Carrying out such community work is team work as there is active support from the college, colleagues and family.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/object-lesson-in-service/article33428640.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Gadwalls join the party||In the field, no two birders would identify a rare bird in facsimile fashion. It is especially true of the first deci-second of the encounter. “What marker did you see first?” would invariably elicit fascinating answers from birders that have clapped eyes on a rarity, together as a group. Take a birding episode from Sholinganallur two weeks ago, for how three birders responded to this question. Members of Madras Naturalists Society (MNS), the three were part of a small group on a casual weekend jaunt to the birding site. They sighted five Gadwalls, two male and three female, at an unlikely waterbody, one sandwiched between tall and swanky office buildings at the Sholinganallur IT Special Economic Zone. To its north lies the Pallikaranai Marsh, within hearing distance of a dabbling-duck symphony. To its south lies the famous spit of land that is referred to as the Perumbakkam wetland, but is part of the Pallikaranai Marsh. Now, on to the first markers their minds registered. Umesh Mani recalls that his eyes landed on a male Gadwall’s all-black bill. In the same sweep of the eye, he noticed that there was “no white line running across the eye and down the nape”. Taking in these facts, his mind instantaneously registered that that it was not a Gargany, and that there was a Gadwell out there. Chandrasekar Sundaram first saw the same male Gadwall’s greyish colour, and it was the black rump that settled the question for him. Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi saw the orange bill of a female Gadwall, paddling not too far away from this male, and he had found his bird. As he would explain later, Gnanaskandan had in fact had his eyes peeled for Gadwalls during the visit. He was specifically looking for the orange bill of a female Gadwall, while scanning a flock of Wigeons. “To be honest, when we were talking at that point, Gnanaskandan is the one who spotted it first, identifying a female Gadwall by the orange bill. And then we were certain by looking for the features in a male Gadwall,” says Umesh. Various markers  “Supposing there is only a mixed flock of female ducks — many a time, that happens, right? — you would have to look for differentiators between female ducks from different species. A birder has to know what to look for. When it is just female ducks, you need to have a separate set of features to look for.” In their usual plumage, which they may carry well into their wintering grounds, male ducks are easier to differentiate from other duck species. However, adult males would go through what is called eclipse plumage after the breeding season. During this period, they would resemble the female of their own species. Fortunately, this period is short, and usually, the adult male duck would easily recognisable. Adult male ducks would be largely be wearing their usual, colourful finery even in the wintering, non-breeding grounds. However, when a male sub-adult duck transforms into an adult, things can get really confusing. “The plumage that sub-adult male ducks wear during their transition to adulthood not only make them resemble the female of the species, but also set them up for being mistaken for some other duck species,” explains Gnanaskandan. “Sub-adult Northern Pintail males that are in this ‘transformative plumage’ — which is still known as eclipse plumage — will also wear a grey similar to the Gadwall male’s. In these circumstances, you have to look at the bill shape. Consciously, I have been looking for the bill. Just like that, we caught sight of a female, and then a male. Then, on the other side of the waterbody, we saw one more male and two female gadwalls,” says Gnanaskandan. Wigeon flocks There was a huge flock of Wigeons, and these Gadwalls were not too far removed from them, strengthening an already well-entrenched idea that a very small number of Gadwells can be expected to arrive even in a place not known to draw Gadwells, as long as it is known to play host to Wigeons. Gadwell sightings remain an extremely rare occurrence in Chennai, and birders in the metro hold to this view. Observations from elsewhere also support it. Having lived in Hyderabad, Umesh points out that in waterbodies there, he had seen Gadwalls with Wigeons. Gadwall sightings are rare in Hyderabad too, but not as rare as in Chennai, adds Umesh. “It helps to know which ducks Gadwalls associate with. So, when you see these ducks, you should look for Gadwalls. When you know they are seen with Wigeons, ideally, when you see a Wigeon, you should also look for a Gadwall. It is quite likely they are also there,” Umesh makes it clear. While admitting that there is no clear-cut explanation for why Gadwalls are found around Wigeons, Gnanaskandan draws attention to the fact that they are both of the genus Mareca . He echoes the view that a few Gadwalls could be migrating along with a large Wigeon flock, to southern parts of the country, certainly not seen as the Gadwall’s favoured wintering pit-stop. Gadwalls are found in greater numbers in certain northern sections of India during winter. The possibilities Responding to a question about Gadwalls and Wigeons, ornithologist V. Shantaram says, “They might have travelled together? We still do not have that kind of study in India to tell how they travel, but it is still possible that they may associate with each other for a longer period than they would with any other species. They either travelled together, or found affinity with each other after arriving here.” Shantaram also underlines that association could spring out of necessity and convenience: “If you went into the forest, you would see what is known as mixed hunting parties. Bird species may be coming together because they stand to benefit from the association. Or, it can also be coincidence. They do not need to be closely related. In fact, if they are, they need to be slightly away from each other, because they will be looking for similar kind of food.” ( ‘Migrant Watch’ is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gadwalls-join-the-party/article33428678.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Object lesson in service||On Fiaz Mohammad’s book shelf, there is some space that is never meant for books. It is where he parks a kit bag, sometimes empty and sometimes packed ready for a weekend trip. While accompanying his father J. Sulaiman on these weekend trips to the outskirts of Chennai, 14-year-old Fiaz never fails to carry the kit bag with him. These are not jaunts for soaking in the natural settings that the outskirts offer, but to reach out to people on the economic fringes of society and who obviously need a leg-up. Sulaiman is with The New College in Royapettah as commerce professor for more than two decades, and also serves as National Service Scheme (NSS) officer at the institution, organising community work including medical camps in villages of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Villupuram districts. A new focus During the pandemic, they shifted the focus of their community work. The kit bag continues to be carried by Fiaz, but its contents are now way different from what they used to be — it is now a case of packing food parcels, face masks and sanitiser bottles into it. Professor Sulaiman, who is 44 years old, and Faiz head to streets in localities within the city limits — Thousand Lights, Anna Nagar, Royapettah, Triplicane, Chetpet and Tirumangalam, to name a few — and distribute food packets, face masks and hand sanitisers to the needy and homeless people. This service by the duo was at its height between April and June. It still continues, during the weekends. “During the complete lockdown, I would wait for my son’s online classes to come to a close and then the two of us would go from street to street, and distribute relief materials to the underprivileged and also those who clearly appear to need them. This year, the city’s streets have become my son's holiday destination. He has visited many new streets in the city,” says Professor Sulaiman. The professor hails from Vikaravandi, a town in Villupuram district, and much of his childhood having been spent at this Sulaiman spent most of his formative years in the town, where he went to a government high school and then a government college. Sulaimen joined The New College in Royapettah 21 years ago in the position of a lecturer, and worked his way up in his teaching career, ascending to the status of as a guide for Ph.D students in his college. Sulaiman has been managing his leisure efficiently, and this meant he is able to allocate a good amount for community work. It was the 2004 Tsunami that got his treading the path of social service. He had visited Kanathur on the East Coast Road and was witness to the ravages caused by the calamity. He got down to doing some extensive community work. Earlier, he had reached out to the needy, but following this intervention, his community work was marked by a rare intensity. He started visiting remote villages where he would organise medical camps, providing free medicines, and also create awareness on health and cleanliness. A monthly commitment Obviously, such commitment is not sustainable without resources and understanding from family and associates. “I keep aside 20-30 per cent of my salary for such relief work every month. My family never complains about it,” reveals Sulaiman. The college management is generous in terms of the funds and time they extend to Sulaiman to make it possible for him to carry out such works. Sulaiman has had a long association with the college’s NSS unit and in 2013, he won the “Best NSS Officer of the Year” award, which he received from the hands of the President of India. His track record in community service had won him this rare honour. During natural calamities, Sulaiman and his team of NSS volunteers would put themselves out there and reach succour to the affected, and sometimes even living out of suitcases as field work would take them far from home. That was the situation following cyclones Thane and Gaja. A joint effort During Vardah and the 2015 floods, Sulaiman et al similarly stepped up to the plate, distributing relief materials to affected families. During the lockdown, Sulaiman and his NSS volunteers successfully tried to broadbase the relief work by getting the entire 260 staff of the college and its management to take community service. With the funds raised by the group, dry rations including daal, cooking oil, wheat, rice and milk were bought for the needy in Chennai, which largely included homeless persons. Says Sulaiman, “Carrying out such community work is team work as there is active support from the college, colleagues and family.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/object-lesson-in-service/article33428676.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||How the tide turned for Santhome in 1983||The sixth and final Test on West Indies’ tour of India in 1983-84 is probably unforgettable for just one reason — a defiant 236 not out from a skullcap-wearing Sunil Gavaskar. For a bunch of Santhome alumni though, there is one more reason. Following the final Test match, which took place between December 24 and 29 (the additional day accounting for the rest day) at Chepauk, the winners and runners-up of the inaugural 1983 Thums-Up inter-school cricket tournament would be felicitated at a function at what was then known as Adyar Park hotel. West Indies captain Clive Lloyd would give away the winners’ trophy to the boys from Santhome Higher Secondary School, which included P. Unnikrishnan, now a heavyweight in Carnatic and playback singing. India captain Kapil Dev would honour the boys from St. Bede’s who ended up on the losing side in the finals. A brief report of the awards ceremony carried by The Hindu with a ‘December 30 Madras’ dateline, highlighted how Llyod kept his speech crisp, but crackling with wit. The report began: “ ‘My speech, like Roger Harper’s innings, will be brief,’ said Clive Lloyd and the entire audience including the West Indian team members (Roger Harper too) burst out in laughter.” Harper had a brief stay at the crease, and had less than nothing to show for it — a duck it was for the lanky spinner in the first innings. The report further noted: “During his speech, which was shorter than Lloyd’s, Kapil Dev exhorted the youngsters to ‘work hard and try to play for the country in the future. And if you do, you should play better than we did against these mighty West Indians.’ ” In the Test series, the rubber had gone to the West Indians with a convincing 3-0 result. The humiliation in the one-day series was total, as team India, the world champions, was handed out a 5-0 drubbing. Though Kapil’s address to the group of budding cricketers from Santhome and St. Bede’s on December 30, 1983 was marked by a sobering sense of defeat, the golden year of Indian cricket, just two flickers away from passing into history, had clearly changed the tide for India. Though disappointments would keep popping up along the way, the 1983 victory at Lord’s had forever changed the narrative for Indian cricket. It had put a spring in the successive players’ steps, instilling mammoth self-assurance in them. There are parallels to be drawn here, between the international and the hyperlocal. Year 1983 was also the golden year for Santhome cricket. As the captain of the Thums Up trophy-winning team of 1983 C.T. Natesan points out, that year Santhome hit a purple patch, winning seven titles. The culture of winning had set in, for Santhome. To illustrate, B. Srinivasa Rao, who would coach the school team between 1985 and 2012, with a couple of breaks in-between, underlines how Santhome would dominate the Thums Up inter-school tournament, managing a mind-boggling 90 percent success rate in winning titles. There is a general belief that in the early 1980s, Santhome announced its arrival as a superpower in school cricket. Cricket-playing alumni of the school may however slightly differ on when its star was on a noticeable ascendancy. “In 1979 and 1980, the first glimmer of greatness was evident. That is when B. Arun, who earned the India cap, was playing for Santhome,” says Natesan. “Though there was potential, it was yet to translate into results. The tide clearly turned in 1983.” V. Thulasidharan, who would captain the school team in 1984, believes it began around 1982. Unnikrishnan agrees with this timeline: “When I joined Santhome for Class XI, S. Ramakrishnan was the captain. Popularly known as Ramki, he is the man behind SportsMechanics, which pioneered by introducing sports analytics in cricket. He was with the Indian team for many years. After Ramki left, Natesan became the captain.” What Unnikrishnan is driving at is that from the players to the school administration, there was a impressive leadership. This factor was pivotal to how Santhome managed to create an atmosphere that youngsters pursuing cricket as a competitive sport found inspiring. So, there was the trend of students seeking admission in Santhome, because they were good at cricket, and wanted to get better at it. Unnikrishnan discloses that his move from Asan Memorial to Santhome for his higher secondary eduction was driven by the same expectation. The school management would always manage to create a space for a student who had proven cricketing skills. “Well, that is how I got admission. When I went for the interview, the principal, Bro. Camillus just asked me, “Do you play cricket?” and he did not look at my marks," laughs Unnikrishnan. Unnikrishnan points out that Bro. Camillus had learnt from S. Md. Hussain, who served as manager of the Santhome cricket team, about my exposure to competitive cricket. The singer further explains that Hussain would have seen him at the TNCA nets, and was aware that he had been part of the state Under-15 and Under-19 camps. “Hussain would have already told Bro. Camillus about this, and so, they would have already made up their mind to give me admission,” says Unnikrishnan. Thulasidharan says that from the 1980s to the mid-1990s, there was a succession of principals who would go to great lengths to promote cricket. “It began with Bro. Camillus. During his five-year stint as principal, Santhome was continually in the news for its cricketing exploits. He was succeeded by Bro. Selvanathan who also displayed a similar commitment to keeping Santhome at the summit of school cricket. Then, there was Bro. George. Successive principals wanted to carry on the legacy and that made all the difference,” elaborates Thulasidharan. The cricket-friendly culture that Santhome fostered showed up in tangible ways. “Those who were in the School cricket team need not attend the last period. The talent pool was quite wide that the school had ‘A’ and ‘B’ teams, which would play against each other, at St. Bede’s grounds. How many matches we have played at the St. Bede’s grounds. The principal was extremely encouraging towards cricketers,” says Unnikrishnan. At Santhome, cricket did not end at close of stumps on the cricket field, but branched into routes that enriched the youngsters’ lives well beyond the sports. “Because of the great showing in 1983, doors opened for many of us. Five of us were asked to join Vivekananda directly,” says Natesan, who found employment at Indian Bank on sports quota. “Out of this 1983 team, four joined Indian Bank. At present, three of them are still working for the bank, with the other one quitting the job to start his own business. Besides the four, two others work for State Bank of India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-the-tide-turned-for-santhome-in-1983/article33428675.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Bays come up at bus stops near Madhavaram terminus||A bus bay has been created at a bus stop on both sides of Grand Northern Trunk Road. These two bus stops are found near the newly-opened Madhavaram Mofussil Bus Terminus (MMBT). The permanent barricades installed by the State Highways are made of steel and would get bus drivers to stop only within the dedicated space. Traffic congestion near the bus stops is the main reason for installing these barricades. Apparently, the traffic police raised the issue of traffic congestion and accidents, especially at night, due to buses stopping in the middle of the carriageway and hindering the free movement of other vehicles around the Madhavaram roundtana. With the road space blocked by MTC buses, it is difficult for mofussil buses from MMBT to enter and leave the terminus. “Having a bus bay helps commuters board their buses safely, and spares the needless hassle of having to run to board their bus,” says S. Praveen, a commuter from Puzhal. Spread over eight acres, the Rs. 95 crore-Madhavaram bus terminus, built by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), was inaugurated in 2018 to decongest CMBT at Koyambedu. The single-storey terminus with a basement for two-wheeler parking mostly operates mofussil buses of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) and Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC). Every day, on an average, around 190 services are operated by APSRTC from the terminus to places like Tirupathi, Nellore, Vijayawada, Kurnool, Visakhapatnam, Puttapathiri, Bhadrachalam and Hyderabad. The TNSTC operates buses mainly to areas in Tiruvallur district along with 77 trips run by the MTC including one MTC bus service between the terminus and CMBT every day. After the inauguration of moffusil service two years ago, long-distance travellers especially those heading to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh including pilgrim centres like Tirupathi, Kalahasthi and Puttapathiri have been able to board buses from the Madhavaram terminus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bays-come-up-at-bus-stops-near-madhavaram-terminus/article33428662.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Has the battle for Puzhal lake begun?||There is now a glimmer of hope that garbage dumping at Puzhal lake in Thirumullaivoyal just may be effectively checked. Over the years, garbage-laden lorries queueing up along the one-kilometre-long Arikamedu Main Road, that is along the bund of the lake, at night has become a common sight. These lorries disgorge tonnes of refuse and discards including construction material into the lake. Without street lights, the street is plunged in darkness and many motorists avoid this road, a factor making this operation easier to be carried out, says A. Giri Ravanan, secretary, Venketachalam Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Another factor is that the nearest neighbourood — Venketachalam Nagar — is quite some distance away. Residents of Venketachalam Nagar have formed small teams, most of which constituted by youngsters, to monitor the movement of these lorries and send an alert to office-bearers of Venketachalam Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Shopkeepers at a few shops found in the vicinity of the lake are allies in this monitoring work. “Following repeated petitions from residents, the Avadi Corporation, with the help of the Public Works Department, which maintains the waterbody, cleared tonnes of garbage along the bund a fortnight ago. LED lights were also installed to deter motorists from dumping garbage in the lake,” says Giri Ravanan. A six-feet-high steel fence is also being erected by the Corporation. Besides, CCTV cameras are being installed at strategic locations on the road. Further, crash-barriers are being planned to prevent lorries and other heavy vehicles from entering the stretch. The Puzhal lake is located on Grand Northern Trunk Road, a national highway that connects the city with Kolkata. Despite being a rain-fed waterbody, it supplies water to the city round the year. The lake is situated on the northern side of Thirumullaivoyal. In terms of groundwater recharge, localities like SVT Nagar, Venketachalam Nagar, Subramaniya Nagar and Thendral Nagar East benefit from the lake. In fact, the lake has kept most of the borewells in the neighbourhood going dry. It may be noted that with the heavy showers brought it brought, cyclone Nivar led to inundation of many residential localities in Thirumullaivoyal, and these included areas round the Puzhal lake. Though it sprawls across 4,500 acres, the waterbody could not hold the water that drained into it, resulting in the flooding of areas around it. It was plain to see that waste pile-ups in the lake had reduced its water storage capacity.  LED lights were also installed to deter miscreants from dumping garbage in the lake||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/has-the-battle-for-puzhal-lake-begun/article33428658.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A calendar project||Artistic excellence Twenty-year-old Pragadeesh Thiyagarajan has put his love for dates, numbers and art together to design a table calendar. “Pragadeesh, who is on the spectrum, has the uncanny ability to instantly give the exact day of any date in any year that is given to him. He is also good at sequencing and dabbles in painting. The calendar project showcases all that he is adept at, and this exercise seems to go a long way towards boosting his confidence,” says Nirmala Thiyagarajan, Pragadeesh’s mother. Another reason for choosing to design and market calendars is to encourage him to put all the lessons he has learnt to practice. Pragadeesh is a second-year visual communication student of Kumararani Meena Muthiah College of Arts and Science in Adyar and has also been learning multimedia from AIMS Media. “His mentor K. Gowri Shankar has been encouraging us to get him to take up some independent project and that is how we came up with this initiative,” says Nirmala. Pragadeesh has used patterns to creatively design home décor, cutlery in his work. Fifty copies were printed and all of them have been booked. “I did not expect such a response, so we have placed orders for re-printing,” says Nirmala, adding that she posted details about her son’s work in two parent support groups – SCAN and VOICE – that she is part of. “We look at this as a big encouragement for our son in his journey towards becoming independent,” she says. The calendar is priced at Rs. 250 (for those in Chennai) and can be ordered by calling 9940347472. ** Financial independence More than 40 adults from five Chennai-based institutions have partnered for Project SNEH (Special Needs Empowerment Hub), a network for the special needs community, to design various marketable products that would make an ideal gift for the New Year. The institutions are: Sankalp, Sarva Mangala Vihar Trust, Sri Arunodhayam Charitable Trust, Swabhimaan and V-Excel Educational Trust. “Students of Gowrin Special School, SpasTN and HLC International School also joined us recently,” says Anuradha Mahesh, team lead. The network also invites parents of special children to join them so that they can market products of adults with special needs, and work towards ensuring their financial independence. To place an order, call 9840076322 / 9884281527. Visit www.snehindia.com for further details. ** A decade into art This is the 10th year Amrita Visweswaran is using art to give back to society. As a six-year-old, she started designing calendars with her artworks on it. The proceeds of the sale of these calendars would go to The Madhuram Narayanan Centre for Exceptional Children (now a part of Bala Mandir Kamaraj Trust); and this journey has continued to this day. MNC provides early intervention services for children with intellectual disability, and the proceeds from the sale of this calendar go towards Mooldhara, a project it runs. The 2021 version of the desktop calendar has evocative paintings — including sunset and sunrise — that illustrate the theme ‘New Beginnings’. “Every year, she chooses a new theme — flowers, pets, scenic settings are some of them — for the calendar series,” says Madhura Visweswaran, Amrita’s mother. Pocket notebooks and playing cards are a few other products that are sold. To place an order, call 9840074621  We look at this as a big encouragement for our son in his journey towards becoming independent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-calendar-project/article33428679.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||MTC stop in Mogappair comes in handy for tipplers||A Metropolitan Transport Corporation bus stop near Annachi Stores on Collector Nagar Main Road in Mogappair does not seem to serve its intended purpose. With tipplers often parked in the seats, many MTC commuters, especially women, choose to give it a wide berth, waiting for their buses a little further from the facility. “Routine police patrolling is necessary to prevent anti-socials from creating public nuisance,” says V. Sumathi, a resident of Mogappair. At present, a section of the Collector Nagar Main Road — between the Ambattur Industrial Estate Main Road intersection and the Corporation park — which accounts for a distance of 2.3 km, comes under the purview of the State Highways Department. The rest of the road falls within limits of Greater Chennai Corporation’s Zone – 7 limits. The bus stop is located near the intersection of Collector Nagar Main Road and Ambattur Industrial Estate Main Road. Buses from both terminuses — Mogappair East and Mogappair West — halt at the bus stop. It is an important stop as it is a halting point for MTC services to T. Nagar, Broadway, Tambaram, CMBT (Koyambedu) and Adyar.  “Steps will be taken soon to provide better facilities at the bus stop and prevent anti-socials from misusing it,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtc-stop-in-mogappair-comes-in-handy-for-tipplers/article33428664.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Despite corrective measure, threat to motorists remains||In April 2019, the Greater Chennai Corporation widened a section of the Alapakkam Main Road in Lakshmi Nagar, near Porur that was marked by a bend. The corrective measure was taken to prevent accidents. However, despite the intervention, the section remains a danger area as safety features like reflectors, signboards, and speed-breakers have not been put in place. Over a dozen palm trees were axed to convert the stretch from two- to four-lane. However, these efforts do not seem to bear full fruit, as this section of the road continues to pose a threat to the safety of road users. “As the road is wide now, many motorists tend to drive at a break-neck speed. This section is particularly unsafe for motoring at night. Speed-breakers are therefore necessary to prevent rash driving,” says S. Yuvaraj, a resident of Porur. The six-kilometre-long Alapakkam Main Road is an important road as it connects Maduravoyal on Poonamallee High Road with Porur on Arcot Road. Besides, this road also provides access to Valasaravakkam, Vannagaram, Alwarthirunagar, Mogalivakkam and Ramapuram. For many decades, areas on both sides of Alapakkam Main Road had mango groves and vegetable gardens and greens and these would be irrigated by the lakes in the region. However, over the years, the mango groves have disappeared mainly due to water shortage, and other delimiting factors have also been at play. Now, the groves wear a stark look. Much of the land that was acquired for widening of the road comes from empty lands were once mango groves. “Steps will be taken to provide safety facilities on the road at the earliest,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/despite-corrective-measure-threat-to-motorists-remains/article33428666.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Cattle found on roads||Cattle are left to roam in Padikuppam Road and many of them can be seen near garbage bins and vegetable shops. The cattle on the road are also a hindrance to traffic movement and cause inconvenience to pedestrians. I request the department officers concerned to attend to this concern of the residents of Padikuppam Road. B. R. Rajkumar Padikuppam Road, Anna Nagar West||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cattle-found-on-roads/article33428672.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Stray dog menace in Villivakkam||The stray dog population seems to have increased in Villivakkam; particularly, many stray dogs are seen roaming around First Main Road, North Jagannath Nagar and the Corporation playground. Many residents are afraid of walking on the roads fearing they would be attacked by a pack of dogs. Corporation must send experienced dog catchers so that they can be neutered to check the stray dog population. G. Udayakumar Villivakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stray-dog-menace-in-villivakkam/article33428673.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Store sells organic chlorine tablets||Sastha Stores is selling “Safe Chlor.” According to a press release, it is an organic chlorine tablet, which is said to eliminate harmful germs and parasites. It is available in 3.7 grams and 14 grams. It can be bought in one kg virgin plastic tight containers. The tablets are designed for human consumption, says the release. The tablet is said to prevent waterborne diseases like gastroenteritis, diarrhoea, jaundice, dysentery,typhoid, worm infection, cholera and leptospirosis. Sastha Stores is at No:63, South Usman Road, T.Nagar, Chennai 600017,Door delivery is available for select areas. For details and enquiries contact 7806805544||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/store-sells-organic-chlorine-tablets/article33428677.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33428667.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||How the tide turned for Santhome in 1983||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-the-tide-turned-for-santhome-in-1983/article33428660.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A calendar project||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-calendar-project/article33428659.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The week that went by||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-week-that-went-by/article33428670.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Gadwalls join the party||In the field, no two birders would identify a rare bird in facsimile fashion. It is especially true of the first deci-second of the encounter. “What marker did you see first?” would invariably elicit fascinating answers from birders that have clapped eyes on a rarity, together as a group. Take a birding episode from Sholinganallur two weeks ago, for how three birders responded to this question. Members of Madras Naturalists Society (MNS), the three were part of a small group on a casual weekend jaunt to the birding site. They sighted five Gadwalls, two male and three female, at an unlikely waterbody, one sandwiched between tall and swanky office buildings at the Sholinganallur IT Special Economic Zone. To its north lies the Pallikaranai Marsh, within hearing distance of a dabbling-duck symphony. To its south lies the famous spit of land that is referred to as the Perumbakkam wetland, but is part of the Pallikaranai Marsh. Now, on to the first markers their minds registered. Umesh Mani recalls that his eyes landed on a male Gadwall’s all-black bill. In the same sweep of the eye, he noticed that there was “no white line running across the eye and down the nape”. Taking in these facts, his mind instantaneously registered that that it was not a Gargany, and that there was a Gadwell out there. Chandrasekar Sundaram first saw the same male Gadwall’s greyish colour, and it was the black rump that settled the question for him. Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi saw the orange bill of a female Gadwall, paddling not too far away from this male, and he had found his bird. As he would explain later, Gnanaskandan had in fact had his eyes peeled for Gadwalls during the visit. He was specifically looking for the orange bill of a female Gadwall, while scanning a flock of Wigeons. “To be honest, when we were talking at that point, Gnanaskandan is the one who spotted it first, identifying a female Gadwall by the orange bill. And then we were certain by looking for the features in a male Gadwall,” says Umesh. Various markers  “Supposing there is only a mixed flock of female ducks — many a time, that happens, right? — you would have to look for differentiators between female ducks from different species. A birder has to know what to look for. When it is just female ducks, you need to have a separate set of features to look for.” In their usual plumage, which they may carry well into their wintering grounds, male ducks are easier to differentiate from other duck species. However, adult males would go through what is called eclipse plumage after the breeding season. During this period, they would resemble the female of their own species. Fortunately, this period is short, and usually, the adult male duck would easily recognisable. Adult male ducks would be largely be wearing their usual, colourful finery even in the wintering, non-breeding grounds. However, when a male sub-adult duck transforms into an adult, things can get really confusing. “The plumage that sub-adult male ducks wear during their transition to adulthood not only make them resemble the female of the species, but also set them up for being mistaken for some other duck species,” explains Gnanaskandan. “Sub-adult Northern Pintail males that are in this ‘transformative plumage’ — which is still known as eclipse plumage — will also wear a grey similar to the Gadwall male’s. In these circumstances, you have to look at the bill shape. Consciously, I have been looking for the bill. Just like that, we caught sight of a female, and then a male. Then, on the other side of the waterbody, we saw one more male and two female gadwalls,” says Gnanaskandan. Wigeon flocks There was a huge flock of Wigeons, and these Gadwalls were not too far removed from them, strengthening an already well-entrenched idea that a very small number of Gadwells can be expected to arrive even in a place not known to draw Gadwells, as long as it is known to play host to Wigeons. Gadwell sightings remain an extremely rare occurrence in Chennai, and birders in the metro hold to this view. Observations from elsewhere also support it. Having lived in Hyderabad, Umesh points out that in waterbodies there, he had seen Gadwalls with Wigeons. Gadwall sightings are rare in Hyderabad too, but not as rare as in Chennai, adds Umesh. “It helps to know which ducks Gadwalls associate with. So, when you see these ducks, you should look for Gadwalls. When you know they are seen with Wigeons, ideally, when you see a Wigeon, you should also look for a Gadwall. It is quite likely they are also there,” Umesh makes it clear. While admitting that there is no clear-cut explanation for why Gadwalls are found around Wigeons, Gnanaskandan draws attention to the fact that they are both of the genus Mareca . He echoes the view that a few Gadwalls could be migrating along with a large Wigeon flock, to southern parts of the country, certainly not seen as the Gadwall’s favoured wintering pit-stop. Gadwalls are found in greater numbers in certain northern sections of India during winter. The possibilities Responding to a question about Gadwalls and Wigeons, ornithologist V. Shantaram says, “They might have travelled together? We still do not have that kind of study in India to tell how they travel, but it is still possible that they may associate with each other for a longer period than they would with any other species. They either travelled together, or found affinity with each other after arriving here.” Shantaram also underlines that association could spring out of necessity and convenience: “If you went into the forest, you would see what is known as mixed hunting parties. Bird species may be coming together because they stand to benefit from the association. Or, it can also be coincidence. They do not need to be closely related. In fact, if they are, they need to be slightly away from each other, because they will be looking for similar kind of food.” ( ‘Migrant Watch’ is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gadwalls-join-the-party/article33428710.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Has the battle for Puzhal lake begun?||There is now a glimmer of hope that garbage dumping at Puzhal lake in Thirumullaivoyal just may be effectively checked. Over the years, garbage-laden lorries queueing up along the one-kilometre-long Arikamedu Main Road, that is along the bund of the lake, at night has become a common sight. These lorries disgorge tonnes of refuse and discards including construction material into the lake. Without street lights, the street is plunged in darkness and many motorists avoid this road, a factor making this operation easier to be carried out, says A. Giri Ravanan, secretary, Venketachalam Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Another factor is that the nearest neighbourood — Venketachalam Nagar — is quite some distance away. Now, residents of Venketachalam Nagar have formed small teams, most of which constituted by youngsters, to monitor the movement of these lorries and send an alert to office-bearers of Venketachalam Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Shopkeepers at a few shops found in the vicinity of the lake are allies in this monitoring work. “Following repeated petitions from residents, the Avadi Corporation, with the help of the Public Works Department, which maintains the waterbody, cleared tonnes of garbage along the bund a fortnight ago. LED lights were also installed to deter motorists from dumping garbage in the lake,” says Giri Ravanan. A six-feet-high steel fence is also being erected by the Corporation. Besides, CCTV cameras are being installed at strategic locations on the road. Further, crash-barriers are being planned to prevent lorries and other heavy vehicles from entering the stretch. The Puzhal lake is located on Grand Northern Trunk Road, a national highway that connects the city with Kolkata. Despite being a rain-fed waterbody, it supplies water to the city round the year. The lake is situated on the northern side of Thirumullaivoyal. In terms of groundwater recharge, localities like SVT Nagar, Venketachalam Nagar, Subramaniya Nagar and Thendral Nagar East benefit from the lake. In fact, the lake has kept most of the borewells in the neighbourhood going dry. It may be noted that with the heavy showers brought it brought, cyclone Nivar led to inundation of many residential localities in Thirumullaivoyal, and these included areas round the Puzhal lake. Though it sprawls across 4,500 acres, the waterbody could not hold the water that drained into it, resulting in the flooding of areas around it. It was plain to see that waste pile-ups in the lake had reduced its water storage capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/has-the-battle-for-puzhal-lake-begun/article33428711.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Sand sacks at a ration shop?||Sacks of sand have been piled high, in two columns, against a wall at a PDS outlet on Kundrathur Main Road in Kundrathur. It is said to be extreme measure taken to support a weak wall. Cracks are found all over the building. Residents point out that during a downpour, water can be expected to seep into the building. Besides, the outlet has limited storage capacity, necessitating the distribution of the essentials soon after their arrival. “Through local residents, the PDS staff pass on the message that the goods have arrived, and we are expected to collect them at the earliest. Due to lack of sufficient space, we wait outside. When it rains, we get drenched. On torridly hot days, we brave the blazing sun,” says S. Muniswamy, a resident of Kundrathur. When a large number of consumers wait outside the PDS outlet, traffic movement on the busy Kundrathur Main Road is hindered. The safety of these people is also at stake, as the PDS shop is located near the busy junction . So, residents regulate traffic the junction. It is residents’ long-standing request that the ration shop be relocated. “Steps will be taken to give a facelift to the existing PDS outlet soon,” says a Kancheepuram district official.  “When it rains, water seeps into the building, which is more than three decades old”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sand-sacks-at-a-ration-shop/article33428686.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A call to to relocate sub-registrar office||Visitors to the sub-registrar office at Rajalakshmi Nagar in Velachery are put to inconvenience as it is not spacious. Although this problem has been around all these years, it has become conspicuous now, due to the need for social distancing. There isn’t enough space for everybody to sit and so, people can be seen waiting outside. Long-time residents of Velachery point out that the office functions from a rented building, and that it has had three different addresses in the past 20 years. Earlier, it operated from LIC Colony and was then shifted to Oradi Amman Kovil Street and then to Rajalakshmi Nagar. Residents of nearby areas have complained of haphazard parking of vehicles in the interior lanes by visitors to the office. A few residents’ welfare associations in Velachery have suggested that the sub-registrar office be shifted to the Tahsildar office on Gandhi Salai. “The Tahsildar office is a spacious facility with a parking lot. It was inaugurated two years ago. It has a ground as well as a first floor. While the sub-registrar office must be approximately 900 sq.ft in dimensions, the Tahsildar office should be around 10,000 sq.ft. Moreover, as per FSI rules, another floor can be added to the Tahsildar office. Further, both the offices come under Revenue Department. We therefore assume that there should not be any problem in implementing our suggestion. We request the authorities concerned to look into this requirement because, every day close to 100 registrations happen here. This includes property and marriage registrations. On auspicious days, it is terrible and simply impossible to enter the office. Besides residents of Velachery, those from Madipakkam also visit this sub-registrar office. For these reasons, it has to be relocated to a spacious facility,” says S. Kumara Raja, an office-bearer of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association and regular visitor to the sub-registrar office as he is in the real-estate business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-call-to-to-relocate-sub-registrar-office/article33428692.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A calendar project||Artistic excellence Twenty-year-old Pragadeesh Thiyagarajan has put his love for dates, numbers and art together to design a table calendar. “Pragadeesh, who is on the spectrum, has the uncanny ability to instantly give the exact day of any date in any year that is given to him. He is also good at sequencing and dabbles in painting. The calendar project showcases all that he is adept at, and this exercise seems to go a long way towards boosting his confidence,” says Nirmala Thiyagarajan, Pragadeesh’s mother. Another reason for choosing to design and market calendars is to encourage him to put all the lessons he has learnt to practice. Pragadeesh is a second-year visual communication student of Kumararani Meena Muthiah College of Arts and Science in Adyar and has also been learning multimedia from AIMS Media. “His mentor K. Gowri Shankar has been encouraging us to get him to take up some independent project and that is how we came up with this initiative,” says Nirmala. Pragadeesh has used patterns to creatively design home décor, cutlery in his work. Fifty copies were printed and all of them have been booked. “I did not expect such a response, so we have placed orders for re-printing,” says Nirmala, adding that she posted details about her son’s work in two parent support groups – SCAN and VOICE – that she is part of. “We look at this as a big encouragement for our son in his journey towards becoming independent,” she says. The calendar is priced at Rs. 250 (for those in Chennai) and can be ordered by calling 9940347472. ** Financial independence More than 40 adults from five Chennai-based institutions have partnered for Project SNEH (Special Needs Empowerment Hub), a network for the special needs community, to design various marketable products that would make an ideal gift for the New Year. The institutions are: Sankalp, Sarva Mangala Vihar Trust, Sri Arunodhayam Charitable Trust, Swabhimaan and V-Excel Educational Trust. “Students of Gowrin Special School, SpasTN and HLC International School also joined us recently,” says Anuradha Mahesh, team lead. The network also invites parents of special children to join them so that they can market products of adults with special needs, and work towards ensuring their financial independence. To place an order, call 9840076322 / 9884281527. Visit www.snehindia.com for further details. ** A decade into art This is the 10th year Amrita Visweswaran is using art to give back to society. As a six-year-old, she started designing calendars with her artworks on it. The proceeds of the sale of these calendars would go to The Madhuram Narayanan Centre for Exceptional Children (now a part of Bala Mandir Kamaraj Trust); and this journey has continued to this day. MNC provides early intervention services for children with intellectual disability, and the proceeds from the sale of this calendar go towards Mooldhara, a project it runs. The 2021 version of the desktop calendar has evocative paintings — including sunset and sunrise — that illustrate the theme ‘New Beginnings’. “Every year, she chooses a new theme — flowers, pets, scenic settings are some of them — for the calendar series,” says Madhura Visweswaran, Amrita’s mother. Pocket notebooks and playing cards are a few other products that are sold. To place an order, call 9840074621  We look at this as a big encouragement for our son in his journey towards becoming independent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-calendar-project/article33428680.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||How the tide turned for Santhome in 1983||The sixth and final Test on West Indies’ tour of India in 1983-84 is probably unforgettable for just one reason — a defiant 236 not out from a skullcap-wearing Sunil Gavaskar. For a bunch of Santhome alumni though, there is one more reason. Following the final Test match, which took place between December 24 and 29 (the additional day accounting for the rest day) at Chepauk, the winners and runners-up of the inaugural 1983 Thums-Up inter-school cricket tournament would be felicitated at a function at what was then known as Adyar Park hotel. West Indies captain Clive Lloyd would give away the winners’ trophy to the boys from Santhome Higher Secondary School, which included P. Unnikrishnan, now a heavyweight in Carnatic and playback singing. India captain Kapil Dev would honour the boys from St. Bede’s who ended up on the losing side in the finals. A brief report of the awards ceremony carried by The Hindu with a ‘December 30 Madras’ dateline, highlighted how Llyod kept his speech crisp, but crackling with wit. The report began: “ ‘My speech, like Roger Harper’s innings, will be brief,’ said Clive Lloyd and the entire audience including the West Indian team members (Roger Harper too) burst out in laughter.” Harper had a brief stay at the crease, and had less than nothing to show for it — a duck it was for the lanky spinner in the first innings. The report further noted: “During his speech, which was shorter than Lloyd’s, Kapil Dev exhorted the youngsters to ‘work hard and try to play for the country in the future. And if you do, you should play better than we did against these mighty West Indians.’ ” In the Test series, the rubber had gone to the West Indians with a convincing 3-0 result. The humiliation in the one-day series was total, as team India, the world champions, was handed out a 5-0 drubbing. Though Kapil’s address to the group of budding cricketers from Santhome and St. Bede’s on December 30, 1983 was marked by a sobering sense of defeat, the golden year of Indian cricket, just two flickers away from passing into history, had clearly changed the tide for India. Though disappointments would keep popping up along the way, the 1983 victory at Lord’s had forever changed the narrative for Indian cricket. It had put a spring in the successive players’ steps, instilling mammoth self-assurance in them. There are parallels to be drawn here, between the international and the hyperlocal. Year 1983 was also the golden year for Santhome cricket. As the captain of the Thums Up trophy-winning team of 1983 C.T. Natesan points out, that year Santhome hit a purple patch, winning seven titles. The culture of winning had set in, for Santhome. To illustrate, B. Srinivasa Rao, who would coach the school team between 1985 and 2012, with a couple of breaks in-between, underlines how Santhome would dominate the Thums Up inter-school tournament, managing a mind-boggling 90 percent success rate in winning titles. There is a general belief that in the early 1980s, Santhome announced its arrival as a superpower in school cricket. Cricket-playing alumni of the school may however slightly differ on when its star was on a noticeable ascendancy. “In 1979 and 1980, the first glimmer of greatness was evident. That is when B. Arun, who earned the India cap, was playing for Santhome,” says Natesan. “Though there was potential, it was yet to translate into results. The tide clearly turned in 1983.” V. Thulasidharan, who would captain the school team in 1984, believes it began around 1982. Unnikrishnan agrees with this timeline: “When I joined Santhome for Class XI, S. Ramakrishnan was the captain. Popularly known as Ramki, he is the man behind SportsMechanics, which pioneered by introducing sports analytics in cricket. He was with the Indian team for many years. After Ramki left, Natesan became the captain.” What Unnikrishnan is driving at is that from the players to the school administration, there was a impressive leadership. This factor was pivotal to how Santhome managed to create an atmosphere that youngsters pursuing cricket as a competitive sport found inspiring. So, there was the trend of students seeking admission in Santhome, because they were good at cricket, and wanted to get better at it. Unnikrishnan discloses that his move from Asan Memorial to Santhome for his higher secondary eduction was driven by the same expectation. The school management would always manage to create a space for a student who had proven cricketing skills. “Well, that is how I got admission. When I went for the interview, the principal, Bro. Camillus just asked me, “Do you play cricket?” and he did not look at my marks," laughs Unnikrishnan. Unnikrishnan points out that Bro. Camillus had learnt from S. Md. Hussain, who served as manager of the Santhome cricket team, about my exposure to competitive cricket. The singer further explains that Hussain would have seen him at the TNCA nets, and was aware that he had been part of the state Under-15 and Under-19 camps. “Hussain would have already told Bro. Camillus about this, and so, they would have already made up their mind to give me admission,” says Unnikrishnan. Thulasidharan says that from the 1980s to the mid-1990s, there was a succession of principals who would go to great lengths to promote cricket. “It began with Bro. Camillus. During his five-year stint as principal, Santhome was continually in the news for its cricketing exploits. He was succeeded by Bro. Selvanathan who also displayed a similar commitment to keeping Santhome at the summit of school cricket. Then, there was Bro. George. Successive principals wanted to carry on the legacy and that made all the difference,” elaborates Thulasidharan. The cricket-friendly culture that Santhome fostered showed up in tangible ways. “Those who were in the School cricket team need not attend the last period. The talent pool was quite wide that the school had ‘A’ and ‘B’ teams, which would play against each other, at St. Bede’s grounds. How many matches we have played at the St. Bede’s grounds. The principal was extremely encouraging towards cricketers,” says Unnikrishnan. At Santhome, cricket did not end at close of stumps on the cricket field, but branched into routes that enriched the youngsters’ lives well beyond the sports. “Because of the great showing in 1983, doors opened for many of us. Five of us were asked to join Vivekananda directly,” says Natesan, who found employment at Indian Bank on sports quota. “Out of this 1983 team, four joined Indian Bank. At present, three of them are still working for the bank, with the other one quitting the job to start his own business. Besides the four, two others work for State Bank of India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-the-tide-turned-for-santhome-in-1983/article33428707.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Space on key road in K.K. Nagar usurped’||For the last 12 years, I take Kamarajar Salai in K.K. Nagar as part of my everyday commute. It is an important road that connects P.T. Rajan Salai and ESI Hospital. The road was well-laid and broad, enabling unhindered flow of two-way traffic, with sufficient walking space for pedestrians. However, over the years, conditions on the road have deteriorated. The road is plagued by encroachments and haphazard parking impeding traffic flow; and pedestrian safety is compromised. To cite an example, opposite RBI staff quarters, a good number of auto-rickshaws can be seen parked on the road. As they occupy the road, conservancy workers cannot clean that portion of the road. Next, waste pile-ups and open urination are the other factors that affect road users. I request the authorities concerned to do the needful. S. Raghavan is a resident of Ashok Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/space-on-key-road-in-kk-nagar-usurped/article33428698.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Saligramam residents need better MTC services’||It is three years since the Metropolitan Transport Corporation service 12C was withdrawn. Plying between Saligramam and Mylapore tank via Rangarajapuram, it was a convenient service. More than 20 residents associations in Saligramam has made repeated pleas, seeking restoration of the service, and yet MTC has not yielded to the request. The need for 12C is acutely felt even now. Next, Saligramam residents need MTC services to access Koyambedu and T. Nagar. We have to go up to Jawaharlal Nehru Main Road to access MTC services bound for Koyambedu. In 2018, we impressed upon the MTC depot manager at Vadapalani to divert M27 buses via Saligramam bus terminus (Arunachalam Road, K. K. Salai, Kamarajar Salai and Reddy Street) so that residents can go to Koyambedu and T. Nagar using the service. This diversion would entail only half-a-kilometre distance. The depot manager found this idea feasible and even promised to recommend our request to top MTC authorities, to divert at least a few M27 services if not all of them. But we do not know why the proposal has not been acted upon yet. In fact, we need direct services to Thiruvanmiyur, Tambaram, Madhavaram and Thiruvottiyur. But we have a direct service only to Broadway (17E). We request MTC to do the needful. S. Sundaresan is a member of Kaveri Rangan Nagar Narpani Mandram, a residents’ association in Saligramam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/saligramam-residents-need-better-mtc-services/article33428700.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Despite corrective measure, threat to motorists remains||In April 2019, the Greater Chennai Corporation widened a section of the Alapakkam Main Road in Lakshmi Nagar, near Porur that was marked by a bend. The corrective measure was taken to prevent accidents. However, despite the intervention, the section remains a danger area as safety features like reflectors, signboards, and speed-breakers have not been put in place. Over a dozen palm trees were axed to convert the stretch from two- to four-lane. However, these efforts do not seem to bear full fruit, as this section of the road continues to pose a threat to the safety of road users. “As the road is wide now, many motorists tend to drive at a break-neck speed. This section is particularly unsafe for motoring at night. Speed-breakers are therefore necessary to prevent rash driving,” says S. Yuvaraj, a resident of Porur. The six-kilometre-long Alapakkam Main Road is an important road as it connects Maduravoyal on Poonamallee High Road with Porur on Arcot Road. Besides, this road also provides access to Valasaravakkam, Vannagaram, Alwarthirunagar, Mogalivakkam and Ramapuram. For many decades, areas on both sides of Alapakkam Main Road had mango groves and vegetable gardens and greens and these would be irrigated by the lakes in the region. However, over the years, the mango groves have disappeared mainly due to water shortage, and other delimiting factors have also been at play. Now, the groves wear a stark look. Much of the land that was acquired for widening of the road comes from empty lands were once mango groves. “Steps will be taken to provide safety facilities on the road at the earliest,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/despite-corrective-measure-threat-to-motorists-remains/article33428687.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Gerugambakkam intersection is becoming more prone to accidents’||Due to the absence of street lights, reflectors, signboards and speed-breakers, the narrow T junction on Porur-Kundrathur Main Road (SH-113) in Gerugambakkam is posing a threat to the safety of road users. This road comes under the purview of the State Highways Department. A year ago, the road was widened; since then it has become unsafe, say residents. This road is considered a lifeline for residents of Kovur, Gerugambakkam, Mogalivakkam, Mangadu, Poonamallee, Kattupakkam, Iyyapanthangal, Somangalam, Kundrathur, Chembarabakkam and Porur, as it helps them reach many other parts of the city. Besides, residents of many villages including Kollachery, Arambedu, Erumaiyur, Gerugambakkam, Kavanoor, Kolambakkam, Poothandalam and Vaipoor rely on this road to reach Koyambedu wholesale market via Porur. For city travellers, the stretch offers a shorter route to reach the Bangalore Highway (NH:04) via Kundrathur, avoiding the congested Poonamallee High (P.H) Road. Though this is such an important road, it lacks safety features. “Motorists from the Gerugambakkam Main Road cannot be seen from a distance on the Porur - Kundrathur Main Road due to level at which the carriageway is found. Besides, rash driving is common on these two stretches,” says V. Shanmugam, a resident of Gerugambakkam. Executed by the State Highways Department, the widening work converted the two-lane stretch into a four lane on select sections in February, 2019. The sections were selected on the basis of how much space was available. The sections are as follows: between the four-cross junction in Kundrathur and Kovur; and between Kovur and Gerugambakkam. Each of these sections is around two kilometres long. Further, as part of the widening work, which began in February last year, encroachments, mainly shops, are being cleared between Kundrathur and Kovur without affecting the flow of traffic along the narrow route. Expanded stormwater drains are also being built along the stretch. Further, culverts on accident-prone spots between Kundrathur and Gerugambakkam (near Kovur bus terminus) are also being built by the State Highways Department. The culverts are aimed at preventing flooding in neighbourhoods like Kundrathur, Porur, Valasaravakkam and Ramapuram from Chembarambakkam lake. However, motorists say that lack of safety measures at the Gerugambakkam intersection is putting motorists at risk for accidents, especially during night, as they are unable to see pedestrians and other motorists clearly before proceeding further. “Steps will be taken to provide essential safety features at the intersection without much delay,” says a State Highways official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gerugambakkam-intersection-is-becoming-more-prone-to-accidents/article33428694.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Handicrafts sale at K.K. Nagar||An exhibition-cum-sale of handicrafts and handloom products is on at Shree Viswakarma Mini Hall, P.T. Rajan Salai, K.K. Nagar. According to a press release, saris and dress materials from Orissa, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and a few other States are available. Also, paintings, bags, bedsheets, jewellery, wooden toys, and furniture are part of the collection. A discount of 10 to 20 per cent is offered. The sale ends on January 1. Time: From 10 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. For details, call 99404 22426 / 91764 36272||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/handicrafts-sale-at-kk-nagar/article33428683.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Siblings Abhinandh and Ananya add one more feather to their cap||P.B. Abhinandh is 12 years old and P.B. Ananya is ten, and already they have garnered many laurels in table tennis. As the latest feathers to their cap, the siblings won the sub- junior boys (under-15) and cadet dirls (under-12) titles respectively, at the recent Tamizhaga State Table Tennis Championship in Chennai. Abhinandh was the runner-up in junior boys (under-18) event while his sister Ananya was the runner-up in the sub-junior girls event (under-15) and both of them beat several top players on their way to the finals. In 2019, Abhinandh was the national champion in the cadet boys (under-12) category. Representing India, he won a silver medal in the International Hopes and Cadet event in Nepal. Abhinandh is currently ranked state number one and India number 8 in the sub-junior boys (under-15) and state number 2 in junior boys (under-18) categories. M. Ananya is the current state number one 1 and India number 7 in the cadet girls (under -12) category while she is ranked state number 2 in the sub-junior girls (under-15) category. Both are trained by M.B. Subin Kumar. Abhinandh is in Class 8 and Ananya is in Class 5 at Sri Sankara Senior Secondary School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/siblings-abhinandh-and-ananya-add-one-more-feather-to-their-cap/article33428696.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||T. Nagar store sells organic chlorine tablets||Sastha Stores is selling “Safe Chlor.” According to a press release, it is an organic chlorine tablet, which is said to eliminate harmful germs and parasites. It is available in 3.7 grams and 14 grams. It can be bought in one kg virgin plastic tight containers. The tablets are designed for human consumption, says the release. The tablet is said to prevent waterborne diseases like gastroenteritis, diarrhoea, jaundice, dysentery,typhoid, worm infection, cholera and leptospirosis. Sastha Stores is at No:63, South Usman Road, T.Nagar, Chennai 600017,Door delivery is available for select areas. For details, contact 7806805544||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/t-nagar-store-sells-organic-chlorine-tablets/article33428681.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33428695.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No water supply from CMWSSB’||Again, there is disruption in the water supply by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewrage Board (CMWSSB). For the past one week, Barathidasan Street at Baskar Colony in Virugambakkam has not been receiving water through CMWSSB pipes. A month ago, residents faced the same problem which was later solved. It has cropped up again. Despite repeated complaints to CMWSSB officials, the problem has not been fixed yet. V.K. Murali is the secretary of Baskar Colony Residents Welfare Association, Virugambakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/no-water-supply-from-cmwssb/article33428702.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Correction||The article, “Residents of K. K. Nagar want garbage bins relocated” published on December 20, 2020, erroneously located a road in K.K. Nagar. It is in Virugambakkam. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/correction/article33428703.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Beating the odds||Two special employees of the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities — N. Prabu, telephone operator, and D. Madhan, vocational training student — have received the State Award for Best Employee under the category of Locomotor Disability for the year 2019 and Best Self-Employed with Disability Male under the category of Multiple Disabilities for the year 2020 respectively. Both have fought various odds to come up in life. A road accident lead to a spinal cord injury for Prabu, who was then working as a supervisor at a spinning mill in Thiruvanamalai. But that did not dampen his spirits. He went in for a medical intervention and joined NIEPMD as a telephone operator on a session basis. With sheer hardwork he cleared various examinations including UGC’s NET examination and the Teacher Eligibility Test, says a release. As telephone operator, Prabu answers and receives calls on queries related to services available at NIEPMD as well as the various government schemes. He got a customised “powered wheelchair”, sponsored under CSR activities, that came attached with a typing adaptive device that he allows him to type independently. D. Madhan, 24 years, was diagnosed with cerebral palsy with intellectual disability at an early age but through sheer determination and hardwork he has come up in life. He joined NIEPMD in 2008 and underwent special education training and vocational guidance. Later, he joined the skill training institute to start his own tailoring shop. He now runs Madhan Tailoring work with his parents helping him in his venture. According to the release, Madhan is punctual and completes assigned tasks within the time frame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/beating-the-odds/article33428709.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Gadwalls join the party||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gadwalls-join-the-party/article33428688.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A calendar project||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-calendar-project/article33428689.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||How the tide turned for Santhome in 1983||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-the-tide-turned-for-santhome-in-1983/article33428690.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Object lesson in service||On Fiaz Mohammad’s book shelf, there is some space that is never meant for books. It is where he parks a kit bag, sometimes empty and sometimes packed ready for a weekend trip. While accompanying his father J. Sulaiman on these weekend trips to the outskirts of Chennai, 14-year-old Fiaz never fails to carry the kit bag with him. These are not jaunts for soaking in the natural settings that the outskirts offer, but to reach out to people on the economic fringes of society and who obviously need a leg-up. Sulaiman is with The New College in Royapettah as commerce professor for more than two decades, and also serves as National Service Scheme (NSS) officer at the institution, organising community work including medical camps in villages of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Villupuram districts. A new focus During the pandemic, they shifted the focus of their community work. The kit bag continues to be carried by Fiaz, but its contents are now way different from what they used to be — it is now a case of packing food parcels, face masks and sanitiser bottles into it. Professor Sulaiman, who is 44 years old, and Faiz head to streets in localities within the city limits — Thousand Lights, Anna Nagar, Royapettah, Triplicane, Chetpet and Tirumangalam, to name a few — and distribute food packets, face masks and hand sanitisers to the needy and homeless people. This service by the duo was at its height between April and June. It still continues, during the weekends. “During the complete lockdown, I would wait for my son’s online classes to come to a close and then the two of us would go from street to street, and distribute relief materials to the underprivileged and also those who clearly appear to need them. This year, the city’s streets have become my son's holiday destination. He has visited many new streets in the city,” says Professor Sulaiman. The professor hails from Vikaravandi, a town in Villupuram district, and much of his childhood having been spent at this Sulaiman spent most of his formative years in the town, where he went to a government high school and then a government college. Sulaimen joined The New College in Royapettah 21 years ago in the position of a lecturer, and worked his way up in his teaching career, ascending to the status of as a guide for Ph.D students in his college. Sulaiman has been managing his leisure efficiently, and this meant he is able to allocate a good amount for community work. It was the 2004 Tsunami that got his treading the path of social service. He had visited Kanathur on the East Coast Road and was witness to the ravages caused by the calamity. He got down to doing some extensive community work. Earlier, he had reached out to the needy, but following this intervention, his community work was marked by a rare intensity. He started visiting remote villages where he would organise medical camps, providing free medicines, and also create awareness on health and cleanliness. A monthly commitment Obviously, such commitment is not sustainable without resources and understanding from family and associates. “I keep aside 20-30 per cent of my salary for such relief work every month. My family never complains about it,” reveals Sulaiman. The college management is generous in terms of the funds and time they extend to Sulaiman to make it possible for him to carry out such works. Sulaiman has had a long association with the college’s NSS unit and in 2013, he won the “Best NSS Officer of the Year” award, which he received from the hands of the President of India. His track record in community service had won him this rare honour. During natural calamities, Sulaiman and his team of NSS volunteers would put themselves out there and reach succour to the affected, and sometimes even living out of suitcases as field work would take them far from home. That was the situation following cyclones Thane and Gaja. A joint effort During Vardah and the 2015 floods, Sulaiman et al similarly stepped up to the plate, distributing relief materials to affected families. During the lockdown, Sulaiman and his NSS volunteers successfully tried to broadbase the relief work by getting the entire 260 staff of the college and its management to take community service. With the funds raised by the group, dry rations including daal, cooking oil, wheat, rice and milk were bought for the needy in Chennai, which largely included homeless persons. Says Sulaiman, “Carrying out such community work is team work as there is active support from the college, colleagues and family.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/object-lesson-in-service/article33428708.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Staying safe on the ROAD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/staying-safe-on-the-road/article33428705.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||OTT to the top||In the second week of April this year, when it was peak lockdown for a lot of places around the world, including India, the website Reelgood (which tracks OTT releases) released data on the most-watched films on Netflix among American users. What did these choices tell us about this year? For starters, people wanted to smash their way through this unbelievably challenging time, “whatever it takes”, as per the tagline of Avengers: Endgame , No. 3 on the list. Some wished the unfolding pandemic was a dream within a dream within a dream, much like Inception , the second-most-watched film. And, to nobody’s surprise, the most-watched film in America during lockdown was The Shawshank Redemption , the single most famous prison-break story of all time Captive audience For OTT platforms, 2020 was a time for serious growth. All these people forced to stay indoors gave the streaming networks untold millions of additional eyeballs every single day; a ‘captive audience’ of sorts. And because movie theatres were closed for the better part of the year, a lot of new movies chose an OTT release over waiting for ‘normalcy’ to resume. This model received a big endorsement internationally when earlier this month Warner Bros. announced that in 2021, a host of their big-ticket movies (like Dune and The Matrix 4 ) are going to be released in cinemas — but alongside a simultaneous, 30-day limited release on the streaming service HBO Max. Unfortunately for Bollywood audiences, most major Hindi films that chose this route turned out to be massive duds — Sadak 2 , Laxmmi , Chhalaang , Gulabo Sitaabo and Khaali Peeli among them. There were outliers like Netflix’s Gunjan Saxena and Dolly Kitty Aur Woh Chamakte Sitare and Amazon Prime Video’s Shakuntala Devi , but these were few and far in between. Towards the end of the year, Prime Video’s Unpaused delivered a collage of some heart-warming and smartly written short films set in the current COVID-19 epoch. Not surprisingly, two of the most interesting Indian films of the year came from the stellar Malayalam film industry — Trance and C U Soon , both starring Fahaadh Faasil, a formidable shape-shifter operating at the height of his powers. Meaty stories In my opinion, 2020 was a much better year for the Indian web series, because of the sheer variety of good, competent, thoughtfully written shows on display. Paatal Lok was a brilliant, noir-adjacent exploration of urban decay and a certain hubris peculiar to the English-speaking Delhi journalist (props to Neeraj Kabi for one of the finest performances of the year).  Panchayat impressed one and all with its ease of storytelling and its superb performances — and also because good, meaty stories from rural India are increasingly rare in this space ( Jamtara et al remain mostly in the realm of caricature). Hansal Mehta’s Scam 1992 (on SonyLiv) took an important slice of modern Indian history and crafted a thoroughly modern adventure around it. Perhaps Voot’s first outstanding original product, Asur marked Arshad Warsi’s triumphant return to dramatic territory — his portrayal of a cop chasing a demon-obsessed serial killer was brutally effective and one of the best things about this show. Among international OTT trends, Disney flexed its muscles towards the end of the year by announcing literally dozens of new projects. These included new Star Wars shows like Ahsoka and Obi-Wan Kenobi , new MCU (Marvel Cinematic Universe) films and shows like She-Hulk , Secret Invasion , Ironheart , Hawkeye and so on. When you take into account Warner Bros.’ announcement about their 2021 films releasing simultaneously in theatres and online, one thing is clear — the big franchise wars of Hollywood are now being fought in the OTT space. Some of the best OTT performances of the year, incidentally, came in period dramas about real-life people — Gillian Anderson’s remarkable outing as Margaret Thatcher in The Crown , Viola Davis as the singer Ma Rainey in Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom , Gary Oldman as Herman J. Mankiewicz (the screenwriter of Citizen Kane ) in Mank , Elisabeth Moss as novelist Shirley Jackson in Shirley and so on. This trend promises to continue next year, too, when we see Kingsley Ben-Adir playing Malcolm X in One Night in Miami , and Kate Winslet playing British paleontologist Mary Anning in Ammonite . Curation is king Among new platforms, Quibi’s rise and subsequent fall should be a lesson for nascent platforms — don’t bite off more than you can chew (Quibi started operations in April 2020 but had to shut down in October after grossly over-estimating the number of potential customers). In India, however, we saw the emergence and expansion of new OTT players. MX Player received a $110 million investment led by the Chinese MNC Tencent in October 2019 — as a result, we saw MX Player releasing a great many new shows in 2020 ( Ek Thi Begum , Bhaukaal , Raktanchal , Ashram ) and announcing several new Indian originals for 2021. Content proliferation, which was incentivised in 2020 due to the increased audience for OTT, will only increase in 2021 — as a result, the next big trend is likely to be content curation. Reelgood, mentioned here earlier, is one such service. There are several others now, like Stremio, Flixjini and JustWatch. These services select what they feel is the best content across various platforms and allow users to play that content natively, within the app (except JustWatch, which redirects users to the OTT platform the content belongs to). When there’s far too much content to make sense of, curation is king; and this could end up being crucial to the streaming wars of 2021. The writer and journalist is working on his first book of non-fiction.  2020 was a much better year for Indian web series, because of the sheer variety of good, competent, thoughtfully written shows on display||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ott-to-the-top/article33428717.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Year of survival skills||A week after the ‘Janta Curfew’ was announced in March, Kevin Simon, 40, put up a Facebook post asking if anyone needed anything urgently. A friend messaged that a couple in their 80s was looking for someone to deliver medicines. Kevin and his partner, Merin Mathew, 27, who live in Thiruvananthapuram, did just that. From there, requests began to pour in: for baby products, groceries, cleaning supplies, and more. Two-and-a-half months later, the lockdown was relaxed and people began to ask for non-essentials. Sensing a business opportunity, and considering that their 16-year-old event management company had nosedived, the couple started Cartwheel Concierge Ventures. Merin describes it as “global demand and local supply,” with requests coming in from across the world for Kerala-based services. “We once had to deliver a tall cake with whipped cream to Pattambi eight hours away, for a birthday, because a mother was very keen on a particular baker in Thiruvananthapuram,” she says. There have been other requests: like getting a house ready (cleaned up, bills paid, groceries stocked) for a senior citizen returning from Dubai, where she had been stuck for 10 months; or a delivery of pork curry to Thiruvananthapuram from a restaurant in Kochi. “We anyway come from a position of providing a service; that’s what we were doing with events,” says Merin. Their events business, while still on, has been hard hit. “We did some 10 weddings in November 2019. This year, it’s been less than half that,” says Merin, adding that they’ve had to give up their office and let go of the staff, employing them on a freelance basis now.  The hit job  As people face job loss, pay cuts, crashing businesses, fear, and uncertainty around their work, they are increasingly looking at diversifying income opportunities. “Everyone is being forced to think differently and leave behind the role cloaks they were so comfortable with pre-pandemic,” says Vishwapriya Kochhar, HR consultant, corporate coach and co-founder, BlewMinds, Gurugram. Sunaina Magan, 40, from Noida, had to shut her gallery at the start of the pandemic. As founder-director at Vernssage Gallery, she had been in business six years, when the pandemic forced her to turn “from curator to supplier”. Sunaina’s housing society was sealed and barricaded, and the complex and residents had no access even to basic groceries. “We managed to call a vendor to set up shop just outside the complex so we could at least buy milk and some vegetables,” she says. The episode got her thinking about health, accessing the best produce, and the safest way to shop. In April this year, Sunaina started VOrganics, an online store, with her IT professional brother setting up its backend and with goods sourced from farmers, home chefs, and mom-and-pop shops. With over a decade’s experience in corporate luxury brand management, Sunaina had the marketing know-how, and she focused all her energy on the store, coordinating with suppliers and delivery agents. “With VOrganics, I am going to build a team and I will look at a bigger warehousing space,” she says.  Opportunity harnessing  Earlier this year, Harvard Business Review ( HBR ) published the results of a series of studies involving over 1,000 people. They found that participants in the U.S. worked on side hustles for 13 hours a week on average, across four days. Two studies also found that “psychological empowerment from side-hustles enriches full-time work performance.” An article in HBR reported: “We found that 45% of individuals said that their top motive for having a side hustle was to increase pay and prestige.” Side Hustle Nation, run by Nick Loper, who calls himself Chief Side Hustler, put out data recently from a survey of about 1,600 people that claimed 45% of Americans reported having a second job. It attributed the popularity of the trend to a “proactive desire and unprecedented ability to make extra money — fuelled by technology and social media”, and an “economic necessity”. Interestingly, while only half the people surveyed loved their primary jobs, 76% loved their side hustles. No one understands this coming together of factors better than 33-year-old Anuj Singh (name changed to protect identity) . Anuj has been in the education sector for a decade, selling value-added programmes to schools. He currently works full-time for a company but uses his spare time to manage the financial portfolios of friends and family, making long-term investments for them. “During the lockdown, I got a lot of calls because people had more time to explore the stock market themselves, and many of them set up demat accounts,” he says. Even though he doesn’t have a licence, he realised he could make the most of the opportunity. With fixed deposit rates tanking and the stock market looking up, people were looking to diversify their portfolio. Clearly, Anuj is ready to take risks — the company he works for could find out about his moonlighting and fire him, or he could get caught by financial regulators. Not all side hustlers are necessarily such risk-takers — most of them just make the most of an opportunity that comes along.  Pandemic panned  In 2015, Rewati Rau, now 38, who’d worked for 10 years in the media, decided to launch Bikku Bakes, a home baking business, in Delhi. “I baked my first cake in Class IX, and when I’d bake for colleagues and friends, they’d all tell me I should charge for it,” she says. So Rewati changed her role to that of a consultant at the media house she worked for. “It meant my work wouldn’t change, but I just needed to go in thrice a week.” Then the pandemic began, and she saw her orders going up by 50%. In hindsight, it seems providential. Four months into the lockdown, her newspaper shut down and she lost her job. Freelance writing neither paid well nor was steady. Rewati’s primary job became baking. She realises that her business will only grow now — people feel safer when food comes from someone’s kitchen. “Before the pandemic, my side hustle was giving me about 30% of my income. When the pandemic broke, it was 50%, and now that I am doing it full time, it’s 80%,” she says. Not just Rewati, several other people have turned to food as a side hustle during the pandemic. It is considered a ‘safe’ gig, low investment, and something that can be done from home.  Treading lightly  A 2018 research study conducted by Henley Business School among 500 business leaders and 1,100 working adults in the U.K. found that while side hustles are increasing, the trend is not yet entirely recognised as the new normal. It’s the reason Hyderabad-based Ajit, 38, who was offered a weekend teaching position in Delhi’s Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University, doesn’t want to disclose his second name, or the name of the company he works for. He’s cautious about ‘advertising’ his part-time teaching job, even though he has the permission of the engineering company where he works full time. Having spent eight years as a management professional, specialising in compliance, he now teaches business ethics because it also aids his career growth. Ajit hasn’t faced pay-cuts nor is he worried about losing his full-time job. In fact, he thinks that “five or 10 years down the line I will be able to divide my time equally between the two.” What Ajit didn’t realise, though, when he took this up was the amount of time he would have to spend on it, something that was possible only because of the lockdown. According to HR consultant Vishwapriya, the income streams that have sprung during the pandemic can be divided into learning and lifestyle businesses. The former includes people lending their core skills to small companies, to students, or others, an option made possible because of work from home, digital meetings, and e-learning platforms. Lifestyle businesses include small forays in the food, fitness, beauty, entertainment, and children’s spaces. Urvija Ghurye’s online dance classes fall in the latter category. The 28-year-old from Mumbai started wedding choreography classes three years ago. She had first done it for a friend and was pleasantly surprised when she was given a sizeable cheque at the end of it. So she started classes over the weekends and began also to lease out her space to other dance teachers. And just like that, in a few months, Rasa Raaga Dance Studio was up and running. A corporate lawyer in a start-up company, Urvija’s job had always been flexible, but she had quit it earlier this year to do an MBA. With studies looking iffy this year and not many companies hiring, Urvija’s dance class has become more or less her mainstream job. “I still do some legal work on and off, but dance takes up most of my time. The weekends are packed,” she says. And even though the classes pay her only 70% of what her mainstream career would have, she isn’t complaining. In fact, she has expanded business to include corporate dance workshops, kids’ classes, and women’s classes groups, with a repertoire that includes Bollywood, Bolly-fit, and even Bharatanatyam. Even as the pandemic has taken away many livelihoods at one end of the spectrum, at another it has thrown up new opportunities. When Desiree Anwar, 38, from Puducherry, lost a number of clients for her PR business in the wake of the lockdown, she began painting again, in the hope that she could brush up her skills and sell her art, as she had some years ago when she ran a coffee shop which would also display her work for sales. “I kept at what I could do rather than what I couldn’t,” she says. Not everyone has been lucky enough to land on their feet, but it is heartening to see that there has not been a shortage of resourcefulness, creativity or courage either. Facing pay cuts, job losses and rising costs, many people have grit their teeth and made the most of an extremely rough year. This, then, is as good as it gets.  There have been other requests: like getting a house ready (cleaned up, bills paid, groceries stocked) for a senior citizen returning from Dubai, where she had been stuck for 10 months; or a delivery of pork curry from a restaurant in Kochi   Four months into the lockdown, her newspaper shut down and she lost her job. Freelance writing neither paid well nor was steady. Rewati’s primary job became baking. She realises that her business will only grow now — people feel safer when food comes from someone’s kitchen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/year-of-survival-skills/article33428749.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Year of the book||They say you are never alone with a book. If we had to name one positive fallout of this pandemic year it would be that it made us appreciate books anew. In the first half of 2020, as we found ourselves locked up inside and the chatter outside receded, old volumes were dusted off the shelves and lined up on bedside tables. The book you always wanted to read but somehow hadn’t found its moment. We were suddenly back to an older, wholesome world — of touching pages, smelling them, day-dreaming about literary characters, living lives other than ours. One might even say 2020 was the Year of the Book. For those of us privileged enough to spend time on reading, that is. “Even with a multitude of other options, we saw people turn to books during these strange times,” says Nandan Jha, Senior Vice-President, Product & Sales, at Penguin Random House India. What kind of books have been picked up most often? Usha Jha, Vice-President, Sales, at Speaking Tiger, says, “There was a greater demand for non-fiction, especially crime and travel, and for science fiction.” There was indeed a spate of speculative fiction, responding to and reflecting our need to fly far from the fever and the fret. But speculative fiction is also hyperreal, magnifying existing anomalies. Gautam Bhatia’s The Wall , for instance unfolds in a circular city enclosed by an unbreachable wall — the ultimate gated community. Lavanya Lakshminarayan’s Analog/Virtual: And Other Simulations of Your Future , set in a futuristic Bengaluru, subverts ideas of class, power, dissent to show what the world looks like when boundaries are closed for good. Boundaries breached Another boundary being breached in India today is that of language, if the increasing popularity of translated fiction is anything to go by. Translated literature got a further boost with the JCB Prize 2020 going to Malayalam author S. Hareesh’s translated novel, Moustache . Perumal Murugan’s novels sell well, as do those of Manoranjan Byapari, who is out now with the first part of his autobiographical trilogy, Chandal Jibon . The year also saw books rendered into English from relatively less-explored languages like Gujarati, Bhojpuri and Assamese — Ratno Dholi: The Best Stories of Dhumketu , translated by Jenny Bhatt; Pandey Kapil’s Phoolsunghi , translated by Gautam Choubey; and The Loneliness of Hira Barua by Arupa by Patangia Kalita, translated by Ranjita Biswas, respectively, did fairly well. The collapsing of walls was apparent in poetry too. A Poem a Day by Gulzar , published recently, has 365 poems in 34 languages translated into English. Gulzar says, “I firmly believe that poetry doesn’t know any borders, so, along with poets from Gujarat, Punjab, Kerala, Goa, Odisha, I included poets writing in Tamil in Sri Lanka, in Bangla in Bangladesh and in Urdu and Punjabi in Pakistan.” Poetry for solace Similarly, The World That Belongs to Us , an anthology of queer poetry from South Asia put together by Aditi Angiras and Akhil Katyal, features poems not just from different regions of India but from the entire subcontinent. Unpacking fixities of every kind, it stretches the idea of poetry itself to include ghazals, sonnets, the spoken word, even rap. Not surprisingly, readers turned to poetry for solace in these distressing times. Paperwall, the publishing house founded by poet and translator Hemant Divate, witnessed steady sales through the year, with a surge in international orders. Another refuge turned out to be nature: we suddenly realised it was there all along, only we had forgotten to appreciate it. When we did look, nature seemed a little chipped — green spaces had shrunk and less birds sang. Robert MacFarlane and Jackie Morris’s book of exquisitely illustrated poems, The Lost Spells , continues the effort of their 2017 book, The Lost Words , to re-wild the world, within and without. Conjuring up red foxes, birch trees, jackdaws — beings at once commonplace and magical — it evokes the wonder of everyday nature. It’s odd that the trend of eco-fiction hasn’t caught on in India — is there a message here? Stephen Alter’s Feral Dreams can be seen as a good start though: taking off from The Jungle Book , it re-examines certain persistent and pressing concerns — ecological, social, existential. Alter is finely tuned to nature: the forest in Feral Dreams is beautiful, menacing and fast-vanishing. Race, rage, retribution The stillness of the lockdown was broken by the death of George Floyd in America, sparking off a movement that crossed the Atlantic to spread all over Europe. The wokeness it inspired was reflected not just in the new set of diversity rules made mandatory by the Academy of Motion Picture or in the sudden influx of web series with coloured protagonists but also in the nominations of important literary prizes like the Booker. While announcing the 2020 Booker Prize longlist, the chair of the judging panel, Margaret Busby, said that the selected books “represent a moment of cultural change”. While this might be an overstatement, it’s true that of the 13 longlisted books, nine were by women and more than half by writers of colour. One of them, Such a Fun Age , a debut novel by Kiley Reid, an author who fits both categories, is a fiery story driven by three trending words, Race, Rage and Retribution. Things were on the boil back home too. The discontent over the ever-worsening situation in J&K was making itself felt in novels on Kashmir by Kashmiris — such as Shabir Ahmad Mir’s The Plague Upon Us , Sandeep Raina’s A Bit of Everything , Nitasha Kaul’s Future Tense . There is pain and anger in equal measure in these stories written by those who have felt it in their bones. Home fires Meanwhile, another tragedy, perhaps the greatest and the most muted in recent history, was unfolding in the country as thousands of labourers trudged home from cities in the wake of the lockdown. We wait for one of them to write about the trauma of being rendered jobless overnight, of being shoved out of cities they have called home, of the long journey on foot under the blazing summer sun. Till then, we have writers like Udayan Mukherjee showing us how class and caste divisions stay firmly in place even in life-and-death crises like the pandemic. His collection, Essential Items: Stories from a Land in Lockdown , is a stark portrayal of life in lockdown India rife with hunger, displacement and uncertainty. We, the readers, who have the luxury to stay at home, can glimpse the suffering through literature. And we did, spending more time on books than on OTT platforms. With bookshops closed, e-portals buzzed with activity. Speaking Tiger’s Usha says, “Dynamics of sales changed this year — e-com contribution to overall sales went up from 10% to 45%. Retail is still struggling for footfalls. But I was pleasantly surprised by how distribution partners and retail channels supported us by finding new ways to sell books. Major retail stores like Crossword, Bahrisons, Om Books, Midland and Sapna are delivering books to loyal customers through their own resources.” So pick up your favourite book, switch off your phone and curl up. Winter has arrived, a vaccine is on the horizon, and the cup of coffee is steaming. Here’s to happy endings.  We spent more time on books than on OTT platforms. With bookshops closed, e-portals buzzed with activity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/year-of-the-book/article33428762.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Year of calamity and a new normal||Unprecedented. That has been the preferred adjective to describe the COVID-19 world of 2020, caught unawares by a virus and followed by lockdowns, quarantines, social distancing, economic crises, and the race for a vaccine. History perhaps will not agree with this word, having seen cycles of disaster — war, earthquakes, famines, plagues — with unerring regularity. In the meantime, America elected its 46th President, with the incumbent refusing to concede even though the results gave Joe Biden and the Democrats a clear majority. As for India, like many other countries around the globe, the virus preyed on the poor and vulnerable. Books of the year reflected on the pandemic and the trauma and with too many countries taking an authoritarian turn, several writers looked to the past to explain the present. In Brand New Nation , Ravinder Kaur sifted through India’s mega-publicity campaigns and said the state has transformed into a powerful authority which can brand the nation as an attractive destination. “The infusion of capital not only rejuvenates the nation; it also produces investment-fuelled nationalism, a populist energy that can be turned into a powerful instrument of coercion,” she said, even as critics questioned some of the harsh tactics adopted by the state on various issues from agriculture, COVID to lockdowns. Taking on COVID Writing a few months after SARS-CoV-2 took a stifling grip over the planet, The Lancet editor Richard Horton admitted in The COVID-19 Catastrophe that many questions about the virus and the disease it causes remain unanswered, leaving important gaps “in our understanding of the pandemic that make its control exceptionally difficult.” By the end of the year, three of India’s eminent medical experts, Dr. Randeep Guleria, Dr. Gagandeep Kang and Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, outlined India’s response in Till We Win , answering questions on when we can expect a safe and effective vaccine, how long we have to wear masks, and the way forward. In The Fury of Covid-19 , Vinay Lal, a professor of history at the University of California, looked beyond COVID numbers to ask social, cultural, and philosophical questions: what does ‘social distancing’ mean in a caste society? Is it right to say “we are all in this together” when the pandemic has struck different people differently? Writers from around the world (Mario Vargas Llosa, Jhumpa Lahiri, Juan Villoro, Arshia Sattar et al) tried to make sense of it in And We Came Outside and Saw the Stars Again , an anthology edited by Ilan Stavans. Strain on the economy    The fallout has been bitter, with shutdowns and a slide in consumer spending, and closing of borders impacting every country, some more so than others. India, which had already been in the midst of an economic slump, has been hit hard with job losses, lack of demand, and other factors leading to contractions in GDP for two straight quarters of 2020-21. But even before the pandemic, the non-performing assets pile-up threatened to get out of hand. Former Reserve Bank of India Governor Urjit Patel stressed in Overdraft that there is no time to waste on NPAs. The Narendra Modi government attempted a clean-up with the passage of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC), but, he said, it regressed swiftly, to the advantage of big loan defaulters. Viral Acharya, former deputy governor of the RBI, gave his ideas in the Quest for Restoring Financial Stability in India , complete with a plan on how to recapitalise public sector banks, improve credit allocation and establish efficient capital markets. In December, economist Arun Kumar took a hard look at the government’s handling of the pandemic and the economic effect of the virus in the Indian Economy’s Greatest Crisis, saying the situation is worse than a war. The recovery will be slow, he pointed out, suggesting ways to bring the economy back on track. History and politics When the first lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Modi in March, protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 that introduced religion as a factor in granting Indian citizenship were still on. Two volumes ( Shaheen Bagh: From a Protest to a Movement by Ziya Us Salam and Uzma Ausaf and Shaheen Bagh and the Idea of India , edited by Seema Mustafa) chronicled the dharna, by the women of Shaheen Bagh in Delhi, many of whom had never stepped out of their homes before. Through the year, several books dealt on the politics of the time, and some writers scoured the past to understand the present, including historian Vinay Sitapati, who charted the birth and growth of Hindutva in Jugalbandi: The BJP before Modi , through the lives of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani. In the new year we will read several volumes on India and China, given the heightened tension on the border, but at least two tomes in 2020 provided a clue — Tanvi Madan’s Fateful Triangle : How China Shaped U.S.-India Relations during the Cold War andw Ananth Krishnan’s India’s China Challenge , which looked at China’s political, economic and social transformations over the past few years and explained what they mean for India.    Look back in candour From a throwback to a historic presidency to a Mughal king, from growing up in diverse India to cricket, there was plenty to choose from in memoirs and biographies. The end of the year was bookended by the first part of Barack Obama’s presidential memoirs, A Promised Land . Historian Ira Mukhoty profiled the Mughal emperor Akbar, and in her narrative, he is an able reformer and one of the earliest advocates of inter-religion dialogue. Writer and historian Ramachandra Guha, who has spent a life in cricket, offered a personal memoir in The Commonwealth of Cricket, tracing India’s most-loved game across all levels. Journalist and writer Annie Zaidi contemplated on burning contemporary issues like the citizenship rights in her eloquent memoir, Bread. Cement. Cactus.  In an extraordinary year, one writer shone a light on forgotten lives: Journalist Ashutosh Bhardwaj narrated his many encounters with the police, Maoist rebels and informers in the Dandakaranaya forest, telling the story through the life and death of Korsa Joga, a Naxal commander, in The Death Script . Nitasha Kaul and Ather Zia edited a collection of narratives from Kashmir, Can you Hear Kashmiri Women Speak?  And last, but definitely not the least, a host of writers tried to understand the influence of Big Tech (Facebook, and hence Instagram too, Google, Amazon etc) on lives. To mention just one, Jill Lepore ( If Then ) came across The Simulmatics Corporation’s papers in MIT’s archives and set out wto tell the chilling “back story to the methods, and the arrogance, of Silicon Valley.” Launched during the Cold War, the Simulmatics Corporation mined data, manipulated consumers and disordered knowledge. Sounds familiar? As for 2021, publishers have already sent their advance lists, with more books on politics, history, foreign policy, pandemics and people. Happy reading.  In the new year we will read several volumes on India and China, given the heightened tension on the border||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/year-of-calamity-and-a-new-normal/article33428763.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Dinner date in the parking lot||With barely a couple of days left for the year to end, it’s time we moved past the obvious fact that 2020 was an unmitigated disaster. Instead, shall we look for the proverbial silver lining? Or maybe I should say silver spoon. Come to think of it, in no other year in recent memory was creativity in all aspects of life at such a high, as we navigated our way around the new normal. Almost all of us turned bakers overnight. And we rediscovered the old comfort of food, which miraculously soothed our pandemic-ravaged nerves. Naturally, the food and beverage space buzzed with trends, willingly amplified by social media. So here’s my list of the most popular food and beverage trends of 2020 that took the edge off those pandemic blues. Cloud in the kitchen Baking bread was certainly the big-ticket trend of 2020, with the first half of the year dominated by sourdough bread. Banana and focaccia ‘art’ breads continue to hold sway in almost every home-baker’s kitchen and social media accounts. Things got a bit outré in the latter part of 2020, with the emergence of two very interesting baked foods — cloud bread and frog bread. Resembling a fluffy, egg-white meringue, no points for guessing how cloud bread got its name. Keeping the keto crowd happy, this low-carb ‘bread’ is a flourless confection made with stiffly beaten egg whites and cream cheese. The white bread-like, light-n-airy flat bun can be coloured and flavoured either sweet or left savoury. Frog bread, on the other hand, is exactly that: a solid bread roll fashioned in the likeness of the rain-loving amphibian. As different as they are in texture, we notice that both are inspired by rain... Better butters? Justas almond and cashew nut butter was getting as passé as peanut butter, the dining space was perked up with the invasion of unique butters made of watermelon seed, macadamia, soy nut and hemp seed. But none of these trends is as notable as the phenomenal rise of cookie butter — Lotus Biscoff, to be precise. Easily the new Nutella, this Belgian invention, also known as speculoos spread, is now lending itself to sandesh, cheesecake, milkshakes, brownies and more. Scattered sushi   With over 100,000 posts on Instagram and Pinterest combined, the visually attractive sushi cake made a mark. These quirky cakes are basically upturned versions of a rare-to-find-outside-Japan type of sushi called chirashi zushi . Roughly translated as scattered sushi, chirashi zushi is served in a bowl in which a base of vinegared sushi rice is layered with raw seafood or vegetables along with the sweeter, creamier Kewpie Japanese mayonnaise; topped with blobs of wasabi, pickled gari (pink ginger); and dusted with furikake seasoning along with strips of nori seaweed. Several restaurants have cottoned on to this trend with their own colourful versions (even Jain) of the sushi cake. Home delivered Cloud kitchens, ghost kitchens or virtual restaurants — call them what you may, the lockdown showed us that they can easily replace their brick-and-mortar counterparts. A whole slew of delivery- and pick up-only restaurants sprung up across the country, offering diners everything from boxed, gourmet meals to DIY food and cocktail kits to be enjoyed in the comfort of one’s home. One positive fallout of this was the democratisation of ‘fancy’ food. Five-star hotels were willing to send their chefs over to cook up a feast in your kitchen while snooty, fine-dining restaurants hosted American tailgate-style weekend affairs in their parking lots. Healing foods   Riding on the coattails of 2019’s biggest food and beverage trend — fermentation and probiotics that gave us the ‘triple treat’ of kombucha, kefir and kimchi — is 2020’s ‘food as medicine’ trend aimed at promoting wellness. Turmeric-imbued drinks like golden latte (a fancy term for good oldhaldi dudh) and herbal teas laced with ashwagandha (Indian ginseng) and mulethi (liquorice root) upped their status as alleged immunity boosters in the war against COVID-19. Plant milk The takedown of milk as we know it has been going on for a while now in hipster circles with the rise of plant-based substitutes like soy, oat, almond, rice and coconut milks. The year saw not one but three Indian companies launch their own brands of coconut milk yoghurt, which is a boon for the lactose intolerant and vegans. The latest salvo is nutrient-rich milk derived from split yellow peas. Pea milk, anyone? The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.  Almost all of us turned bakers overnight. And we rediscovered the old comfort of food, which miraculously soothed our pandemic-ravaged nerves||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dinner-date-in-the-parking-lot/article33428722.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Reframing the present||In order to ‘give a meaning’ to the world, one has to feel oneself involved in what he [or she] frames... The secret is to take your time.... Then, however, you must be very quick. So, if you miss the picture, you’ve missed it. So what?  — Henri Cartier-Bresson When Cartier-Bresson, several decades ago, was theorising his practice, he believed it was imperative to go between instantaneity and introspection; and the image captured was both incisive and fleeting. These co-constitutive elements were to be deployed and felt in that brief interlude between observation and then mirroring or refracting the world through the lens. A recent Zoom interaction, which I had moderated, discussed the evolution of digital anthropology, the virtual strategies of relay, or even ways of archiving performances, in order to renew an engagement with ‘selfhood’ and with personal expression. It made me consider how in the midst of situations beyond our control this year, and indeed many intensified events flared by political persuasion, image-makers as well as viewers seemed to have subconsciously grasped Cartier-Bresson’s sense of a paradigm shift through a long, sustained pause. 2021 will mark 195 years of the invention of the photograph (a heliograph) in 1826 in France. With almost two centuries of a heterogenous cultural history behind us, last year specifically has seen image production become a pervasive yet haunting medium, much like a crystal ball illuminating aspects of our future inter-personal engagements. A new relationship has been forged between the world and people in isolation, and this phenomenon has pushed creative agents to transform the unfamiliar, the abstract and the ephemeral into the tangible. In this ‘post-digital’ moment, images of our lives may well have become trans-temporal — funnelling a resilient innovativeness around the idea of identity. In the months just before the lockdown, I walked through an exhibition in Paris of Claudia Andujar, the Swiss artist who dedicated her life to representing Brazil’s Yanomami people. Her iconic images disclosed some reorienting truths about how communities and even spaces have guided new ways of being recognised by the person behind the lens. So much of 2020 was about an engagement with ‘absence’ and the ways in which we were forced to recognise how we must address our own and others’ vulnerabilities. I recently came upon photographer Shan Bhattacharya’s fictional archive in his book Portal , where he reanimates the lives of invented characters, immersing the viewer in his memorabilia-saturated story of a lost archive, a doubtful identity, and the fading of photography studios in the city. He shows us how making something visible comes from a recognition of absence, urging us to be aware of presence. In an inverse way, through his interest in facial recognition and even surveillance, the narrative also suggests how seeing or being observed at all times can make us dangerously open to constant scrutiny, and how images can hence serve ends beyond the determination of the author. Lockdown memories Negotiating the dynamics of seeing, looking, and being watched, other works made in the past year come to mind with razor-sharp intensity, such as Ishan Tankha’s extensive recording of the lockdown in the capital — the mass migrations, the absence of transport, the growing poverty — contrasting it with the year before. His work is essential not just for remembering 2020 and its socio-political catalysations. Here, he poignantly composes them as diptychs, triggering comparison and hindsight. It also makes us aware that as the narrative of the recent past unfolds, the present must always make room for new images to activate memories of the past. In another vein, artists also speculated on the imaginary potential of the documentary. Take, for instance, the series titled ‘Shared Solitude’ by Imran Kokiloo and Anita Khemka, made during the lockdown. One image, which visualises the photographer within the frame using a mirror, speaks to the contingencies of authorship, and of an attempt to make the public space both intimate and domestic. Such images present an intermixing of subjective and objective reality, dealing with a self-conscious practice that creatively visualises how being cordoned off from the world can trigger a revisionist stance in an era of a new kind of person-to-person engagement. This perspective is more explicit in the recent work of Muvindu Binoy from Sri Lanka, whose ironical commentary includes the rise of racial tensions in the U.S. As a consequence, we have seen entanglements of memory and reality; the tension in lived and imagined spaces; the bridging of disciplinary realms and personal outlooks, all asking us to review the recent past and find lyricism in the harsh reality. To question inner and outer lives, to see the change in us, and sometimes migrate across both realms to evolve and survive. The recent self-published work by Indu Antony, titled Why Can’t Bras Have Buttons , opens such a channel, each page carrying a photographed object, with a strand of hair positioning it, while the overleaf has an anecdotal account. She speaks of the “social life of objects”, being inspired by the writings of Arjun Appadurai and Frances Yeats’ The Art of Memory (1966). For her, these are sentient articles of the everyday, much like memory cases, or ormapetti as described in Malayalam. Like Antony, others have turned the lens into personal testimonies, seen in so many Instagram accounts — the self-portraits of schmoooochita, the urbanity of banerjee.anurag, or the assemblages of aditya_dutta, among others. Moment of pause Collectively, their work can be read as a provocation to think about how we engender objects or spaces and consider their complicated, imperfect and contingent legacies, so as to question what should survive this moment of pause, a moment that takes us back to pre-lockdown, when there was a mass mobilisation in contrast to the forced immobility. The moment forces us to take stock of life, of livelihoods and, with reference to ongoing protests, the necessity to execute laws based on dialogue and popular consent rather than indiscriminate assertion. Perhaps some answers about ‘revisiting the present’ lie in seeing this moment as an afterlife of the recent past, an invisible yet imperative call to make us react. Even as ongoing populist stances intensify, and even as a collective consciousness erupts across the globe, perhaps we can reconsider our allegiances and entitlements, not only as subjects being framed, but as ‘makers’ staking a claim through our personal and social lives. The transition into 2021 compels us again to make absences visible — a belief that answers may lie in the fragile, insistent slippages between acts in reality and in modes of representation. I end with the words of Syrian poet Nizar Qabbani:  I sweep away the beginning of things and with a new language/ that has the music of water the message of fire/ I light the coming age/ and stop time in your eyes/ and wipe away the line/ that separates/ time from this single moment.  The writer is Curator, Alkazi Foundation for the Arts, and Founding Editor,PIX.  So much of 2020 was about an engagement with ‘absence’ and the ways in which we were forced to recognise how we must address our own and others’ vulnerabilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/reframing-the-present/article33428790.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Future, switched off||At some point around July I found myself thinking ‘The future is switched off; 2020 is the year the future was switched off.’ When I said this to friends they agreed, ‘Switched off is correct. Chopped off might be better.’ Across four short months we had all got used to not speaking about the future as if it was tangible. Suddenly phrases like ‘next year’, or ‘next February’ were unsayable. The next anything really, except in the extreme short term, had become an absurd concept, like speaking of unicorns. Another word that kept coming up in my mind was compression — the compression of time, the compression of space, the compression of imagination, all woven through by the tragic stories from people we knew of the terminal compression of breath. On many days one felt like one of those metal plates being pressed upon from both sides in some industrial process — the past inexorably pushing up, the plate which had replaced the future pressing down, as your very sense of self was squeezed thinner and thinner. Bubble of privilege It took a while to realise that to be able to have this sense of limb-loss, of existential nullity, was to be in a very lucky position. If you had time to feel all these things, to think about them and analyse them, you were in a bubble of privilege. As December 31 approaches, the picture of this most horrible of years begins to firm up and link with other moments in recent years, showing up causalities that make nonsense of any notion that 2020 was an ‘outlier’, a different coloured blip in a procession of ‘normal’ years. Take just one strand and follow it: masses of ordinary Indians have now been out in the open — whether street or highway — protesting against this government’s new laws for nearly six of the last 13 months. It took an unprecedented pandemic to bring a pause to the huge movement against the CAA-NRC. Just as the scandalous 2020 farm laws are a part of the same republic-destroying project as the 2019 citizenship amendment bill, these new farmer protests are also part of the same push-back by people against this government. Unlike in March, the fear of the pandemic hasn’t stopped the protests; people have weighed the dangers of COVID-19 against the dangers of staying quiet as their very livelihoods are led to the legislative slaughterhouse. Much of the motivation for these protests, much of the terminal distrust of this government, was sown much earlier than 2020 or even 2019, it just took time to sprout and show itself above ground. Take another strand, if you will: in late March, when Narendra Modi pushed the panic button without giving a thought to the majority of poor who make up this nation, millions of people began walking home across the breadth of the country and they kept walking for the next three brutally hot months. When the lockdown was imposed in the mother of all knee-jerk reactions there were only 600 infections in India, almost all of them in two or three cities. Where we are Now we have the second worst infection spread in the world, an economy in complete tatters, and a huge mass of people who are unemployed with no hope of that changing any time soon. The series of lockdowns was not used to set up any great medical infrastructure, there was no visible leadership, no work on any war-footing to protect the most vulnerable sections of a poor, populous country such as ours. And yet, you could argue that for many of India’s labourers in the informal sector the future was switched off not in March 2020 but in November 2016 when the craziness of demonetisation was visited upon the economy. Millions of people didn’t have time to contemplate the future then and they don’t have it now; all they can do is try and secure tomorrow and perhaps a few days after that. Many previously unimaginable things happened in the world in 2020, and many other tragedies unspooled in India, each one enough to brand a ‘normal’ year by itself: the Amphan cyclone, the incarcerative torture of innocent dissidents, the multiple rapes and murders of women, the continuing clampdown on Kashmir, the ongoing ecological disasters. Many of these events will bleed into one another to cause new alchemies of upheaval and tragedy. As this undeniably terrible and mind-boggling year comes to an end, it would be good to keep in mind that 2020 may have brought the end of many things but it’s also the start point of many things, both bad and good, that we can’t yet begin to imagine. At times this year, the future may have looked as though it was switched off, but perhaps it was only the beginning of regular load-shedding.  It took an unprecedented pandemic to bring a pause to the huge movement against the CAA-NRC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/future-switched-off/article33428786.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Top 10 fiction books of 2020||When all political negotiations have failed, can the friendship of two men shine a light of hope on the Israel-Palestine conflict? Colum McCann’s ‘hybrid novel’, straddling fiction and non-fiction, is a touching plea for peace based on the real-life friendship between Israeli graphic designer Rami Elhanan and Palestinian ‘terrorist’ Bassam Aramin. They find common ground in grief — both have lost their daughters to the violence — and bond to the point where they become preoccupied with each other’s perspectives as they campaign for peace. Their stories are interwoven with a host of others over the course of 1,001 chapters of lyrical prose, spanning vast expanses of time and space, myth and reality, in a latter-day version of One Thousand and One Nights .       Douglas Stuart joins a potent chorus of contemporary Scottish working-class writers with his Booker Prize-winning debut.Shuggie Bainis a stark critique of Thatcherism, depicting the poverty and squalor of life in the tenements of 1980s Glasgow. The eponymous Shuggie is shaped by these circumstances; by a big, dysfunctional family that includes his philandering father and alcoholic mother; and by his queerness, which makes him an outsider. But it’s Shuggie’s love for his damaged mother that gives the book its heart and beauty. A novel with vintage flavour.       A Muslim girl, Jivan, is arrested for allegedly planting a bomb on a train. As she fights her present circumstances, we learn about her past, populated by characters like PT Sir and Lovely, the hijra. Jivan thought of them as her friends, but when misfortune strikes, they desert her in pursuit of their ambitions. Megha Majumdar’s debut is an emotionally resonant tale of prejudice, human weakness and betrayal. It has the raciness of the thriller and the moral depth of a philosophical novel.     The danger of artificial over intelligence has long been a popular theme in fiction. But Tanuj Solanki does not fall into the killer robot routine; rather, he takes an Orwellian-Kafkaesque turn to make a villain out of a faceless institution. In The Machine is Learning , it is capitalism exemplified in a life insurance corporation that is deploying big data through AI to control lives. Our protagonist is an employee caught between ambition and accountability. His journey to consciousness is the heart of the story. Although he and the other characters are representatives of different world views, Solanki makes sure each is a living, breathing, individuated persona.       It’s 10 years into the future and Delhi is still choking in smog, but today’s anxieties have become concrete realities in Chosen Spirits . JNU has been demolished to make way for a giant mall; social media is an augmented-reality chimera called The Flow. Bijoyini ‘Joey’ Roy works as an Associate Reality Controller for The Flow, managing the channels of a Flowstar. She and her childhood friend, Rudra, are drawn into a world of corporate intrigue. This is desi cyberpunk, with dark takes on very Indian cultural maladies. Samit Basu excels at world-building, creating a future at once familiar and bizarre.       Legends are created by a facial appendage in S. Hareesh’s breakout novel, which won him the JCB Prize 2020. When a Dalit youth, Vavachan, dons a moustache for a policeman’s part in a play, it stays with him, transforming him into a larger-than-life figure. Power dynamics of caste are reversed as the man with the tash becomes a byword for terror. It’s a grand novel of history, caste and Dalit assertion in early-mid 20th-century Kerala, combining realism with fantasy. Hareesh’s stunning descriptions make Kuttanad, with its snaking waterways and colourful characters, come to life.       A Brooklyn author with a writer’s block goes to a literary retreat in Berlin hoping to unblock his creative mind. He spirals downwards instead. The centre’s policy of ultra-transparency and the incitement of a fellow resident leave him disconcerted. In this shattered mental state, he turns to an alt-right media propagandist and comes to believe that the only way out of the confusion is the “red pill” — the revelatory dose of reality which will get him out of the swamp of moral darkness. Hari Kunzru’s novel, with its forensic analysis of the post-truth netherworld, has been called the “prototype for Trump-era novels to come” and “the Gen X Midlife-Crisis Novel in its purest form.” His pointed prose is as chilling as it is thrilling.         A musician finding love in a chat room; three dancers arranging their sex life over email; troll wars unhinging a writer; a daughter’s cellphone chats making a cook uncomfortable — such stories from Internet-era India make up Nisha Susan’s dazzling debut collection. The heroines of these stories are gloriously messy, damaged, politically incorrect, and you find yourselves in them. The girls stick to each other through thick and thin. Men, when they make that rare appearance, are pallid in comparison to the robustly drawn women. Susan, the co-founder of the feminist website The Ladies Finger and of the 2009 Pink Chaddi campaign, makes the personal the political.       To get over the lockdown blues, do you want to fly away to sun-kissed Capri, attend a lavish wedding, ogle at delectable men and do ‘puppy yoga’ to blow off steam, all the while sitting in your couch? Start reading Sex and Vanity , which, in inimitable Kevin Kwan style, is brimful of bling and the snob’s guide to high living. Described as a homage to E.M. Forster’s A Room with a View , Sex and Vanity is about the poor little rich girl, Lucie Barclay Churchill, daughter of an American-born Chinese mother and a true-blue New Yorker father. She has always suppressed the Asian side of herself till she meets George Zao. Does Lucie’s hatred of Zao conceal helpless love? Will she be able to move beyond her WASP upbringing to follow Zao? More Barabara Cartland than Forster, Sex and Vanity is the perfect antidote to pandemic pains.       The debut novel of poet, former television anchor, and model, Karuna Ezara Parikh, The Heart Asks Pleasure First is an exquisite love story of a young Indian ballet student and a young Muslim lawyer from Pakistan. They meet accidentally at a park in Wales on a sunny day and the inevitable happens. But the forces of history are out to get them: as 9/11 and the attack on Parliament take place, religious prejudices rear their head even in small-town Wales, and the two must fight for their beliefs. Is it possible to find a personal truth which is untouched by the great forces of history, politics and old hatreds? Like Anna and Vronsky, Helen and Paris before them, Parikh’s lovers too discover that the world never forgives transgressions. A notable debut that bravely tackles some tough, niggling questions of love and faith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/top-10-fiction-books-of-2020/article33428760.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Big mouth||A wild and woolly auction. West’s double of seven spades might have been based on a sure trump trick, but South reasoned that it was more likely to be a Lightner Double, asking for an unusual lead. Looking at his club length, South could easily imagine West with a club void, so he ran to seven no trump, hoping for the best. South won the opening heart lead with his ace and led a club to dummy’s king at trick two, confirming that West was void in that suit. He led the jack of spades from dummy, saw East follow with the nine, and paused to think. South decided that, with West void in clubs, there was no reason to play him for shortness in spades also, so he won with his ace. The ace and king of diamonds were cashed in case the queen fell, and a spade was led. East’s jump to five hearts suggested a short suit somewhere, and it could only be spades. South took the winning view of playing dummy’s 10 of spades and was rewarded when East discarded a club. It wasn’t over yet, as South was still a trick short. He solved that problem by cashing all of dummy’s spades, coming down to a two-card ending with dummy holding the jack of diamonds and the nine of clubs opposite his ace-10 of clubs. East couldn’t defend the position. East could not keep the queen of diamonds and the queen-jack of clubs and South had his contract. Very well done!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/big-mouth/article33428797.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Listening to great minds||When I was young, I remember my grandfather taking me to listen to great minds. I was about seven years old, and a bit fidgety, but the power and passion with which the speakers spoke enthralled me. On the way home, my grandfather would explain the key points to me in simpler language. I remember with great pleasure an evening when poems by Tagore were read out. Listening to those beautiful words, with those rich images flying through my mind, and repeating some lines over and over and savouring the new words felt good. Much later, when I lived in England with my parents, we used to go to musicals and come home singing fragments of the songs. The words were great, the tunes memorable. In 2006, at the General Assembly of the World Council of Churches in Porto Alegre, Brazil, I was privileged to hear three Nobel Peace laureates speak on what was closest to their hearts and mine: peace, justice, hope and love. Overcoming fear The first of the speakers was Adolfo Perez Esquivel, the Argentinian Nobel Peace Prize laureate of 1980. I heard him speak of his years of imprisonment and brutal torture. There were moments of silence, when he recollected his and his country’s suffering with emotion. His most passionate speech was about the capacity of people to change what seems like impossible violent situations through non-violence. “The greatest thing to overcome is fear, and we overcome fear with unity and solidarity,” he said. The colourful and controversial Rigoberta Menchu, the Nobel Peace winner of 1992 from Guatemala, spoke movingly of the plight of indigenous Guatemalan people and the terrible violence meted out to them. Complete lack of human rights and endless suffering was thrust on communities of some of the gentlest people on earth. The challenge was not only to speak up against violence against the powerless but also to “see” them as forgotten people. Bishop Desmond Tutu, the Nobel Peace winner of 1982, in his royal purple cassock, with his famous, brilliant smile and twinkling eyes, did not have to speak. He was the message of pure love. His vibrant voice, great heart, and ice breaking humour deliver a liberating message, “We can only be human together.” It sounds simple and easy, but it is the toughest message I have heard. Each night when I went to bed, my little notebook was full of jotted down writing; my mind filled with new and challenging thoughts. My heart felt overwhelmingly full of hope. And it wasn’t just me who felt this way. Almost everyone I met in Porto Allegre spoke about how enriched they were after listening to the many speakers there. Our busy schedules and materialistic culture leave no time to listen to great minds. We rarely acknowledge great minds.  ushajesudasan@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/listening-to-great-minds/article33428743.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 2020 has been a relatively good year for wildlife. On February 29, in a groundbreaking scientific breakthrough, two highly endangered animal cubs were born through in-vitro fertilisation and embryo transfer into a surrogate mother at the Columbus Zoo. IVF had to be done as it was important to maintain a strong lineage, due to the lack of genetic variability in the available specimens. Though this might seem like cheating nature, it helps these cheaters prosper. What cubs were these that are destined to run at high speeds? 2 In April, following an extensive lockdown and almost complete shutdown of traffic and factories, the levels of air pollution in places including Jalandhar, Punjab, dropped drastically. This led to a certain event, photographs of which went viral with the hashtag ‘#NatureIsHealing’. What could people in Jalandhar see for the first time in ages? 3 This service was created by Eric Yuan, a teenager who hated the 10-hour train journeys to his university on Monday mornings. He wanted to create a platform where he could visit his girlfriend minus the travel. His daydreaming then led to what is now a billion-dollar app that every other student, teacher and amateur quizzer uses almost on a daily basis. What app is this? 4 2020 was historic because, for the first time ever, a non-English work of art won the highest accolades on the global stage. The work was inspired by the experience of its creator Bong Joon-Ho, who used to work as a tuition teacher for the children of a rich couple in Seoul. He imagined what would happen if a tutor like him became devious and tried to trick his wealthy employers. What work is this and what did it win? 5 To promote inclusion and diversity, an American company launched a box with diverse skin colours, for children to accurately colour themselves into the world. Called ‘Colors of the World’, it includes 24 new items designed to mirror and represent over 40 different skin tones. Intended to advance inclusion within creativity and impact how kids express themselves, what items were these that we all used to love as kids? 6 In June, Barcelona’s Gran Teatre del Liceu opera house reopened and performed its first concert since the lockdown to a live audience. The 2,292 seats were filled with members who swayed to the music of Puccini performed by the UceLi String Quartet. At the end of the concert, the audience members were donated to healthcare workers who had been fighting the virus. Who were the audience members, who we know enjoyed the music thanks to work done by J.C. Bose in 1915? 7 This company donated £1.5 million to the British Film Institute, the U.K.’s Film and TV Charity’s coronavirus fund and the Producers Guild of India. The fund mainly covers the wages of many freelancers whose work has driven the content that provided us with endless entertainment during lockdown. What company is this that has been responsible for the habit of ‘binge watching’ becoming a norm? 8 Bilal Göregen is a visually-impaired Turkish musician. A YouTube user recorded a video of him performing a popular Finnish song called ‘Ievan polkka’ while playing a darbuka. The video was uploaded in 2019 but became a viral sensation in October 2020 when a Twitter user added an animal vibing to his playing. What animal, which is fittingly the king of the Internet, was added to the video, which was voted best meme of 2020? 9 In 2020 SpaceX made history by becoming the first private entity to successfully send astronauts to space on behalf of NASA. This was achieved by employing a reusable spacecraft that was initially designed as a cargo aircraft propelled by SuperDraco engines. The spacecraft is named after a creature that is known as ‘Puff’ in a song by Peter, Paul and Mary. After what mythical animal that is supposed to breathe fire is the spacecraft named? 10 Odisha’s Gahirmatha Beach is the state’s only marine wildlife sanctuary. It separates the Bhitarkanika Mangroves from the Bay of Bengal. This beach is globally renowned for the phenomenon of arribada where a huge number of females of a certain species visit the beach at the same time to carry out an important life function. In April 2020, after nearly seven years of negligible sightings, thousands of specimens landed on the beach, much to the delight of animal lovers. What animals were these that are named after the green colour of their shells? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33428794.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A year on the earwaves||If 2020 was the year when we discovered the delights, the challenges and for some, the near-impossibility of working from home, it was also the year podcasting went mainstream. Call it the pandemic effect, or just the maturation of a form that is just as accessible to the amateur in the bedroom closet as to the media conglomerate, but podcasting was one medium that saw advertising growth in the past year. Even before the pandemic, Deloitte had predicted that revenues in the business would rise by 30% in 2020, and while the numbers are a bit short of that, there’s no doubt that audiences for streaming audio continue to grow. Take a 20-something young professional who said, “My podcast listening time is directly proportional to the time I spend in the kitchen, and as restaurants closed, I ended up cooking all my meals, which...increased my podcast listening time.” Or another dedicated listener this year who found the time to listen to long-form shows and even binge on series. Yet others, like my academic friend, turned to podcasts as a more trusted source for coronavirus news and science, or for meaning-making in these strange times, to philosophy and history podcasts. Most stuck with their old favourites: fiction, current affairs and analysis, only occasionally sampling something different. One mythology enthusiast who had sworn he’d “never listen to another epic podcast” discovered Arti Dhand’s The Mahabharata Podcast — a delightfully irreverent yet faithful-to-the-text narration. The need to engage children bouncing off home walls pushed parents to look for audio to keep them away from screens. Some of these, like Story Seeds , launched in March, feature creative collaborations between children and established authors. Like many others, I scoured the podverse for shows that would help me keep up with developments in laboratories, policy circles, on the field and in hospitals in relation to the pandemic. Apart from some of the shows I wrote about in March this year, the steady-handed reporting of data journalist S. Rukmini on her mini-cast, The Moving Curve , addressed both the social and the scientific aspects of the pandemic. A friend directed me to Man and the Machine, hosted by Medscape editor Eric Topol and writer-clinician Abraham Verghese and featuring in-depth explorations of the interface of technology and medicine — with several recent episodes related to COVID-19. Literary conversations Literary podcasts certainly saw a boom these past twelve months, and in the early days of the pandemic, several retellings of Boccaccio’s Decameron surfaced — modern adaptations (such as the The Decameron Project by The New York Times ) as well as readings from the original. And then there were the literary conversations, from Cheryl Strayed’s Sugar Calling to Linn Ullman’s How to Proceed and, closer to home, Books and Beyond from Tara Khandelwal and Michelle D’costa, which looks at the Indian literary scene through interviews with authors. Among the notable non-literary discussion shows that I encountered this year are The Swaddle ’s Respectfully Disagree (where the hosts work through vexing and polarising issues) and the quirky You’re Wrong About (launched in 2018, about things that are miscast in the public imagination). But these are just the tip of the iceberg. It’s hard to keep up with the slew of new shows coming out — hosted by celebrities and the rest of us. Last week, Spotify announced that Harry and Meghan, Duke and Duchess of Sussex, would be launching a podcast on their platform around Christmas. Just one more addition to the estimated 1.5 million podcasts out there, in multiple languages — clearly, a lot left to discover! The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-year-on-the-earwaves/article33428801.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Conquering the fear of flying||An article in The Washington Post says about 40% of the general American population reports some fear of flying. Aerophobia transcends first-time flying. For some, the scariest part is the take-off or landing, for others, it’s the cruise, and for the rest, it could be the countdown to the departure date. Whatever it might be, this fear can ruin a family vacation, business trip or honeymoon. Even after getting off the flight, say to an exotic paradise, it takes some time for the body to shake off its “flight or fight” mode. And as time draws closer to the return trip, fear creeps back in. I remember my weary husband dozing off the moment he settled into his window seat during the red-eye flight commencing our honeymoon. Some are natural flyers. For others, all attempts to master one’s fear fail at the sheer sight of aircraft. All rational premeditations, mental cheat-sheets and relaxation techniques crumble easily as such monstrous contraptions with wings beckon tenderly to your inmost soul to swallow you whole, bounce you in its belly and then drop you from 38,000 feet. However, such is the case of all phobias — the microphone on the podium, the mathematics assignment or the forlorn elevator ride — can daunt an otherwise mundane task and fetter confidence. It’s under relatable circumstances, Neville Chamberlain, the man who pursued a policy to appease Hitler, becomes a hero for anxious flyers. No, he is not an aerophobe. Chamberlain was the Prime Minister of Britain in the years leading to the Second World War when Hitler’s belligerent political posturing and manic declarations had been unnerving Europe. Nobody wanted a war. Chamberlain who resolved to end the conflcit came up with a simple yet diplomatic plan. He wanted to fly to Germany and meet Hitler who was at his mountain retreat in Berchtesgaden, mano-a-mano. Hitler, in late 1938, was a mystery. Was Hitler someone who could be negotiated with? Would he respect agreements and process the political-economic outcome of another World War rationally? Chamberlain had little choice but to find out by himself. When Hitler agreed to meet him, Chamberlain set out on a gloomy September morning to take his first flight. He remained calm. Historians even talk of the plane flying into heavy weather near Munich. For aerophobes, I believe, it promises hope. His first flight flew resolutely into enemy territory and bore the burden of brokering world peace with a mad man. Chamberlain promises hope, inspiration and unflinching courage even to the most jittery air traveller. mariandominica@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/conquering-the-fear-of-flying/article33428739.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Party like it’s 2020||Dahlin (if I may),  Because akka is just not me, you know? Gawd, it’s been such a long time since I called anyone ‘dahlin’. Why, you ask? It’s the Corona thingie, sweetheart. I know it’s not fashionable to talk of how the lives of People Like Us have been disrupted by the virus and the lockdowns, but my social scene has completely collapsed, like the Indian test team’s batting. I mean, of course I worry about the workers and all, but you know, I had to do the dishes! Too, too traumatic. And I haven’t been to a party in ages! Or on vacation! And now they tell me a new mutant of this monster is doing the rounds! I mean, seriously? If this means we are grounded for longer, that sucks. Be a doll and tell me: how does a girl have a new year party this godforsaken year without worrying about this wretched virus? — Bored Socialite  Dear BS,  I sympathise. All those glam outfits in your wardrobe and nowhere to dress up and go. And what’s a Page 3 photo worth if you are wearing those unsexy masks? Yes, I know you’ve upped your eyeshadow and liner quotient, but it’s just not the same, is it? Rina complained bitterly that one paparazzo didn’t even recognise her. (Although honestly, dearest, he should have recognized her silicone.) And anyway, why party if you can’t pout for Insta? So, let’s see now. You are already good at air-kissing, so there’s no danger of any real affection, sorry infection, being exchanged, but Corona is treacherous that way. Imagine the indignity of going ‘mwaah’ and then, two days later, being contact-traced in your chattering-class sorority. It’s not fair. Every trivial concern of the ‘other half,’ its lives and livelihoods, gets prime-time coverage, but you bear your cross of social asceticism in silence. This absence of socialising is worse by far than death by Corona. But if there’s one thing this year has taught us, it’s that fun-loving folks will always find a way out. Remember the young woman who braved the streets and the trauma of being a life-long meme to bang plate with ladle and shout Go Corona Go? If she’s not a party gal, I don’t know who is. Take a page from her book. If steel plates are not your thing, wear your silk jammies, step out with a Swarovski-studded stiletto, and bang it against your best Noritake plate. In my own gated community, our spirit found expression during lockdown in ‘balcony antakshari’ and ‘lean-over tambola’ parties. We too have been deprived of our coffee meets and rummy afternoons, but we have borne it with fortitude. You should do the same. Try a balcony bash. I know this isn’t exactly the head-banging fun you crave, but there’s something to be said for the resourcefulness of these mezzanine mamis. I like their spirit, even if I don’t really miss their party food. If all this is too lowbrow for you, BS, then I urge you to consider a Zoom party. And if you think they lack the sizzle of a flesh-and-blood soirée , you’ve been sadly misled. Many, many Zoomers forget to turn their cameras off and carry smartphones into certain rooms, only to — how shall I put it — livestream their live streams. And others, in the Zen state induced by Zoom, have forgotten themselves enough to be caught on camera with their pants down doing what, we’ll let your imagination guess. So, unless you are confident that, like a certain mitron messiah, you will be camera-aware at all times, turning this way and that to follow the lens, then beware. Because there are some Page 3 shots you definitely don’t want to be in. Mwaah dahlin! — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/party-like-its-2020/article33428792.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A Promised Land by Barack Obama (PRH)||The first volume of Barack Obama’s presidential memoirs, A Promised Land , tells the story of his journey from a young man searching for his identity to being the first African-American President of the oldest democracy in the world. It is an intimate, reflective account, full of glorious prose. When he was sworn in as the 44th President in January, 2009, the U.S. was in the grip of a massive economic crisis and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were taking a huge toll. With the Republicans being difficult, Obama overcame seemingly insurmountable odds to first steady the ship, and then secure passage of the Recovery Act and the Affordable Care Act. He authorised Operation Neptune’s Spear, which would lead to the death of Osama bin Laden in 2011. Obama looks back at his time at the White House more as an observer, analyst and judge, less as a protagonist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-promised-land-by-barack-obama-prh/article33428765.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The Loss of Hindustan by Manan Ahmed Asif (HUP/Harper)||Hindustan, Hindusthan , Bharat or India, the title we choose to ascribe to this land, and how that shapes it is the subject of Manan Ahmed’s examination in The Loss of Hindustan , a masterful foray into many histories of the sub-continent. It is about a history written by powerful colonisers which went on to define it to the outsider, and later became the worldview of the inhabitants themselves. It is about reading history to see the present clearly and then examine the future. Ahmed’s work is of traversing the history of histories in India over the ages and explain how it served as a precursor to people’s evaluation of themselves. He boldly tackles the question of present-day prejudices and majoritarian sentiment in the sub-continent, whether Hindutva or Sunni Muslim, and what it might owe to how history has been crafted in the past two centuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-loss-of-hindustan-by-manan-ahmed-asif-hupharper/article33428767.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Overdraft by Urjit Patel (HarperCollins)||The credit market in India is prone to perilous setbacks, with the extant prolonged non-performing asset shock being the latest, writes Urjit Patel, former Reserve Bank of India Governor, in Overdraft . As the fiscal space got exhausted, governments deployed banks to stimulate the economy. From 2014 onwards the regulator and the government “have sought to work towards addressing the scourge of large NPAs – the thrust on transparency meant that the unveiled figure tripled to Rs. 10.4 trillion by 2018.” The Narendra Modi government passed the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016, its most significant reform initiative. But the IBC regime was rolled back, and Patel tells a story of the early gains clocked against cronyism at risk of being “a false dawn”. He argues that diluting the IBC has robbed it of credibility and reaffirmed the defaulters’ grip over the system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/overdraft-by-urjit-patel-harpercollins/article33428769.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Caste by Isabel Wilkerson (Penguin Random House)||A caste system is an artificial construction, a fixed and embedded ranking of human value that sets the presumed supremacy of one group against the presumed inferiority of other groups on the basis of ancestry and often immutable traits, says Isabel Wilkerson in her blistering new book,Caste. Throughout human history, she points out that three caste systems have stood out. “The tragically accelerated, chilling, and officially vanquished caste system of Nazi Germany. The lingering, millennia-long caste system of India. And the shape-shifting, unspoken, race-based caste pyramid in the United States.” Each version relied on stigmatising those deemed inferior to justify the dehumanisation necessary to keep the lowest-ranked people at the bottom, she writes. “A caste system endures because it is often justified as divine will, originating from sacred text or the presumed laws of nature, and passed down through the generations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/caste-by-isabel-wilkerson-penguin-random-house/article33428772.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Sebastian & Sons: A Brief History of Mrdangam Makers by T.M. Krishna (Context/Westland)||In Karnatik music, writes singer and activist T.M. Krishna in Sebastian & Sons , the mrdangam is not just another percussion instrument but a king among them. His curiosity about the mrdangam began when he realised that “we rarely, almost never, speak about these master makers.” In his first book, A Southern Music, A Karnatik Story , which examines caste discrimination, he had not delved into the world of the makers, who are mostly Dalit Christians, or the maker–player dynamic, and he felt he had failed them. The mrdangam is a two-faced drum and its body is a hollow, resonating chamber made from the wood of jackfruit trees. Its two tapering ends are covered with layers of cow, buffalo and goat hide, and thereby hangs a dark tale of caste discrimination and other slights, which Krishna explores in his second book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sebastian-sons-a-brief-history-of-mrdangam-makers-by-tm-krishna-contextwestland/article33428774.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The Battle of Belonging by Shashi Tharoor (Aleph)||In The Battle of Belonging , Shashi Tharoor defines ideas of nationalism, patriotism, citizenship, and belonging. In the course of his study, he explains what nationalism is, what patriotism means, and the nature and future of Indian nationhood. Taking up a phrase coined by Rabindranath Tagore — ‘idea of India’ — Tharoor writes about the forces working to undermine it. Divided into six sections, he begins by highlighting historical and contemporary ideas of nationalism, patriotism, liberalism, democracy, and humanism, many of which emerged in the West in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and quickly spread throughout the world. Today, the battle is between two opposing ideas of India, says Tharoor, or what might be described as ethno-religious nationalism versus civic nationalism. With the Constitution under siege, institutions undermined, mythical pasts propagated, minorities demonised, and worse, Tharoor lays down what needs to be done to win the battle of belonging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-battle-of-belonging-by-shashi-tharoor-aleph/article33428776.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The Commonwealth of Cricket by Ramachandra Guha (HarperCollins)||His maternal uncle was his first cricketing hero, and he heard the first stories of the game from his father. Fan (unabashed supporter of Karnataka and Friends Union Cricket Club), player (spinner), writer (of many books on various subjects from cricket to anthropology), and historian, Ramachandra Guha has spent a life with cricket. In The Commonwealth of Cricket , Guha pens a personal memoir twined with the varying threads of the game in India. He traces the sport across all levels: school, college, club, state and country. Guha writes vivid portraits of local heroes, provincial icons and international stars. Filled with anecdotes, memories and history, Guha says he loves Test cricket, and hasn’t taken to the shorter formats. He shook hands with a Test cricketer — G.R. Viswanath — for the first time in 1970, thanks to his uncle N. Duraiswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-commonwealth-of-cricket-by-ramachandra-guha-harpercollins/article33428778.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||No Filter: The Inside Story of Instagram by Sarah Frier (Simon & Schuster)||Journalist Sarah Frier profiles Instagram, the social media platform founded in 2010 and how it powers the attention economy in No Filter: The Inside Story of Instagram . Frier maps Instagram co-founder Kevin Systrom’s struggles and success meticulously. In the process, she unravels an up-close portrait of America’s modern nerd culture — its surreal surroundings, fantasies, psychologies, ambitions of the key actors and their maniacal obsession for success and scale. Instagram was acquired by Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook in 2012 and is among its most important assets with more than a billion subscribers, and growing. From Zuckerberg, to Twitter’s Jack Dorsey to Instagram’s Systrom and Mike Krieger, the commonalities are obvious and striking. They were groomed by the reigning philosophies of the Silicon Valley where most start-ups — more than 90% — die but those that survive rewrite history and human life in unforeseen and often alarming ways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-filter-the-inside-story-of-instagram-by-sarah-frier-simon-schuster/article33428780.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||If Then by Jill Lepore (Hachette India)||The Simulmatics Corporation, founded in 1959 during the Cold War, mined data, targeted voters and destabilised politics -- decades before critics accused Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Cambridge Analytica of doing the same. Scientists at Simulmatics used computers to first predict and then channel human behaviour, deploying a ‘People Machine’ for clients which included John F. Kennedy’s presidential campaign, the New York Times , and the Department of Defence. In If Then , historian Jill Lepore unravels the story of this corporation from the archives. In the 1950s and 1960s, Lepore argues, Simulmatics invented the future by building the machine in which the world finds itself trapped now. Simulmatics became bankrupt in the 1970s but not before it had written a pattern to follow, says Lepore: “Collect data. Write code. Detect patterns. Target ads. Predict behaviour. Direct action. Encourage consumption. Influence elections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/if-then-by-jill-lepore-hachette-india/article33428782.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The Next Great Migration by Sonia Shah (Bloomsbury)||Migrations are as old as history, and “a growing body of evidence suggests they may be our best shot at preserving biodiversity and resilient human societies,” writes science journalist Sonia Shah in The Next Great Migration . She travelled far and wide to understand why a wild exodus has begun. She quotes scientists who studied everything from plankton to frogs and found that of the 4,000 species they had tracked, between 40% and 70% had altered their distribution over the past few decades, around 90% into cooler lands and waters in sync with the changing climate. At McLeodganj with the looming Dhauladhar mountain range, she discovered that young saplings in the forests established themselves a little bit higher up the slopes every year. Shah points out that like “our wild cousins, people are on the move too,” and reveals why it is necessary for the planet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-next-great-migration-by-sonia-shah-bloomsbury/article33428784.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The long walk||Lakhs of migrants made their way from cities to their villages on foot, some walking hundreds of kilometres over several weeks, when the pandemic lockdown was announced in March. Rendered jobless and homeless and with no public transport in operation, the workers braved scorching heat, blistered feet and hunger as they carried their belongings across the country, many with young children in tow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-long-walk/article33428724.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Grim reaper||A galaxy of stars — Sean Connery, Soumitra Chatterjee, Rishi Kapoor, Irrfan Khan (right), Sushant Singh Rajput and Chadwick Boseman died. In sports, the list included Diego Maradona and Kobe Bryant. Kenny Rogers, S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, Astad Deboo, Ebrahim Alkazi and John Le Carré were losses in arts and literature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/grim-reaper/article33428725.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||In protest||As the anti-CAA protest was subsumed by the pandemic, it looked like popular movements might take a back seat in 2020. But after a police officer killed George Floyd, an African-American man, a great wave of Black Lives Matter protests shook the U.S. for months. Later, after India passed three controversial agriculture laws, tens of thousands of farmers marched on Delhi in an ongoing agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-protest/article33428727.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Big moments||The construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya officially began, marking a watershed moment in Indian politics, the culmination of a long struggle by the Hindutva Right. In the U.S., the Right faced defeat with the election of Joe Biden as President, with Kamala Harris as his Vice-President — the first woman, the first African-American, and the first Asian-American to hold the position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/big-moments/article33428729.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Inferno||Bushfires in Australia between the end of 2019 and the first half of 2020 killed or displaced an estimated three billion animals, including mammals, birds and frogs. The World Wide Fund for Nature described the inferno as being among the “worst wildlife disasters in modern history”. The blazes burned down an area of 11.46 million hectares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/inferno/article33428731.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Negative growth||Amid a global economic contraction — the IMF predicts 4.4%negative growth for the world economy in 2020 — India’sperformance was particularly bleak, shrinking by 23.9% inthe June quarter and 7.5% in the September quarter. Asindustries like aviation, which alone shed some 425,000 jobs,faced drastic retrenchment, the U.N. projected globalunemployment to rise by about 2.5 million this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/negative-growth/article33428733.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Nobel women||Just 58 women have been awarded the Nobel Prize since the award was instituted in 1901, representing 6.2% of all laureates. But this year, the glass ceiling was cracked a little as four women were awarded the prize. Poet Louise Gluck took the literature prize, astronomer Andrea Ghez (above) the physics prize, and biochemist Jennifer Doudna and microbiologist Emmanuelle Charpentier bagged the prize in chemistry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nobel-women/article33428735.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Is the first wave coming to an end in India?||Though the total number of coronavirus cases in India has crossed 10.1 million, the number of daily fresh cases has been steadily dropping from a peak of nearly 98,000 cases on September 16 to below 25,000 daily cases in the last few days; December 25 recorded 22,350 fresh cases. The steady drop in cases has been seen nationally without much of a spike since mid-September notwithstanding the festival season, winter and large gatherings, whether political or otherwise. The absence of a spike is all the more surprising as strict adherence to non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) has been far from good. Does the steadily declining trend in daily cases and absence of a spike nationally then suggest that the first wave is slowly coming to an end in India? “It would be inaccurate to infer at the national level while some of the north-eastern States have a cumulative test positivity rate above 8%. Even at national level, the cumulative test positivity rate is 6.1% as on December 23, which suggests we aren’t near the end immediately,” Dr. Giridhara Babu, Professor of Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, and a member of the Karnataka COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee says in an email.   The cumulative test positivity rate should be less than 5% to say that transmission has been contained. The reason: the seven day or monthly positivity rate only indicates active surge in cases as seen now in some north-east States, while the cumulative test positivity rate reflects the overall containment in transmission. Note of caution Gautam Menon, Professor of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University and co-author of COVID-19 modelling studies cautions in an email that test positivity is large in a number of States, including Kerala and Maharashtra, which were hard hit earlier as well. “This suggests that the disease is still spreading, although more slowly. I think this is mainly evidence that COVID-19 is no longer primarily spreading in more urban areas, so this should be expected to mark a qualitative change. In that sense, it can be thought of as an end to the ‘first wave’,” he says. “The decline has been steady and prolonged, with the fall somewhat slower than the rise. Within this fall in national figures there are small regional spikes and that will continue to happen in the days to come,” says virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel, Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. Explaining that natural infection (both detected and undetected) has not reached the level to confer herd immunity and cause a slowdown in daily cases, Dr. Menon says: “My own guess would be that about 40–50% of urban India, in particular tier-1 and tier-2 cities has been infected at this point, while an India-wide number is more likely in the range of 30-40%. This is still below what might be a herd immunity threshold, although it would be consistent with a decrease in the number of daily cases, as is being seen.” Dr. Jameel too feels only about 30% of people across India have been infected while positivity is somewhere in the range of 50% in large dense cities. “It is hard to say [if natural infection has come close to providing herd immunity] unless another more representative serosurvey is carried out,” Dr. Jameel says. Reasonable explanation The only reasonable explanation for a drop in daily cases without any spike even after Durga pooja and Diwali is that besides other factors, the threshold for population immunity attributed to has been reached, inefficient testing strategy, better compliance to regulations or a combination of these, feels Dr. Babu. Sufficient adherence “My only guess is that adherence to NPIs, although not ideal, was sufficient to slow down the spread and state governments did institute some reasonable measures to curb spread during festivals. Certainly, anecdotal evidence suggests that although crowds did build up in festival season, mask wearing was reasonably common,” says Dr. Menon. “The other possibility is that in regions which saw the largest crowds, as for example Kolkata's Durga Puja pandals, this was in the background of a large fraction of people with prior infections already, so this would have also hampered unrestricted spread.” Explaining why daily cases in Kerala are still high while other States including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka that had earlier reported high number of cases have seen a sharp drop, Dr. Menon says: “I would attribute this to the fact that the spread in Kerala started somewhat later than other regions and the fact that Kerala is fairly urbanised in comparison to most other states.” Dr. Babu feels the sharp drop in Maharashtra and the three southern States is mostly because a reasonable proportion of people living in urban areas have been infected. He attributes the relatively high daily cases in Kerala to effective control of virus spread from the beginning. “This meant that a large proportion of people in Kerala remained uninfected in the initial stages. It is supported by the seroprevalence rate of 0.8% which is much lower than other States. It meant getting infected at some point,” Dr. Babu explains. “The tests done in Kerala are 2,08,100 per million, and is among the States with the best rates. It is because of this that the State is detecting more cases. Reporting more cases should not be seen as a problem.” Though the number of cases appear to be dropping in the three southern States, the test positivity rate is still avove 5%. As on December 23 the cumulative test positivity rates in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh were 7%, 5.78% and 8%, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/is-the-first-wave-coming-to-an-end-in-india/article33428107.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Ramanujan: from his last letter to the lost notebook||In honour of “magical” mathematician, Srinivasa Ramanujan who died exactly a hundred years ago, in 1920, Vigyan Prasar organised events under the name “Ramanujan Yatra” which included a series of talks held monthly on Ramanujan’s work. “Ramanujan’s life carries the message that perseverance leads to results, and that one should not give up in the face of adversity,” says T.V. Venkateswaran of Vigyan Prasar. Chance discovery In 1976, almost entirely by chance, George E. Andrews, who is Evan Pugh professor of mathematics, Pennsylvania State University, found Ramanujan’s notes written during his last few years in England. Prof. Andrews, along with Bruce C. Berndt went on to compile the contents of this lost notebook into a five-volume book entitled Ramanujan’s Lost Notebook. This book, which is a mathematical treasure trove, took them twenty years to bring out, such was its complexity. Prof. Andrews gave a lecture in the Ramanujan Yatra wherein he described how he discovered the lost notebook – and the gems embedded in it. “We wanted to invite noted Ramanujan scholars from all over the world, with the idea that undergraduate students would be inspired by Ramanujan’s mathematics, and hopefully study more on their own,” says R. Ramanujam, computer scientist from The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who co-organised the lecture series. Last letter In Ramanujan’s last letter to G H Hardy, dated January 12, 1920, he had written, “I discovered very interesting functions recently, which I call ‘mock theta-functions’. Unlike the ‘false’ theta-function (studied partially by Prof Rogers in his interesting paper) they enter into mathematics as beautifully as the ordinary theta-function.” He proceeds to give some examples and relationships. He proceeds to give some examples and relationships, and in the last page of the letter, lists three functions, calling them third order, fifth order and seventh order and ends with a cryptic statement – “these functions are not related to one another.” Ramanujan died on April 26, 1920. As Prof. Andrews observed, the notes Ramanujan had made when still in England around the years 1918-1919 may have been handed over by his mentor G.H. Hardy to mathematician G.N. Watson for editing and compiling. In 1965, Prof. Watson died, and in 1976, when Prof Andrews visited the family, he was invited to look at the collection that the former had left behind and to take his pick. The collection “covered the floor of a fair-sized room to the depth of a foot and were to be incinerated in a few days,” observed Prof. Andrews. It consisted of mathematical documents, but also receipts, tokens etc. Prof Watson was an avid collector. With his “lucky dip” Prof. Andrews came up with a set of notes. The equations there were written without any introduction or explanation – just numbers and bare equations. As luck would have it, Prof. Andrews had studied the mock theta functions earlier and recognised them despite the unconventional notation. Having read Ramanujan’s last letter, he recognised this was the latter’s last work. He held in his hand Ramanujan’s lost notebook! The pages were full of equation after equation, some related, many not related, some pages in organised form and nearly 40% were chaotic, according to Prof Andrews, who also narrated an interesting story of how Ramanujan had worked in advance on conjectures made later by other mathematicians, such as Freeman Dyson. Dyson’s conjectures In 1944, Freeman Dyson had made an extremely unusual conjecture related to Ramanujan’s partition congruences. This was called the “crank” of the partition function. Australian-born mathematician Frank Garvan, presently at University of Florida, who was Prof. Andrews’s PhD student resolved this problem in his PhD thesis. As Prof. Andrews noted, “Frank Garvan’s thesis is devoted to an expanded study of this page [from the Lost Notebook ] and proof of the identities.” Garvan showed that a later proof of Dyson’s conjecture by Atkin and Swinnerton Dyer was equivalent to what Ramanujan had noted. He also revealed that the function Ramanujan had noted down was indeed the “crank” famously predicted by Dyson  Anticipating maths Thus, according to Prof. Andrews, “Ramanujan not only anticipated Dyson’s conjecture, but also anticipated his conjecture about conjectures.” Prof. Andrews in his talk went on to highlight several other gems from the Lost Notebook that reiterated that Ramanujan had anticipated the mathematics that came later. On a personal note, Prof. Ramanujam says, “The fellowship Ramanujan received in Cambridge was meagre, but he had so few needs that he saved half of the money and sent it home, with instructions that a substantial part of it be used to support indigent students of Madras university.”  Ramanujan’s life carries the message that perseverance leads to results. T. V. Venkateswaran Vigyan Prasar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/ramanujan-from-his-last-letter-to-the-lost-notebook/article33428101.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Nanomicelles: using nanoparticles for cancer treatment||With the advance in nanotechnology, researchers across the globe have been exploring how to use nanoparticles for efficient drug delivery. Similar to nanoshells and nanovesicles, nanomicelles are extremely small structures and have been noted as an emerging platform in targeted therapy. Nanomicelles are globe-like structures with a hydrophilic outer shell and a hydrophobic interior. This dual property makes them a perfect carrier for delivering drug molecules. Drug delivery Now a multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional team has created a nanomicelle that can be used to deliver a drug named docetaxel, which is commonly used to treat various cancers including breast, colon and lung cancer. “The ideal goal for cancer therapy is destroying the cancer cells without harming healthy cells of the body, and chemotherapeutics approved for treatment of cancer are highly toxic. The currently used docetaxel is a highly hydrophobic drug, and is dissolved in a chemical mixture (polysorbate-80 and alcohol). This aggravates its toxic effects on liver, blood cells, and lungs. So, there was an urgent and unmet need to develop effective drug delivery vehicles for docetaxel without these side effects,” explains Avinash Bajaj, from the Laboratory of Nanotechnology and Chemical Biology at the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad. He is one of the corresponding authors of the paper recently published in Angewandte Chemie . Small but active The nanomicelles are less than 100nm in size and are stable at room temperature. Once injected intravenously these nanomicelles can easily escape the circulation and enter the solid tumours where the blood vessels are found to be leaky. These leaky blood vessels are absent in the healthy organs. “Chemical conjugation would render the phospholipid-docetaxel prodrug to be silent in the circulation and healthy organs. But once it enters the cancer cells, the enzymes will cleave the bond to activate the drug, and kill the cancer cells,” adds Dr. Bajaj. The team tested the effectiveness of the nanomicelles in a mice breast tumour model and was found to help in tumour regression. Its toxicity was compared with the currently used FDA approved formulation and found to be less toxic. Similar promising results were seen when tested in higher model organisms including rats, rabbits and rhesus monkeys. The team further studied the mode of action of the nanomicelles and found that they work by enhancing the expression of tumour suppressor genes. “We are currently working to develop a nanomicelle which can carry multiple drugs and increases the effectiveness of individual drugs. Previously we developed a hydrogel drug delivery system to carry a combination of three drugs. These nanomicelles are extremely cost-effective and can prove to be next-generation chemotherapeutic,” adds Ujjaini Dasgupta from the Amity Institute of Integrative Sciences and Health, Amity University, Gurgaon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/nanomicelles-using-nanoparticles-for-cancer-treatment/article33428098.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||How coronavirus interacts with human cell proteins||Scientists have charted the first atlas showing how the genetic material of the novel coronavirus interacts with the proteins in human cells, which may provide a starting point for the development of new treatments against COVID-19. According to the researchers, one of the most urgent tasks is to understand all the molecular interactions between the virus and the cells it infects. They explained that a detailed understanding of these interactions will help identify the processes in host cells which favour the multiplication of the virus, and the ones which activate the host immune system. While the SARS-CoV-2 virus uses host proteins to replicate, the scientists said until now, there has been no detailed understanding of all the proteins occurring in human cells which interact with the viral genetic material – its RNA. In the research, published in the journal Nature Microbiology, the scientists created the first global atlas of direct interactions between the SARS-CoV-2 RNA and the proteins present in human cells. Based on the findings, the researchers also identified important regulators of viral replication. The scientists said the atlas of RNA–protein interactions offers unique insights into SARS-CoV-2 infections, enabling the systematic breakdown of factors influencing the replication of the virus, and host defense strategies – a crucial prerequisite for the development of new therapeutics. From the results, the scientists identified 18 host proteins that play an important role during SARS-CoV-2 infection, and found 20 small molecules that may inhibit these proteins. They believe the two proteins CNBP and LARP1 are particularly interesting. The researchers also identified target sites in these proteins that could be used to inhibit its replication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-coronavirus-interacts-with-human-cell-proteins/article33428106.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Evergreen firs||How do conifers keep their green needles over the boreal winter? During boreal winter most trees shed their leaves. However, conifers such as Christmas trees keep their green needles intact. Scientists believe that a phenomenon called sustained quenching offers photoprotection and enables their survival, but its precise molecular and physiological mechanisms are not understood. Researchers have now found that the photosynthetic apparatus is wired in a special way which allows pine needles to stay green all year long. In winter, green chlorophyll molecules harness light energy, but that energy cannot be used in the photosynthetic machinery as very low temperature halts most biochemical reactions. However, in early spring, even as temperatures are low, there is plenty of sunlight. The excess light energy can damage the photosynthetic machinery’s proteins. Under normal conditions, the two photosystems, the two functional units where light energy is absorbed and converted into chemical energy, are kept apart from each other to prevent a short-cut and allow efficient photosynthesis. According to a study published in Nature Communications, a team of researchers found that in winter, the two photosystems are brought in physical contact with each other through reorganisation of the structure of the thylakoid membrane, where the two photosystems are located. Photosystem II donates energy directly to photosystem I and this short-cut mode protects the green chlorophyll and the needles when conditions become harsh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/evergreen-firs/article33428099.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||Number of active cases now below 7,000 in Delhi||Delhi reported 655 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours – the lowest in over four months – taking the total to 6,22,094, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. This is the lowest number of new cases since August 16 when 652 new cases were reported in a day. Delhi had reported 758 fresh infections on Friday. From December 21-23, the count of daily cases was below the 1,000 mark.   Death rate at 2.7% A total of 67,115 tests were done in the past 24 hours, read the bulletin. The death toll has reached 10,437 after 23 more fatalities were reported in a single day.  The death rate in the past 10 days was 2.87%.  Of the total cases, 6,04,746 people have recovered and there are now 6,911 active cases in the city. The test positivity was 0.98% on Saturday, far less than the average daily positivity of 11.65% in November. On Friday, the test positivity was 0.88% — the lowest in over eight months. The overall positivity till now was 7.52%, as per the bulletin. 86% vacancy Out of the total 18,774 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 16,149 were vacant, as per the bulletin. About 2,625 people were admitted in hospitals and 3,544 patients were under home isolation. There were 4,975 containment zones in the city as of Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/number-of-active-cases-now-below-7000-in-delhi/article33428353.ece
27 December 2020||new delhi,||Kejriwal, BJP spar over state of govt. school education in U.P and Delhi||A war of words erupted on Twitter between Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and the BJP over the state of education at government-run schools and pollution in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) recently announced its decision to contest the U.P. Assembly polls. Mr. Kejriwal attacked his counterpart in U.P. for not allowing access to government schools. “@myogiadityanath ji, has your government issued an order that no person can see the schools of U.P. government and cannot take photographs? Are your schools so bad? Won’t happen to you Come to Delhi We will also show you our schools and take your photos there [sic],” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted in response to an AAP MLA not being allowed to click pictures at one such facility in U.P. In response, Delhi BJP spokesperson Naveen Kumar shared a video of an allegedly decrepit government school building in north-east Delhi’s Mustafabad. Delhi BJP spokesperson Virender Babbar took on Mr. Kejriwal regarding the AAP government’s announcement about installation of a smog tower. “@ArvindKejriwal ji, Delhi has become one of the most polluted cities not only in the country but in the world, and Delhiites are unfortunate to be governed by those who do not know about good and effective governance, only know how to advertise, Answer when will the smog tower be installed [sic],” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-bjp-spar-over-state-of-govt-school-education-in-up-and-delhi/article33428351.ece
27 December 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality remains in ‘very poor’ category in Delhi||The air quality of Delhi and Noida remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday and Gurugram’s improved to ‘poor’ category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Air pollution of ‘very poor’ category can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure”, according to the government. The air quality of the national capital is expected to slightly deteriorate on Sunday. “The surface winds are likely to slow down for a short period tomorrow [Sunday] and marginal deterioration in Air Quality Index (AQI) is forecast, but within the middle-end of ‘very poor’ category. The AQI is forecast to improve on Monday and Tuesday, but within the ‘very poor’ category,” read a statement issued by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The Air Quality Index of Delhi was 337 on Saturday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 269 and 344, respectively. Apart from pollutants, two meteorological factors strongly impact air quality. Surface-level winds, which was ‘moderate’ on Friday, picked up pace and was ‘high’ on Saturday. Also, the effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality remained low on Saturday. However, “mixing layer height”, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, remained “low”. This leads to accumulation of pollutants near the surface, which increases air pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/air-quality-remains-in-very-poor-category-in-delhi/article33428350.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Case filed against advocate Pracha||Two days after conducting search of his premises, Delhi Police has registered a case against advocate Mehmood Pracha in south-east Delhi’s Hazarat Nizamuddin police station on charges of obstructing public servant from performing his duty. A senior police officer said that a case under IPC Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 34 (common intension) has been registered against the advocate. On Thursday, Delhi Police Special Cell had searched the premises of two members of the Bar, including Mr. Pracha and Javed Ali, in a case regarding alleged use of forged documents in judicial records related to a north-east Delhi riots case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/case-filed-against-advocate-pracha/article33428356.ece
27 December 2020||December 27 2020 00:00 IST,||India and its neighbours||The story so far: This year, India faced a trifecta of challenges in its neighbourhood from China: the COVID-19 pandemic, the growing competition for influence in South Asia, and aggressive actions at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by China’s People's Liberation Army (PLA). How has India helped tackle the regional COVID-19 challenge? The COVID-19 pandemic that originated in China has led to one of the biggest health challenges, causing heavy economic damage in South Asia. India ranks second after the United States in terms of number of cases, and the worst-hit economy among G20 nations. But India is also one of the best poised nations to aid recovery efforts in the region, given its status as one of the world’s leading producers of pharmaceutical drugs and vaccines. In March, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a special virtual summit of eight SAARC nations and proposed a COVID-19 package, for which India provided about half of the $20 million funding for relief. India’s military ran a series of missions to SAARC countries and the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) with supplies of food and medicines, and India’s ‘Vande Bharat’ mission flew home nationals from neighbouring countries, along with lakhs of Indians who had been stranded during the lockdown. India was not the only country in the region providing help. China, too, stepped up efforts to extend its influence in the South Asian region through COVID-19 relief. Chinese Vice-Minister in-charge of the region, Luo Zhaohui, held meetings with different groups of SAARC countries, including one with Pakistan, Afghanistan and Nepal, and another with Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka to coordinate relief efforts, and promised to provide the Chinese-made Sinovac vaccine to them when it is available. China also shipped relief to South Asia, sending out PPE suits and other medical equipment. Given that all SAARC countries except India and Bhutan are part of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), and owe different amounts of debts to Chinese banks, Beijing stepped in to provide partial debt waivers to the Maldives and Sri Lanka. It also extended a massive $1.4-billion Line of Credit to Pakistan. Did the military standoff impact regional ties? China doubled down on territorial claims and its transgressions along its borders with South Asia: from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, PLA soldiers amassed along various sectors of the LAC, leading to violent clashes. The deaths of 20 Indian soldiers at the Galwan valley was the first such casualty in 45 years. China also laid claim to Bhutan’s Sakteng natural reserves and pushed along the boundary lines with Nepal, all of which changed India’s strategic calculations along its Himalayan frontiers. That India and Nepal saw their worst tensions in decades over the construction of a road to Lipulekh, leading to Nepal amending its constitution and map to claim Indian territory, added to the already fraught situation. Meanwhile, a new defence pact this year between China and Pakistan vis-à-vis a sharp rise in ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan to the highest levels since 2003, has made it clear that India must factor in among its military challenges at the LAC the possibility of a two-front war. How has India dealt with a three-pronged challenge? The government’s response to the challenges has been to assert its Neighbourhood First and SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region) strategies as foreign policy priorities. Apart from the COVID-19 relief and neighbourhood visits, Mr. Modi and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar have been in frequent touch with their counterparts in the region. Mr. Modi and Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina held a virtual summit on December 17. India has also upped its game on infrastructure delivery, particularly for regional connectivity in the past year, including completing railway lines to Bangladesh and Nepal, riverine projects, ferry service to the Maldives, identifying other services to Sri Lanka and IOR islands, while also considering debt waiver requests from its neighbours. Unlike in the past, India has also become more flexible about the entry of other powers to help counter China’s influence in the region — it recently welcomed the U.S.’s new military dialogue with the Maldives. America’s Millennium Challenge Corporation’s (MCC) projects in Afghanistan, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh are also finding more space. Furthermore, as part of its Indo-Pacific policy, New Delhi is also encouraging its Quad partners — the U.S., Japan and Australia — to collaborate on security and infrastructure initiatives in the neighbourhood, along with promoting forays by other partners like the U.K., France and Germany in the region. It is also significant that despite considerable security challenges from China, India has not sought to elicit support from its neighbours, which might have put them in a difficult position. Thus, the Modi government has made it clear that despite the provocations, it intends to resolve the nearly ten-month-long military standoff diplomatically and bilaterally.  Experts say vaccines will reduce the number of people getting infected, reduce the number of people spreading infection, bring down the number of hosts and the chances of further mutations   The government’s response to the challenges has been to assert its Neighbourhood First and SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region) strategies as foreign policy priorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/india-and-its-neighbours/article33428022.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Avoid police barricades in Delhi during peak hours’||Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava issued an order to avoid putting non-permanent police pickets with barricades during peak hours, which lead to traffic jam causing inconvenience to commuters. The order dated December 25 stated that police barricades on roads for the purpose of checking, at times result in huge traffic jams which causes inconvenience to commuters and also hampers the movement of emergency vehicles. “In the interest of public at large, it is desired that putting of non-permanent police pickets, with barricades, during peak hours should be avoided, unless under specific instructions from senior officers,” the order from the Police Commissioner’s office stated. “Whenever such pickets are under operation and the policemen on picket duty observe that the checking has caused a traffic jam, the picket should be immediately loosened to ensure the smooth flow of traffic. Generally speaking, the jam should not exceed 6-7 metres,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/avoid-police-barricades-in-delhi-during-peak-hours/article33428354.ece
27 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Policemen told to update numbers for vaccination’||Delhi Police officers on Saturday were asked to update their mobile numbers in the internal system by January 3, 2021, as part of the preparation for COVID-19 vaccination programme. The document stated that vaccination for COVID-19 of Delhi policemen would begin in due course and that the date, time and place of vaccination for each policeman would be intimated to him/her on their mobile number through SMS. “It is important that the mobile numbers of all police personnel are entered/updated in the PIS system on IntraDP system,” read the document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/policemen-told-to-update-numbers-for-vaccination/article33428355.ece
