07-12-2020||---||Karnal village opposes Khattar’s visit||Karnal, December 7Residents of Padha village here on Monday opposed the proposed visit of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Agitated over the new farm laws, residents demolished the helipad and also brought down the tents where from Khattar was supposed to address the public.Khattar is scheduled to visit ‘Panchdev Tirth’ in Padha village on Tuesday.The DC and SP are in the village to pacify the residents as tense situation prevails in the area.Heavy police has also been deployed in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-village-opposes-khattars-visit-181189
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 23 COVID-19 deaths, 1,392 fresh cases||Haryana on Monday reported 23 more COVID-19 fatalities, taking the death toll to 2,611, while 1,392 fresh cases pushed the tally to 2,45,288.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, the deaths included five from Hisar and three each from Faridabad and Rewari districts.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurgaon (356) and Faridabad (280).Active cases in the state currently stand at 12,126 while the recovery rate was 93.99 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-23-covid-19-deaths-1-392-fresh-cases-181185
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||No stage yet to even think of withdrawing support to Khattar govt: JJP||Dismissing reports that the JJP is facing pressure to withdraw its support from the ML Khattar-led Haryana government, a key party leader said on Monday that stage has not yet come.“I don’t think that stage has yet come that we need to even think of that. The Centre is listening to farmers’ concerns, so that stage has not yet come,” Jannayak Janata Party’s senior leader Digvijay Singh Chautala told PTI.Chautala said this in reply to a PTI query after a press conference if the JJP faces any pressure to withdraw its support from the Khattar government amid the farmers’ agitation.Chautala said Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, his elder brother, is regularly talking to Union ministers and the party has urged the Centre to resolve the farmers’ issue at the earliest.“We want farmers’ concerns to be addressed so that they return to their homes. Whatever the Centre may need to do, like summoning Parliament session or whatever they feel may be required, they know it better but we want that the issue should be resolved,” he said.Earlier replying to a question on two more JJP MLAs on Sunday voicing support to the farmers’ demand for the repeal of the Centre’s new farm laws, it is not about four or five legislators of his party, but all 90 members of Haryana want speedy resolution of tillers’ issue.“All 90 MLAs of Haryana want farmers’ issues to be resolved and the Centre is already talking to the farmers,” he said.“When I was reading newspapers in the morning, some reports said four of our MLAs, some said six of our legislators, are supporting farmers.”   “But I want to say that all 90 MLAs, be it the 40 BJP legislators or the 10 of the JJP or 31 of the Congress or independents, they all along with entire Haryana want the farmers’ issue to be resolved,” he told reporters.Chautala, who heads the party’s youth wing Indian National Students Organisation, said they were hopeful that in next round of talks between the government and farmers’ leaders on December 9, “the resolution of the issue will be before all of us”.Notably, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting at Delhi borders for the last twelve days against the central agri-marketing laws and a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call for December 8 has been given by farmers’ unions.On former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s demand for a special session of the state assembly and his claim that the BJP-JJP government has lost the confidence of the people and the House, he said, “The reality is that Hooda wants to become chief minister and he is daydreaming.”   “Their other leaders like Kumari Selja and Randeep Singh Surjewala too think they may stand a chance (to become CM) during this farmers’ agitation and that is why they are making such demands. Their politics should be seen separately from this agitation,” added Chautala.“I also want to state that we are not going to support the Congress and we have said this before and I am saying this again,” he said.On the opposition parties’ allegation that the JJP is “clinging to power” overlooking farmers’ interests, despite having the legacy of former deputy prime minister, late Devi Lal, Chautala, told PTI later, “We come from a farmers’ family and with the legacy of Chaudhary Devi Lal Ji, people have a lot of expectations from Dushyant Chautala at this moment.”   “He is performing his duty, if not out there in front of the cameras, he is doing it behind the curtain and he is doing it with due responsibility and there will be a fruitful result,” he said.On farmer leaders’ demand for the repeal of the new farm laws, he said, “If lacunae, shortcomings or doubts are removed, I think all of us should agree that if all those points on which agitation started are addressed, no one should have any problem.”   “The whole thing initially was about MSP and our party’s stand was very clear on this,” he said.On the ‘Bharat Bandh’, he said the party respects feelings of farmers and added the administration should also take care to ensure the peaceful protesters don’t face any problem. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-stage-yet-to-even-think-of-withdrawing-support-to-khattar-govt-jjp-181184
07-12-2020||Sonepat (Singhu border)||As they owe gratitude to gurdwaras for feeding them, TN farmers join protest at Singhu border||Tamil Nadu farmers who led months long protest at Jantar Mantar (Delhi) in 2017 and then again in 2018 have joined their Punjab and Haryana counterparts at the Singhu border.They say they have come here as they owe gratitude to gurdwaras which had fed and gave shelter to them during their protests.  “When thousands of farmers from Tamil Nadu had protested at Jantar Mantar, only gurdwaras provided us with food, shelter, medical help and everything. That is the reason, the Punjab farmers are our brothers and sisters. Not only that, if there is no Punjab, there is no India. This state is providing food to the whole country,” said R Sellaperumal, State Propaganda Secretary of National South Indian River Inter-Linking Farmers’ Association. The association had come to national prominence in 2017 when they led scores of Tamil Nadu farmers in using unique methods to highlight their protest including rolling naked on road, holding dead snakes in their mouths, eating mice and holding human skulls which they claim were of those farmers who committed suicide in distress.They were seeking drought relief package, loan waiver and Cauvery Management Board from the Centre. For Singhu border, a message in Tamil from a protesting farmer on the Sun TV channel acted as catalyst. Rajwinder Singh, who has been protesting at Singhu border from the day one and is associated with farmers’ leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, had issued an appeal. “I know the Tamil language. I appealed to the Tamil Nadu farmers to join us against the farm laws. The message went viral. After that a number of farmers’ groups contacted us. Four to five groups have already reached here including one representing actor Kamal Hassan,” said Singh. “Our president P Ayyakannu was to come here too but the state government has not been allowing him. Fifty people could come here by train, but 100 more are coming. The state government has been stopping our farmers to come here,” said Sellaperumal.“These agrarian laws would turn farmers into beggars. Until these laws are cancelled, we will not move from this place to Chennai,” he said.      “We want to make this government (Central government) listen to us. Out state government has also not been doing anything for the farmers,” said Andabar, Association’s Ariyalur (Tamil Nadu) president.  “All protesting Tamil Nadu farmers would have died had gurdwaras not helped us in 2017 and 2018. We want to help our Punjab farmers,” said Jothimurugan, Association’s Chennai president. A delegation from ‘Naam Tamilar Party’ also addressed farmers at the Singhu border. One of the speakers attempted to speak in Punjabi and said, “Tussi Aise Hi Datte Raho (You should continue to deploy like this).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/as-they-owe-gratitude-to-gurdwaras-for-feeding-them-tn-farmers-join-protest-at-singhu-border-181155
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||INLD supports farmers' December 8 Bharat Bandh call||The Indian National Lok Dal on Monday extended its support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting at the Delhi borders against the new central agri-marketing laws.Abhay Singh Chautala said his party had announced its support to the protesting farmers the day the agitation started, adding that “each and every worker of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) will fight this battle shoulder-to-shoulder to strengthen this movement so that the Centre is forced to abolish the three black laws imposed on the peasants”.“Our party has decided to extend full support to the Bharat Bandh,” he said.Chautala, younger son of INLD president and former chief minister O P Chautala, said he will visit the Tikri border on December 9 and meet the farmers and leaders leading the stir.In a statement here, the INLD leader said no farmer organisation of the country had demanded the new agricultural laws, but the central government enacted the “black farm legislations to benefit the corporates”.He reiterated his demand that the Centre withdraw these laws and guarantee minimum support price (MSP) of crops to farmers, and also make provisions of punishment for whoever buys the crop below the MSP.Chautala also appealed to all political parties that they should rise above party politics and stand with farmers to lend strength to the agitation.At a press conference here last week, Chautala had asked the Centre to immediately accept farmers demand to repeal the three farm laws, and asserted that the party was “solidly behind the farmers fighting against the three laws”.Claiming that their agitation has spread across the nation, farmer leaders, who have maintained that their protest is apolitical, have welcomed the support and urged all to come forward to make Bharat Bandh a success.After five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions failed to end the impasse, the two sides are again set to meet on December 9, a day after the countrywide strike.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre, however, has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inld-supports-farmers-december-8-bharat-bandh-call-181136
07-12-2020||Aditi Tandon||Congress MPs from Punjab, Haryana stage dharna at Jantar Mantar; want Parliament session to be convened||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 7Ahead of the Bharat bandh called by farmers’ union demanding the repeal of three agriculture reform laws, the Congress on Monday upped the ante against the Centre staging a protest at Jantar Mantar to seek convening of a Parliament session to discuss issues and said the government had lost all credibility.Congress MPs from Punjab and Haryana Ravneet Bittu, Preneet Kaur, Gurjeet Aujla, Amar Singh, Manish Tewari, Mohammad Sadique and Deepender Hooda are currently sitting in dharna on Jantar Mantar urging the Centre to rescind the contentious laws and take further discussions to Parliament.Also read: Reforms needed for development, says Modi as farmers protest on Delhi bordersKejriwal visits Singhu border, reviews arrangements for protesting farmersProtesting farmers call on people to back Bharat bandhPunjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, meanwhile, addressed the media saying the responsibility for any inconvenience people would face during Bharat bandh lay with the Centre that did not consult farmers before passing the laws.“The responsibility has to be fixed and it lies squarely at the doors of the government which failed to engage the farmers before passing the laws and also rode roughshod on the opposition when it tried to question the laws in the last session of Parliament. The solution now is to repeal the laws, call a session of Parliament and discuss issues afresh,” Jakhar said.He said the “rigid” Centre was responsible for the agitation and for farmers sitting out in bitter cold.Jakhar also warned that the agitation was impacting food security. “Food security is an integral part of national security. Neither can be outsourced,” he said adding that the intention of the bills was suspect and farmers would not allow corporatisation of agriculture.“Farmers cannot be run through contractors. Also rather than spending money on a new parliament building, the Centre should realise that Parliament doesn’t run on buildings. It runs on emotions,” Jakhar said accusing the government of hurting the sentiments of farmers and not taking cognisance of their feelings.“The discussions taking place on borders today should have taken place in Parliament. Also the government should stop following the US model of lobbying. We will not let farming be outsourced. And we will not let national security outsourced,” he said.Jakhar also warned against certain sections instigating farmers of Haryana to raise the SYL issue in the ongoing protests. “Don’t let anyone divide Haryana and Punjab farmers. Some people are asking for SYL to be included but farmers cannot be divided,” he said terming the ongoing agitation a revolution.The Congress also appealed to commuters to “keep their inconveniences due to the bandh aside and lend support to Bharat bandh”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mps-from-punjab-haryana-stage-dharna-at-jantar-mantar-want-parliament-session-to-be-convened-181111
07-12-2020||New Delhi||Protesting farmers call on people to back Bharat bandh||Thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre's new agri laws for the past 11 days here have called on people to join their Bharat bandh on Tuesday in large numbers, as police increased deployment at various Delhi border points.Farmer leaders also welcomed the support of political parties to the nationwide strike against the laws and demanded that the legislations be repealed.The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, Nationalist Congress Party, CPI(M) and DMK are among the political parties that are backing the day-long strike.Also read: Reforms needed for development, says Modi as farmers protest on Delhi bordersKejriwal visits Singhu border, reviews arrangements for protesting farmersCongress MPs from Punjab, Haryana stage dharna at Jantar Mantar; want Parliament session to be convenedDelhi Police have increased security arrangements on Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh as a precautionary measure.Farmers have threatened to intensify their agitation and block more roads leading to the national capital if the government did not accept their demand.Talks between the government and protesting farmer unions so far have been futile and the sixth round of discussions is scheduled to be held on Wednesday.Delhi Traffic Police on Monday tweeted about the closure of the Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh borders. The Tikri and Jharoda borders are also closed, it said.The National Highway-44 has also been closed on both sides. So those travelling are suggested to take alternative routes through Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Traffic has also been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road, the traffic police said.Those travelling towards Noida have been advised to take DND as the Chilla border on the Noida link road, too, is closed for traffic movement, it said."The Chilla border on the Noida link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers' protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid the Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use DND," the traffic police said on Twitter.The Gazipur border on NH-24 is also closed for traffic from Gaziabad to Delhi. "People are advised to avoid NH-24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/Bhopra/DND for coming to Delhi," it added.However, the Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers and Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic, police said.They said those travelling to Haryana can take Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan or Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-call-on-people-to-back-bharat-bandh-181101
07-12-2020||---||Palwal NH blocked, 600 stuck||Palwal, December 6About 600 farmers from Madhya Pradesh have been stuck near the district’s Atoha village for three days following the police’s hard stand that the protesters cannot march towards Delhi on their tractor-trolleys.Instead, the police have allowed them to walk towards the Capital, an arrangement, farmers say, is “unjustified” as tractor-trolleys are laden with their clothes and ration.The police have blocked both sides of the Delhi-Agra National Highway-19, where farmers have been made to camp for three days.“The police have been holding us up without any justification. Their stance is impractical. How can we march ahead without food and clothes? We want to join our brothers, who are protesting against the three farm laws at the Delhi border,” said Surender Singh Sidhu, a farmer from MP.He appreciated the hospitality shown by locals. “Residents from neighbouring villages have been providing us with milk, vegetables, fruits and water.”There has been a steady supply of food from Kalsara, Bahrola and Atoha villages.Sidhu questioned the police for not making any arrangements for the protesters.Meanwhile, the traffic on the national highway was diverted in view of the blockade. Commuters on their way to Delhi or Agra were diverted from Hodal and Palwal city via Hathin, a police official said.Vikas Arora, IG, South Range, Rewari, visited the spot and tried to convince the farmers to return. They, however, said they would not retract.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-nh-blocked-600-stuck-180942
07-12-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Elderly farmers take charge||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 6The kurta-pyjama clad farmer with a flowing white beard and turban on his head, his wrinkles telling his story of the years behind him and those in the sun — he is the face of the protest against the Centre’s three laws and the strength of this ongoing agitation. He is also the Centre’s headache.In his last meeting with farmer leaders, Union Agriculture Minister Narender Singh Tomar urged them to send back senior citizens and children from the protest site as talks for a solution continued, but this very farmer would have none of that.“If anybody thinks we are on vacation and having a good time, they cannot be more wrong. Living in tractor-trolleys, bathing in the open and eating by the roadside is nobody’s definition of a good time, but when it comes to saving our livelihood, we will go the extra mile and are willing to make every sacrifice,” says Dharam Singh of Mandoli village in Patiala.Chopping ginger for the langar, Malkiat Singh of Bhakhowal in Ludhiana chips in, “If we do not take this fight to a logical end, if we cannot save farming and our farmland, the coming generations will curse us. We are not ready to carry that burden. It will be very heavy. Instead, we are willing to die for our cause. Our families — women and children — are standing by us.”The gathering at the protest site is mostly a sea of long white-bearded men wearing colourful turbans. The youngsters are around only to provide logistics and back-up. “We are leading the fight while our youngsters are back in villages, tending to the fields. They will come, our wives and mothers will also come. Youngsters are hot-blooded and it will bring a rush of aggression while we have come here to sacrifice whatever it takes, even our lives,” says Satwant Singh.The government request notwithstanding, farmers are staying put — the elderly, the young, the children. Martyrdom on their mind and a steely resolve in their heads, they are unfazed as days turn to weeks and the agitation carries on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/elderly-farmers-take-charge-180943
07-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Bharat bandh: All fuel stations across Haryana to be shut tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 6The united forum of several farmers’ organisations on Sunday said scores of organisations, including that of industrialists, writers, petroleum dealers, traders, transporters and shopkeepers, had extended support to the December 8 Bharat bandh call.Punjab: Fuel stations to remain shut tomorrow in stateAll 3,468 fuel stations across the state would remain shut on December 8, said Sanjeev Chaudhary, president, Haryana Petroleum Dealers’ Association. The decision was taken at a meeting held in Panipat.As the farmers’ protest entered Day 10, more farmers from adjoining villages joined their brethren.The farmers’ forum told the media that ambulances and wedding cavalcade would have a free way during the Bharat bandh, which would be up to 3 pm across the country.“The protest is not of farmers alone. Every community has extended support,” Balbir Singh Nihalgarh, general secretary, All-India Kisan Sabha, told the media.Jai Kisan Andolan convener Yogendra Yadav said, “The Bharat Bandh will be historic. Every section of society is backing farmers. We have been receiving confirmation from several organisations from across the country about their support to Bharat Bandh.”Yadav thanked the Editors’ Guild of India for issuing an advisory to the media not to label protesting farmers as “terrorists”. “Farmers’ only demand is the revocation of the three black laws and make the MSP a legal right,” he said, adding any amendment to the laws would not be accepted.Other farmer leaders Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, Ashok Davde and Mandeep Singh Nathwan said the Centre would be forced to repeal the laws.Punjabi artistes back protestersPunjabi artistes marked their presence at the Singhu border on Sunday. Singers Diljit Dosanjh, Kanwar Grewal, Sukhwinder Sukhi, Harf Cheema, Durga Rangila, Sajan Ahuja, Vadda Grewal, Jas Manak, Prabh Gill and Nimrat Khaira sang songs and motivated farmers to continue the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharat-bandh-all-fuel-stations-across-haryana-to-be-shut-tomorrow-180944
07-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||4 more JJP MLAs lend support||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 6The coalition government in Haryana has come under strain following dissenting voices of five of the 10 JJP MLAs over the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Four MLAs — Ramkumar Gautam from the Narnaund segment in Hisar district, Ishwar Singh from Guhla Cheeka in Kaithal, Ram Karan Kala from Shahabad in Kurukshetra and Amarjeet Dhanda from Julana in Jind — have expressed support to the farmers’ protest and demanded immediate withdrawal of the three farm laws.Earlier, Barwala MLA Jogi Ram Sihag had supported the farmers and refused to accept his appointment as chairman of the Haryana Housing Board.Gautam said on Sunday that he supported the farmers protesting against the three farm laws and asked the Central Government to immediately withdraw the laws and ensure minimum support price to farmers. He said the Prime Minister should accept all demands of the farmers.“While farmers are producing foodgrain to feed the people, their children are protecting the frontiers of the country. Political leaders who are making inappropriate comments about the protesting farmers should be reined in,” he said.He asserted that all political parties in Haryana should come together, adopt a resolution favouring acceptance of the demands of farmers and forward it to the Central Government.Asked whether he had raised the issue at the party level, Gautam said he did not go to party meetings and had not talked to party leaders in this regard.Ishwar Singh maintained that he had been a farmer and understood the pain and misery of the farmers. Dhanda and Kala issued separate statements, announcing support for the farmers’ protest.Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Ministe Dushyant Chautala did not turn up at programmes he was scheduled to attend in Hisar on Sunday. His mother and Badhra MLA Naina Chautala attended a function at Kabir dharamshala in his stead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-more-jjp-mlas-lend-support-180945
07-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Slogans, ‘ragni’ keep spirits high at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 6Farmers from Haryana have become the centre of attraction at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border, for their style of protest ensures that there is never a dull moment at the dharna spot.Impressed, farmers from Punjab take selfies with them and post pictures on social media, popularising the “Haryanvi swag”.Every morning and evening, some farmers from Rohtak donning white “pagdis” take out a march atop a Tata Safari from the Jakhoda bypass to the Tikri border, 10 kms apart. And there are some who sing “ragni” to boost the morale of their brethren from Punjab. The style of smoking a “hookah” is also attracting eyeballs.Virender Hooda, a resident of Rohtak’s Sanghi village, said: “Haryanvis are popular for their accent. We are entertaining our big brothers (from Punjab) with the Haryanvi flavour. We take out a 10-km march every morning and evening atop a Safari and raise slogans ‘Punjab-Haryana bhaichara zindabad’ and ‘Modi sarkar murdabad’.”He further said, “We have a small-size hookah, which we smoke in a manner that impresses Punjab farmers.”Every day, a group of 10 farmers visit the Tikri border and sing “ragnis” based on peasants’ plight and patriotism. “Punjab farmers hardly understand the lyrics, they enjoy the music and the style of singing,” Jitender from Jhajjar said, adding many a times, Punjab farmers entertained them by singing Punjabi songs.Harsharandeep Singh, a farmer from Moga (Punjab), said they were motivated by seeing the different colours of Haryana. “We are posting their pictures on WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/slogans-ragni-keep-spirits-high-at-singhu-180946
07-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Conduct honour killing trials daily: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6Taking note of delay in recording prosecution evidence in pending honour killing cases, the High Court has directed trial courts to conclude the process expeditiously by conducting trial on a day-to-day basis “as far as possible”.Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi has directed courts with cases pending for prosecution evidence to “allocate block of dates” for trial as directed by the Supreme Court and issue coercive process for securing presence of witnesses, if so required.Justice Tyagi also called for a report from District and Sessions Judges concerned regarding the causes of delay in disposal of such cases. Justice Tyagi made it clear that the report was required to state, among other things, action taken against prosecution witnesses not attending court without a lawful excuse and action taken against police officials for non-execution or non-return of court process.Justice Tyagi also asked the Director General of Police (DGP) to look into delay in investigation of honour killing cases and delay or inaction in execution of court process and securing of presence of prosecution witnesses. The Bench asserted that steps taken to expedite investigation and trial deserved appreciation for “sincere and committed efforts”, yet much more was required to be done.Elaborating, Justice Tyagi observed that production of offenders and securing the presence of witnesses for prosecution by applying for issuance of court process, if required, was also the duty of state agencies. “The causes of delay in investigation and in ensuring the presence of prosecution witnesses attributable to state agencies have to be looked into and remedial steps have to be taken,” Justice Tyagi asserted.The DGP was asked to file an additional affidavit on instructions issued and remedial steps taken. He was also asked to specify whether instructions were issued earlier to the Superintendents of Police for taking disciplinary action against police officials not executing or not returning court process, not producing accused on the date of hearing fixed and not attending court in compliance with summons or warrants issued against them. The details of action sought were sought.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/conduct-honour-killing-trials-daily-hc-180947
07-12-2020||Nitish Sharma||Political parties gear up for MC polls in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 6With the state election commission ringing the bell for the municipal corporation election, the political parties have intensified their activities with holding meetings and finalising candidates for the MC polls.While the BJP has so far received nearly 100 applications from 20 wards and 11 applications for Mayoral candidate, its alliance partner in Haryana JJP has received over 40 applications from wards and nearly 10 applications for the post of Mayor. Though both the parties are yet to finalise their seat sharing arrangement, the leaders of both the parties have asked their willing candidates to remain prepared.Will contest on agenda of development: BJPThe top leaders will soon finalise the seat sharing arrangement and the manifesto will also be declared soon. The the state election panel will finalise the tickets. The party will contest the polls on the agenda of development. —Rajesh Batoura, BJP district chiefSources said the JJP had initially sought 10 seats but is likely to settle with six seats of wards out of 20. The Mayor candidate would be from the BJP and an unofficial committee had also been formed to finalise the seats.BJP district chief Rajesh Batoura, said “The top leaders will soon finalise the seat sharing arrangement and the manifesto will also be declared soon. The names will be discussed in the party meeting and the state election panel will finalise the tickets. The party will contest the polls on the agenda of development.”Will raise the issue of corruption: CongressA five-member advisory committee was formed by the party. The party has sought applications from the willing candidates. A manifesto will be declared soon. We will raise the issue of corruption and poor sanitation. —Rohit Jain, HPCC treasurerMeanwhile, JJP state spokesman Vivek Chaudhary said, “The JJP will introduce its candidates in alliance with the BJP in the upcoming MC polls. We are confident that our candidates will win all seats. Nearly 40 willing candidates have applied so far and more applications are likely to be received.”Rohit Jain, treasurer Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee said, “A five-member advisory committee was formed by the party. The party has sought applications from the willing candidates and the last date of submission is December 7. A manifesto and election campaign committee will be formed soon. We will raise the issue of corruption and poor sanitation.”While former minister Nirmal Singh led Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) has already announced its Mayoral candidate and 11 candidates from wards, Himmat Singh, who parted ways with the HDF, said he would announce candidates on all 20 seats and Mayoral candidate as well in a couple of days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/political-parties-gear-up-for-mc-polls-in-ambala-180948
07-12-2020||Karnal||Man convicted of raping stepdaughter||A special court of Additional Sessions Judge Poonam Suneja has sentenced Raghbir, a resident of Kaithal’s Balu village, to rigorous life imprisonment for 13 years for raping his 17-year-old stepdaughter several times. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on the convict. He was also sentenced under Section 506 of the IPC for three years for threatening the victim. The court ordered that a compensation of Rs 4.5 lakh be given to the girl. In her complaint, Raghbir’s wife had said she was not living with her husband because of a matrimonial dispute, while her three children (two girls and a boy) lived with him. On April 29, 2019, she received a call from her 17-year-old daughter, informing her that Raghbir had beaten her up and raped her. Subsequently, she lodged a complaint against him. A case was registered on May 20, 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-convicted-of-raping-stepdaughter-180949
07-12-2020||---||Teachers oppose cancellation of transfers||Chandigarh, December 6 As many as 2,544 JBT teachers are up in arms against the ‘sudden’ decision of the state government to cancel inter-district transfers. In a letter to the Chief Minister and the Education Minister, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh, and CN Bharati, president of the Haryana Vidyalaya Adhayapak Sangh, demanded that the order to cancel the transfers should be taken back immediately in view of the resentment among the teaching community. After a prolonged struggle by the teaching community, the state government had ordered the inter-district transfer of 2,544 JBT teachers on November 15. A large number of teachers subsequently joined their newly-created schools. However, the state government stayed the transfer orders on November 27 and asked the transferred teachers to join their original places of posting on the plea that the schools were closed on account of Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teachers-oppose-cancellation-of-transfers-180950
07-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Six booked for child marriage in Gurugram district||Gurugram, December 6Six persons, including a cleric, have been booked for getting two minor girls married in Nuh. The police have registered an FIR on the complaint of the district child marriage prohibition officer at Firozpur Jhirka police station.According to the police, a Bhakdoji village resident Khatuni filed a complaint with the district child marriage prohibition officer on November 20 that her husband Rehman had got their two minor girls, aged 14 and 9, married around six years ago. Though her husband had died and the girls with living with her, their in-laws were now forcibly taking them to their home.6-yr-old incidentOn the complaint, district child marriage prohibition officer Madhu Jain conducted a special enquiry into matter and visited the village where cleric Basheer Khan accepted that he had executed the nikah six years ago.“The girls were proved to be minor from the age proof documents from their school. We asked the in-laws of the girls to come and clarify but they did not come to the office. Finally, I moved to the police and filed a complaint,” said the officer.Following the complaint, an FIR was registered under a Section of the Child Marriage Prohibition Act against six persons identified as mosque cleric Basheer Khan, Shahid, Nisar, Asmina, Nafisa and Jaan Mohammad.“The FIR has been registered and investigating is on. After verifying the facts action will be taken as per law,” said investigating officer ASI Daya Chand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-booked-for-child-marriage-in-gurugram-district-180951
07-12-2020||---||‘Most wanted’ criminal among 3 held||Kurukshetra, December 6 The special task force (STF) of Ambala and Kurukshetra police in a joint operation have arrested three men, including a most wanted criminal. The police fired into the air and forced them to surrender.  A cache of arms was seized from their possession at Narkatari road in Kurukshetra on Saturday evening. The wanted criminal has been identified as Vicky alias Lala (32) of Ambala City. The other two have been identified as Bunty Pehlwan (32) of Ambala Cantonment and Aman Kaushik (26), a resident of Narkatari road in Kurukshetra. The police have seized five pistols and 27 live cartridges. Acting on a tip-off, the STF went to Narkatari road and raided the house of Aman who runs a gymnasium. Vicky and Bunty had taken shelter there. Vicky made an attempt to escape through the roof but after aerial fire by the police, Vicky surrendered and was arrested. Sub-inspector Ram Kumar said, “There are nearly 10 cases against Vicky and he carries a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head. Bunty is also a history-sheeter while no criminal record of Aman has come to light so far. Aman has been arrested for giving shelter to criminals.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/most-wanted-criminal-among-3-held-180952
07-12-2020||---||IT professionals to protest over pay revision||Hisar, December 6 Hartron IT professionals will resort to social media platform Twitter to raise their demand for revision of pay scale on December 10. Representatives of IT professionals Subhash Thapliyal and Amit Rawat said the salary of data entry operators was Rs 13,500 which was much less than that of contractual sweepers. They said the salary of the IT professionals should be revised every three years as per the IT policy of the Department of Information Technology. The last revision was done on July 2016 and the file related to the pay revision of these professionals is pending since June 2019, they said.  They claimed that these professionals were the backbone of the e-governance in the administration and their efforts had been justified by the awards received by the state government for e-governance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/it-professionals-to-protest-over-pay-revision-180953
07-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Heritage corridor likely in Karnal by April next||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 6Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL), a special purpose vehicle looking after the Smart City project, has chalked out a plan to develop a heritage corridor on a stretch of around 4 km between Shrimad Bhagavad Gita Dwar near Baldi Bypass and Clock Tower Chowk in the city.Set up in 1808 and one of the oldest in the country, the 200-year-old Christian cemetery, Cantonment Church Tower, old court building, record room built in the British era, Victoria Memorial Hall and Kos Minar will be part of the corridor in the first phase. Meanwhile, in the second phase, during the expansion of the corridor, the century-old buildings of Civil Hospital and Karnal Club will be included.CONSTRUCTION IN TWO PHASESThe plan will be tabled in the meeting of the Board of Directors of the KSCL on December 11 for the final approval. Once approved, the work on the corridor is expected to be completed by April 2021.“Karnal has a rich legacy of heritage and has proposed to develop this corridor, which will act as a city-level attraction for tourists. Besides, it will help facelift these sites along with preserving heritage and providing information about the culture,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC and CEO, KSCL.As per historians, Karnal was captured in 1805 by the Britishers and was made into an Army Cantt in 1806. More than 500 graves of European soldiers and their family members are buried in this cemetery. However, due to the lack of maintenance, wild grass has now grown over the graves.Earlier known as St James Church, the Cantonment Church Tower will also be beautified. “Broken links in the pathway will be connected for making surrounding areas more accessible. Architecture lighting will also be taken care of for safety concerns,”The buildings of old court and record room along with the Victoria Memorial Hall, all built in the British era, will also be developed as heritage buildings. “Ancient structures are mostly in the Victorian architecture style. Facade restoration will be the main component and the internal part will be painted keeping the original texture intact. The restored building will be reused as a public building. Thematic lights will be added to the old ones. Work will be done on the entry plaza to make it more inviting. The beauty of the Kos Minars will also be visibly enhanced,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heritage-corridor-likely-in-karnal-by-april-next-180954
07-12-2020||---||Illegal liquor vend busted in Yamunanagar, 3 booked||Yamunanagar, December 6Three persons were booked in connection with an illegal liquor vend, which was being run in Chhari village of Yamunanagar district.On the complaint of Sub-Inspector Dinesh Kumar of the Chief Minister’s Flying Squad, Panchkula, a case was registered against Surinder, Sonu and Ranbir under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act and under Sections 420 and 120B of the IPC at Radaur police station on December 4.According to information, the team of the CM flying squad got information that an illegal liquor vend was being run on Chhari-Jaguri Road in Chhari village.The team raided the illegal liquor vend and recovered country-made liquor, including 19 bottles (Malta brand), six half (Malta brand) and 14 quarters (Malta brand) from there. The team also recovered Rs 1,200 cash. During the raid, salesman Ranbir managed to escape from the liquor vend.Meanwhile, Deep Chand, station house officer (SHO), Raduar police station, said efforts were being made to arrest the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-liquor-vend-busted-in-yamunanagar-3-booked-180955
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||24 fatalities; 1,498 cases in Haryana||With 1,498 fresh cases, the state Covid tally reached 2,43,896 today. With 24 deaths, the toll went up to 2,588.Gurugram reported a maximum of 310 cases, followed by Faridabad (265), Rewari (144), Panipat (105) and Sonepat (104). Faridabad and Hisar reported a maximum of five deaths each, followed by Gurugram and Karnal (3 each), Panchkula (2) and Rohtak, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa and Jhajjar (1 each). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/24-fatalities-1-498-cases-in-haryana-180956
07-12-2020||---||3 of family killed in Kaithal road mishap||Karnal, December 6 A BSF jawan, his wife and daughter were killed as a Canter hit the car in which they were travelling in, near Rajaund in Kaithal district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Ashish Kumar Anand (35), his wife Soni (34) and daughter Hanshika (5), all residents of Sukhasan village in Madhepura district in Bihar, said Krishan Kumar, investigating officer posted in Rajaund police station. Ashish was posted in Ferozepur and was on leave due to Chhatt Puja. He along with his family members went to his native village and were on way to Ferozepur in a car from Delhi, said the IO. As per the IO, the accident took place at around 12.30 pm when the Canter hit their car from side. They were taken to hospital, where they were declared dead. The driver of the car, Uttam Narang of Kapurthala in Punjab, sustained injuries and was taken to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. He said a case had been registered against the unidentified Canter driver under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-of-family-killed-in-kaithal-road-mishap-180957
07-12-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Just one firm shows interest in Faridabad water supply project||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 6Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL), which had invited tender worth Rs 26 crore for implementation of the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system, the online monitoring system for regulation of water supply in the city, has failed to receive the minimum required number of bids for the project.With the last date for submitting the bids already over, only one company or bidder submitted the bid, thus making the FSCL to extend the last date for invitation of tenders.“We had invited the tender from the companies or agencies who were interested in carrying out the job of monitoring the water supply network in the city and build the required infrastructure for the work, but only one bidder submitted the bid against the minimum required number of three bids,” said Garima Mittal, chief executive officer of the FSCL. “We have extended the date for another two weeks and are expecting a response from the required number of bidders as per the government norms,” she said adding that ground work on the project was likely to begin within a month.Though the water supply is maintained by the Faridabad Municipal Corporation, the FSCL had been authorised to implement the SCADA project in the city, it is revealed.Claiming that the SCADA project is aimed at regulating the available water resources to best of its use, Faridabad Municipal Corporation Chief Engineer Birender Kardam said it would help in managing the water-supply hurdles such as water shortage, leakage and theft.The city is getting a supply of 224 million litre per day (MLD) against a demand of 232 MLD at present. The SCADA system is a system of software and hardware elements that allows an organisation to control a process (supply) locally or at remote locations, monitor, gather, and process real-time data and directly interact with devices such as sensors, valves, pumps, motors, and through human-machine interface (HMI) software, providing better management.“With water supply crisis a perennial issue here, it has led to growth of private tanker mafia,” said Neeraj Sharma, MLA from NIT here, who also advocated the SCADA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/just-one-firm-shows-interest-in-faridabad-water-supply-project-180958
07-12-2020||---||Three cattle smugglers open fire at cops in Shahabad, booked||Kurukshetra, December 6The police have booked three unidentified cattle smugglers under various sections, including attempt to murder, for opening fire at cops when they tried to stop them at a checking point on Jalebi Pul in Shahabad on late Friday night.The police party had received an input that three unknown persons were trying to smuggle stray cattle to Uttar Pradesh for slaughtering after collecting them from Haryana and Punjab.ASI Rajesh Kumar said: “On late Friday night, a naka was set up on Jalebi Pul in Shahabad. After some time, the suspected vehicle was spotted and signalled to stop. But the driver sped away while attempting to run over on-duty policemen and fled towards Baba Markanda Temple. The truck rammed into a car, a horse carriage and an earth-moving machine. As the policemen started chasing the vehicle, one of the smugglers opened fire at them.”“When they reached near Jandhera village, cross-firing took place between the smugglers and the police.”Taking advantage of darkness, the smugglers fled, leaving their vehicle behind that was loaded with eight cows and two bulls. While one of the bulls was found dead, the remaining animals were shifted to a gaushala in Shahabad.CIA-1 in charge Inspector Jaspal said, “Efforts are being made to nab the accused. Meanwhile, the horse tied to a carriage, which was hit by the accused truck driver, died.”A case has been registered under various Acts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-cattle-smugglers-open-fire-at-cops-in-shahabad-booked-180959
07-12-2020||Karnal||Competing for cleanliness||Award for varsity researcherHisar: Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences has conferred the best researcher award for 2017-18 to Dr Naresh Kumar Kakker for contribution to research. He has conducted research pertaining to development of molecular diagnostic tools for diagnosis of viral and bacterial pathogens of livestock and poultry.80-yr-old back sans brain tumourGurugram: A team led by Dr Aditya Gupta, chief of neurosurgery and CNS radiosurgery at a leading hospital, removed a tumour measuring 7 cm in diameter from the brain of an 80-year-old woman. Kamla Aggarwal had suffered a seizure, after which her son, a surgeon, decided on an MRI test, which led to the diagnosis.Keeping all worries aside, the family decided to go ahead with further treatment.Honour for railway workshopYamunanagar: The Carriage and Wagon Workshop of Northern Railway in Jagadhri has been given the second prize for 2018-19 for adopting energy saving technologies and reducing specific energy consumption by 12 per cent in the last three years. The award has been given in the industries category having connected load of more than 1 MW.Checking quake preparednessKarnal: A mock drill was conducted at the Mini-Secretariat recently. It was aimed at checking the preparedness of various departments to tackle the situation in case of an earthquake. Around 11 am, an alert was sounded, following which people were rushed to the ground floor. A team of the NDRF went to the second floor and evacuated 12 persons. The authorities were satisfied with the response. Additional Deputy Commissioner Veena Hooda and NDRF Deputy Commandant Aditya briefed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/competing-for-cleanliness-180962
07-12-2020||WINTERS have just set in and dense fog has started appearing in the evenings. Dense fog is witnessed on Patiala road flyover||People must restrain from going outdoors||People must give RWAs a chance THIS refers to “Panchkula MC elections on Dec 27” (Chandigarh Tribune, December 4). With the State Election Commission finally announcing the election schedule for the polls to the Mayor and Councillors in 20 wards of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation on December 27, months after the state government approved the bifurcation of the civic body, the local leadership of both the BJP and the Congress party have not only swung into proactive action but have also started claiming victory during these upcoming elections. However, it is hard to understand the rationale behind the SEC holding these elections amid the pandemic with 8,904 cases and 130 casualties so far. Would heaven have fallen if these elections were instead held around March 2021 for the sake of the pandemic or the availability of a vaccine? In any case, left with no other option, it is now incumbent upon the city residents to vote not only wholeheartedly but judiciously too. Since various RWAs have also expressed their keenness to contest these elections, following their recent bitter experiences with the MC authorities, they truly deserve to be given an opportunity, in preference to the BJP and the Congress. Let these voluntary bodies prove their mettle at ground zero. —SK Gupta, PanchkulaOld age homes in each dist a good stepTHE state government’s move for opening old age home in every district of the state is a welcome step. The scheme can be better implemented with self-financing of individuals who wish to live in old age homes willingly and not because of family compulsions. Such a person can be the trustee till death and later the rights can be transferred to the old age home under the public-private partnership PPP mode. —MM Goel, KurukshetraMake Gurugram cleanest distIT is a matter of great satisfaction that more than 800 workers of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram will carry out a sanitation drive in Ward No. 28 as intimated by the MC. They will start the work at 8.30 am and will continue till 5 pm. The MC must keep the work going and make Gurugram the cleanest district in the state. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramNeed to increase green coverAPROPOS of “For building plan nod, planting trees is a must” (The Tribune, December 4), it is a commendable initiative of the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC, which shall go a long way in spreading much needed green cover in the city. the more the green cover in the area, the better will be the environment for the residents and the healthier will be the vulnerable sections of the society. The step should be replicated by all civic bodies and corporations to provide the people with a healthy and clean environment. —Ramit, Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-must-restrain-from-going-outdoors-180963
07-12-2020|| Kurukshetra||Tributes paid to BR Ambedkar||Karnal student qualifies JRFKarnal: A student of MA (English) of RKSD PG College, Kaithal, Rashmi Sharma, has brought laurels to the institution by qualifying JRF in English Literature, the results of which were declared recently. A budding scholar, Rashmi has consistently performed quite well in her masters too securing first position in the college in MA English and has remained among top 5 students in Kurukshetra University up to the 3rd semester although the result of 4th semester is still awaited. Her tremendous success has been appreciated by college president Saket Mangal, the whole governing body and principal Sanjay Goyal.Workshop on property rightsYamunanagar: The internal quality assurance cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, organised a daylong online national workshop on intellectual property rights. The resource persons included Pooja Menon and Dhruv Brahmbhatt of My Crave Consultancy Services, Vadodra (Gujarat). They provided plenty of practical examples from industry and academia to sensitise participants to the issues of copyrights, plagiarism and ethical research. The workshop was attended by 158 participants from across the nation. Dr (Major) Harinder Sngh Kang, principal of the college, welcomed the participants and the resource persons and Dr Ashok Khurana and Dr Rajinder Singh Walia, organisers of the workshop, thanked everyone for making the event successful. Bhupinder Singh Jauhar, senior member of the management, congratulated organisers on the successful organisation of the workshop and assured full support from the management in organising such activities.Students asked to submit DMCsRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University has provided an opportunity to the candidates who had applied online for various postgraduate (PG) courses and LLB (three-year) programme during the current academic session to submit the qualifying exam result (DMC) and other related documents up to December 8. MDU Vice Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh said this decision had been taken in the interest of the students. As per the university decision, all such candidates who had not updated the qualifying exam result, may submit a hard copy of the result up to December 8 in the department concerned where the candidate had applied for admission for PG courses.CUH holds online lectureMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised an online lecture on "Building Back Better: Toward a Disability-Inclusive, Accessible and Sustainable Post-Covid-19 World". Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad was the chief guest on the ocassion. He said if the society steps ahead optimistically and cooperates with the persons with disabilities, they could produce remarkable results. Former Prof GP Thakur from Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth, Varanasi, elaborated on the challenges available to the differently abled and explained how special efforts need to be made for their betterment in the Covid era.Yamunanagar student clears NETYamunanagar: Dharam Veer, a student of MA Economics of Mukand Lal National (MLN) College, Yamunanagar, has brought laurels to the college by clearing the UGC NET exam conducted by the National Testing Agency in September 2020. Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, congratulated Dharam Veer and his family members on his achievement.Date for form submission extendedRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has extended the last date for the submission of online applications for various undergraduate (UG)/postgraduate (PG) programmes of the Directorate of Distance Education (DDE) upto December 12 without late fee. DDE director Prof KS Chhikara said the decision had been taken in the interest of the students. As per the university decision, all such candidates who had not updated their qualifying exam results, may submit its hard copy up to December 8 in the concerned department where the candidate had applied for admission for PG programme. The director said the details of the programmes were available on the MDU website, www.mduac.in, in the information brochure of the DDE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tributes-paid-to-br-ambedkar-180964
