14-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Nikita murder case: Mobile location shows accused present near the crime site||Gurugram, December 14Supporting the allegations that Nikita Tomar's murder was a pre-planned, well-recced crime, the prosecution has submitted that the mobile location of the accused was around Nikita’s college and home for hours days prior to her murder.Presented as witness in the case, which is being heard in a fast track court, the Airtel Nodal Officer Surender Singh told the court that on day of murder, as per their records, mobiles of both key accused Tausif and his friend were active near Aggarwal College, Ballabhgarh.He further clarified that it was easy to identify the area with mobile tower but not the exact location.The mobile records presented by the SIT highlighted that Tausif’s mobile was active in the area on October 18, 22, 24 and 26. The counsel for Nikita, Aidal Singh said that this proved he (accused) was doing recce.Meanwhile, Aggarwal College Principal Krishan Kant, clerk Pradeep Kumar and photographer Shyam Singh testified Tausif's presence at the crime scene that day.Nikita was allegedly shot dead by Tausif and his friend outside her college on October 26.Tausif’s lawyer, meanwhile, moved High Court alleging communal bias in investigation.Defense lawyer Anees Khan said that Tausif and his associates were being tortured in jail in the name of security.He alleged authorities were violating human rights in Tausif's case.The hearing on the application will be held on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-case-mobile-location-shows-accused-present-near-the-crime-site-184233
14-12-2020||New Delhi||Night temperatures expected to drop by 3-5 degrees in next 2-3 days in north India: IMD||Night temperatures are expected to drop by 3-5 degrees Celsius in the next 2-3 days over north India, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Monday.Cold to severe cold weather conditions are also likely over Punjab, while cold day conditions are likely over Haryana, Chandigarh and northwest Rajasthan, the India Meteorological Department added.  Large parts of north India are already witnessing foggy conditions as temperature drops further.“Fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius (likely) over most parts of northwest India during the next four days,” the IMD said.The IMD, in its winter forecast issued last month for December-February, has already predicted below normal night temperatures in north India this winter season.It added that no significant change in minimum temperatures over most parts of central and east India is likely during next 2-3 days. The temperatures will fall by 2-4 degrees Celsius thereafter.The IMD said under the influence of strengthening of the easterly wave, scattered to fairly widespread rain is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep area between December 16 and 18. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/night-temperatures-expected-to-drop-by-3-5-degrees-in-next-2-3-days-in-north-india-imd-184222
14-12-2020||Gurugram||Two unidentified men loot Rs 2 lakh from businessman in Gurugram||A businessman was allegedly robbed of Rs two lakh in the Pataudi area by two motorcycle-borne unidentified assailants armed with a pistol. They also shot one of the businessman's employees Mohit in the leg after he tried to stop them from escaping while fleeing with the money, the Gurgaon Police said on Monday.According to the police, businessman Ramesh Kumar Goyal, who is a resident of Pataudi town in Gurugram, owns a clothing shop in the Pataudi. While filing a police complaint, Goyal on Sunday said after shutting down his shop at 7:17 p.m. on Sunday, he placed a bag containing Rs two lakh on his scooter.While he was closing his shop, two unidentified persons snatched his bag containing the cash and fled from the spot."Two of my employees Kundan and Mohit, who were also present at the spot, caught one of the accused but the other accused took out his pistol and shot Mohit in his leg and fled the spot along with Rs two lakh," Goyal told the police.Therefore, the matter was reported to the police and Mohit was rushed to a government hospital in Pataudi where he is undergoing treatment."A case under various sections of the IPC has been registered against the two unidentified men at Pataudi police station. The investigation team is scanning the CCTV installed at the spot to identify the accused. Further probe is underway," said Subhash Boken, Gurugram police Spokesperson.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-unidentified-men-loot-rs-2-lakh-from-businessman-in-gurugram-184162
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers hold protests at district headquarters in Punjab, Haryana||Farmers raised slogans outside the offices of district commissioners and took out protest marches in Punjab and Haryana on Monday, following a nationwide call given by their unions against the new central laws.The Haryana Police closed the Ambala-Patiala highway after protesters gathered at the Shambhu border point with adjoining Punjab.The ruling Congress also held protests in Punjab, with state unit chief Sunil Jakhar participating in one near the Shambhu border. Shiromani Akali Dal workers protested in Amritsar.In Punjab, protests were held in several districts including Ludhiana, Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Bathinda, Moga, Faridkot, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran.“Farmers held protests outside the offices of deputy commissioners at several places in Punjab,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said.He added that there were plans to hold protest marches as well.In Haryana, protests were reported from Fatehabad, Jind, Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Bhiwani, Kaithal and Ambala.Slogan-shouting protesters pushed at the barricades near the mini-secretariat in Jind, trying to enter the district office complex.In Fatehabad, they took out a tractor procession before some of them sat on a hunger strike at the district secretariat. In Ambala city too, there was slogan shouting outside the DC’s office.In Faridabad, farmers took out a march towards the secretariat. A group of lawyers also sat on a ‘dharna’ there, extending support to the farmers.Memorandums were submitted to the Centre through the deputy commissioners at other places in Haryana, demanding the scrapping of the new laws.“We want a legal guarantee on the MSP and the repeal of the farm laws,” said a Fatehabad farmer.Thousands of farmers – mainly from Punjab and Haryana—have been camping at the entry points to Delhi for days. Monday’s district-level protests were part of this agitation.The farmers also staged protests and sit-ins outside residences and offices of BJP leaders in both the states.Farmer unions are seeking the repeal of the three agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre in September.Negotiations so far with the Centre have failed to break the deadlock over the laws, which the unions say weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and will leave them at the mercy of big corporations.The BJP-led government has assured that the system will stay and maintained that the laws will offer farmers more options for selling their crops. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-hold-protests-at-district-headquarters-in-punjab-haryana-184129
14-12-2020||Nitish Sharma||Political parties get into MC poll mode||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 13All political parties and fronts have geared up for the Ambala Municipal Corporation election slated for December 27. The political parties have started their campaigns and are holding public meetings.While addressing a public meeting in the city, the BJP in-charge for the Ambala MC poll, Subhash Barala, said, “The Member of Parliament and the MLA (Ambala City Constituency) both belong to the BJP, and voters should elect the mayoral candidate and councillors too from the BJP in the MC elections for speedy development. Residents will also get all benefits of government schemes and the local issues will be easily resolved.”Meanwhile, a group of farmers held a demonstration near the BJP event and they raised anti-government slogans to mark their protest against the farm laws.Farmer leader Gulab Singh said they would oppose the BJP candidates in the upcoming MC poll and appeal the voters to give votes to those candidates only who could defeat the BJP candidates.The JJP has also declared five candidates from ward number 10, 11,14,18,20. JJP state spokesman Vivek Chaudhary said, “The JJP has got five seats in Ambala and we will ensure that the JJP and BJP candidates win all seats.”Congress Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhry, who is a member of committee formed for the Ambala MC poll, said the party was all set and the names had been finalised for the Ambala MC elections. The Congress candidates will win all 20 seats as well as the post of the Mayor.Former Congress leader Himmat Singh, who parted ways with the Congress and then HDF, said he would declare the list of all 20 candidates of wards and the mayoral candidate on Monday.Meanwhile, the Ambala Vikas Manch also declared five candidates from ward number 1, 7, 16, 17 and 18 on Sunday.Former Union Minister and Haryana Jan Chetna Party chief Venod Sharma also launched the campaign for his candidates and inaugurated three offices (in Baldev Nagar, Novelty road, and the grain market) in Ambala City. Sharma said the Ambala Municipal Corporation has a budget of Rs 1,500 crore and it was up to the voters of Ambala whether they wanted the budget to be spent on development or elect people who would use the budget on themselves.”Farmers hold demonstration near BJP eventA group of farmers held a demonstration near the BJP event and they raised anti-government slogans to mark their protest against the farm laws.‘Vote for BJP for speedy development’Member of Parliament and the MLA (Ambala City) both belong to the BJP, and voters should elect the mayoral candidate and councillors too from the BJP in the MC elections for speedy development. Residents will also get all benefits of government schemes and the local issues will be resolved easily. — Subhash Barala, BJP in-charge for the Ambala MC poll‘Congress will win all 20 seats’The party is all set and the names have been finalised for the Ambala MC elections. The Congress candidates will win all 20 seats as well as the post of Mayor. — Varun Chaudhry, Congress Mullana MLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/political-parties-get-into-mc-poll-mode-184033
14-12-2020||---||Fertiliser dealer’s licence suspended in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, December 13Authorities of the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Yamunanagar, have suspended the licence of a fertiliser dealer after his godown was raided by a team of the CM’s flying squad.“We have suspended the licence of the Kisan Sewa Centre of Karera Khurd village and issued a show-cause notice to its owner. If he fails to produce the requisite documents, his licence shall be cancelled,” said Surinder Kumar Yadav, Deputy Director, Agriculture Department, Yamunanagar.According to information, a team of the CM’s flying squad raided the godown of fertiliser dealer on December 11.The authorities sealed the godown in the presence of the CM’s flying squad team as the fertiliser dealer failed to produce the stock register and other relevant documents.Sources said the team of the CM’s flying squad raided at the godown on the suspicion that the said fertiliser dealer was supplying subsidised urea illegally to the plywood industry where it was used to prepare glue.According to information, the plywood units could use commercial urea to prepare glue as the subsidised urea was meant only for agriculture use. The subsidised urea is cheaper than commercial urea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fertiliser-dealers-licence-suspended-in-yamunanagar-184034
14-12-2020||---||Man held with banned drugs||Yamunanagar, December 13 A team of the the anti-narcotics cell of the Yamunanagar police have arrested a person with 432 capsules (simplex) of banned drugs. Chamkaur Singh, PRO, Yamunanagar police, said the accused had been identified as Amit of Bilaspur town. He said he was produced before a court here on Saturday, where he was sent to judicial custody. In-charge of the anti-narcotics cell Mahavir Singh said he formed a team headed by Assistant Sub-Inspector Satnam Singh after getting information that a man was roaming with banned drugs near the court complex of Bilaspur town of Yamunanagar district. “When the team saw the suspect near the court complex, Bilaspur, he was detained by the team and 432 capsules (simplex) of banned drugs was recovered from his possession,” said Mahavir Singh. A case was registered against the accused under the NDPS Act at Bilaspur police station of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-with-banned-drugs-184035
14-12-2020||---||PGIMS mulls plasma therapy for Anil Vij||Ambala, December 13 The PGIMS, Rohtak, has issued a health bulletin that its doctors were contemplating on administering plasma therapy to Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij. He had tested positive for Covid-19 and later shifted to the hospital on Saturday night. The PGIMS spokesman said Vij was undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, and had almost recovered, but some symptoms and patches in his lungs came into observation during the scanning, following which he reached PGIMS, Rohtak. The entire team of the hospital was monitoring his health. Doctors had been seriously contemplating on administering plasma therapy to the minister, he said. Days after getting a shot of Covid vaccine, Vij had tested positive on December 5, and was taken to Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment. On November 20, he was given a shot of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxine as a volunteer. The official said some people had been raising questions as to how he got infected even after getting the Covaxine. He explained that the antibodies developed after 40-42 days of getting the vaccine but in this case, the minister got infected within 15 days, so there should be no confusion. In clinical trials, three of four doses contain vaccine. The clinical trial is a different process and getting infected is a different thing. “We are grateful that he showed faith in us. We are hopeful that he will recover and will be discharged within a week,” the spokesman added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-mulls-plasma-therapy-for-anil-vij-184036
14-12-2020||---||Seven succumb; 990 fresh Covid cases reported in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 13With 990 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 2,52,392 on Sunday. With seven deaths, the death toll went up to 2,717.Gurugram reported a maximum of 275 cases, followed by Faridabad (177), Kurukshetra (92), Sonepat (70), Ambala (50) and Hisar (47).Gurugram and Hisar reported two deaths each while one death each was reported from Ambala, Bhiwani and Jhajjar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seven-succumb-990-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-haryana-184037
14-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Bahadurgarh turns into ‘mini Punjab’||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 13Bahadurgarh, located near the Delhi border, has turned into ‘mini Punjab’, with the number of protesting farmers rising considerably in the past couple of days.As per intelligence reports, at least 2,500 farmers from Punjab arrived in Bahadurgarh in the past three days, taking the total count to more than 36,000.A 10-km stretch packed with tractor-trailers and other vehicles between the Jakhoda bypass and Tikri border has forced farmers to camp inside Bahadurgarh as no more space is available at the main dharna spot.Farmer celebrates kid’s 1st b’day at TikriA protesting farmer from Punjab celebrated the first birthday of his daughter at the Tikri border on Sunday by cutting a cake. “I took a pledge before leaving for Delhi that I would not return till our demands are met. I celebrated my daughter's first birthday here with fellow farmers,” said Jagdeer Singh.Farmers have made makeshift arrangements on a 1-km stretch on both sides of the road from the Sector 9 turn to the old bus stand, leading to traffic congestion.“Since no space is available on the highway near the Tikri border, our batch has decided to camp inside Bahadurgarh. We can reach the main dharna spot within minutes and remain in touch with top leaders, who are staying near the border,” said a farmer from Mansa.The farmers are receiving fruit, vegetables, milk and other food items from residents of nearby villages.“It is for the first time that we are seeing a large number of turbaned Sikhs in the town. The situation makes us feel that Bahadurgarh has turned into a mini Punjab. They have been maintaining calm and discipline since the very first day, which is laudable,” said Sanjay, a shopkeeper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bahadurgarh-turns-into-mini-punjab-184038
14-12-2020||---||Cops stop Rajasthan farmers on Delhi-Jaipur highway||Rewari, December 13Farmers from Rajasthan led by Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav and social activist Medha Patkar on Sunday staged dharna on the Delhi-Jaipur National Highway-44 after the police stopped them from entering Haryana.The protesters raised slogans against the Centre for enacting, what they described as, three “anti-farmer” laws and criticised the police for barricading the Jaisinghpur Khera-Shahjahanpur border. They said protesting peacefully was the democratic right of every citizen.Prepared for police onslaughtWe are waiting for more protesters to join us. Farmers from different villages in Gurugram district will also rally on the Rajasthan-Haryana border. We know that we will be stopped by the police and we are prepared for that. — Rampal Jat, farmer leaderThe protesters wanted to join their brethren protesting at the Delhi borders against the three laws.Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh, Superintendent of Police Rahul Jorwal and other officers were present on the highway.The protesters asked the police to let them proceed towards Delhi, but the latter didn’t remove the barricades. Consequently, they staged dharna on the highway. They raised slogans of “Inquilab Zindabad” and “Kisan Ekta Zindabad”.“The protesters are sitting on one side of the highway which falls in Rajasthan, while the traffic movement continues on the other side of the highway. We are dealing with the situation peacefully,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-stop-rajasthan-farmers-on-delhi-jaipur-highway-184039
14-12-2020||---||Hooda wants fiscal help for families of deceased||Hisar, December 13Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda visited Ujhana village in Jind on Sunday to pay respects to Kitab Singh, a farmer who had died during a dharna near the village during the Bharat bandh over the new agricultural laws.Seeks Parliament sessionBhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday sought a special session of Parliament to resolve the issues concerning farmers. He said the country stood by farmers, but the BJP government had passed laws which were against farmers’ interest.The former Chief Minister said people of Haryana and farmers from across the country stood with the family in their hour of grief. Talking to mediapersons, he demanded proper financial assistance and government job to one member each of the families of farmers who lost their lives during the agitation.“It has been almost three weeks since farmers left their homes and have been struggling for their legitimate demands, but the government continues to be in denial, pretending as if these protests are not taking place. The government should not be so unrelenting. It should consider the demands of farmers with the sincerity they deserve,” Hooda said.He said farmers had been losing their lives near the Delhi border, but the government was indifferent to the plight of farmers spending cold winter nights under the open sky.“The farmers’ agitation is peaceful and their demands are justified. Every Indian stands with them. The guarantee of MSP is the right of farmers and the government should accept it,” he added.Karnal: Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday sought a special session of Parliament to resolve the issues concerning farmers. He said the country stood by farmers, but the BJP government had passed laws which were against farmers’ interest.He said the Congress would bring in a no-confidence motion against the state government on the farmers’ issue. He alleged that the BJP government had been trying to derail the farmers movement by defaming it.He attacked the state government for using tear gas shells and water cannons on farmers to stop them from moving towards Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-wants-fiscal-help-for-families-of-deceased-184040
14-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Youths start ‘laundry sewa’ at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceSinghu (Sonepat), Dec 13A group of young farmers have started a “laundry sewa” for their brethren protesting at the Singhu border against the three farm laws for the past 16 days.“I stayed at the Singhu border for nine days and went back home to get my clothes washed. It occurred to me that other farmers were also facing the same problem. So, I brought two washing machines with me and started ‘laundry sewa’,” said Prince, a farmer from Ludhiana.Every day, he and other farmers wash clothes of 50 to 60 farmers. “We have been making announcements for the protesting farmers to get their clothes washed,” he added.Their initiative has been hailed. Sandeep Singh from Yamunanagar appreciated the effort of Prince and others. “I used to go home to wash my clothes. Thanks to the free laundry service, I get my clothes washed here,” he said.Bathinda resident Gurpal Singh (56) said the “laundry sewa” was helping farmers maintain personal hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youths-start-laundry-sewa-at-singhu-184041
14-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon---||Centre hatching conspiracy to derail protest, say leaders||Tribune News Service Sonepat, December 13 Farmer leaders on Sunday accused the Centre of hatching a conspiracy to derail their agitation and emphasised that the protest was gaining strength by the day and nothing less than revocation of the three controversial farm laws would be acceptable to them. The leaders told the media that there was no dispute among the unions. Their message was clear: “All unions are together.”  Farmer leader Shiv Kumar ‘Kakka ji’ said all unions would have to follow the directions of the Kisan Sanyukt Morcha because the decisions were taken unanimously, and not on the basis of majority.  Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni clarified that groups, who were ending the protest, were not associated with the Kisan Sanyukt Morcha. “Those groups are hand in gloves with the Centre, which is hatching a conspiracy to derail the protest.” Another farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said if the Union Government would send another proposal for talks, the united front of farmers would consider it and take a decision unanimously. Surjeet Singh Phool said the decision taken by farmers’ committee at the Singhu border would apply on all unions. Meanwhile, 32 farmer leaders will sit on a day’s hunger strike from 8 am to 5 pm at the main stage set up at the Singhu border on Monday. A nationwide protest at the DC offices at all districts is also scheduled for Monday.  Farmers, who could not reach the Singhu border, will protest at district headquarters peacefully. Shiv Kumar reiterated the unions’ demand of revoking the laws. “No amendment to the laws is acceptable to us. The protest will continue till our demand is not met,” he said. Farmer leader Sandeep Gidde said the decision to sit on an indefinite fast on December 19 had been cancelled. It will be a day-long strike on Monday instead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-hatching-conspiracy-to-derail-protest-say-leaders-184042
14-12-2020||Jhajjar||Green building award for Jhajjar township||“It’s the first economic township in North India to get the gold certificate. The award is conferred based on parameters such as effective land use, mobility and excellent infrastructure,” said a company spokesman. He said the industry looks for infrastructure, market connectivity, skilled human resources and security while making investment. Being close to Delhi, this zone is becoming the top choice of global investors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/green-building-award-for-jhajjar-township-184043
14-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal leads in disbursal of loans to street vendors||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 13Karnal district is leading the state in disbursement of loans under the PM Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme, launched by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on June 1 in the wake of Covid-19, which resulted in disruption of livelihood of street vendors.PM SVANidhi schemeUnder the scheme, a street vendor is given a collateral-free working capital loan of up to Rs10,000 for a year to help them resume their business in urban areasThe data till Dec 10 shows that of 31,781 vendors, who had applied for loans in Haryana, 14,011 have got approvals while 9,133 have received the fundsWith the disbursement of 1,499 of total 4,787 applications, Karnal was at the top in the state, followed by Hisar, which had disbursed 1,456 loans of 4,056 while Ambala stood third pwith disbursement of 1,428 loans of 3,606. In civic bodies, Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has disbursed loans to 1,154 applicants of 3,564, leading the tally in the civic bodies category.The data showed Gurugram district had given loans to 686 applicants, while Kurukshetra had received 1,744 applications and disbursed loans to 544 street vendors.Faridabad had given loans to 416, Jind (380), Panipat (327), Rohtak (312), Sirsa (296), Sonepat (256), Rewari (225), Kaithal (204), Nuh (203), Bhiwani (174), Yamunanagar (159), Palwal (122), Charki Dadri (106), Panchkula (106), Jhajjar (74), and Mahendragarh (49).“The Centre has started the scheme to empower street vendors by extending them loans and bring about their holistic development. Karnal district is leading in disbursement of loans,” said Vikram Singh, Commissioner, KMC.“We’ve been reviewing the progress on a daily basis. We have even told banks to clear the loans at the earliest.” He had held a meeting with the secretaries of all civic bodies in the district and asked them to achieve the target within a week. “We are issuing letters of recommendation to the new vendors, for which we have deployed teams at various places in the city.”DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said: “I had held a meeting with the banks recently and pushed them for disbursement of loans. The banks have assured me to clear the remaining loans in a week. I have also constituted a team to assist the applicants.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-leads-in-disbursal-of-loans-to-street-vendors-184044
14-12-2020||---||A first: 17 Sanskrit varsities to be part of Gita mahotsav||Chandigarh, December 13 For the first time, 17 Sanskrit universities of the country will be part of the International Gita Mahotsav-2020 to be organised by the Kurukshetra Development Board from December 17 to 25. The programmes of these universities can be seen online in every part of the world. An official spokesman said as a result of the efforts of the Haryana Government, the shlokas of the Bhagavad Gita would reach every person through the online medium for the first time. He said the programmes of the mahotsav would be organised in 16 universities from December 21 to 25 and from December 17 to 25 at Maharishi Valmiki Sanskrit University, Mundri, Kaithal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-first-17-sanskrit-varsities-to-be-part-of-gita-mahotsav-184045
14-12-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad MC to conduct audit of water supply system||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 13The Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) has decided to carry out a detailed audit of the current water supply system (network) in the city. It has sought the state government’s approval to release a tender for hiring an agency for the work. City residents had recently reported shortage of drinking water in certain areas.City faces Acute crisis in summerThe water supplied by the MC is not potable and the residents of a majority of colonies are dependent on RO system or treated water from private suppliers. The water crisis becomes acute in more than 60 per cent of the areas during summer. —  Yogesh Dhingra, ex-Municipal CorporatorClaiming that it will be the first such audit, official sources in the civic body said the move came in the wake of a gap in the demand and supply and the crisis faced by the residents every summer. “Moreover, the problem of shortage of supply has resulted in mushrooming of private water tanker mafia, which has resulted in not only revenue loss to the MCF, but also water pilferage in many areas,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.He said a strike by private tanker operators around a couple of months ago, after a drive to seal unauthorised water hydrants and tubewells, had led to a severe water supply crisis and ultimately, the civic body had to suspend the move.“With the civic water supply being available for one or two days in a week, residents here have to depend on private water tankers, which charge them between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500 per tanker,” claimed Himanshu Mendiratta, a resident of Sainik Colony here.Revealing that while the water supplied by the MCF was not potable and the residents of a majority of colonies were dependent on RO system or treated water from private suppliers, Yogesh Dhingra, a former Municipal Corporator, said the water crisis becomes acute in more than 60 per cent of the areas during summers.Meanwhile, MCF Chief Engineer Birender Kardam said permission of the state government had been sought to release an Expression of Interest for the detailed study or audit of the water supply in the city, as the demand had gone up sharply in the past decade. The city gets supply of 224 million litre per day (MLD) against a demand of over 240 MLD, it is learnt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-mc-to-conduct-audit-of-water-supply-system-184046
14-12-2020||---||High-yielding sugarcane variety developed at Karnal institute||Karnal, December 13Scientists of the Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Regional Centre here, have developed a high-sugared and yielding sugarcane variety Co-15023.The variety has been released for commercial cultivation in north west zone, comprising central and western Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi by the Central Sub-Committee for Crop Standards Notification and Release of Variety in a meeting held last month.Resistant to major diseasesCo-15023 is an extraordinary combination of high sugar and cane yield, which on cultivation on a large scale can start the crushing season in October, a month early. It is also resistant to major diseases like red rot and smut. — Dr Ravinder Kumar, team leaderThe scientists claimed that the performance of the variety in the All-India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) trials and simultaneous evaluations at different factory locations, tested under the Institute Industry Interface programme by signing an MoU with various sugar mills, was extraordinary for juice sucrose content.In the AICRP trials, it depicted an improvement to 9.12 per cent from 5.92 per cent of other standard variety during the eighth month. Besides, it improved to 7.93 per cent from 5.78 per cent during 10 months. It recorded a yield of 89.49 tonnes per hectare cane, 19.41 per cent juice sucrose and 14.93 per cent pol in cane (14.93-kg sugar in 100-kg sugarcane), the scientists claimed.They also claimed that besides having the quality of high sugar, it was extra early maturing variety for the north western zone.Farmers of the zone could take multiple ratoon crops and go for on time wheat sowing, which otherwise gets delayed due to late starting of sugar mills, said Dr SK Pandey, head of the Karnal centre.Dr Bakshi Ram, director, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, said the variety would increase the income of the farmers with high yield. “The variety will play a major role in the sustainable development of sugarcane and sugar sector of the country,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-yielding-sugarcane-variety-developed-at-karnal-institute-184047
14-12-2020||Kurukshetra||STF sleuths nab 3 wanted criminals with illegal arms||The special task force (STF) of Ambala has arrested three wanted men and also recovered a pistol and 14 live cartridges from their possession.  The suspects have been identified as Waris Verma and Kanwaldeep Singh, both from Ambala, and Lovepreet of Kurukshetra.  As per information, acting on a tip-off, the STF set up a naka at Ishargarh Mod in Kurukshetra and signalled the suspected vehicle to stop. During checking, the STF recovered a country made pistol and four live cartridges from Waris, one magazine loaded with five live cartridges from Kanwaldeep and one magazine with five live cartridges from Lovepreet. The trio failed to produce any documents regarding the arms and a case under the Arms Act was registered against them at Sadar Thanesar police station.  STF in-charge DSP Kulbhushan said: “The accused are wanted in several cases of loot, assault and attempt to murder. They were in contact with Vicky, alias Lala, who was arrested recently from Kurukshetra. They have been sent  to judicial custody.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stf-sleuths-nab-3-wanted-criminals-with-illegal-arms-184048
14-12-2020||---||JC varsity to have solar energy plant||Faridabad, December 13The campus of JC Bose University would soon operate completely on solar energy as the institute has signed an agreement with a solar company for the installation of grid-connected rooftop solar power plant. As a result, the university will completely work on solar energy from April 2021. The agreement was signed with M/s Jyotikiran Energy Mumbai Private Limited, a special purpose vehicle of M/s Sunsource Energy Private Limited, Noida, by Registrar Sunil Kumar Garg. According to the agreement, grid connected rooftop SPV power plants of 266 KW capacity would be installedat the university by the company, in collaboration with the Department of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), Haryana Renewable Energy Development Agency (HREDA).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jc-varsity-to-have-solar-energy-plant-184051
14-12-2020||Hisar||Lok adalats resolve 4,001 cases||Kids learn about environmentAmbala: The Ambala chapter of INTACH, under the guidance of its convener, Col RD Singh, conducted a workshop for children on writing a project report on the environment. It was attended by 92 children and teachers from 14 schools. Lt Gen Ranjit Singh (retd), who was the chief guest, explained the importance of maintaining the environment. He asked children to use bicycles to reduce pollution.Young author creates wavesYamunanagar: Agrim Goel, a young author, has made it to Bravo International Book of World Records for writing a book. At the age of 10, he has written his second book titled ‘The Invincible Children’.Contributed by Deepender Deswal, Nitish Sharma and Shiv Kumar Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lok-adalats-resolve-4-001-cases-184053
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Stir won’t impact MC poll, says JJP||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stir-wont-impact-mc-poll-says-jjp-184054
14-12-2020||Hisar||Employability enhancement||Webinar on Indian ConstitutionKarnal: The NCC (Air Wing) of KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised a webinar on ‘The Constitution of India: Duties and Rights’ in collaboration with No. 2 Har Air Sqn NCC, Karnal, under the programme ‘Constitution Day Youth Club Activities’. Principal Sujata Gupta stressed on effective implementation of the duties and rights of citizens. NCC Air Wing Convener Deepti Sharma said the webinar was a platform to create awareness among NCC cadets about the Constitution of India and the recent updates in it. Key speaker Prof Naresh Kumar Vats, Registrar, Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala, deliberated upon the fundamental duties and rights in the Constitution and how the judiciary, the executive and the legislature were the custodians for their implementation. Anju Narwal, Co-convener, NCC Air Wing, proposed the vote of thanks.Date to apply online extendedRohtak: Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) has extended the last date for submission of online application forms for admission to B.Ed and M.Ed (Regular) programmes in affiliated colleges of education for the session 2020-2021. Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja said candidates may apply online till December 21. They would have to register on the university admission portal for the purpose. Details of the admission process and revised admission counselling schedule was available on MDU website, he informed.Online extension lectureKarnal: Considering the importance of consumer awareness in the era of pandemic, the Commerce Association of Dyal Singh College organised an online extension lecture on "Empowering Consumers in the Globalised World". Speaker Sheetal Kapoor, associate professor, Kamla Nehru College, University of Delhi, shared her thoughts on various topics, such as consumer rights, consumer awareness, problems faced by consumers and their possible solutions, e-commerce guidelines mandatory under CPA etc. Earlier, Principal Chander Shekhar welcomed the speaker.Swacchta Pakhwara observedYamunanagar: Under the aegis of 14 Har Bn NCC, Yamunanagar, a ‘Swacchta Pakhwara’ is being observed by the NCC Unit of Mukand Lal National College, Radaur. Speaking on ‘Hand Wash Day’, Principal Major Deepak Kaushik highlighted the importance of frequent hand washing to keep various diseases, especially Covid, at bay. Through audio-visual aids, the NCC officer of the college brought home to cadets the process through which germs travel from infected hands to different parts of the body.Workshop on ‘fact checking’Yamunanagar: Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, DAV College, Yamunanagar, organised a workshop on the subject of online ‘fact checking’. Principal Abha Khetarpal and Parmesh Kumar, head of the Department of Mass Communication, chaired the programme jointly. One of the speakers of the programme, Rachna Kasana, said social media was being used as a weapon to change people’s thinking, but one should cross-check facts of a matter before forwarding it to others.RKSD College NCC units inspectedKarnal: The NCC units of RKSD College, Kaithal, were inspected by Dr Ajay Kumar, Secretary of Defence, Government of India. On reaching the college, he was welcomed by President Saket Mangal, other governing body members, Principal Sanjay Goyal, College NCC Captain RP Maun, Lieutenant Raghbir Lamba and Major (retired) SS Dhull. Along with him ADG NCC Major General Beji Mathews, Core Commanding Officer Colonel Rupinder Singh and Lieutenant Devendra Rawat also reached the college. They said NCC played a major role in shaping the defence securities of the country. Principal Sanjay Goyal told them that many cadets of the college were working as commissioned officers. Apart from this, college cadets participated in the national parade in New Delhi on Republic Day every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/employability-enhancement-184055
14-12-2020||Potholes on the main road close to Sector 46 is a cause of concern for commuters||Potholes dot main road of Gurugram||Veena, Aarohi Kansal, GurugramDelay in registration of new vehicle in MohaliWe purchased a light commercial vehicle from Mohali on September 23, and deposited the fee on September 28 and got the vehicle passed on September 28. Since then, we are not in a position to submit the file because new series has not yet been opened. Every time we try to submit the file we are asked to go back and come after some days as the series has not yet been opened. What is our fault? They should accept the file and inform us about the number when they open new series. Why are we asked to come again and again for this purpose?Ajay Mehta, MohaliFarmers, govt must find solution amicablyThe news of deadlock between farmers and the Centre is worrisome. The prolonged agitation always does not argue well for the nation. If the Centre is agreeing to give in writing an assurance on the MSP and the APMC, then what is left? These are the two main demands. Perhaps now it has become prestige issues for both sides. Both the government and farmers need to lower the tempo of acrimony. Though the agitation have been peaceful it has caused a lot inconvenience to the common man.There is need to bridge the communication gap. The government and farmers should solve the problem amicablyVidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholes-dot-main-road-of-gurugram-184056
14-12-2020||Jhajjar||DGP Yadava visits Bahadurgarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dgp-yadava-visits-bahadurgarh-184057
14-12-2020||Gurugram||Security up in Gurugram||Security in the district was beefed up on Sunday with the deployment of more police, Rapid Action Force and paramilitary personnel even as hundreds of farmers from Rajasthan were stopped on the Haryana-Rajasthan border on Saturday night.The protesting farmers staged a dharna at the interstate border point on the service lane of the Delhi-Jaipur national highway after police stopped them from proceeding further on Saturday night. They are now awaiting more farmers to join in.“Thousands of police personnel along with water cannons, cranes and anti-riot equipment have been stationed across the national highway to stop farmers from entering Gurugram area,” said Nikita Gahlaut, DCP (Manesar). — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/security-up-in-gurugram-184058
14-12-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Property in Haryana villages to cost more||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13Property buyers in rural areas of Haryana will have to shell out more with the state imposing a 2 per cent surcharge on the transfer of property through sale or gift.2% cess imposedThough the notification has been issued by Sudhir Rajpal, Principal Secretary, Panchayat and Development Department, the cess will be collected by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department along with stamp duty. Both these departments are headed by JJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala.Sources say the move, which comes a few weeks ahead of elections to the panchayati raj institutions, may harm prospects of the BJP-JJP alliance. The government is already on the back foot in view of the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/property-in-haryana-villages-to-cost-more-183998
