26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 7 more COVID-19 deaths, 392 fresh cases||Haryana on Saturday reported seven more coronavirus deaths, taking the death toll to 2,865, even as 392 fresh cases pushed the state's infection tally to 2,60,545.According to the state health department's daily bulletin, two fatalities were reported from Bhiwani, while one death each was recorded in Fatehabad, Jhajjar, Sonipat, Gurgaon and Faridabad districts.Gurugram recorded 99 new cases and Faridabad 41.The number of active cases in the state stood at 4,535, while the recovery rate was 97.16 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-7-more-covid-19-deaths-392-fresh-cases-189749
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda demands special session of Haryana Assembly, says Cong wants to move no-confidence motion||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday again demanded convening of a special session of the Assembly and said his Congress party would move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government."The government has lost the support of the people and many MLAs backing it," the Leader of Opposition in Haryana said in a statement here.Hooda said that he had requested the Governor to convene a special session of the Assembly "as the government is not wanting a session of the House because it wants to avoid facing a no-confidence motion".He claimed Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had earlier said there was no need to call a special session of the Assembly and that the Opposition did not have any specific issue to raise.Hooda said, "Today the farmers of the state are protesting on roads all over Haryana and at Delhi borders. Every day one of the agitators sitting under the open sky is dying due to the bitter cold. In such a situation, we ask if the state government does not consider such a big agitation of farmers as an issue."       "Does the government not consider the martyrdom of farmers an issue that merits a discussion? What can be a bigger issue for the government,” he asked.Hooda reiterated his stand of bringing a no-confidence motion against the government in the Assembly, saying "many Independent MLAs have withdrawn support from the government".Two Independent MLAs – Sombir Sangwan and Balraj Kundu – have withdrawn support to the state government, while many of the 10 legislators of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) have openly come out in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws."In this battle between the farmers and the government, many legislators of coalition partner JJP have also spoken in support of the farmers. It is clear that the BJP-JJP coalition government has lost not only support from the public, but also the confidence of its own legislators," said Hooda.         "If a motion of no confidence comes in the Legislative Assembly, then their allies in the government itself will vote against the government. That is why we have demanded a special session from the Governor. The government fears that many legislators will vote against it if a motion of no confidence comes and is avoiding a special session,” he claimed.Recently, Hooda had claimed that some MLAs were playing a “double role” – making statements against the government but are continuing to support the government."This will make it clear who stands with the farmers,” he had said, referring to the planned no-trust motion.At present, the Khattar government enjoys a comfortable majority in the 90-member State Assembly.The BJP has 40 MLAs and its ally JJP 10. There are 31 Congress MLAs and one each from the Indian National Lok Dal and Haryana Lokhit Party.Seven members are Independents, out of whom five, including Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, support the ruling combine.Thousands of farmers are protesting at Delhi's borders for a month now, demanding repeal of the three agri-marketing laws enacted in September. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-demands-special-session-of-haryana-assembly-says-cong-wants-to-move-no-confidence-motion-189718
26-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Two protesting farmers die at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 26Two protesting farmers — one from Punjab and another from Kaithal in Haryana — died of cardiac arrest at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border in the past 24 hours.The deceased have been identified as Amrik Singh (75) of Gilawali in Gurdaspur district (Punjab) and Amarpal (32) of Serhada village in Kaithal.Nine farmers have so far lost their lives at Tikri border and seven of them died of either cardiac arrest or other ailments.“Amarpal was camping at a petrol pump near the main dharna spot at Tikri border for the past five-six days. He died of heart attack on Friday evening. We took him to Kaithal and reported it with the Kaithal police,” said Rameswar, cousin of Amarpal, adding that his cremation was performed at the village today.Second death at Tikri was reported on Saturday afternoon when the body of Amrik Singh was brought to Trauma Centre at Civil Hospital, Bahadurgarh. As per information, Amrik along with other protesters had been staying near new bus stand in Bahadurgarh. He suddenly got unconscious at dharna spot this morning.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said Amrik was dead when he was brought to the civil hospital. His post-mortem would be done tomorrow, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-protesting-farmers-die-at-tikri-border-189702
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Biting cold persists in Haryana, Punjab; Hisar reels at 2.2 degree C||Biting cold conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Saturday, with Hisar reeling at a low of 2.2 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana was the coldest place in the state, while Narnaul too experienced a cold night at 3 degrees Celsius, Meteorological department officials here said.Among other places in the state, Karnal, Sirsa, Rohtak, Ambala and Bhiwani recorded their respective minimums at 4 degrees Celsius, 4.1 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees Celsius, 5.3 degrees Celsius and 5.6 degrees Celsius, they said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also braved a cold weather, registering a low of 4.2 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Adampur recorded a minimum temperature of 2.5 degrees Celsius.Pathankot, Halwara and Bathinda too braved intense chill, registering respective minimums of 3.5 degrees Celsius, 3.7 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala were also under the grip of biting cold, recording respective minimums of 4.2 degrees Celsius, 4.4 degrees Celsius and 4.8 degrees Celsius, the weather office said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/biting-cold-persists-in-haryana-punjab-hisar-reels-at-2-2-degree-c-189679
26-12-2020||---||One-time fee for Haryana job exams over 3 yrs||Chandigarh, December 25From January 1, all candidates appearing for Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) entrance exams will have to pay fee only once for all exams they intend to take over the next three years, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced today.The applicants will not have to pay separate fee for separate posts, he said. After three years, the applicant would have to register again.The CM also declared that higher education loans would be made available to those studying in Haryana institutes. The loan under the Credit Guarantee Scheme would be available at 7.5 per cent interest. In case any student was unable to repay the education loan, its repayment would be made from the Haryana Credit Fund, which has been specially created for this purpose.Easy education loanAllowances hikedThe CM also announced to hike the monthly allowance for Arjuna, Dronacharya and Dhyan Chand awardees to Rs 20,000 per month from Rs 5,000 per month at present. A monthly allowance of Rs 5,000 has also been started for Bhim awardees. The winners of Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award will also get Rs 20,000 per month.Speaking at a Good Governance Day event, the CM said people would be able to get their property registered at any tehsil office in their district from April 1 onwards.The Mukhyamantri Bagwani Bima Yojana for insurance of horticultural crops was also announced. The scheme will cover 20 crops, including 14 vegetables (tomato, onion, potato, cauliflower, peas, carrots, okra, bottle gourd, bitter gourd, brinjal, green chilli, capsicum, cabbage and radish), two spices (turmeric, garlic) and four fruits (mango, kinnow, Indian plum, guava).The cover under the scheme would be Rs 30,000 per acre for vegetables and Rs 40,000 per acre for fruits. The farmer would have to contribute only be 2.5 per cent of the sum assured.The Chief Minister said the Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department has fixed 30-day deadline for granting change of land use (CLU) from January 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-time-fee-for-haryana-job-exams-over-3-yrs-189429
26-12-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||No parking sense||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com No parking senseLIKE net etiquette, we have to take a course for good manners in civic life too. Parking is one area in particular. The most bothersome mess-up one can create for cars or any four-wheeler is parking just inches away at the back. Other bad actions that are no less annoying are parking in the persons-with-disability lane, violations of no-parking zone etc. Let traffic education also be part of civics in the school curriculum. Rakesh Sudan, KurukshetraCall centre frauds on riseFAKE call centre frauds are being regularly reported by The Tribune which is a worrisome trend. The public should be cautious while making online purchases as frequent complaints e.g. ill-fitting temporary stitching of higher sized clothing to reduce size, refusal to accept a scratched old cellphone under new-for-old buyback scheme, colour mismatch, torn items etc are being reported. It is imperative for the buyers to make a video of pre/post parcel opening, read the fine print of online purchase rules and regulations. Similarly, fake call centres thrive due to ill-informed people who should directly approach the respective companies/authorised dealers for redress of their queries. This will help reduce, if not altogether end, frauds to a considerable extent. Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaLack of garbage disposal systemTHE issue of providing proper garbage collection and disposal system in the residential areas has been regularly highlighted but one still finds Tundla village, Ambala Cantt, littered with garbage, heaps of cow dung, stagnant water and stray cattle. The worst part is that people living there seem to have got used to it. Rather than making efforts to improve the situation in the area, some of the residents can be seen adding to the unhygienic conditions, ignoring the harmful effects of unhygienic conditions. The MC authorities should visit the village and take a stock of the cleanliness. People too must know their duties and do their part in making the surroundings clean and healthy. Col RD Singh, Ambala CanttCrime rate downIT is a matter of great satisfaction that crime rate in Gurugram has decreased considerably as the Gurugram police are doing a commendable job by arresting active gangsters and miscreants in NCR, Gurugram and Rajasthan. They are searching their hideouts and arresting the wrongdoers. Subhash C Taneja, Gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-parking-sense-189427
26-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University admission notice out||Conference on soft computingKurukshetra: UIET of Kurukshetra University organised second international conference on soft computing for intelligence system through Google Meet. Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva was the chief guest. He said after facing various challenges, problems are being solved by building intelligent systems through soft computing. He said soft computing was a mixture of artificial intelligence, fuzzy logic, neural networks and genetic algorithms that have the ability to overcome the shortcomings of artificial intelligence. Dean of Engineering and Technology and UIET Director Prof CC Tripathi introduced the theme of the conference.Virtual debate on farm lawsHisar: Speakathon Club under the mentorship of training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology organised an online debate on the new farm laws under its monthly virtual speakathon programme. Thirty-three students participated. Those in favour of the motion argued that the new laws would lead to a second green revolution and farmers would have a choice to sell their produce to anyone and anywhere without being solely dependent on APMC. While the students against the motion highlighted that these laws would lead to corporatisation of agriculture and the market, along with monsoon, would become an unpredictable determinant of farmers’ destiny. They said farmers would be at the mercy of big corporations and if MSP was abolished, farmers would be nowhere.Faculty induction programmes endHisar: Two faculty induction programmes based on Guru Dakshta guidelines organised by Human Resource Development Centre, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, concluded in the presence of Dr Henna Slobodianiuk from South Ukrainian National Pedagogical University, Ukrainian. She emphasised that incorporating ICT tools into in-and-out-classless teaching and learning made learning enjoyable and dwelled on the distinctions between formal/informal learning based on the cognitive processes they tapped. She also shared experience of extending the scope of current teaching methods and incorporating ICT tools at Ushynsky university under the conditions of the rapidly changing world system of education. Prof. Neeraj Dilbaghi, Director, Human Resource Development Centre, welcomed the chief guest and stated that this programme was beneficial for teachers’ academic pursuit in the light of New Education Policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-admission-notice-out-189428
26-12-2020||---||Won’t disturb religious events: BKU||Kurukshetra, December 25Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) today cancelled its plan to show black flags to the Chief Minister.BKU leader Karam Singh Mathana said, “There was a plan to show black flags to the CM but after directions from the union president that we shouldn’t disturb the religious event, the plan of protest was cancelled.”The president also cautioned the activists to not get the outlets of Reliance closed forcefully after a group of farmers forced employees of an outlet of Reliance Trends in Kurukshetra to close the outlet on Thursday here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-disturb-religious-events-bku-189426
26-12-2020||Nitish Sharma||Over 2L lamps light up Kurukshetra||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, December 25Nearly 2.25 lakh earthen lamps were lit on the banks of the Brahma Sarovar to mark ‘deepotsav’ on the occasion of concluding ceremony of the fifth edition of International Gita Mahotsav here today.Manohar Lal Khattar, CMGita source of inspiration for youth: CMBhagavad Gita is a major source of inspiration for the youth as it not only shows them the right path but also inculcates moral values in them.Over 30 social and religious organisations came together to lit the ‘diyas’ at the Brahma Sarovar and other tirthas here. Sky lanterns were also released on the occasion.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar performed the aarti and offered traditional ‘Deep Daan’. Thxe CM said: “Deepotsav was organsied here for the first time and over 2.25 lakh ‘diyas’ were lit. The number of ‘diyas’ will be increased in the coming years. Due to Covid, majority of the events of the Mahotsav were organised online. On the occasion, 55,000 students of different schools across the State collectively recited 18 verses (one each from 18 Chapters of Bhagavad Gita). Apart from Vice-Chancellors and students of 17 Sanskrit universities of the country, Vice-Chancellors of all universities of the state are also connected with the programme.”“An all-weather shed will be erected at the ‘aarti’ point of the Brahma Sarovar. Besides, owing to several development works being carried out here, it has been decided that the budget of the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) will be increased,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-2l-lamps-light-up-kurukshetra-189389
26-12-2020||Ambala||Campaigning ends in Ambala||Campaigning for the Ambala Municipal Corporation (MC) elections came to an end on Friday evening. Political parties left no stone unturned to get their message across and reach out to the voters.From deploying senior party leaders, road shows and social media streaming of events, parties and candidates did everything to grab the voters’ attention. Polling will be held on Sunday.As many as six candidates are in the fray for the post of Mayor — Dr Vandana Sharma (BJP), Meena Aggarwal (Congress), Amisha Chawla (HDF), Shaktirani Sharma (HJP), Jolly (BSP) and Gurmeet Kaur (Independent). Veena Dhal, who filed papers as an Independent, later extended support to Shaktirani. As many as 101 candidates are in the fray for 20 seats of the MC.On the last date of campaigning, BJP north-east Delhi MP and famous Bhojpuri singer Manoj Tiwari held a road show in support of BJP candidates in Ambala City. He appealed to the public to elect BJP’s mayoral and councillor candidates.He said, “The BJP believes in delivering all its promises. Our leaders are working tirelessly for the development of the nation. Some opponents are trying to stop us but we will not stop at any cost. I am confident that the people of Ambala will elect BJP candidates in the election.”Meanwhile, BKU (Charuni) activists showed black flags to BJP’s road show near Manji Sahib Gurdwara in Ambala.For Ambala Vikas Manch’s Independent candidate Gurmeet Kaur, former SAD MP Prem Singh Chandumajra sought votes.On the other hand, Congress, Haryana Jan Chetna Party (V), HDF and BSP leaders continued with their door-to-door campaign and corner meetings on the last date.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma visited sensitive and hyper-sensitive booths today. — TNSBKU campaigns against BJPBKU (Charuni) on Friday distributed pamphlets in Ambala City appealing to the voters not to cast their vote in favour of BJP candidates. The union in its appeal has alleged that the BJP government has introduced three black farm laws to benefit certain businessmen and the laws are not only against farmers but also small traders and general public||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/campaigning-ends-in-ambala-189390
26-12-2020||---||BJP MPs seek votes on plank of development in Sonepat||Panipat, December 25Senior party leaders and Members of Parliament (MPs) on Thursday campaigned in support of BJP-JJP coalition mayoral candidate Lalit Batra and ward candidates seeking vote for them.MP Kurukshetra Naib Singh Saini, MP Karnal Sanjay Bhatia, MP Sonepat Ramesh Kaushik, MP Rohtak Arvind Sharma, district president and MLA Rai Mohan Lal Badoli along with other leaders addressed the gathering at around 18 places in the city.Saini urged the residents to support and elect the BJP-JJP mayoral so that the newly-elected city government can spring into action and help with the city’s development. Kaushik said that the people of Sonepat would defeat the Congress candidate in the civic polls just like they did in the parliamentary elections while Bhatia claimed that the situation is now in the favour of BJP-JJP coalition candidates and people have decided to vote for the BJP-JJP candidate on December 27.Besides, BJP-JJP candidate Lalit Batra on Thursday sought votes in Sikka Colony, Sector 14, Devru road, Ward-1, Mission chowk, Gur mandi, Tara Nagar, Sector 13, Prabhu Nagar, Chhoti Masjid, Halwai Hatta, Gandhi market, Gopal Nagar and Kot Mohalla area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-mps-seek-votes-on-plank-of-development-in-sonepat-189391
26-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat MC poll: Close contest between Congress, BJP-JJP likely||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 25The high-voltage campaigning for Sonepat MC poll — scheduled for December 27 — ended today evening.The campaign was marked by a blitzkrieg between BJP-JJP and Congress mayoral candidates here. The residents expect a tough contest here for the mayoral post.People at city chowks, shops and public places could be seen busy in discussion about the mayoral elections. Some are praising the Congress while others are backing the BJP-JJP.Rajesh Arora, Vishal of Hem Nagar, Rohit of Housing Board colony and Kuldeep of Sector 14 were standing at a juice corner in Hem Nagar talking about the Mayoral post.They said that in the beginning, the Congress had an edge but in the past 3-4 days, the campaign for BJP candidate Lalit Batra got a boost. “We expect a close contest,” they said.Gaurav and Kunal of Tara Nagar said that the position of the BJP mayoral candidate had got better in the past five days. The people have made up their minds, but they are keeping their choice to themselves, said Kunal.Ajay Kumar Saini of Devru road said that though 10 candidates are in the fray for the mayoral post, a tough contest is between Congress and BJP-JJP candidates here.Deepak Kumar of Jeewan Nagar and Vikas of Sector 14 said that December 30 would decide the fate of the candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-mc-poll-close-contest-between-congress-bjp-jjp-likely-189392
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||10K staff to be put on duty||Close to 6,000 polling personnel and 4,600 policemen will be deployed at 893 polling stations during the local body elections slated for December 27.Dr Dalip Singh, State Election Commissioner, Haryana, said that elaborate arrangements have been made for the peaceful conduct of elections to the municipal corporations, municipal councils and municipal committees going to the polls on Sunday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10k-staff-to-be-put-on-duty-189393
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bogus input tax credit racket busted in Panipat||The anti-evasion team of the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST), Panchkula, during a search in Panipat, busted a racket of fake firms worth Rs 105.36 crore to avail and utilise input tax credit (ITC) amounting to Rs 19.25 crore. The mastermind behind the fraud was arrested on Friday.“Based on intelligence developed and investigation done by officials, a search was conducted relating to availment and utilising of fictitious, fake and fraudulent ITC passed on by bogus or fake firms in relation to trading of bitumen,” said Rachna Singh, Joint Commissioner, CGST, Panchkula. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bogus-input-tax-credit-racket-busted-in-panipat-189394
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 4 succumb to virus in Haryana||With 408 cases, the Covid tally in the state crossed 2.6 lakh on Friday. With four deaths, the toll reached 2,858. Bhiwani, Yamunanagar, Jind and Faridabad reported one death each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-4-succumb-to-virus-in-haryana-189395
26-12-2020||---||Cavalcade of MoS stopped, MLA shown black flags||Karnal, December 25Continuing their opposition to the visit of BJP-JJP leaders in their areas in support of ongoing agitation against the three farm laws, farmers today stopped the entry of Minister of State for Women and Child Welfare Kamlesh Dhanda in Kalyat and JJP MLA from Guhla Cheeka Ishwar Singh in Cheeka of Kaithal district.Farmers allegedly tried to stop the cavalcade of Dhanda when she was going to attend a programme in Kalyat. However, the police foiled their bid and helped the cavalcade pass safely amid anti-government slogans. Dhanda was not available for comment.Meanwhile, farmers entered DAV College in Cheeka where Ishwar Singh was chairing a programme on Good Governance Day and raised slogans against him and the government.Carrying black flags, they demanded the MLA to take the support back from the government or quit as the MLA. The police quickly took away the MLA, but farmers kept chasing him till he sat in his vehicle.Thereafter, farmers gheraoed the residence of Ishwar Singh in Cheeka and reiterated their demand. However, the MLA was not at his residence. Singh said the farmers were demanding his resignation from the post of the MLA and wanted him to withdraw support to the government.“I had completed my speech when farmers reached. I tried to pacify them and told that the farm laws had been passed by the Centre in Parliament, not by the state government in Haryana Assembly. My resignation would not help in repealing the laws, but farmers were adamant,” Singh told The Tribune over phone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cavalcade-of-mos-stopped-mla-shown-black-flags-189396
26-12-2020||---||Gurnam Singh Charuni rejects Haryana Deputy CM’s offer to mediate||Karnal, December 25Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Friday rejected the offer of Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala to mediate between the Centre and the farmers.Randeep Surjewala, Cong Gen SecyCong attacks ModiThe PM is giving a justification on TV as he knows that he has committed a crime. Farmers have been protesting in the cold and 44 of them have died… The BJP used water cannons on farmers, but is now running the Kisan Samman Nidhi drama. He said they don’t need any mediator. “Where was he (Dushyant) when the farmers were lathicharged and FIRs were registered against them,” said Charuni at Bastara toll plaza. He had come there to take stock of the farmers’ protest of making passage through the toll plaza free.Chautala had on Thursday batted for the resumption of dialogue between the farmers and the Centre to break the deadlock. He also urged the farmers to give concrete suggestions. Besides, he offered to mediate between the Centre and farmers if it helped resolve the issue.Charuni alleged that farmers have been facing cruelty under the BJP-JJP government in Haryana. He said farmers would continue to oppose BJP-JJP leaders in the future also. The BKU president also condemned the registration of FIR against farmers and their arrest in Ambala and said that it was unfortunate that FIR has been registered against the farmers who were only showing their resentment to the CM.On the disbursement of Rs 18,000 crore to nine crore farmers of six states by the PM under the PM Kisan scheme, he termed it alms. He said if the Centre ensures MSP as recommended by the Swaminathan Commission, then there would be no need to transfer money in this manner.About the future course of action of the farmers’ body, he said presently, they have decided to make passage through toll plazas free for three days till December 27. The next course of action would be decided by the national body soon.He appealed to the farmers to maintain discipline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurnam-singh-charuni-rejects-haryana-deputy-cms-offer-to-mediate-189397
26-12-2020||Karnal||Arhtiyas in Karnal keep mandis shut||To register their protest against the I-T raids on arhtiyas in Punjab, arhtiyas of Karnal district kept their mandis closed today.They claimed that these raids were conducted to force the arhtiyas to withdraw support to the farmers’ agitation.“We are with the farmers and will continue to support them. These raids are an act of revenge, which will not be tolerated,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association. He said the government should accept the demands of farmers instead of harassing arhtiyas. Rajesh Arora, another agent, said the government had been using all methods to break the farmers’ agitation and raids on the premises of arhtiyas in Punjab were a part of that. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arhtiyas-in-karnal-keep-mandis-shut-189398
26-12-2020||---||No toll for motorists as farmers picket plazas||Chandigarh, December 25On a call by various unions, farmers picketed toll plazas across the state on Friday, allowing commuters to pass without paying, which caused losses to these companies. The farmers announced that they would continue their protest at toll plazas till December 27.In Karnal, farmers reached the Bastara toll plaza on NH 44 and Peont toll plaza on the Karnal-Jind NH 709-A. They staged dharna at both toll plazas. BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni visited Bastara and exhorted farmers to continue their protest peacefully without harming anyone. “There will be no toll in Haryana for three days. Thousands of farmers are protesting at all toll plazas in the state,” he said.In Panipat, BKU activists assembled at the Panipat toll plaza on NH 44 and Dahar toll plaza. Farmers led by district BKU president Kuldeep Balana reached the Dahar toll plaza on the Panipat-Rohtak NH 71-A to protest.In Ambala, activists gathered at the Shambhu toll plaza on NH 44, Saini Majra toll plaza on the Hisar road and Thana toll plaza at Pehowa in Kurukshetra.“Farmers have been protesting in a peaceful manner. We will camp here till Sunday night. Vehicles will continue to move freely without paying toll and there will be no blockade,” said BKU (Charuni) Ambala vice-president Gulab Singh.Farmers also staged dharna at toll plazas in Sirsa and Jind districts. Hisar Kisan Sabha chief Shamsher Singh Nambardar said farmers would remain deployed at the toll plazas in Hisar on the Delhi road, Rajgarh road, Chandigarh road and Sirsa road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-toll-for-motorists-as-farmers-picket-plazas-189399
26-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Farm leaders meet today to discuss fresh talks offer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint forum of farmers’ organisations, will meet on Saturday to take a call on the response to the fresh letter received from the government and decide the future course of action.Leaders of farm bodies from Punjab huddled together on Friday to discuss the issues, including PM Narendra Modi’s speech during his video interaction with farmers of some states. “We will intimate leaders of the joint forum of organisations of our decisions. The final decision will be taken by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha,” said a farm leader.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of BKU (Lakhowal), said the farm unions were surprised that while the PM and Agriculture Minister had admitted that there were flaws in the new laws and were ready to amend these, they were not ready to repeal these. “The PM said that rumours were being spread that MSP would go after the new laws. We say if this is merely a rumour, the government should immediately come up with an ordinance to make MSP a legal right,” he said. He said the statement that APMC mandis would not be affected with the new laws was not correct because when private mandis would come up, APMC mandis would not be able to survive amid competition.“There will be no tax in private mandis while market fee and rural development fund are charged in APMC mandis. Private mandis will give extra benefits to farmers initially and once APMC mandis die their own death, farmers will be left to the mercy of private mandis,” he added.Lakhowal said it was surprising that while thousands of farmers were sitting on the Delhi borders with their families in the extreme cold, the PM chose to speak to a few farmers through video-conferencing.Reacting to the PM’s speech, Jagmohan Singh, another farm leader, said it was ironical that the PM thought that farmers who had organised such a big movement were illiterate and misguided. Yudhvir Singh, national general secretary, BKU (Tikait), “We understand that the letters being sent for offers of talks are merely to show to the SC so that the government can say it was sincere for talks, not farmers.”‘Golgappa langar’ at Singhu border||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-leaders-meet-today-to-discuss-fresh-talks-offer-189400
