01-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports highest spike of 412 Covid-19 deaths in one day||Delhi on Saturday reported the highest number of deaths as 412 people died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours. The new deaths pushed the toll to 16,559, according to the health bulletin. The Covid-19 tally in Delhi increased by 25,219 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed.There has been a fall of new cases in the last 24 hours, as Delhi reported 27,047 Covid-19 cases on Friday. The number of deaths increased by 37 in the last one day, as 375 deaths were reported on Friday.At present, the number of active cases in the national capital stands at 96,747 with a positivity rate of 31.61. The positivity rate witnessed a decline by 1.08 percentage points, as the rate stood at 32.69 per cent on Friday, the bulletin showed.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19As many as 79,780 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours on Saturday, in comparison to 82,745 done on Friday. Testing in Delhi decreased by nearly 3,000 in the last 24 hours. The number of total tests conducted so far amounts to 17,231,565.More than 27,000 patients recovered from Friday, taking the total recoveries to 1,061,246 on Saturday. The number of recoveries has increased by 2,133 in the past day.The cumulative positivity rate of the national capital stands at 6.82 per cent and the case fatality rate is at 1.41, marginally up from Friday, according to the data in the health bulletin.The rapid rise in the number of cases in Delhi made chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extend the lockdown for another week. This is the second time the lockdown in Delhi, which was first imposed on April 19, got extended.The graveyards and crematoriums in the Capital are also full and bodies are being cremated in waste grounds and car parks as the fatalities and cases continue to rise despite the restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-25-219-new-covid-19-cases-more-than-400-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101619874390366.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi sets up Covid-19 donation portal to collect funds, medical equipment||The Delhi government on Saturday launched a portal through which people from around the world can donate funds or medical equipment to strengthen its fight against the raging Covid-19 pandemic.Anyone interested in contributing to Delhi's fight against Covid-19 can do so by providing equipment or funds through the website -- delhifightscorona.in/donate, an official statement said."Indian citizens and the diaspora have always been at the forefront of helping governments deal with calamities in the country. We request you to provide as much support as you can," the statement quoting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said.Delhi government is looking to get urgent support for a range of equipment such as oxygen concentrators, cylinders, and other such things, through the initiative, said Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi.The DDC has been coordinating with donors and well-wishers who want to support the Delhi government's Covid-19 response. "They are playing the role of 'Corona Heroes'. Over 5,000 oxygen concentrators and 36 oxygen PSA plants have already been committed by donors and will arrive in Delhi soon," Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sets-up-covid-19-donation-portal-to-collect-funds-medical-equipment-101619874077720.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||After Fabiflu row, BJP MP Gautam Gambhir says will give oxygen concentrators for free||As thousands of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in the national capital gasp for oxygen, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Gautam Gambhir on Saturday said he will distribute 200 oxygen concentrators among people for free from Sunday onwards, ANI reported. "I've ordered 200 oxygen concentrators and will distribute them among people for free. It will start tomorrow. People have to bring doctor's prescription and patient's oxygen level details to get oxygen concentrators," he said, according to ANI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe East Delhi MP said the step has been taken to strengthen the city’s fight against the second wave of the virus. "The concentrators, that have been bought by the MP out of his own pocket, will be made available to all those suffering from mild to moderate COVID-19 infection at home," a statement issued by his office said.Also Read: Row over Gautam Gambhir’s offer of free FabiFlu from his officeEarlier last week, the MP's decision to offer free antiviral drug Fabiflu from his local office had triggered a row. Following his announcement, the Opposition accused him of hoarding the drug. “People of East Delhi can get ‘Fabiflu’ from MP office (2, Jagriti Enclave) for FREE between 10-5. Kindly get Aadhar & prescription,” Gambhir had tweeted, without mentioning how he managed to get the supply of the medicine which can only be bought on a doctor’s prescription. The Delhi High Court had also questioned if Gambhir had license to procure and distribute the drug in large quantities.Commenting on the situation in Delhi, the cricketer-turned-politician said people are desperately looking for oxygen cylinders while the Arvind Kejriwal-led government was "abdicating" its responsibility. "Delhi does not deserve this chaos and I will do whatever it takes, whatever is in my power, to help the people in their fight against one of the toughest battles we have seen in recent times," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-fabiflu-row-bjp-mp-gautam-gambhir-says-will-give-200-oxygen-concentrators-for-free-101619870934463.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Vaccination for people between 18-44 yrs in Delhi to start on Monday: Kejriwal||Large-scale vaccination against Covid-19 for people between 18 years and 44 years in the national capital will start on Monday, said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.Speaking to ANI, the chief minister said, "Vaccination for people between 18-44 years started at only one centre. This is symbolic only. We have received 4.5 lakh vaccine doses. It is being distributed in all districts. Large-scale vaccination in Delhi will begin from the day after tomorrow. There is no walk-in for now. I request people to come only with registration and appointment."Asked about the shortage of oxygen in Delhi hospitals, Kejriwal said, "There is a major issue of oxygen. SOS is coming from all hospitals. We have spoken in the court and written to the Centre that Delhi requires 976 tons of oxygen daily but we have been allotted only 490 tons of oxygen. Yesterday we received only 312 tons. How will this work?""I request the decision-makers with folded hands to provide oxygen to Delhi. People are waiting outside of hospitals just because of the shortage of oxygen. We have prepared 5000 beds at Radha Soami Centre but only 150 functional as there is no oxygen. We prepared 1300 beds at Commonwealth Games and Yamuna Sports Complex. We have prepared 2500 beds in Burari. If we get oxygen, there will be 9000 oxygenated beds in Delhi within 24 hours," stated the chief minister.Hospitals in the national capital are grappling with the acute shortage of oxygen due to a surge in Covid-19 cases.The Centre on April 19 had announced a ''liberalised'' policy, making all above 18 years of age eligible to get vaccinated from May 1. It has also allowed state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines from manufacturers. Per the revised rules, the centre will receive 50 per cent of the vaccines supplied; states and private hospitals will get the remaining doses.The country had started the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).Delhi recorded 375 Covid-19 deaths and over 27,000 new cases with a positivity rate of 32.69 per cent on Friday, according to the state health department. With the addition of fresh infections, the total Covid-19 count of the national capital has gone up to 11,49,333. The city also reported 25,288 recoveries from the disease. This is the ninth consecutive day the city has seen daily fatalities of over 300. A total of 10,33,825 people have been cured of the coronavirus infection in Delhi while the total death toll stands at 16,147.The country reported over 4 lakh new Covid-19 cases and 3,523 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccination-for-people-between-18-44-yrs-in-delhi-to-start-on-monday-kejriwal-101619866566386.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||'How can Delhi breathe?': Kejriwal after 8 die in Batra Hospital due to oxygen shortage||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged the Centre with "folded hands" to provide Delhi with the required quantity of oxygen after eight Covid-19 patients, including the head of the gastroenterology department, died due to the oxygen crisis at Batra Hospital."I request the decision-makers with folded hands to provide oxygen to Delhi," he said. The hospital ran out of oxygen for 1.5 hours on Saturday, resulting in the loss of lives.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Kejriwal pleaded for the provision of life-saving oxygen as he cited SOS calls from hospitals across the Union territory. The chief minister said there is a major issue of oxygen in Delhi and even after speaking to courts and writing to the Centre about Delhi's requirement of 975 tonne of oxygen daily, only 490 tonne have been allotted."SOS is coming from all hospitals. We have spoken in courts and written to the Centre that Delhi requires 976 tons of oxygen daily but we have been allotted only 490 tons of oxygen. Yesterday we received only 312 tons. How will this work?" ANI quoted Kejriwal as saying.ये खबर बहुत ही ज़्यादा पीड़ादायी है। इनकी जान बच सकती थी -समय पर ऑक्सिजन देकरदिल्ली को उसके कोटे की ऑक्सिजन दी जाए। अपने लोगों की इस तरह होती मौतें अब और नहीं देखी जाती। दिल्ली को 976 टन ऑक्सिजन चाहिए और कल केवल 312 टन ऑक्सिजन दी गयी। इतनी कम ऑक्सिजन में दिल्ली कैसे साँस ले? https://t.co/h7C5bcFtD6Terming the Batra hospital incident 'painful', Kejriwal said these lives could have been saved by giving oxygen on time. "How can Delhi breathe in such low oxygen," Kejriwal said, referring to the Centre's allocation of Oxygen to Delhi, which is far below Delhi's requirement.The national capital is facing a heavy shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, ICU beds and other essential medical supplies required to fight the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that has gripped the entire country.Delhi on Friday found more than 27,000 people infected with Covid-19, and 375 died due to the disease. Additionally, the country touched the grim milestone of over 400,000 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-can-delhi-breathe-kejriwal-after-8-die-in-batra-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101619860858694.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Man dozes off at wheel after visiting Covid-stricken wife, rams into Delhi police picket, kills constable||A 42-year-old man allegedly rammed his car into a police picket killing a constable in southwest Delhi's Vasant Vihar area early on Saturday morning, officials said.The accident took place around 4am at Al-Kauser picket when the accused, Samit Yadav, dozed off while he was returning from a hospital after attending to his Covid-19 positive wife, police said.The deceased constable was identified as Munshi Lal, 57, they said."The offending vehicle, Honda CRV, rammed into the picket tent that was erected for staff to ensure lockdown and dragged Lal for 30 to 40 meters," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said.The constable was rushed to AIIMS trauma center where he died during the course of treatment, he said.Yadav, a resident of Munirka, who works in the IT sector, was apprehended from the spot, police said.He told police that he fell asleep while returning from Max Hospital, Gurgaon, to attend to his wife, the DCP said.Yadav was taken to Vasant Vihar police station and given a PPE kit and isolated in police station premises. His medical test will be conducted soon, police said, adding a case has been registered under relevant sections of law and investigation is underway.Lal, an ex-serviceman, was posted in Vasant Vihar police station on August 28, 2020, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-dozes-off-at-wheel-after-visiting-covid-stricken-wife-rams-into-delhi-police-picket-kills-constable-101619863416743.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||'State has failed’: Sombre note in Delhi high court hearing after petitioner dies of Covid-19||“The State has failed us,” the Delhi high court observed on Friday, after it was informed in the middle of a hearing that a petitioner, who sought the court’s help three days ago to secure an intensive care unit (ICU) bed, had succumbed to Covid-19.“The State has failed in its fundamental obligation to protect the basic fundamental right -- i.e, the right to life as contained under Article 21,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the teary relatives of the petitioner.The petitioner, Atul Kumar Sharma, was admitted in Maharaja Agrasen Hospital’s casualty wing, and approached the high court on Tuesday to direct the state authorities to allocate him an ICU bed. The hospital told the court that it was taking care of the patient but had no ICU beds free.The high court had said it couldn’t consider an individual case but appealed to all hospitals and authorities to make arrangements. On Friday, when the bench was again appealing to counsels to consider the petitioner’s case, advocate Amit Sharma told the court that his brother-in-law Atul had expired. He burst into tears and said, “I have failed…”The bench stopped him. “No Mr Sharma, you have not failed. The State has failed.” Silence descended among the judges, counsels and over 150 participants who had joined the video conferencing hearing.The emotional exchange capped an eventful day in court where senior lawyers broke down and pleaded for help, the state government counsel expressed helplessness, and judges said it was getting tough for them.“It is the complete failure of the State that everything including hospital beds and medical oxygen is in short supply. It is a war and not a battle,” the court remarked earlier in the day after Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) chairman Ramesh Gupta, broke down while mourning his colleagues who died of Covid-19.Gupta, who was appearing in a petition seeking medical facilities for lawyers, submitted that a private hospital agreed to treat the lawyers but didn’t have ICU beds. “We want my lords to come to our rescue. We do not want to criticise anyone or any government. We have ₹4-5 crore in our funds and will arrange more from lawyers. We only want my lords to help us. Sir kuch karo aap (Sir please do something).”Delhi government’s standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi also became emotional while informing the court about a colleague’s demise.”Daily we are losing our dear ones,” he said.The court empathised. “We understand your pain. We are going through the same. This surge of Covid has such a huge number...nobody could have imagined that this will attack us in this way... Finances are not the issue here. The problem is infrastructure….The problem is we don’t have doctors, nurses, attendants, oxygen and medicines. It is a complete failure of the state,” the bench said.“It’s getting tougher for us,” the bench said.The court criticised the “hotchpotch situation” in Delhi and compared it to the way Mumbai was handling its infection load.“In Bombay what the municipal corporation has done is, you’re asked to register if you have Covid, and then they go door-to-door with bed and facilities. But we cannot do that in Delhi. It’s too late to devise a system now. Its complete hotchpotch. Central government… Delhi government….municipal corporations not one but three…Politically different parties.. Complete hotchpotch,” the bench remarked.The court directed authorities to immediately release 170 oxygen concentrators seized by Delhi Police from the black market . It also recalled an order passed earlier this week, where it had directed the Delhi government to take over a refiller plant. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said supplies were being affected due to this and several stakeholders asked him to bring back the vendor.During the proceedings, advocate Himanshu Dagar, representing Gandhi Nursing Home, told the court that 95 people were on the death bed because the hospital didn’t receive a single oxygen cylinder in the last 48 hours. He said that the hospital suffered two deaths on Thursday and had no oxygen cylinders at present.“We are at the complete mercy of God,” he said. To this, Mehra expressed helplessness and said that problems still existed in the supply system despite allocations being made.The court directed the Delhi government to sort out the issue and also issued notice to the two refillers assigned to the hospital. It asked the government to explain why the supply wasn’t done.The bench asked the Delhi government to look into the possibility of converting SUVs into ambulances and whether buses could be used for carrying oxygen cylinders instead of ambulances.It also asked the administration to look into scaling up Rapid Antigen Test in addition to RT-PCR tests through mobile vans for hospital staffs and using hotels for health workers so that their family members are not infected.The matter will be now heard on Saturday.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals, had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-has-failed-sombre-note-in-delhi-high-court-hearing-after-petitioner-dies-of-covid19-101619820415726.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||In Ghaziabad, 22-day-old baby, 104-year-old recover from Covid-19||cA newborn, who tested Covid-19 positive at just eight days old, defeated the virus at a private hospital in Ghaziabad 15 days later. The infant’s parents, residents of Ghaziabad, meanwhile, were also found to be Covid-19 positive.The baby was born on April 5 at Yashoda Hospital, Nehru Nagar. Eight days later, the baby was brought in again by the grandmother.The hospital did not disclose the baby’s gender.“Four days after the birth of the child, the parents had tested positive and had sent their baby to the grandmother in order to isolate. However, four days later, the baby started showing symptoms. The baby was not taking to feeding, and had heavy breathing and fever as well,” said Dr (Maj) Sachin Dubey, primary pediatrician at Yashoda Hospital, Nehru Nagar.He added that, upon examination, it was found that the baby’s oxygen levels were at 91, whereas in newborns, levels below 95 are not normal. The baby’s RT-PCR test was done and the child was found positive for the infection. An X-ray of the lungs showed that there was pneumonia in the right lung.“The baby was immediately admitted. The nurses took ample care of the child and even used to take the baby in their arms when the child cried, even though it was Covid-19 positive. Throughout the treatment, we fed the baby through mouth tubes rather than giving intravenous fluids,” said Dr Dubey.On the 12th day, the baby showed signs of recovery and on the 15th day, was discharged. While the father recovered from Covid-19, the mother continues to remain positive. “It is possible that at the time of delivery, the parents were positive but asymptomatic and the child caught the virus after it was taken home. Otherwise, in many cases babies do not catch infection from their Covid-positive mother if they take precautions like wearing masks and sanitising while feeding,” he said.Meanwhile, in another case, a 104-year-old pneumonic Covid patient recovered fully at the same hospital on April 12. Three weeks on, the patient continues to be healthy. “The patient was admitted to the hospital with high-grade fever and difficulty in breathing. On conducting RT-PCR test, he was diagnosed with Covid-19. A CT-Scan of his chest showed that the patient had bilateral pneumonia,” said Dr. Atul Raturi, senior physician and internal medicine specialist at Yashoda Hospital.After putting the centenarian on treatment, the patient recovered in three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-ghaziabad-22-day-old-baby-104-year-old-recover-from-covid19-101619820136844.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||5 lab staff held for issuing fake Covid-19 test reports||Five employees of a medical diagnostics laboratory were arrested for allegedly giving out fake Covid test reports, Delhi Police said on Friday. According to Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), the arrested suspects handed out 400 such fake reports -- both positive and negative -- since April 23.The company, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, said that the reports were not generated by the lab, and added that they informed police about the wrongdoing of their employees as soon as they noticed it. The company stressed that while some of their staff were involved in the crime, the laboratory had no role to play. It added that all authentic reports have QR codes, which can be easily be used to distinguish them from the fake reports that were being handed out.Police said the probe started after 45 members of a large, extended family in south Delhi’s Khirki Extension said they received false results from Genestrings Diagnostic Centre in Sarvodaya Enclave.The family members was reportedly tested by two technicians of the lab over a few days, and some of them were declared positive for Covid-19, said DCP Thakur. One of them, Rishab Shukla, said he was given a positive result on Monday. “But Shukla didn’t have any symptoms, and decided to get himself tested at another lab again on Wednesday. This time his result was negative,” said the DCP.Shukla then went to Genestrings Diagnostics, and was shocked to learn that his name was not in their records, and that his sample had never reached them.He contacted the police, which registered a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy at Malviya Nagar police station. The five people arrested are application scientist Manish Kumar Singh, his two colleagues Satender and Nikhil, and two lab assistants, Pragyanand Sharma and Himanshu Sharma.Police said that initially the technicians planned to have doctors test the samples, and share the results without entering the details in the laboratory’s records. They would use the lab’s letterhead to print out a the report, and pocket the money paid by clients of for the tests.“But as the load of the samples increased, the suspects began dishing out fake results without even testing them,” the DCP said.“On being approached by a few patients to authenticate reports bearing our lab’s name, we found out that they were not issued by us, nor tested at our lab. We immediately called the local police station in-charge to investigate what seemed to be a fake report issue,” said Chetan Kohli, COO of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre.“Five of our employees were identified to be a party to this crime without the knowledge of lab management or the lab head,” he added. “All our reports have QR codes which can be easily used to check the authenticity of reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-lab-staff-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-19-test-reports-101619819542369.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||7 held for running factory producing fake remdesivir||A BPharm graduate and a BCom graduate, both from Uttarakhand’s Haridwar, were among seven arrested on Friday for running a factory producing fake remdesivir injections, which were widely sold in Delhi and other states for huge profits, Delhi Police’s crime branch said.Vatan Kumar Saini (32), who holds BPharm and MBA degrees, and Aditya Gautam (33), a BCom graduate, told the police that they have sold more than 2,000 fake remdesivir vials in the black market through their agents in the past few weeks. The police said a 40-year-old woman events manager based in Delhi, who herself recently recovered from Covid-19, was helping them sell the fake vials in the national capital.Remdesivir injections are in huge demand across India, as Covid-19 infections surge. WHO has said there is no evidence it reduces mortality or obviates the need for ventilation in hospitalised people, but it has been found by some studies to help those in early stages of the infection who need supplemental oxygen.Delhi Police’s ongoing investigation into those arrested recently for trying to sell remdesivir injections in the black market helped them trace the vials to the manufacturing unit in Uttarakhand, the crime branch said.The crime branch said on Thursday that they carried out searches in the manufacturing facility in Uttarakhand’s Kotdwar and a trading company in Haridwar, both run by Gautam and Saini. The two were allegedly passing off injections of antibiotic azithromycin as the antiviral drug remdesivir, as the packaging of both drugs are similar. The men would replace the labels on the antibiotic vials with fake ones that they printed out, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.DCP Bhardwaj said 198 vials of the fake remdesivir, one packing machine, one barcoding machine, 3,000 empty vials and packing materials of azithromycin, an antibiotic used in the treatment of a number of bacterial infections, were seized from the factory.Thee duo was selling one remdesivir vial for around ₹6,000 to ₹10,000 to their agents, who further sold it to needy customers for prices ranging between ₹25,000 and ₹40,000. The injection is available for a price between ₹900 and 3,500, but shortages have resulted in a thriving black market. Many states have channelised sales of remdesivir .Delhi has been hit by a severe shortage of drugs such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, a scarcity that has been exacerbated by hoarders and black marketeers who are selling them at rates 10-15 times their retail value. For instance, HT reported earlier that a dealer in north Delhi offered to sell a customer a vial of remdesivir for ₹25,000, as against an MRP ranging from ₹899 and ₹3,500.DCP Bhardwaj said police have initiated the procedure to seal Gautam’s medicine manufacturing company, “Nectar Herbs and Drugs” in Kotdwar.According to the police, the first lead about the interstate racket came when the crime branch team on April 23 arrested Mohammad Shoaib (28), and Mohan Kumar Jha (40), with 10 remdesivir vials that they were trying to sell to a decoy customer outside Batra Hospital in south Delhi.After their arrest, the two told the police that they got the vials from two others, Manish Goyal and Pushkar Chanderkant Pakhale, who were subsequently arrested on April 25 from Delhi’s Yamuna Vihar with 12 more vials of remdesivir.The duo disclosed that their main supplier was one Sadhna Sharma and she was arrested the following day from Yamuna Vihar itself. A total of 160 vials of fake remdesivir injections were recovered from her, the DCP said.“Sharma underwent treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Krishna Nagar. Sharma needed remdesivir injections for her treatment but could not get one because of its scarcity. In her efforts to obtain an injection for herself, Sharma came in contact with Saini and joined his illegal trade,” said Bhardwaj.“Prime facie, it appears that except Sharma, the other four arrested persons did not know that the injections were fake. Sharma told us that the fake injections were coming from Uttarakhand through Saini,” Bharadwaj said.On April 27, Saini was arrested from his home in Haridwar from where one packing machine, 3,000 empty vials for packing fake remdesivir injections, and packing materials of azithromycin were seized. During his interrogation, Saini pointed to Gautam, who was arrested on April 29 from Roorkee. His company premises in Kotdwar was also searched. The computer on which fake labels were prepared and 16 fake remdesivir injections were recovered, the DCP said.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria earlier this week asked doctors to exercise caution while prescribing remdesivir to patients and said the drug being used to treat Covid-19 is not a “magic bullet”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/7-held-for-running-factory-producing-fake-remdesivir-101619819326549.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||3 private hospital chains say will open jabs up today; others still not sure||Three large private hospital chains– Max, Apollo, and Fortis – said that they will roll-out the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for everyone aged 18 and above from May 1, announcing that they have some stocks from the manufacturers directly. Other private hospitals, however, said they were unsure of whether they will receive any doses from the Delhi government.The Delhi government, which has ordered 6.7 million doses each of Covishield and Covaxin, is likely to get its first supply by Sunday, officials said. Government hospitals, on the other hand, have not received any instruction on immunising people below the age of 45 and are unlikely to do so with the existing stock provided by the Centre, which is meant only for people in the older group.According to a statement by Max healthcare group, four centres at Panchsheel Park, Patparganj, Shalimar Bagh and BLK hospital in Rajinder Place will begin administering Covishield from Saturday. “Max healthcare… will be starting universal vaccination drive from select hospitals in the network in NCR. As the supplies of the vaccine pick up all hospitals in the network will be used to vaccinate citizens,” said the group in a statement.Everyone will have to seek an appointment on Co-WIN platform of the government for receiving the shots, according to the rules previously announced by the government.Indraprastha Apollo hospital, as part of the group’s national vaccine roll-out, will also begin the immunisation drive in Delhi. The hospital hasn’t revealed which of the jabs will be used.All Fortis centres across North India will roll out the drive from Saturday with Covaxin.“Fortis will administer Covid vaccines for 18+ at its centres across North India from tomorrow. Fortis centres in other cities will commence vaccination as soon as supplies are made available by the authorities. The hospital will administer Covaxin from tomorrow at ₹1,250/dose; this includes cost of the vaccine and administration charges,” said a hospital statement.Union government officials said some states will begin vaccinations for the under-45 adult population from May 1, but expect teething troubles. “Government guidelines clearly say those private vaccination centres that will procure vaccine doses can start vaccination. Based on the availability of vaccine doses, and the way states coordinate with vaccine manufacturers, in some states vaccinations will definitely be launched in the 18-plus category. Any new process takes time to grow and stabilise,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health, during the briefing on Friday.“The guidance tools for vaccinating 18-44 years category are being shared with the states by the central government, and we feel that once this (additional) vaccination drive commences the way it has been designed, it will stabilise gradually. When the programme was launched on January 16, there were fewer vaccination centres across the country, which increased in due course. Similarly, this will also pick up speed in coordination between the private sector, the state, and the vaccine manufacturers,” the official said.He also said that the Centre asked the state governments to account for the vaccine doses that have been distributed to the private vaccination centres, and later start vaccination with additionally procured doses.In government-run hospitals in Delhi, officials were unsure of when they will be able to give doses to these groups. A doctor from Delhi government-run Rajeev Gandhi Superspeciality hospital said, “We will continue vaccinating people over the age of 45 years for now. As soon as we get instructions and doses from the Delhi government, we will start immunising people between the ages 18 and 44.”“So far, we have not received any information from the Delhi government on vaccinating those below the age of 45 years. We will continue immunising those who are 45 years and above as usual,” said a senior administrator from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), asking not to be named.Hospitals other than the large chains have been unable to secure any doses from the vaccine manufacturers and are unsure whether they will get any from the Delhi government.“We have contacted Serum Institute of India that has said they will be able to provide doses only after six months. Sputnik will come only in July we have been told. And, we are yet to hear from Bharat Biotech. For now, we will not be able to immunise anyone, even those who have received their first dose at the hospital. We might get doses from the Delhi government, but we haven’t received any communication to that effect,” said Dr DS Rana, chairperson, Sir Ganga Ram hospital.All private centres have been removed from the government’s Co-WIN platform for now and are likely to be added once they get the doses, according to the hospitals.“For now, we have to put everything on hold as there is no clarity on whether we will receive any doses from the Delhi government. From what we have heard, doses will go to government hospitals for the time being. People who have taken their first shot at our hospital will have to be referred to government hospitals for their second dose for now,” said Jasleen Kaur, general manager marketing, Indian Spinal Injury Centre.Experts believe that not vaccinating everyone over the age of 18 years might lead to disproportionate number of severe infections among young people.“The number of vaccinations has already gone down – maybe because of the lockdown, or because people have seen news about others getting the infection even after vaccination (what they do not realise is that the infection is mild), or because they think they might get the infection from the vaccination centres. This will further endanger people below the age of 45 years, who are completely unvaccinated and are getting severe disease during the second wave,” said Dr Anoop Mishra, chairman of Fortis Centre for Diabetes, Obesity and Cholesterol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-private-hospital-chains-say-will-open-jabs-up-today-others-still-not-sure-101619819066298.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||MCDs offer space to set up Covid facilities||With health care facilities across the national capital burdened by the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases and citizens complaining of difficulties in finding hospital beds, the three civic bodies -- east, north, and south -- have written to the Delhi government, offering to convert their schools and community centres into Covid care hospitals and isolation centres.The second wave of Covid-19 across the country — and the fourth wave in Delhi — has turned out to be the deadliest one yet in terms of cases and fatalities. Delhi is currently recording at least 25,000 new Covid cases and over 300 deaths every day.At present, Delhi has 21,199 beds for Covid-19 patients, of which 5,032 are ICU beds. Besides, there are over 5,000 beds in dedicated Covid care centres and 204 in dedicated healthcare centres.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Thursday sent a list of 20 schools and six community centres to the Delhi government that could be converted into Covid isolation centres. Officials said each school can have 50 beds. The civic body runs around 360 primary schools.East civic body mayor Nirmal Jain said that they have told the Delhi government that these spaces can be immediately used for Covid patients. “We are ready to give these spaces at the earliest. We have assured that we will arrange water, electricity and sanitation facilities. The government can set up beds and other medical infrastructure. We will help in that as well,” he said.Similarly, the North MCD has also offered its primary schools to the Delhi government to convert these into Covid-19 hospitals, isolation, and care centers. The north civic body runs 714 primary schools.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash on Friday said that the municipality had written to the Delhi government on April 19, offering to convert their schools, community centres, and polyclinics into dedicated Covid facilities. He said that around 7,000 beds can be added by letting the government use the municipality-owned buildings, including nearly 5,000 beds at its primary schools. “We have assured the government that we will provide every possible help from our side to fight this pandemic. We all know that citizens are running from pillar to post to find hospital beds and any addition at this time will only help save lives,” he said.He said that they have sent a list of 100 schools where beds can be set up. “In each school building, at least 50 beds can be set up,” he said.Meanwhile, the south Delhi municipal corporation officials also said that they have offered all available resources to strengthen the public health infrastructure in the city. “We are also working with our officials to identify which schools can be offered as dedicated Covid facilities. We will be releasing the list for the government in the coming days,” said south Delhi mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh. The south corporation runs around 580 primary schools.A Delhi government official, who wished not to be named, said, “The government is keen on expanding the healthcare infrastructure as much as possible. In case these schools and community centres (offered by MCDs) are required, the government will make use of them. Some isolation centres are already operating in MCD schools in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-offer-space-to-set-up-covid-facilities-101619817767074.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Distress calls on Delhi’s child helpline surge amid rise in Covid-19 cases||After losing their parents to Covid-19 on Friday, two siblings, aged 20 and 18, attempted to take their lives on the same day but the timely intervention of the neighbours, who alerted police, saved them. They were later rescued from south Delhi.A day earlier, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) helped a 15-year-old boy, who was struggling to take care of his mother alone after she tested positive for Covid-19.Amid a rise in both Covid-19 cases and fatalities, authorities, including the DCPCR, the Delhi Police, and several NGOs, are now working to ensure children of deceased patients and those who are ill are getting all the assistance they need. Officials said the child distress helpline are receiving many calls from children seeking help.The DCPCR has also launched a helpline +91-9311551393 to address the needs of children who have lost parents or whose parents are hospitalised or are in any distress.Anurag Kundu, chairperson of DCPCR, said he will ensure that the calls pouring into the helpline are looked into within 24 hours.“Children are the most vulnerable in these testing times as they remain dependent on others to provide for them. The helpline is receiving numerous cases wherein a child has lost all sources of support and is in need of immediate care. The Commission is committed to resolving all such cases in less than 24 hours,” said Kundu.For instance, after two children lost both their parents within a day, the commission coordinated with NGOs, following which local staff interacted with the duo and counselled them. “The relatives and neighbours are taking care of the children now. The Commission has been checking in on them everyday,” read a statement released by the commission.The commission said citizens could call the new helpline number and inform about children in distress.Sonal Kapoor, founder of Protsahan, said the most important thing is to work on closure for such children. “We aren’t taught how to deal with emotions involving grief, trauma, and death. A lot of adults, including caregivers and NGOs, are also in denial and children too struggle to process these emotions. The challenge is to establish a routine in the child’s life. While government agencies can put children in shelter homes and provide essentials, the focus should also be on psycho-social needs on grief and trauma healing,” she said.In another case, the DCPCR also facilitated the process of cremation for two children who lost their father and provided medical assistance, along with Covid tests, to them while their relatives arrived in a few hours.Last week, in Rohini, three children aged below 10 were living with their grandmother after their father died of Covid-19 and their mother was hospitalized with the infection. Volunteer groups provided essential supplies like fruits, milk, and bread after seeing the SOS call on social media. However, they pointed out that their grandmother was “very old to feed and manage them.”Kundu responded to the SOS asking his team to “make sure the children have all medical help, food and to daily check in on them at least for the next 15 days. Also, see if the children can talk to their mother over the phone.”In another case, a 14-year-old lost all his family members to Covid-19 and has been in home isolation after testing positive for the infection with no one to look after him. After receiving SOS messages on social media, the commission provided assistance to the child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/distress-calls-on-delhi-s-child-helpline-surge-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101619817590248.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Nurse held for siphoning off remdesivir injections from hospital||A 25-year-old nurse and her friend have been arrested for siphoning off remdesivir injections from a hospital in west Delhi’s Dwarka where she was employed, the Delhi Police said on Friday. A total of eight remdesivir vials that they allegedly siphoned off from the private hospital were recovered from them, said Santosh Kumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka). The suspects were allegedly selling each injection for as high as ₹25,000. The police were working to identify some suspects allegedly involved in the black marketing of remdesivir injections when they received a tip-off about the nurse, whose name the police chose not to disclose. On Thursday, she was arrested from Najafgarh and, at her instance, her friend was also nabbed, the DCP said. Her 31-year-old friend worked at the same hospital until sometime ago, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nurse-held-for-siphoning-off-remdesivir-injections-from-hospital-101619808169826.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||7 held for running factory producing fake remdesivir; already sold 2,000 injections in Delhi||A BPharm graduate and a BCom graduate, both from Uttarakhand’s Haridwar, were among seven arrested on Friday for running a factory producing fake remdesivir injections, which were widely sold in Delhi and other states for huge profits, Delhi Police’s crime branch said. Vatan Kumar Saini (32), who holds BPharm and MBA degrees, and Aditya Gautam (33), a BCom graduate, told the police that they have sold more than 2,000 fake remdesivir vials in the black market through their agents in the past few weeks. The police said a 40-year-old woman events manager based in Delhi, who herself recently recovered from Covid-19, was helping them sell the fake vials in the national capital. Remdesivir injections are in huge demand across India, as Covid-19 infections surge. WHO has said there is no evidence it reduces mortality or obviates the need for ventilation in hospitalised people, but it has been found by some studies to help those in early stages of the infection who need supplemental oxygen. Delhi Police’s ongoing investigation into those arrested recently for trying to sell remdesivir injections in the black market helped them trace the vials to the manufacturing unit in Uttarakhand, the crime branch said. The crime branch said on Thursday that they carried out searches in the manufacturing facility in Uttarakhand’s Kotdwar and a trading company in Haridwar, both run by Gautam and Saini. The two were allegedly passing off injections of antibiotic azithromycin as the antiviral drug remdesivir, as the packaging of both drugs are similar. The men would replace the labels on the antibiotic vials with fake ones that they printed out, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.DCP Bhardwaj said 198 vials of the fake remdesivir, one packing machine, one barcoding machine, 3,000 empty vials and packing materials of azithromycin, an antibiotic used in the treatment of a number of bacterial infections, were seized from the factory.Thee duo was selling one remdesivir vial for around ₹6,000 to ₹10,000 to their agents, who further sold it to needy customers for prices ranging between ₹25,000 and ₹40,000. The injection is available for a price between ₹900 and 3,500, but shortages have resulted in a thriving black market. Many states have channelised sales of remdesivir . Delhi has been hit by a severe shortage of drugs such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, a scarcity that has been exacerbated by hoarders and black marketeers who are selling them at rates 10-15 times their retail value. For instance, HT reported earlier that a dealer in north Delhi offered to sell a customer a vial of remdesivir for ₹25,000, as against an MRP ranging from ₹899 and ₹3,500.DCP Bhardwaj said police have initiated the procedure to seal Gautam’s medicine manufacturing company, “Nectar Herbs and Drugs” in Kotdwar.According to the police, the first lead about the interstate racket came when the crime branch team on April 23 arrested Mohammad Shoaib (28), and Mohan Kumar Jha (40), with 10 remdesivir vials that they were trying to sell to a decoy customer outside Batra Hospital in south Delhi. After their arrest, the two told the police that they got the vials from two others, Manish Goyal and Pushkar Chanderkant Pakhale, who were subsequently arrested on April 25 from Delhi’s Yamuna Vihar with 12 more vials of remdesivir. The duo disclosed that their main supplier was one Sadhna Sharma and she was arrested the following day from Yamuna Vihar itself. A total of 160 vials of fake remdesivir injections were recovered from her, the DCP said.“Sharma underwent treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Krishna Nagar. Sharma needed remdesivir injections for her treatment but could not get one because of its scarcity. In her efforts to obtain an injection for herself, Sharma came in contact with Saini and joined his illegal trade,” said Bhardwaj.“Prime facie, it appears that except Sharma, the other four arrested persons did not know that the injections were fake. Sharma told us that the fake injections were coming from Uttarakhand through Saini,” Bharadwaj said.On April 27, Saini was arrested from his home in Haridwar from where one packing machine, 3,000 empty vials for packing fake remdesivir injections, and packing materials of azithromycin were seized. During his interrogation, Saini pointed to Gautam, who was arrested on April 29 from Roorkee. His company premises in Kotdwar was also searched. The computer on which fake labels were prepared and 16 fake remdesivir injections were recovered, the DCP said.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria earlier this week asked doctors to exercise caution while prescribing remdesivir to patients and said the drug being used to treat Covid-19 is not a “magic bullet”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/7-held-for-running-factory-producing-fake-remdesivir-already-sold-2-000-injections-indelhi-101619807928828.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||State has failed’: Sombre note in Delhi high court hearing, after petition dies||: “The State has failed us,” the Delhi high court observed on Friday, after it was informed in the middle of a hearing that a petitioner, who sought the court’s help three days ago to secure an intensive care unit (ICU) bed, had succumbed to Covid-19. “The State has failed in its fundamental obligation to protect the basic fundamental right -- i.e, the right to life as contained under Article 21,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the teary relatives of the petitioner.The petitioner, Atul Kumar Sharma, was admitted in Maharaja Agrasen Hospital’s casualty wing, and approached the high court on Tuesday to direct the state authorities to allocate him an ICU bed. The hospital told the court that it was taking care of the patient but had no ICU beds free. The high court had said it couldn’t consider an individual case but appealed to all hospitals and authorities to make arrangements. On Friday, when the bench was again appealing to counsels to consider the petitioner’s case, advocate Amit Sharma told the court that his brother-in-law Atul had expired. He burst into tears and said, “I have failed…”The bench stopped him. “No Mr Sharma, you have not failed. The State has failed.” Silence descended among the judges, counsels and over 150 participants who had joined the video conferencing hearing.The emotional exchange capped an eventful day in court where senior lawyers broke down and pleaded for help, the state government counsel expressed helplessness, and judges said it was getting tough for them. “It is the complete failure of the State that everything including hospital beds and medical oxygen is in short supply. It is a war and not a battle,” the court remarked earlier in the day after Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) chairman Ramesh Gupta, broke down while mourning his colleagues who died of Covid-19.Gupta, who was appearing in a petition seeking medical facilities for lawyers, submitted that a private hospital agreed to treat the lawyers but didn’t have ICU beds. “We want my lords to come to our rescue. We do not want to criticise anyone or any government. We have ₹4-5 crore in our funds and will arrange more from lawyers. We only want my lords to help us. Sir kuch karo aap (Sir please do something).”Delhi government’s standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi also became emotional while informing the court about a colleague’s demise.”Daily we are losing our dear ones,” he said.The court empathised. “We understand your pain. We are going through the same. This surge of Covid has such a huge number...nobody could have imagined that this will attack us in this way... Finances are not the issue here. The problem is infrastructure….The problem is we don’t have doctors, nurses, attendants, oxygen and medicines. It is a complete failure of the state,” the bench said.“It’s getting tougher for us,” the bench said.The court criticised the “hotchpotch situation” in Delhi and compared it to the way Mumbai was handling its infection load. “In Bombay what the municipal corporation has done is, you’re asked to register if you have Covid, and then they go door-to-door with bed and facilities. But we cannot do that in Delhi. It’s too late to devise a system now. Its complete hotchpotch. Central government… Delhi government….municipal corporations not one but three…Politically different parties.. Complete hotchpotch,” the bench remarked.The court directed authorities to immediately release 170 oxygen concentrators seized by Delhi Police from the black market . It also recalled an order passed earlier this week, where it had directed the Delhi government to take over a refiller plant. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said supplies were being affected due to this and several stakeholders asked him to bring back the vendor. During the proceedings, advocate Himanshu Dagar, representing Gandhi Nursing Home, told the court that 95 people were on the death bed because the hospital didn’t receive a single oxygen cylinder in the last 48 hours. He said that the hospital suffered two deaths on Thursday and had no oxygen cylinders at present.“We are at the complete mercy of God,” he said. To this, Mehra expressed helplessness and said that problems still existed in the supply system despite allocations being made.The court directed the Delhi government to sort out the issue and also issued notice to the two refillers assigned to the hospital. It asked the government to explain why the supply wasn’t done. The bench asked the Delhi government to look into the possibility of converting SUVs into ambulances and whether buses could be used for carrying oxygen cylinders instead of ambulances.It also asked the administration to look into scaling up Rapid Antigen Test in addition to RT-PCR tests through mobile vans for hospital staffs and using hotels for health workers so that their family members are not infected.The matter will be now heard on Saturday.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals, had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-has-failed-sombre-note-in-delhi-high-court-hearing-after-petition-dies-101619807750343.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Centre has a ‘special duty’ towards people of Delhi, Supreme Court says||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to urgently consider Delhi’s enhanced medical oxygen requirement in light of the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the city, observing that it has a “special duty” to the people of the national capital. “Delhi represents the nation. There is hardly anyone ethnically Delhiite. Forget that somebody (Delhi government) wasn’t able to lift oxygen, but you have to push through because you have to protect lives. You have a special responsibility towards Delhi as the Centre,” a bench, presided over by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The remarks came after Mehta, representing the Union government, pointed out that all the states were required to gather their resources to lift oxygen from the points of procurement, but the Delhi government failed to do so because it did not have enough tankers to carry the oxygen. The law officer made this statement as the bench, which also included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, heard a public interest litigation registered suo motu (on its own) by the top court to manage various issues arising out of the second Covid-19 wave in the country and iron out issues between states and Centre at the national level. The court also asked Centre to consider increasing Delhi’s medical oxygen quota from the current 490MT, which has been a repeated demand of the Delhi government, and ensure that supply reaches the Capital. The allotted 490MT, the bench said, has not reached the Capital even once because of logistical constraints. “Please give them 200MT straightaway and make sure it arrives there. The Centre has a very valuable responsibility when the citizens of Delhi are concerned. Otherwise between today and Monday, we will have 500 deaths on our hands if we don’t do anything. I’m shaken. Please, do something. You have to do it,” justice Chandrachud told Mehta. While the S-G retorted that the death of 500 people could not be attributed to the oxygen shortages, the bench said the Centre’s role was not confined to allocation of oxygen, and that it also has a “very important role” in arranging for tankers for their transportation. “We will place your submission at the highest [pedestal], and we will accept Delhi’s inability, but we are not here on recrimination. We are not criticising you at all. But you should also know Delhi represents people from the entire country. The Centre has a peculiar role. You are the national government, and it is the national capital,” the bench told Mehta. “According to you, Delhi has not been able to lift [oxygen], but we cannot tell people that your parents or children or spouse cannot be helped because of this situation. This is a commitment we owe to the citizens and people who live here and not to different levels of government. You have to give us the solution,” it told the S-G, who assured the bench that the Centre will look into all the issues and will try to resolve the matter. The matter will now be heard on May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-has-a-special-duty-towards-people-of-delhi-supreme-court-says-101619807688797.html
