02-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 20,394 new Covid-19 cases and 407 deaths, positivity rate falls to 28%||Delhi on Sunday reported 20,394 new Covid-19 cases and 407 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate in the national capital has gone down from 30 per cent and stands at 28 per cent as of Sunday, the health bulletin showed.The Capital on Saturday reported the highest-single day surge in the number of daily deaths as it added 412 lost lives to the toll. The fresh fatalities took the death toll to 16,966, according to the health bulletin.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The number of new cases reported in the last day has declined by around 5,000 as Delhi registered 25,219 infections on Saturday. The fall in the cases can also be attributed to the decline in the number of samples tested in the last 24 hours. As many as 71,997 tests were done on Sunday in comparison to 79,780 on Saturday when the positivity rate stood at 31.61 per cent.The new cases took the active caseload in the Capital to 92,290 and the positive cases tally to 1,194,946, the bulletin showed.The case fatality rate in Delhi marginally increased for the second straight day and currently stands at 1.42 per cent. On Saturday, the fatality rate increased from 1.40 to 1.41 per cent.More than 24,000 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, in contrast to 27,421 on Saturday. The total recoveries as of Sunday amounts to 1,085,690, as per the bulletin.Delhi is again under lockdown for the next seven days as the infections continue to rise and the healthcare infrastructure has reached its capacity. There is a severe shortage of oxygen, due to which many lives have been lost till now. Batra hospital on Saturday reported the death of 12 Covid-19 patients, including that of a doctor due to the paucity of the life-saving oxygen.At present, 4,629 beds in dedicated Covid care centres and 84 beds in dedicated Covid health centres are vacant in Delhi, the data in the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-20-394-new-covid-19-cases-and-407-deaths-positivity-rate-falls-to-28-101619968639600.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain’s father dies of Covid-19||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain’s father, Ram Sharan Jain, died of Covid-19 on Sunday.“Our health minister Satyendra Jain lost his father today to COVID. V v sad. Satyendra himself has been working tirelessly round the clock for the people of Delhi. God bless his soul and my heartfelt condolences to the family,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.Also Read | Delhi Police urges people to steer clear of fake Remdesivir injectionsRam Sharan Jain, an octogenarian, was admitted to a private hospital in South Delhi a few days earlier with Covid-19 related health complications, said a government official, who did not wish to be identified. He was a retired schoolteacher and lived in East Delhi’s Saraswati Vihar.The fresh Covid-19 wave has overwhelmed hospitals in the national capital and led to a scramble for beds and medical oxygen. In June 2020, Satyender Jain was hospitalised because of Covid-19. The disease also left his 88-year-old father-in-law dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-s-father-dies-of-covid19-101619956197471.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Call of duty: Delhi Police extends care to its warriors, their families||From arranging for oxygen cylinders to donating plasma, Delhi Police personnel have been playing a crucial role in the fight against Covid-19. In the process, many cops have succumbed to the virus. But now, Delhi Police has set up three special Covid Care Centres, one each in Shahdara, Rohini and Dwarka, for its personnel and their families. “These centres come as a relief since they are dedicated to our needs,” says Sudesh, wife of Delhi Police constable Bijender Deswal, adding, “My husband became Covid positive last year. Though he didn’t have to get hospitalised, but we were very worried. Today, there are so many police officers whose families or they themselves are battling Covid-19. So the initiative to open these Covid centres comes as a blessing because we can be now assured that incase we get infected, we will be taken care of!” “These facilities have been made for immediate relief of patients before they find admission in the hospital. While Shahdara and Rohini are operational, Dwarka PTS will also soon be operational,” says Chinmoy Biswal, DCP Crime and PRO, Delhi Police. He adds that “Delhi Police resources will cater to the facility and provide medicines, an ambulance for emergencies, and a police team under an Inspector, which will look after the facility and coordination in each place.”At Shahdara Covid Care Centre — the biggest of the three — R Sathiyasundaram, DCP Shahdara, informs that 16 police personnel and their family members are quarantined at present. He adds, “We have a capacity of 78 beds, including 30 oxygen beds. We have one doctor and one nurse from Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, who are working round the clock, along with four more medical personnel. A special corona kit is also being made available to the personnel getting admitted, which includes essentials such as sanitisers, handwash, masks, slippers and other toiletries. We are trying to ensure that the health parameters of people who are Covid positive can be stabilised before hospitalisation.” Collaborating on this project with Delhi Police, is a Delhi-based non-profit organisation, Sewa Bharati, to provide oxygen cylinders to these Covid Care Centres. Hemant Kumar, vice-president of the organisation, says, “Delhi Police is doing immense amount of work to ensure law and order in the city while also providing basic necessities to the people. We had a dialysis centre where we had certain oxygen cylinders that had been donated to us; we are now providing these to Delhi Police’s Covid Care Centres, as well as other underprivileged patients around the Capital. The Police has always supported us, and we are humbled to be of service to them.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/call-of-duty-delhi-police-extends-care-to-its-warriors-their-families-101619953017505.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police urges people to steer clear of fake Remdesivir injections||Delhi Police issued an advisory warning relatives and friends of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients to not get lured into buying fake Remdesivir injections on Saturday. Delhi Police officer Monika Bharadwaj shared the image of a fake Remdesivir injection named ‘COVIPRI’ and urged people to remain cautious of the product which is making rounds in the market.“This is fake. No Remdesivir by the name of COVIPRI exists. This complete racket has been busted but some injections may still be in circulation. Please do not buy from unverified sources,” Bharadwaj tweeted, warning people to remain aware of scamsters trying to make a profit off of people amid the pandemic.This is #Fake.No #Remdesivir by the name #COVIPRI exists.This complete racket has been busted but some injections may still be in circulation. Please do not buy from unverified sources. pic.twitter.com/HncrXgk4MhThe Delhi Crime Branch's inter-state cell on Saturday busted the manufacturing unit which was involved in manufacturing of fake Remdesivir from Uttarakhand's Kotdwar. It also made seven arrests associated with the racket and seized 198 vials of fake 'Remdesivir injections', one packing machine, one batch coding machine, 3,000 empty vials.“The Crime Branch identified an interstate gang and apprehended two accused- Mohd. Shoiab Khan and Mohan Kumar Jha - from MB Road in Delhi’s Sangam Vihar. They were found indulging in black marketing of fake lifesaving 'Remdesivir injections', and recovered 10 'Remdesivir Injections' from their possession,” Bharadwaj was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The racket sold these injections at exorbitant rates of ₹25,000 - ₹40,000. Manish Goyal, Pushkar Chanderkant Pakhale, Sadhna Sharma, Vatan Kumar Saini, and Aditya Gautam were also arrested by the Delhi Police.The issue of fake Remdesivir being sold to unsuspecting patients has become a worry for people whose loved ones are infected by Covid-19. It is a serious law and order issue while state governments try to procure Remdesivir as an increasing number of cases and deaths are putting undue stress on an already overburdened healthcare sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-urges-people-to-steer-clear-of-fake-remdesivir-injections-101619951829924.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Oxygen shortage in Delhi's Madhukar Rainbow Children Hospital, 50 lives at risk||Delhi's Madhukar Rainbow Children Hospital Sunday sounded an alarm about their dwindling stocks of oxygen, saying 50 people, including four newborns, are "at risk".An official of the in Malviya Nagar hospital said there are around 80 patients, including those suffering from Covid-19, at the hospital. It also has 15 newborns, he said."There 50 people, including four newborns, on oxygen support," he said.The hospital does not have a liquid oxygen storage tank and depends on oxygen cylinders from a private vendor."It has become a daily fire-fight exercise in the absence of a continuous supply. We require around 125 oxygen cylinders a day," the official said.On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, had died at south Delhi's Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen for around 80 minutes in the afternoon.Several hospitals in Delhi continue to grapple with a shortage of oxygen, as coronavirus cases continue to spike every passing day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-shortage-in-delhi-s-madhukar-rainbow-children-hospital-50-lives-at-risk-101619941198905.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out in JNU; no casualties reported||A fire broke out in the forested area of Jawaharlal Nehru University on Sunday morning, the fire department said. Somvir Singh, an assistant divisional officer with the Delhi Fire Services, said the fire began in some garbage lying in the area near the university’s north gate and then spread to a part of the forest.Also Read | Phase 3 of Covid-19 vaccination drive starts at 5 centres in DelhiThe fire department received a call for dousing the flames at 10.50am and sent three fire tenders.Singh said that the situation is under control, and there were no reports of any major damage. He added he was not in a position to comment on the damage to the wildlife.The trigger of the fire remained unknown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-jnu-no-casualties-reported-101619939456623.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Phase 3 of Covid-19 vaccination drive starts at 5 centres in Delhi||The third phase of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) immunisation drive began in the city with at least four private hospitals and a government clinic vaccinating people between the ages of 18 and 44 years.“Today it is more of a symbolic launch of the drive as vaccination has been started only at one centre for those between 18-44 years. We have already received 4.5 lakh doses from the manufacturers and now we are distributing them in all districts. From May 3, we will start the vaccination drive on a large scale in Delhi,” said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who also visited the clinic in northwest Delhi’s Saraswati Vihar where the government kicked off the immunisation drive phase three.So far, Delhi has received 150,000 doses of Covaxin and 300,000 doses of Covishield, as per documents seen by HT.The drive began across four centres of Max hospital - at Shalimar Bagh, Patparganj, Panchsheel Park and BLK hospital in Rajinder Place, which also comes under the same management. “People came in large numbers for the vaccination drive on Saturday,” said an official from Max hospital.Apollo hospitals, which had earlier said that it will begin the vaccination drive on Saturday, was yet to begin immunisations at the hospital. “Our teams are working to add the hospital to the CoWIN platform. The drive will likely begin from May 3 or 4,” the hospital said. Slots for vaccination at Fortis hospital was shown to be available on Sunday on the government’s CoWIN platform.As many as 45,353 jabs were administered over the last 24 hours in Delhi, according to the daily health bulletin.As per documents seen by HT, which was reported on Saturday, vaccination of those aged 18-44 will begin at 100 schools, and not government hospitals, with each institute hosting five session sites. Each site will be given 150 doses, suggesting a total capacity of 75,000 doses per day. The documents further state that the government plans to increase the number of schools to 274 -- one in each ward of Delhi -- by May 7.With 17 schools/educational institutes as centres and 85 session sites, the West district will have the highest number of vaccination points. The number of centres in this district will be increased to 46 from May 7.Even as private hospitals remained in the dark about whether they will get doses from the Delhi government, some private hospitals handling Covid-19 patients received an order stating that their staff will be deployed in nearby schools for the immunisation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/phase-3-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-starts-at-5-centres-in-delhi-101619911805618.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown extended by a week till May 10 as 412 die of Covid-19||The Delhi government on Saturday extended the lockdown in the Capital by another week as the city’s health care infrastructure continued to remain overwhelmed by a massive surge in infections, with 412 people dying of Covid-19 — the most in a single day.“Lockdown in Delhi is being extended by one week,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday.Meanwhile, even as the death toll breached the 400-mark for the first time, Delhi added more than 20,000 infections for the 15th consecutive day, as the infection showed no signs of abating, or even slowing down.The health bulletin issued on Saturday showed that 79,780 tests were conducted in the previous 24 hours, of which 31.6% samples returned positive. The positivity rate, in a matter of concern, has remained above the 30% mark for 12 days now. Experts recommend a positivity rate below 5%, for an infection to be considered under control in a region.Essential activities, including the sale and supply of food items, groceries, medicines, etc, are allowed during lockdown. There will be no restrictions on the movement of health care workers, frontline workers, government staff, judicial officials, journalists and those seeking medical attention. Services provided by self-employed persons such as plumbers, electricians and those engaged in repairing of water purifiers; courier services; shops that sell educational books for students; and those selling electric fans are also allowed with a valid e-pass for movement.In the last one week, Delhi has recorded at least 25,000 cases daily and a positivity rate of over 30%. Saturday’s numbers took the city’s total tally to 11,74,552 and death toll to 16,559.Meanwhile, the Delhi government on Saturday launched a portal — delhifightscorona.in/donate — for people around the world to donate funds or medical equipment. “Indian citizens and the diaspora have always been at the forefront of helping governments deal with calamities in the country. We request you to provide as much support as you can,” Kejriwal said in a statement issued by the Delhi Dialogue and Development Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-extended-by-a-week-till-may-10-as-412-die-of-covid19-101619907837891.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||First-year student of family medicine working in Covid ward kills self||A first-year student of family medicine who was working at the Covid-19 intensive care unit at Max Hospital in Saket died by suicide on Friday, police said.“He completed his work shift at 2pm yesterday, as usual. The hospital learnt of his passing from his neighbours. We are deeply pained by his untimely death and extend our sincere condolences to his family,” said a statement by the hospital.The police were alerted by his wife’s friend on Friday night. He was found dead inside by the police, who recovered a suicide note. “The suicide note is addressed to his family and friends in which the deceased said he had good wishes for all the people he knew,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.The stress of seeing people dying of the illness might have led him to take the step, one of his colleagues said.“He has been working in the Covid-19 ICU, and seeing two or three deaths every day. Of course, we could not have done anything for these patients, but it is stressful,” said the colleague, who asked not to be named. He completed his shift on Friday afternoon, according to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/student-working-in-covid-ward-kills-self-101619904687292.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Hospitals sound alarm again with oxygen perilously short||The oxygen crisis in the national capital worsened on Saturday, with hospitals across the city sounding the alarm as their stocks ran low, on a day when at least 12 people died at Batra Hospital after an 80-minute disruption in oxygen supply.Saturday’s crisis was largely due to another shortfall in Delhi’s supplies, with the Capital once again not receiving its allocated quota of medical oxygen. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on the day said Delhi received only 312MT out of its allocated share of 490MT on Friday. This shortfall, he said, has held up the state’s plan to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients.Among the hospitals that ran perilously short of oxygen on Saturday were the state government-run Guru Teg Bahadur and Rajiv Gandhi hospitals. Officials said the two received emergency supplies in the “nick of time.”“We had all our faculty members and resident doctors lined up to give oxygen to patients using small cylinders and even manually in case the hospital ran out. The tanker arrived just in time,” said a senior doctor from GTB Hospital.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19A doctor from Rajiv Gandhi hospital, which is treating 350 patients on critical care beds, said, “We only have ICU beds in the hospital. If the oxygen were to run out, we would not have been able to save all the patients. We have a hand-to-mouth situation with oxygen every day.”Though the hospital has been allocated nearly 13MT of oxygen a day, officials said it doesn’t receive that amount.Oxygen quotas have been “rationed” due to supply shortages, said several hospitals.“The biggest bottleneck is that Delhi requires 700MT of oxygen daily but was allocated 490MT, which never comes. Our requirement (depending on the number of ICU and non-ICU beds) was assessed to be 6.5MT but we were allocated only 4.9MT because of this shortage. In the meantime, because we have more patients, our needs have gone up to 7MT. We can’t refuse patients crying out for help,” said Dr Sudhanshu Bankata, executive director, Batra Hospital.With the government maintaining a reserve of 11MT to resolve crises in hospitals, and allocating 16.8MT for refilling cylinders for hospitals, ambulances, and individuals, the quota of the hospitals had to be reduced further by 7MT, as per an April 29 order on oxygen quotas.Dr CM Bhagat, medical director of Bhagat Chandra hospital in Palam, said, “I am managing with just 50% of the quota. The refiller I have been linked to caters to other hospitals, which need 19MT oxygen. But the firm gets just 8.5MT of supply.” The hospital ran out of oxygen on Saturday evening and managed patients with low-pressure oxygen from a small oxygen generation plant it has. The hospital had to remove two patients from high-flow oxygen systems and manually pump air for five patients on ventilator support.“We have assigned 3 D-type cylinders from Mayapuri Response Point to the hospital. Officials of Bhagat Chandra Hospital are rushing to collect it,” tweeted Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha.Meanwhile, Sant Parmanand hospital said constantly changing linkages to refillers also posed a problem. “We have to run from one refilling station to another. We need more cylinders as several beds have been added to increase capacity for Covid-19 patients. It is the government’s responsibility to ensure that oxygen reaches us.”Kejriwal said the shortage has resulted in hospitals across the city sending out SOS calls again. “As against 976 MT needed by Delhi, if only 312MT is being provided, how are things supposed to work out?” he said.“It is only because of lack of oxygen that patients are having to wait for hours or even days outside hospitals or other Covid care facilities... If we get our full quantum of oxygen today, at least 9,000 oxygenated beds will be ready in Delhi within 24 hours,” he said on Saturday.Meanwhile, in another order, the state asked retailers and districts to ensure that procurement or refilling of oxygen cylinders by individuals is allowed only after checking their ID, the patient’s ID as well as production of a doctor’s prescription prescribing medical oxygen to the Covid-19 patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-sound-alarm-again-with-oxygen-perilously-short-101619901555318.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Constable on picket duty crushed to death after techie dozes off at wheel||A 57-year-old Delhi Police constable was killed in the early hours of Saturday after a vehicle, allegedly driven by a 42-year-old IT employee, hit and dragged him for nearly 40 metres at a police check post at Vasant Place Market in south Delhi’s RK Puram Sector-6. Police said the incident happened around 4 am when the errant driver was returning home from a private hospital in Gurugram where his wife, a Covid patient, is undergoing treatment. He was arrested from the spot, police said.The constable, identified by his first name Munshilal, was checking and prosecuting lockdown violators while on night picket duty. The constable was sitting on a chair when the Honda CRV car hit him and dragged him along the pavement and the road for nearly 40 metres. The car also damaged a temporary tent set up on the pavement for the police personnel on duty at the check post, senior police officers said.The driver, identified as Samit Yadav from Munirka, allegedly told police that he was tired and had dozed off while the vehicle neared the check post. Since he was returning from a Covid hospital, police officers made him wear a PPE kit before taking him to the Vasant Vihar police station and isolating him in the premises.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said that the mishap came to light around 4 am when the police control room received a call that constable Munshilal was hit by a vehicle at the Al-Kauser police picket, following which a team from the Vasant Vihar police station was sent there.“A white Honda CRV had badly damaged the picket, the tent erected for police staff and a motorcycle belonging to Munshilal, who was also dragged by the vehicle for 30-40 metres on the road by the vehicle. Munshilal was rushed to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he died during treatment,” DCP Singh said.A case was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving or riding in a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) and Yadav was arrested. His car was impounded.Police said that Munshilal was posted at the Vasant Vihar police station since August 2020. He is survived by his wife and three children, who are all married. The family originally hail from Alwar in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/constable-on-picket-duty-crushed-to-death-after-techie-dozes-off-at-wheel-101619895534650.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC tells Centre to ensure Delhi gets its oxygen quota||Anguished at the death of eight Covid-19 patients — four more deaths were reported later— at Batra Hospital in the city, the Delhi high court on Saturday gave the Centre a midnight deadline to ensure the allocation of 490 metric tonnes of medical oxygen reaches the Capital. Failing this, the court said it will initiate contempt action against the central government officials concerned.“Water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough…Do you mean we will shut our eyes to people dying in Delhi?,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said when the Centre’s counsel said the issue of oxygen crisis is also being heard before the Supreme Court, which will make its order public next Saturday.“We direct the central government to ensure Delhi receives its allocated supply of 490MT positively today [Saturday], by whatever means. Considering the fact that Delhi is not an industrial state, and does not have cryogenic tankers of its own, which can be requisitioned under the Disaster Management Act – like other States have done, it falls upon the central government to arrange the tankers as well...,” observed the bench.The bench also asked the Centre to ensure they make cryogenic tankers available for the city, while noting that Delhi has not received the 490MT of oxygen that it has been allocated even once. It directed two central officers to be present on Monday, when the matter will be heard next, if the orders are not complied with.It also declined the Centre’s request to defer the order till Monday for half-an-hour. “We have passed an order. You comply with that. That’s the end of it,” the court remarked.The directions came after Sudhanshu Bankata, executive director of Batra Hospital, told the court that his facility ran out of oxygen for one-and-a-half hours on Saturday. He said a doctor was among the eight Covid-19 patients who died due to oxygen shortage. He said that as the court heard the case, time was running out for other critically ill patients at the hospital.During the proceedings, the court was also informed by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, who appeared for the Delhi government, about an SOS message from Vijay Bidhuri, a city officer, which read that the city’s oxygen reserves were exhausted.In the message, which Mehra read aloud during the proceedings, Bidhuri said there was minimal supply from two firms — Linde and Air Liquide — on Saturday. Mehra said somebody needs to pull up the suppliers, alleging that they are diverting supply “under pressure.”“My officers will have a nervous breakdown. Our tankers are not given priority and they keep on standing for hours and hours. We need to know what is going on behind the scenes. You are actually killing patients by not giving it,” he said.He also informed the court that the city on Friday received only 312MT of oxygen, as against the Centre’s 490MT allocation.Advocate Amit Mahajan, the standing counsel for the central government, said, “Whatever is coming is good enough”. The bench, however, slammed this response. “We will not hear that what is coming is good enough. [Solicitor General Tushar] Mehta had said it, and we rejected it. This is not enough”.Mehra said the Delhi government can add more beds for Covid-19 patients, for which it will need 956MT oxygen.The court asked Mahajan to look into the matter and said, “Sort this out. Inform your officers that Linde is not supplying.” When Mahajan said Linde has to explain, the court said, “But you made the allocation. It falls on you. You have to do it now.”The court also asked the Centre why four cryogenic tankers that were meant for Delhi, but have been held up by the Rajasthan government, not been released despite the court’s earlier orders. It directed the Centre to take necessary steps to fulfil the assurance from S-G Mehta on April 26 that the tankers will be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-tells-centre-to-ensure-delhi-gets-its-oxygen-quota-101619895474221.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Senior doctor among 12 dead after Delhi's Batra hospital runs out of oxygen||Twelve Covid patients including a senior doctor admitted to the intensive care unit of south Delhi’s Batra hospital died on Saturday due to an 80-minute disruption in oxygen supply, a top official of the hospital said, underlining that the next 24-48 hours are critical for some more patients whose condition deteriorated due to the disruption.Eight patients including senior consultant Dr RK Himthani (head of the hospital’s gastroenterology department died within minutes of the hospital running out of cylinders. Dr Sudhanshu Bankata, executive director of the hospital, had then expressed fears that the death toll could increase.“And, it (deaths) is not going to stop at eight. Once the patient’s condition deteriorates then you cannot salvage that patient. There is a ripple effect, there would be many who must have destabilised by now and the number of deaths will certainly go up,” said Dr Bankata said.By Saturday evening, Dr Bankata confirmed four more deaths and cautioned that some more patients were still critical.For some other patients, he said, the next 24-48 hours are going to be critical.“We have lost lives,” the hospital’s executive director had informed the Delhi high court a few hours earlier when it was hearing petitions on shortage of oxygen supply in the national capital.The judge said the issue should have been raised with Rahul Mehra, who is representing the Delhi government in the high court, before the proceedings began. The court also said that the hospital should learn a lesson and maybe set up its own oxygen plants.According to the hospital, it had raised an alarm with all the government-appointed officials at 7 am after not receiving its allocated liquid medical oxygen. Despite this, the hospital did not receive its oxygen supply and completely ran out of liquid oxygen at 12:15 pm on Saturday.“We have been allocated less quantity of oxygen than is needed, so we are constantly running around to get oxygen every day. We have also been linked to two suppliers both of whom do not deliver the oxygen on time. And, the Delhi government tanker that was on SOS duty reached the hospital only at 1:35 pm despite having been informed at 7 am,” said Dr Bankata.The hospital has currently received 1,000 litres of oxygen from the Delhi government’s SOS tanker, “which is only going to last for another 1.5 hours,” said Dr Bankata.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal described the news of more patients dying due to shortage of oxygen as “very painful”.“These lives could have been saved by giving oxygen on time,” he said in a tweet, reiterating his government’s demand for medical oxygen.“Delhi should get its quota of oxygen. We can’t see our people dying like this any more. Delhi needs 976 MT of oxygen and yesterday received only 312 MT. How will Delhi breathe with inadequate oxygen”.On Friday, the Supreme Court had asked the Centre to consider increasing Delhi’s medical oxygen quota from the current 490MT and ensure that supply reaches the Capital. The allotted 490MT, the bench said, has not reached the Capital even once because of logistical constraints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/senior-doctor-among-8-dead-after-delhi-s-batra-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-101619863793181.html
02-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi can add 650 critical care beds if oxygen assured at three govt hospitals||The number of critical care beds in Delhi can go up by at least 650 if the Capital is able to assure a steady supply of oxygen at just three government hospitals — GTB hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital and AIIMS. This will be in addition to the 1,200 makeshift ICU beds that the government plans to set up, even as Delhi continues to report over 20,000 new coronavirus cases each day.The uncertainty over oxygen has also forced several hospitals to restrict new admissions, which will also ease up once the supply is restored.The critical care beds include ICUs, high dependency units (also seen as step-down ICUs) and high flow oxygen beds.Delhi has added 116 ICU beds since Thursday, taking the total number of ICU beds to 5,020. However, only 44 were vacant on Friday night -- the highest since April 18 -- as per the government’s Delhi Corona app.The biggest Delhi government-run hospital in trans-Yamuna region, GTB, had to reduce the number of beds allocated for Covid-19 from over 900 to 700 last week because of the oxygen crisis. “No hospital is designed to support critical patients on more than 90% of its beds; we are only admitting critical patients. So, we had to reduce the number of beds as our oxygen plant was running at full capacity. Yesterday, the hospital almost ran out of oxygen at night. We had to stop new admissions,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.The hospital authorities said it can restore over 200 beds if they receive regular supply and additional staff. The Delhi government has allowed all its hospitals to hire doctors, nurses, and other staff, including those who have retired, to take care of critically ill patients. “There is hardly any trained staff left in Delhi; but we are trying to do whatever we can,” the doctor said.Another Delhi government hospital in the same area, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital, had to reduce the number of beds from 550 to 350 due to the uncertainty in oxygen supply. “We have just 100 doctors but we have previously run 550 beds with critical patients and we can do it again if we are assured supply of oxygen,” said a senior doctor at the hospital.At AIIMS, the plan to convert non-Covid beds for the treatment of the viral infection has slowed down because of the uncertainty in oxygen supply.“The number of non-Covid-19 patient coming in to the hospital has reduced drastically. So, we are trying to convert 200 to 250 beds into Covid wards. The availability of the oxygen is a big hindrance,” said a senior administrator from the hospital.The Centre has allocated 490 MT of oxygen to Delhi, which has been demanding 700 MTDr Narin Sehgal, Delhi secretary of Association of Healthcare Providers (India) and medical director of Sehgal Neo hospital, said, “SOS calls are being raised by one hospital or the other every 30 minutes across Delhi... People are dying and you don’t give them oxygen?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-can-add-650-critical-care-beds-if-o2-assured-at-three-govt-hospitals-101619819855657.html
