03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records maximum temperature of 39.7 degrees Celsius||The national capital on Monday recorded a maximum temperature of 39.7 degrees Celsius, one notch above the season's normal, according to the India Meteorological Department.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a minimum temperature at 24.3 degrees Celsius.Partly cloudy sky with possibility of thunder and lightning is expected in the city on Tuesday, the IMD said.The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the "poor" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 247 at 9.05 pm, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-maximum-temperature-of-39-7-degrees-celsius-101620060977383.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||‘Essential life support machines’: Sisodia seeks GST exemption on oxygen concentrators for 6 months||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday requested Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to consider exempting the goods and services tax (GST) on oxygen concentrators for six months in order to make them more affordable for citizens.The health infrastructure of Delhi is crippling amid the shortage of oxygen supplies to treat the critical patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Several patients have lost their lives in the national capital since last month as hospitals have only managed to make temporary arrangements to address the oxygen shortage and their supplies are exhausting regularly.In a letter to Sitharaman, Sisodia said oxygen concentrators have become essential life support machines during this unprecedented health crisis. “Oxygen concentrators are in short supply and even if one manages to arrange an oxygen cylinder, there is an unprecedented shortfall in the availability of medical oxygen creating uncertainty and panic among patients under home isolation. There is no availability of oxygen concentrators in the market,” Sisodia said.Also Read| Delhi to receive 205 tonnes of liquid oxygen in Railways’ biggest single-day loadCiting Delhi’s Covid-19 disease situation, the deputy chief minister wrote there have been 25,000 fresh cases on a daily basis and 10% of these require some form of hospitalisation including oxygen support. Over 50,000 patients are in home isolation and around a quarter of them require some sort of oxygen support at home due to difficulty in availability of beds in the national capital.Sisodia informed Sitharaman that there are 16,272 non-ICU oxygen beds and 4,866 ICU beds in Delhi and the Aam-Aadmi Party-led government is creating additional 15,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,200 ICU beds “which are likely to be operationalised over the next 10 days.”The deputy chief minister also wrote that he was grateful to the Centre for allowing import of oxygen concentrators for personal use through e-commerce portals till July 31 and the reduction of integrated GST (IGST) on these imports from 28% to 12%.Also Read| Centre exempts imported Covid-19 relief material from IGST till June 30 for free distributionEarlier in the day, Sisodia wrote to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, seeking the Indian Army’s help to set up and operationalise coronavirus facilities with 1,000 ICU beds and 10,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds.Also Watch| Delhi Covid crisis: Sisodia seeks Army’s help; speaks on oxygen shortage﻿Nearly 1.2 million have been infected with Covid-19 in Delhi while 16,966 have succumbed to the disease. On Sunday, 20,394 new cases were reported while the daily toll remained above 400 (407 to be exact) for the second consecutive day. The overall recoveries have climbed to 1,085,690 while the active cases are at 92,290.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-writes-to-sitharaman-for-gst-exemption-on-oxygen-concentrators-101620054071214.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt provides 10 oxygen cylinders to IBS hospital after SOS||The Delhi government on Monday rushed ten D-type oxygen cylinders to the IBS hospital in Lajpat Nagar after an SOS was received regarding the shortage of medical oxygen."We have rushed 10 D-type oxygen cylinders from our SOS reserves to IBS hospital in Lajpat Nagar, which would help them tide over the crisis," AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said on Twitter."Sincerely hope that with the intervention of judiciary, the Centre will finally be charitable enough to give Delhi its share of oxygen," he added.A journalist tagged the Delhi MLA in his tweet and sent out the SOS saying that IBS Hospital in Lajpat Nagar was running out of Oxygen and 37 patients were on oxygen support.The tweet was sent at 1:18 pm.Several hospitals in Delhi continue to grapple with a shortage of oxygen, as coronavirus cases continue to spike. On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, had died at Delhi's Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen.Delhi recorded 20,394 new Covid-19 cases and 407 deaths on Sunday.As per the official data issued on Sunday, the total count of cases in the city has gone up to 11,94,946 including 92,290 active cases and 10,85,690 recoveries. The death toll has gone up to 16,966.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-provides-10-oxygen-cylinders-to-ibs-hospital-after-sos-101620039637504.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||25 flights, 300 tonnes cargo: How Delhi airport handled Covid relief over 5 days||The Delhi international airport handled 25 flights carrying 300 tonnes of Covid-19 relief cargo in the last five days, its operator, DIAL, said on Monday.The airport has set up a 3,500 square meter dedicated logistics facility, called 'Jeevoday warehouse', for interim storage and distribution of the relief materials, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said in a statement.India is struggling with the second wave of coronavirus infection as hospitals in several states are reeling under a severe shortage of drugs, oxygen, and beds."In a span of just 5 days – April 28 to May 2 - Delhi airport has handled around 25 Covid relief flights totalling around 300 tonnes cargo, originating from various countries like the US, United Kingdom, UAE, Uzbekistan, Thailand, Germany, Qatar, Hong Kong, China, etc," the statement noted.Most of the relief flights were conducted by Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft such as IL76, C-130, C-5, C-17, it said.These flights brought in over 5,500 oxygen concentrators, approximately 3,200 oxygen cylinders, over 9,28,000 masks, 1,36,000 Remdesivir injections, which are required in view of a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, the statement noted.The daily Covid-19 cases in India showed a slight dip on Monday, with 3,68,147 new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours. The total caseload in the country stands at 1,99,25,604, according to the Union Health Ministry.The death toll due to the disease increased to 2,18,959 with 3,417 more fatalities being reported in a day, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25-flights-300-tonnes-cargo-how-delhi-airport-handled-covid-relief-over-5-days-101620029757344.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination begins at Delhi's 301 centres for 18-45 age group||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the vaccination against Covid-19 has begun 301 centres for beneficiaries aged 18-44 across the national capital."Vaccination has started at 76 schools of Delhi government today. With this, vaccination has begun at 301 centres for the 18-45 age group. Our target is to make 10 centres at every school. We will continue to expand the number of centres as we receive more vaccines," said Sisodia after his visit to Vinod Nagar vaccination centre.He further said that the Delhi government received 4.5 lakh vaccine doses on May 1 and they are in touch with vaccine manufacturers for more jabs."We received 4.5 lakh vaccine doses on May 1. We are in touch with vaccine manufacturers. We have given appointments to 45,150 people for vaccination today. People are very eager for taking the vaccines. We hope for 100 per cent turnout," said Sisodia.The Deputy chief minister further said that they have sought help from different sources including the army, the central government and its different wings, and the private sector for transportation of oxygen.Sisodia said that as per the data, Delhi on Sunday only 440 MT of oxygen which is lower than the allocated quota of 590 MT.He further said that Delhi needs 976 MT of oxygen daily as the government are increasing the number of beds.The inoculation drive for those between 18 and 45 years of age started in many parts of the country on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-vaccination-begins-at-delhi-s-301-centres-for-18-45-age-group-101620026523665.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||#StudentsLivesMatter: Cancel, don’t just defer exams say DU students||The new wave of Covid has hit almost every other household across the Capital, impacting lives of many students, directly or indirectly. Students of Delhi University have come forward to raise their voice about the stress to appear for exams, sooner or later. While some are battling Covid themselves, others are tending to their Covid positive family members, and feel that it’s taking a toll on their mental health to prepare for exams alongside. Unable to cope this stress, students of varsities across India have also written to the authorities, with a signed petition, asking for their exams to be cancelled and not just postponed. Alongside, the youngsters are also participating in Twitter storms to ensure that their voice is heard. “Humare exams cancel nahi hue, they have been rescheduled in July. And we really want suspension of online classes for atleast two weeks. Teachers ko bhi request kiya tha, but koi nahi sun raha humari,” says Disha Bhatia, a first year student of Gargi College, DU, adding, “Second and third year ke exams abhi ke liye cancel ho gaye hain, but phir bhi unko bola ja raha hai ki June 1 se unke exams honge... The new wave of Covid has created a turbulence in lives of most of us. Irrespective of this, the professors have been continuously pushing us with back to back tests and assignments. With all the negativity and emotional trauma around us, even the online classes have become a headache and are affecting our mental health.” The digital petition signed by more than 3,000 students, mentioning about this stress that they have been facing during the ongoing Covid wave, asks for complete cancellation of exams and suspension of classes. Arya Ray, a second year student of Sri Venkateswara College, who started the digital petition says, “We didn’t know whether a petition would matter, but we just couldn’t sit at home and do nothing about it. So this was just us doing our bit, trying to make the system play its part. Frankly, it is ridiculous that my classmates and I had to start an online petition, participate in Twitter storms and mass emailing campaigns just to get DU and other universities to take note of the situation and emphasise that #StudentsLivesMatter... The situation with regard to the pandemic is worse than ever; we are struggling day and night to find hospital beds and oxygen cylinders so that our loved ones can at least have a fighting chance and even then, every day brings news of relatives and friends not making it. Our professors are trying their best to take classes even when there are people suffering in their own homes. Despite all of this, there had been no action for respite from the university and we were expected to prepare and sit for exams. Even if they ignore our mental health, our physical suffering is quite tangible and visible now.”DU has postponed the intermediary and final year exams for the moment, and is planning to conduct them at a later stage in the coming months. However, the students have been requesting for complete suspension of exams as well as the online classes. “This wave of Covid 19 has hit everyone, both professors and students, and if they go ahead with the examinations at any stage - later or now - it’ll be a terrible burden for everyone,” opines Sumaho Guha, a second year student of Kirori Mal College, DU, adding, “No one is in the right mindset to either write an exams or check the answer scripts. They should cancel the exams completely for the second year and put greater weightage on the assignments, so that students can put more effort in it. The exams for third year students are crucial, so they could be postponed further.” Meanwhile, IITians have also been facing extreme mental pressure with regard to their examination, and want them to get postponed. Aditi Singh, a student of IIT Delhi, says, “Actually, a lot of students have directly or indirectly been affected by Covid, and we all want the exams to be postponed. They have neither lessened the assignment strain nor have they changed the examination dates yet. Only, there has been a relaxation in the grading and passing criteria. But we want exams to be postponed by at least a week or so, considering the current scenario.” Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/studentslivesmatter-cancel-don-t-just-defer-exams-say-du-students-101620025626027.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Commonwealth Games village becomes Delhi's first Covid centre with own oxygen plant||Amid the shortage of medical oxygen across the country due to a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi has got its first Covid care centre with its own oxygen plant at the Commonwealth Games village Sports complex.The oxygen plant can supply oxygen to 18-20 patients simultaneously.Dr Anurag Mishra, Clinical Manager at the Covid care centre, told ANI that to overcome the shortage of medical oxygen, oxygen plant has been set up at the Covid care centre itself."The shortage of medical oxygen in Delhi is due to the supply chain of the oxygen cylinders. Setting up our own oxygen plant is a great move," Mishra said."The plant has been donated by the HCL foundation. We are thankful to them as we no longer depend on a supply chain," he said.He further urged the hospitals to set up their own oxygen plant as it can save many lives.Several hospitals in Delhi continue to grapple with a shortage of oxygen, as coronavirus cases continue to spike every passing day. On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, had died at Delhi's Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen.Delhi recorded 20,394 new Covid-19 cases and 407 deaths on Sunday.As per the official data issued on Sunday, the total count of cases in the city has gone up to 11,94,946 including 92,290 active cases and 10,85,690 recoveries. The death toll has gone up to 16,966.A lockdown is also in place in the national capital till May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/commonwealth-games-village-becomes-delhi-s-first-covid-centre-with-own-oxygen-plant-101620023671174.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi; AQI remains in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 24.8°C and the maximum temperature was 39.5°C – one degree above normal. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 196. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 174, which is the higher end of the moderate category. Also Read | Delhi L-G seeks action plan on shortage of beds, oxygen amid Covid-19 surgeAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Satellite fire data indicate effective fire counts have decreased and around 700 which are mainly wheat crop burning in the northern part of India. Model trajectory and transport-level wind direction are not very favourable for fire-related intrusion, which has led to improvements in air quality in Delhi. SAFAR Model forecast improved wind speed and good ventilation for the next two days. Hence, AQI is likely to improve and stay in the moderate category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-aqi-remains-in-moderate-category-101620011519923.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G seeks action plan on shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen amid Covid-19 surge||The lieutenant governor of Delhi, Anil Baijal, on Sunday asked concerned departments and agencies to submit an action plan with regard to the availability of hospital beds, medicines, medical oxygen as well as increasing the capacity of crematoriums and graveyards amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital."Lt Governor has sought further advise from concerned departments and agencies with regard to the availability of key medicines, beds, medical oxygen and augmentation of capacities at crematoriums and graveyards, with the aim of addressing the ongoing problems being faced by people," the LG office said in a tweet from its official handle.The LG has also asked the departments and agencies of the Delhi government to submit a quantifiable action plan that could be monitored while addressing the problems due to shortages."LG has also suggested that the possibility of reemploying recently retired Doctors and other paramedical staff, where ever required, be looked into to address shortages," he added.A massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital has resulted in shortages of hospital beds, medical oxygen, and medicines for patients.Meanwhile, Delhi's new Covid-19 cases slightly dipped on Sunday to 20,394 but the city saw 407 deaths in the last 24 hours. This is the second consecutive day when Delhi saw more than 400 deaths.The total count of cases in the city has gone up to 11,94,946 including 92,290 active cases and 10,85,690 recoveries. The death toll has gone up to 16,966.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-seeks-action-plan-on-shortage-of-beds-oxygen-amid-covid-19-surge-101620010042356.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G seeks advice to help boost infra||Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Sunday sought advice from concerned agencies on availability of hospital beds, medicines, oxygen shortage, augmentation plans and ways to scale up capacity of crematoriums and graveyards in the light of the severe surge in Covid-19, the L-G office said.“Lt Governor has sought further advice from concerned departments/agencies with regard to availability of key medicines, beds, medical oxygen & augmentation of capacities at crematoriums/grave yards, with the aim of addressing the ongoing problems being faced by people,” said the Delhi Raj Niwas in a post on Twitter.“He has asked for submission of a quantifiable action plan with monitorable time lines in this regard. HLG (Baijal) has also suggested that the possibility of reemploying recently retired Doctors and other paramedical staff, where ever required, be looked into to address shortages,” the Raj Niwas tweeted.Baijal was tested Covid-19 positive on Friday and he is currently under home isolation.A fourth wave of the pandemic is raging in Delhi. An unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases and disproportionately high number of severe infections have left the healthcare system overburdened.On Sunday, according to the government’s health bulletin, Delhi recorded 20,394 new cases and 407 more deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-seeks-advice-to-help-boost-infra-101620006985890.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||DU to postpone final-year exams||The Delhi University (DU) has decided to postpone the examination of final year students by at least two weeks in the wake of the fourth wave of Covid-19 that has swept across the Capital. The exams were scheduled to begin from May 15.The decision comes amid demands for postponement of exams by both students and teachers in the light of the current Covid-19 situation.DU’s dean of examination D S Rawat said the decision was taken on Saturday in a meeting attended by all deans, officials and chaired by the acting vice chancellor (V-C) P C Joshi. “Taking the current situation into consideration, it was decided to postpone exams by at least two weeks. There are so many Covid-19 positive cases in the university itself. Sixteen officials in the examination branch have tested positive in the last few days and two of them succumbed to the virus on Sunday morning. The examination branch will remain closed for the next three days,” he said.“We will wait for two weeks for the situation to stabilize. Exams are likely to begin from June 1,” he added.The examination was to be conducted only for final year students. It will be conducted in an online open book format. The university has already announced that it will conduct exams for students of other semesters later.Earlier on Friday, the DU Teachers Association had written to the acting V-C requesting him to postpone the exams. “The fact that students are battling illness of self and family members is evident from the fact that the attendance in classes has significantly dropped. It is cruel for us to continue to behave as if we ought to be unaffected by whatever is happening around us...Many Heads of Departments have already written to the Dean, Examinations requesting that the exams for final year/ semester students be postponed in view of the number of Covid positive cases among students and teachers...Hence, we request you to consider cancelling examinations for all students and decide upon alternative means to evaluate students,” read the letter released by the association.Meanwhile, students welcome the decision. Rashi Rajput, a final year BCom student, said, “Many of my family members are currently down with Covid-19. I have also recovered recently. We can’t give exam under such stressful situation. I’m appreciate that the university has acknowledged our concerns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-to-postpone-final-year-exams-101620006449443.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospitals raise alarm with perilously low oxygen stock||Several hospitals in Delhi sent out desperate calls to authorities to replenish their oxygen supplies when they dropped precariously, threatening lives as the health infrastructure was crumbling under the pressure of an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid patients requiring oxygen or ICU support.With the city reporting over 20,000 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) each day, city hospitals have been facing acute oxygen shortage for nearly two weeks. Many hospitals sought help from the authorities on social media and three --- Sita Ram Bhartiya Hospital, Venkateswara Hospital, Maharaja Agrasen Hospital --- moved the high court, demanding replenishments, saying lives were at stake.Delhi received 454 MT of oxygen in the last 24-hours against its increased quota of 590 MT. This doesn’t even meet its previous quota of 490 MT. The Delhi government has demanded 976 MT of medical oxygen to add 1,200 ICU and 15,000 oxygen beds. According to the Delhi Corona app, only 20 ICU beds of the total 5,154 were available at 11pm on Sunday.Delhi government officials said that the Indian Oil Corporation has given five tankers to the Capital to transport oxygen. On Sunday, the government deployed an official at an oxygen plant in Faridabad to ensure steady supply.After the Vimhans hospital sent out an SOS around 7pm on Sunday, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha tweeted, “This is criminal abdication on part of those who were supposed to supply oxygen. However, we are in process of arranging 2MT of LMO for Vihmans from our reserves so that they get through the night. I urge Central Govt to deliver to us the allocated oxygen. We too are raising SOS.” At least 94 patients were admitted at Vimhans ICU when the hospital said it was about to run out of oxygen.The oxygen shortage has directly resulted in the deaths of 32 Covid-19 patients in two private hospitals of the city in the last ten days. Without attributing any deaths to the shortage, managing director of Aakash healthcare in Dwarka Dr Aashish Chaudhry said, “With erratic oxygen supply, many a times the pressure to the machines in the ICU drops, we have teams on standby but it does result in the worsening of clinical conditions of some.”Around 1pm, the Madhukar Raibow Children Hospital and Sitaram Bhartia hospital, which are primarily mother and child care hospitals, reached for the last few cylinders of oxygen on Sunday.“It has been a constant challenge for the last ten days or so as the need for oxygen soared. We used to need 10 to 12 cylinders of oxygen a day, now we use 90 to 100 cylinders. The government has allotted vendors to us but when we are in need, they might not have supplies. We do high risk deliveries and many neonates are on ventilators other than Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Shishir Paul, clinical director of Madhukar Rainbow hospital, where at least four babies with Covid-19 were admitted on Sunday morning.Madhukar rainbow is the only hospital that has consistently reserved ICU beds for pregnant women and children even as the city had completely run out of ICU beds.Sitaram Bhartia hospital ran out of liquid oxygen on Sunday afternoon and has been managing patients on oxygen cylinders ever since. They received some 20 cylinders as an emergency backup from the government reserve. “But, with the current demand, five cylinders last about 40 minutes,” hospital officials said. Their full tank of oxygen used to last 14 days earlier, now it lasts about 24 – 30 hours, they said. The hospital had four babies on oxygen supply, two of whose mothers were Covid-19 positive and admitted to the same hospital.Maha Durga city hospital ran out of liquid oxygen at 2am on Sunday morning; the oxygen tanker with emergency supply of 0.7MT reached the hospital at 7 am. For five hours, the hospital managed the 130 Covid-19 patients on backup oxygen cylinders. The hospital received another 2MT of oxygen by afternoon, however, there was no assurance for further supply as the vendor had said they were not getting any oxygen.“We have been allotted a restricted quota of 2.7MT, our current requirement is 3.5MT,” said Dr Nitin Makhijia, medical director of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospitals-raise-alarm-with-perilously-low-oxygen-stock-101620005883275.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||SC tells Centre to raise Delhi’s oxygen quota; SOS calls persist||The Supreme Court directed the Union government to ensure the deficit in oxygen supply to Delhi is met by the midnight of May 3, according to its order uploaded on Sunday, which came hours after at least five hospitals sent distress messages about their dwindling stocks and a day after 12 people died at a private hospital when their oxygen support dried up.The court noted details of allocations, demand, projected demand, and actual daily dispatches of liquid medical oxygen and said it “accepts the submissions” by the solicitor general to ensure Delhi is supplied with oxygen as per its “projected demand”. The order cited an April 18 forecast that predicted Delhi would need 700MT of oxygen daily.“We accept his submission and direct compliance within 2 days from the date of the hearing, that is, on or before midnight of 3 May 2021,” the order said.According to data available on Sunday, the Capital received the most amount of medical oxygen in a day so far with 454 MT on Saturday, which came after the Delhi high court threatened to initiate contempt proceedings against Union government officials. The apex court’s directions now mean Delhi will need to be supplied with 700MT of liquid medical oxygen by the May 3 deadline.Earlier in the day, the Delhi HC pulled up officials from both administrations afresh in an unusual Sunday sitting, which was to discuss an application by the Centre for the HC to recall its May 1 order warning of contempt proceedings if the Capital did not receive its quota of 490MT.“On Saturday, Delhi received 454 MT oxygen, of which 32 MT was arranged from Haryana at the last minute by the central government,” said a senior Delhi government official, who asked not to be identified.Delhi government records showed that between April 21 and 30, the city received total 3,534 MT oxygen – which comes down to 353.4 MT per day. But supplies on Friday were particularly low, 312MT.Delhi government officials said the Capital’s oxygen demand has risen further. “Delhi needs 976 MT oxygen per day. On the other hand, the allocation is only 590 MT. We have already requested the central government to increase the allotment to 976 MT, and to preferably do it from nearby oxygen plants to reduce the supply time. We are not even getting what has been allotted to us. We are doing our best to manage with whatever oxygen we are getting on a daily basis,” said a spokesperson.Some of the shortfall came into focus on Sunday when hospitals began sending SOS messages about their oxygen stock drying up. “We have Liquid Oxygen supply till 12 Noon today at Madhukar Rainbow Children Hospital, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi,” said a tweet by the hospital at 10.27am. A representative later said they had 50 patients, including four newborns, on oxygen support. The hospital does not have a liquid oxygen storage tank and depends on oxygen cylinders from a private vendor.Rainbow Children Hospital was among five hospitals that sent out such SOS messages. Together, these had over 550 Covid-19 patients, although it was not immediately clear how many of them were on oxygen support. The hospital said it received 20 oxygen cylinders around 1:30pm.On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, died at south Delhi’s Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of oxygen for around 80 minutes. Late on April 23, 20 coronavirus patients died in similar circumstances at the Jaipur Golden Hospital. The crisis has persisted since April 21 due to a combination of factors. Delhi’s quota set by the Union government is 490MT, lower than the 700MT the Capital’s government says it needs; the city does not have adequate number of oxygen tankers to bring in supplies from neighbouring states, and other states have been unable to spare vehicles for Delhi since they too are recording a surge in oxygen demand as the Covid-19 infection continues to spread.The problem relented briefly last week with the Capital appearing to be able to source adequate oxygen for its reduced bed strength, but that has meant hospitals have not been able to add more vacancies for seriously ill patients who may need oxygen even though they had empty beds.The situation prompted the interventions of the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court, and top officials of the state and central governments, including the Prime Minister, held key meetings.Solutions include setting up more oxygen plants in the city, and link them to hospitals, so that these facilities can become self-sufficient; and bringing in tankers from other states or countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sctells-centre-to-raise-delhi-s-oxygen-quota-sos-calls-persist-101619989137929.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt plans vaccination for residents in 77 public schools from Monday||Starting Monday, 77 public schools Delhi will operate as Covid-19 vaccination sites exclusively aged between 18 and 44, as part of the state government’s plans to open up the drive for all adults, a senior government official said on Sunday.West Delhi district will have 17 such schools, southeast Delhi will have nine, while there will be eight in Shahdara district, seven each in north and southwest districts, six each in central, northeast and northwest districts, four each in New Delhi and south districts, and three in east Delhi, showed a state government document.The senior government official quoted above said the government plans to increase the number of such locations for the 18-44 age group to 100 by the end of the week, and have two to five vaccine sites in each of them. “By mid-May, we plan to have at least one vaccination site in each of the 272 municipal wards in the city,” said the official.Delhi currently has over 539 sites to vaccinate all residents aged 45 and above.Covid-19 vaccines will be administered for free in government-run sites.The third phase of the Covid-19 immunisation drive began in the city on Saturday with at least four private hospitals and a government clinic inoculating people aged between 18 and 44.The drive began in four Max Hospital branches — at Shalimar Bagh, Patparganj, Panchsheel Park and BLK hospital in Rajendra Place, which is also under the same management.For phase 3, Delhi has 150,000 doses of Covaxin and 300,000 doses of Covishield, according to another document seen by HT.So far, 3,302,559 total doses of vaccine have been administered in Delhi, of which 710,672 were second doses for beneficiaries, government records showed.The government’s health bulletin said, 49,633 doses were administered on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/77-public-schools-in-delhi-to-get-vaccination-centres-from-monday-101619986318028.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Covid orphans: Child rights body issues a caution||Flooded by requests for adopting children who lost their parents to Covid-19, both online and offline, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has urged people not to fall for misinformation floating on social media, and advised interested families to follow the due legal process to initiate the adoption process.Several children have lost their parents to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic -- fourth wave, as per the Delhi government -- in the national capital. Earlier this week, DCPCR appealed to people on social media to call on their helpline number and report cases where children need essential supplies, have lost their parent(s), or are struggling to support themselves due to the illness. Following this, the child rights body said requests for adopting children orphaned amid the pandemic have also started pouring in.Commission chairperson Anurag Kundu tweeted on Saturday evening: “Do not believe anyone who says he/she can give you the child for adoption. They are either lying or misleading or simply involved in illegal practices. Do reach out to your lawyer friends for advice.”Kundu said he himself has received around 10 such requests in the last few days. “Besides, I see a lot of posts floating around about child adoption. People need to understand that they have to follow a legal process. Any adoption without it is illegal,” he said.Explaining the standard process of adoption, Kundu said that when a child is orphaned, abandoned, surrendered or the parents are unable to support him/her, the child is produced -- by anyone -- before the concerned Child Welfare Committee (CWC). “The committee, in the interim period, sends the child to a children’s home, fit facility or Special Adoption Agency (if the child is below six years) and the Committee then passes order conducting a social investigation report by social worker, child welfare officer or child welfare police officer to check the background of the child and his family in a structured format. It’s called a social investigation report. Once it’s established that the parents are either unwilling to support, or simply unable to, or the child has turned orphaned and nobody is coming forward, the committee declares the child legally free for adoption, following the procedure laid down in JJ Act, 2015, and Model Rule, 2016, as well as adoption regulations. Then the CWC directs the appropriate authority in CCI (child care institution) and DCPO (district child protection officer) to complete medical examination report and registers the child on the Central Adoption Resource Authority as per procedures and upload all relevant documents required. No child can be adopted without following this process,” he said, adding that any other route is illegal and punishable under law.Kundu also flagged some posts on Twitter by people claiming that few children who lost their parents to Covid-19 were adopted within hours of them seeking help on social media. He also tagged Delhi Police while flagging another such post inviting people to adopt two girls whose parents allegedly succumbed to the virus.“We are encouraging people who are approaching us to follow the legal process. Besides, they should not take any decision in the heat of the moment. It’s a lifelong decision which needs to be taken after due consideration,” he added.A Delhi police spokesperson decline to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dcpcr-warns-against-falling-for-social-media-posts-to-adopt-children-orphaned-by-covid-101619986198078.html
