04-05-2021||Delhi||‘Like an ostrich’: Delhi high court’s contempt notice to Centre on oxygen supply||The Delhi high court on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to the Central government over the “non-compliance” of its order from last Saturday to provide 700 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen for the treatment of patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi. The high court directed the presence of Piyush Goyal and Sumita Dawra, additional secretaries in the ministries of home affairs and industrial promotion, respectively, before it on Wednesday to answer the notice.Also Read | 'You may be blind, but we are not': HC slams Centre over deaths due to scant oxygen supply in DelhiThe notice, it said, was also over the “non-compliance” of the Supreme Court’s order from May 2, directing the Centre to rectify the issue of shortage of medical oxygen in the Capital’s hospitals, on or before the midnight of May 3.Also Read | Supreme Court asks Centre to rectify Delhi oxygen issue by Monday night"You can put your head in sand like ostrich, we will not," the high court remarked. on Tuesday.“During the course of the hearing, it has been brought to our notice that Delhi has still not received 700 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen even though the Supreme Court had directed compliance by the Union of India by midnight on May 3,” the court said during the hearing, also noting that the Centre has submitted that it will file a compliance affidavit in the apex court on Wednesday.Also Read | SC tells Centre to raise Delhi’s oxygen quota; SOS calls persist“We fail to understand what good compliance affidavit would do when 700 MTs oxygen is not being delivered to Delhi. Even 590 MTs per day has not been delivered for a single day,” the bench further said. It also noted that though the Centre has submitted that the apex court has not directed supply of 700 MTs, a “complete reading” of the order shows that the Union government was directed to supply medical oxygen in the said quantity.The persual of the Supreme Court order, the bench said, shows that it has recorded the Delhi government’s statement that against the demand of 700 MTs, the manufacturers have been able to supply only 445 MTs of oxygen.Also Read | Delhi HC seeks info of patients admitted, discharged at hospitals since April 1 to review 'malpractice' allegations“Supreme Court also took note of the allocation in favour of Delhi which was 490 MTs, which is sufficient to show that it directed that the Delhi government should be given 700 MTs,” the high court said. Pointing to the Supreme Court taking note of the “heart rendering” situation in Delhi and assurance given by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to meet the Delhi government’s demands, it rejected statements that “Delhi is not entitled to receive 700 MTs.”“It pains us that the aspect of supply of oxygen for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi should be viewed from the way it has been done by the Central government,” the court said.Several hospitals in Delhi have, in recent days, approached the Delhi high court complaining of shortage of medical oxygen; there have also been instances of patients losing their lives due to its shortage. According to a health department bulletin on May 3, the city-state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 1,212,989, after 18,043 more people tested positive on the day. The tally includes 1,105,983 recoveries, 89,592 active cases and 17,414 related fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/like-an-ostrich-delhi-high-court-s-contempt-notice-to-centre-on-oxygen-supply-101620134390033.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||'You may be blind, but we are not': HC slams Centre over deaths due to scant oxygen supply in Delhi||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the central government to divert the unutilised tankers of oxygen to Delhi from states like Maharashtra where the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation is improving."If the need for oxygen and tankers has depleted in Maharashtra, they could be diverted to Delhi. This is not a permanent arrangement. Whenever the need arises again, you can send them back," the Delhi high court said, acknowledging a suggestion from the amicus curiae.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma assured the high court bench that the central government is already considering the possibility of diverting oxygen cylinders to Delhi from other states and that the same would be done.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also came down heavily on the Centre over the shortage in oxygen supply in the national capital. The high court bench said that the Centre must ensure that oxygen reaches Delhi, according to the instructions issued by the Supreme Court earlier.The bench said that it would result in contempt of court the directives of the apex court are not met.Representing the Delhi government, advocate Rahul Mehra pointed out that although the Supreme Court had instructed 700MT of oxygen to reach the national capital, only 433 MT has reached till now. "People are dying," he noted.When additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, representing the central government, said in response that these are "rhetorical statements", the court hit back."Is it only a rhetorical statement? It's the reality. You may be blind, but we are not. We cannot shut our eyes. This is so insensitive and unfortunate. How can you make such a statement?" the bench said.The court also asked the central government to clarify how many oxygen suppliers there are in its empowered group to tackle the Covid-19 crisis. "What you are planning is all in the future. But our main concern is to ensure if it is being done in the most efficient way possible. If the suppliers are major stakeholders, they should be brought into the allocation plan" the court noted.The Delhi high court suggested that the government could also consider consulting help from experts at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and the Indian Institute of Management (IIM). "Whatever fleet you have, use it at the maximum potential," the bench noted.The court also asked the Centre about the request of the Delhi government seeking aid from the Indian Army to set up field hospitals."This has to be done fast. The nature of the request is such," the bench observed.When ASG Sharma said that the matter is being considered and logistical issues are being seen, Justice Palli said, "It has already been 48 hours since the request was made to you."The matter would be heard post-lunch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/you-may-be-blind-but-we-are-not-hc-slams-centre-over-deaths-due-to-scant-oxygen-supply-in-delhi-101620117558840.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal announces free rations for card holders, aid for taxi, auto drivers in Delhi||Announcing a repeat of two key measures taken by the Delhi government during lockdown last year, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the state will once again provide free ration for two months to ration card holders and also give financial aid of Rs.5,000 to autorickshaw and taxi drivers in the city, while adding that the announcements do not mean that the curbs will remain in place for the next two months.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the free ration scheme will benefit around 7.2 million ration card holders and the financial assistance will help around 156,000 autorickshaw and taxi drivers.“To deal with coronavirus, we have imposed a lockdown in Delhi. This was essential to curtail the number of cases and to break the chain. Any lockdown creates a financial crisis for people, especially for the poor. It hits the daily wage workers particularly hard, following which it becomes difficult for them to run their homes,” he said.“Today, we have taken two major decisions. Firstly, free ration will be provided to the around 72 lakh ration card holders of Delhi for the next two months to help the poor wade through their financial crisis. Having said that, one should not assume that the lockdown will continue for the next two months. Let us hope that the cases begin to decrease and the lockdown is lifted early,” he said.Kejriwal said the second decision is to provide all registered autorickshaw and taxi drivers in the city as monetary aid of Rs.5,000 each.“All autorickshaw drivers and taxi drivers are seeing some tough times, as their homes would run on their daily wages. Some do not have much savings too, and with the lockdown of the past few weeks, their daily earnings have depleted completely. Just as last year, when the lockdown was imposed, all of Delhi’s auto and taxi drivers were given Rs.5,000 each by the Delhi government. Today, we’re extending the same financial assistance to all the auto and taxi drivers to help them during this financial adversity,” he said.The national capital has been locked down since April 20 due to an unforeseen surge in Covid-19 cases, and the curbs has been extended twice with cases continued to remain near or above the 20,000 mark.The lockdown, the chief minister said during the announcement on April 19, would help the state government bolster the city’s health care infrastructure, which has been under severe pressure due to the increase in infections requiring hospitalisation. Even after the curbs, hospital beds, medical oxygen and space at funeral homes have been hard to come by for residents of the Capital.The Delhi government on April 20 announced it will resume its scheme of giving Rs.5,000 financial aid to those registered with the Delhi building and other construction workers welfare board (DBOCWW).He also appealed to all political parties to unite and work together to help people as Delhi reels under a raging fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.“We are undergoing a very difficult period and the second wave in the country has been extremely dangerous. There is so much sadness everywhere, people are troubled and are falling ill all across. It is my earnest request that this is the time to help each other, this is the time to become a good human being. Everyone, irrespective of the party they belong to, be it the BJP or the Congress or the Aam Aadmi Party, everyone should together help each other. This is not the time for politics, everyone should work together. Be it any religion or caste, this disease does not discriminate. Be it the rich or the poor, everyone should help each other,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-announces-free-rations-for-card-holders-aid-for-taxi-auto-drivers-in-delhi-101620119836812.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||#CampusCalling: College students turn Covid warriors||Driven to save lives, students of various colleges in Delhi have been working hard amid the second wave of Covid-19. Whether it is to verify and share leads for available hospital beds or oxygen cylinders, or donating money to support the patients financially, many college goers have turned into virtual soldiers in Delhi’s fight against the coronavirus. “I joined Miranda House Covid help desk that has been working to help others 24X7, and is open to students and others who want to volunteer for the same. Despite being Covid positive myself, I’ve been contributing to this initiative since I feel it’s my duty to do so at this time, when people need me the most,” says Vidyanshi Singh, a first year student of Miranda House, Delhi University. She adds, “Whenever we get any leads of beds, plasma or oxygen from social media, reliable websites, or any official sources provided by the government, we first verify the resources personally and then forward the contacts to those in need. My seniors and I have helped a lot of people including my batch mates, by providing them verified sources to avail ventilator beds, ICU, plasma, oxygen cylinders, medicines or any other Covid resources in not just Delhi but in cities across India including Lucknow, Kanpur and Hyderabad.” Alongside, some students are also organising food deliveries for the Covid impacted families. And above and beyond providing all tangible help, some are trying to bring in positivity to the lives of others, by counselling those who are struggling with anxiety and other mental health issues due to the present crisis. “I’ve always wanted to contribute to humanity in whatever way I could. So when the new wave of pandemic struck, I decided to provide people with verified information about medicines, oxygen cylinders, beds, and also helped in getting food delivered to the Covid infected families. And incase they feel they need someone to talk, I ensure that I’m always available! I listen to them, and try and uplift their spirits. No feeling is more exhilarating than saving lives,” says Anchal Singh, a second year student of Miranda House.“Losing my professor to Covid, since she couldn’t find a bed in any of the Delhi hospitals, propelled me to helping others. I wanted to make sure that no one else faces such a situation, and so I actively started helping people out as much as I could,” says Sugandhika Ghalyan, a second year student of Lakshmi Bai College. She informs how college students pan India have made groups on social media, to help Covid patients procure what they are looking for. “I’m the central councillor of my college, and many of my college mates who faced difficulties in getting beds, ambulances, plasma and other requirements have reached out to me in the recent past. I started helping them, and gradually with the assistance of my seniors, I connected with students from across the country to form pan India student Covid teams, to help residents suffering in our respective cities,” adds Ghalyan. Sanjay Kataria, a Master’s student at Department of Library and Information Science, has recently distributed food, masks and ration to the daily wage labourers around the campus who have been adversely impacted by Covid and the lockdown. He says, “This is the best time to step forward and help people who are suffering. I double masked myself, and went along with a fellow hosteller to distribute food to the underprivileged and daily wage labourers around the campus. A lot of them don’t even have the money to get tested for Covid, and are facing a hard time. We distributed masks and basic medicines to them. I’ve also been helping people get access to hospital beds, oxygen, and plasma through my network of friends who are health care professionals.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/campuscalling-college-students-turn-covid-warriors-101620119005112.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Delhi CM announces free ration for card holders, relief of ₹5,000 cash for auto and taxi drivers||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced free ration to all beneficiaries living in the national capital. Citing a figure of 72 lakhs, the chief minister said that they will receive ration free-of-cost for the next two months amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic."It doesn't mean that the lockdown will continue for 2 months. It is just being done to help the poor going through financial issues," said Kejriwal while making the announcement, as per new agency ANI.The Delhi government also extended the financial help of ₹5,000 to auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers who have been hit by lockdown imposed in the national capital since April 19.The announcement comes a day after Kejriwal held a Covid-19 review meeting with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, the chief secretary and the principal secretary of health.During the meeting, Kejriwal instructed authorities to strengthen the home isolation system so that patients can get good treatment with timely counselling and to keep in touch with patients undergoing treatment in home isolation.He said that a clear record should be kept of how many Covid-19 positive patients are going to the hospital and how many are being treated in home isolation.Delhi is reeling under the devastating fourth wave of Covid-19 which has pushed the already burdened healthcare system to a breaking point. Hospitals are inundated with patients leading to a shortage of beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders. With the continuous rising numbers, there is almost a waiting of 7-days if a person is trying to get the Covid-19 test done at their home.Most pharmacies as well have run out of basic tools like oximeters which is a key thing for patients to monitor oxygen levels.The national capital on Monday reported as many as 18,043 new coronavirus cases and 448 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's daily health bulletin informed.This is the highest single-day death toll in the city since the pandemic broke out last year. The total active cases in the city now stand at 89,592. The cumulative positive cases now stand at 12,12,989, including 11,05,983 recoveries and 17,414 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-delhi-cm-announces-free-ration-for-card-holders-relief-of-rs-5-000-cash-for-auto-and-taxi-drivers-101620113221518.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi, NCR may see light rainfall today, says IMD||Delhi got some respite from soaring temperatures on Monday as several states across north and central India experienced rainfall. India Meteorological Department scientists said there is a possibility of light rain in some parts of the city on Tuesday, which will keep the temperatures from rising. On Monday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 39.7 degrees Celsius (°C), a notch above what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 24.3°C, a notch below the season’s average. “On May 4 and May 5, there is a forecast of rain in Delhi and parts of NCR. The temperatures will also remain below 40°C,” said an IMD official. Delhi has been recording high maximum temperatures for a while now, with the mercury levels at some weather stations soaring above 44°C.On Monday, the air quality in the National Capital deteriorated to the poor category. The air quality index (AQI) was 216 at 9.05am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-may-see-light-rainfall-today-says-imd-101620097575387.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Biomedical waste generation at maximum as Covid-19 cases surge in Delhi||With the number of Covid-19 infections rising over the past several weeks, the city is facing a massive surge in biomedical waste.According to Biotic Waste Management, one of the largest common biomedical waste treatment facilities in Delhi, Covid-19 waste generated last July was around 7.2 tonnes per day, which increased to 12.5-13 tonnes per day by the end of April 2021.“We have a total capacity of 34 tons per day so while we have a margin, if cases keep increasing, then we will reach capacity,” said Vikas Gehlot, spokesperson for Biotic Waste Management, the common biomedical waste treatment (CBWT) facility which caters to north, north-east, south, southeast and New Delhi.“For the first time, there is a slight worry that we may reach capacity, but overall waste management is better than last year, mainly because of guidelines that have categorised biomedical waste and ensured that food and general waste is not coming to us,” said an office bearer of SMS Water Grace Pvt Limited, another CBWT.Data shared by the three municipal corporations shows that general biomedical waste collected spiked to around 3 tonnes in April, compared to only around 700kg collected in March.East Delhi Municipal Corporation collected 748.28kg of hazardous waste in April, compared to 170.8kg in March. The north civic body collected 2,776 kg of biomedical waste in April, out of which 959.1kg was collected between April 23 and April 30, when the cases began rising at a rapid and unprecedented rate.In south Delhi, too, between April 23 and April 30, biomedical waste collected was 291.7kg.Experts pointed out that the actual production of biomedical waste in the national capital is much higher than what is being collected by the civic agencies.Delhi has reported an average of 23,890 new Covid-19 cases everyday in the past week. On Monday, 18,043 new cases were recorded in the city, with a positivity rate dropping to 29.56%.“Unlike last year, the biomedical waste generation is not limited to hospitals and quarantine centres now. The cases are rising at such a fast pace that every household is now producing such waste, and much of it is not being disposed off in a safe manner. Trash from thousands of patients in home isolation is not even being collected separately as biomedical waste,” said Sunil Chhabra, solid waste management expert and volunteer with Save Our Planet, a citizens’ group working with waste collectors in Delhi-NCR.Sanjay Gahlot, president of Delhi Safai Karamchari Union, said that masks, gloves and other hazardous biomedical waste is carelessly strewn all around the city. “With the rising number of cases these days, these could become the reason for infections,” said Gahlot.East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain, said waste is segregated at households. “The quantum of biomedical waste has increased but we are managing it safely,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/biomedical-waste-generation-at-maximum-as-covid-cases-surge-in-delhi-101620082193191.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal tells officials to strengthen monitoring of Covid-19 patients in home isolation||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday asked state government officials to revive and strengthen the home isolation monitoring system for Covid-19 patients, and issued specific directions on mandatory phone calls by medical officers within 24 hours of a patient testing positive, providing pulse oximeters, and maintaining records.The review meeting was chaired by Kejriwal and attended by deputy CM Manish Sisodia, chief secretary Vijay Dev, and other senior officials.With the city adding more than 20,000 new Covid-19 cases every day for over two weeks, government officers in several districts said they were unable to contact people isolated at home. Officials, who asked not to be named, said that while district surveillance teams were earlier getting in touch with around 31 contacts of each infected person as part of the state’s contact tracing efforts, this has stopped completely because of the sheer number of cases in the city.“During the meeting, he [Kejriwal] directed that people being treated at home should receive a call from a doctor within 24 hours of being tested positive. He also directed that a clear record be kept of the number of Covid-19 patients going to the hospital and of those being treated at home. Kejriwal directed that patients in home isolation who do not have an oximeter should also be provided one, along with a Covid-19 kit,” the government said in a statement issued after the meeting.Kejriwal instructed officers present to pay special attention to home isolation patients who may need hospitalisation, the government said.Till Sunday evening, over 50,000 Covid patients in Delhi were being treated at home, according to government data||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-tells-officials-to-strengthen-monitoring-of-covid-19-patients-in-home-isolation-101620081214656.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Alarm bells ring constantly in Delhi, with even officials scrambling for oxygen cylinders||Private hospitals in Delhi on Monday continued to post SOS messages on social media, raising alarm over oxygen supplies dipping precariously even as the state government maintained it has not been receiving its quota of 590 metric tonnes of oxygen.The Delhi government regulates the allocation to each hospital depending on the average supplies being received and the number of patients admitted to the hospitals. The actual supply that Delhi might receive is calculated on the basis of the supply projections by the companies.Delhi had received 448 MT of oxygen on Sunday, slightly lower than Saturday’s 454MT, according to a government official.“With so many patients on high oxygen support – today 39 patients were either on ventilator or high-flow oxygen – our daily requirement for oxygen has gone up to 1.2MT a day. The government had earlier allocated 0.9MT that has been almost halved to 0.49MT. How can we treat the same number of patients with such little oxygen?” asked Rajiv Biala, vice president, Institute of Brain and Spine in Lajpat Nagar that dipped into the last few cylinders. The hospitals asked patients to look to other facilities on Monday. He said, “We need at least 90 to 100 cylinders a day, we are somehow getting 50 to 60 after begging and borrowing from other hospitals. Our vehicles are stuck at refilling plants.”Around 2.30pm, attendants of patients admitted at IBS Hospital, Lajpat Nagar, tweeted that the hospital was running out of oxygen and the lives of people were in danger.Akash Hospital, Dwarka, also claimed it got inadequate supplies. “Today, we got a good supply of liquid oxygen but our vehicles are standing outside two to three stations to get the cylinders filled. And now the government has reduced our allocation by up to 30%,” said Dr Ashish Chaudhary, managing director of the hospital. The hospital had been allocated 4.7MT on April 29, which was increased to 5.1MT on May 1, and then reduced to 2.75MT on May 2.The hospital has been running at capacity and has added 40 makeshift beds in the parking lot and the driveway to cater to the rush of patients.The total allocation to Covid-19 hospitals by the Delhi government has reduced from 380MT on April 29 to 363.87 MT on May 2. This is largely because the quantity of oxygen promised to the government by the suppliers has reduced from 445MT to 425MT. The allocation to Covid-19 hospitals went up to 438.4 on May 1, when the suppliers promised 520MT to Delhi.“The government is not sure how much oxygen they will get and on a daily basis they keep increasing or decreasing the allocation... Patient care is suffering,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Health Forum.He said, “If the oxygen situation is sorted, hospitals can increase the bed strength by a minimum 5,000.”Several hospitals including IBS hospitals and Batra hospital had to close admissions on Monday in view of limited stock.Smaller hospitals and nursing homes said being at the tail end of supplies, they were in a precarious situation.“The bigger hospitals, once they get the liquid oxygen, are okay for some time. We have to go queue up outside filling stations for hours; our vehicles just drop the oxygen and go back to the filling station. I need 220 cylinders, the quota was reduced to around 103 cylinders and I get only about 50 to 60 a day,” said Dr CM Bhagat from Bhagat Chandra hospital in Palam.The hospital raised as SOS on Monday night. “We have also asked our patients to arrange for oxygen and many have their own cylinders and concentrators. The problem occurs when they need high flow or ventilators,” he said.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the government was in touch with several entities to boost oxygen supply in the capital.“It is imperative we receive adequate oxygen and increase our capacity of beds. But we need intensive and immediate help to ensure proper oxygen supply in Delhi, and we are in touch with private entities, the social sector, and the Centre for the same,” Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 management, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/alarm-bells-ring-constantly-with-even-officials-scrambling-for-oxygen-cylinders-101620080163000.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Fire rules order may cost Delhi 6000 Covid beds||Several small nursing homes in Delhi have started doing away with Covid-19 beds in their facilities on the second floor and above, with the health department enforcing a fire safety norm that is likely to end up costing the city around 6,000 Covid-19 beds, a union of health care providers said.“The keepers of all nursing homes, providing Covid-19 related treatments, who have not submitted NOC from fire department are hereby directed to carry out nursing home activities on the ground and first floors only,” the order dated April 30 read. The order, signed by state medical superintendent Dr RN Das, also warns nursing homes of action if any contravention comes to light.Health infrastructure in the city has been under immense pressure due to the surge of cases in the fourth wave, with hospital beds and medical oxygen extremely hard to come by.As on Monday night, only 1,353 of the 21,395 beds and 23 of the 5,147 ICU beds were vacant, showed government data.Experts have questioned the timing of this order.“Any hospital that has 50 beds or more cannot be restricted to just the ground and first floors. We have been in discussion with the government for nearly two years now on fire safety norms, which none of the small nursing homes can meet and should not need to meet as we are allowed in the residential areas as per the Master Plan for Delhi 2021. Now, this notice suddenly in the middle of the [Covid-19] peak is uncalled for,” said Dr Ajay Bedi, head of the nursing home cell of the Delhi Medical Association.Bedi said he is shutting 20 of the 40 beds in his nursing home that caters to Covid-19 patients.“This order directly means that more than 6,000 beds used in various nursing homes and private hospitals on the 2nd floor of the premises shall be made unavailable with the immediate effect and causes the collapsing medical facilities of the city to be undermined,” said a letter from the National Medical Forum.The 2019 norms make it mandatory for all two-storey buildings to get no-objection certificates (NOC) from the Delhi Fire Services(DFS).The norms also make it mandatory for institutes that are two-storeys tall or higher to have a six-metre-wide access road for fire tenders. Their corridors need to be at least 2.4 metres-wide, and their staircases two metres-wide staircases.There are 1,478 registered hospitals, nursing homes, maternity homes and health sub-centres in Delhi, data shows. Only 103 of these had a clearance certificate from the fire department in April 2019, according to a letter sent by DFS to the Director General of Health Services. Nursing homes’ registrations were renewed without inspections in 2020 due to Covid-19.“We are shutting down well-equipped and staffed beds and creating beds in makeshift facilities. How does this make sense?” said Dr Bedi.“This is not the time to look for compliance to such guidelines. With the current load of cases, hospitals are adding beds in the galleries, do you see the NABH [National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers] objecting to it?” said Girdhar Gyani, director general, Association of Healthcare Providers (India).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-rules-order-may-cost-delhi-6000-covid-beds-101620079155520.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A recovered doctor’s confessions||These days, all families are alike in symptoms. The young doctor caught COVID, and then everybody else at his flat in Noida’s Sector 50. Thankfully their symptoms were mild, and radiologist Sushant Mittal exploited the quarantine to answer the Proust questionnaire in which folks are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore the lives and experiences of Delhi citizens. Meanwhile the household has recovered and Dr Mittal gamely posed with wife, Dr Sarika Jain (dermatologist), and kids, Ambika and restless Shantanu, for a WhatsApp portrait.Your favorite qualities in a womanKnowledge, poise, love a bit of attitude tooWhat do you appreciate the most in your friends?I do not appreciate anything. Appreciation lessens the motivation to be a better version of oneself (psst: my friends know and loathe me for this, although I love how they are there whenever I need them)Your idea of happinessTucked away in the mountains, sitting by a window, with good books and jaggery tea. Give me lots of Ruskin Bond and Rabindranath TagoreYour idea of misery?Losing a loved one. Heart breaks when I look around what’s unfolding these daysWhere would you like to live?Ranikhet Cantt, with many deodar trees around. Cotswold villages in England are inviting tooYour favorite birdSparrow, so comforting to see, and mountain thrushYour favorite prose authorsRuskin Bond—his prose is loaded with mountain freshness and silence. GulzarYour favorite paintersMonet, Tyeb Mehta and Ambika, my daughterYour heroes/heroines in real lifeMy father and mother. They gave up everything to bring us upYour favorite namesGayatri , DevbandhuWhat do you hate the most?Admiring false heroes. I hate when our politicians choose to look away. I also hate lies and deceitThe military event you admire the mostNot sure.. not my cup of teaHow do you wish to die?Peacefully under a deodar tree—Ruskin Bond says it is the tree of the GodsWhat is your present state of mind?Heartbroken. I feel so helpless in this pandemicFaults for which you have the most toleranceI think there are no faults, only the choices we make. What is a fault in my eyes, is maybe a choice someone wants to make||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-recovered-doctor-s-confessions-101620076238375.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Vaccination of 18-44 year olds takes off in Capital||The Delhi government on Monday inoculated 37,562 people aged between 18 and 44 against Covid-19, widening the vaccination drive on the lines of the Centre’s decision to make all adults eligible for the jabs, even as states grappled to acquire more doses from manufacturers to ramp up immunisations.While the third phase of vaccinations was officially launched from May 1, Delhi began wider inoculations only on Monday as supplies ran low. While the Centre is sponsoring vaccinations for those above 45, it has said that the states and private hospitals will have to directly procure doses from manufacturers to cover those in the 18-44 age group.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said 301 centres have been established at 76 schools. “Mass vaccination for youth of Delhi has begun in Delhi… Our target is to establish 3,000 such centres in 300 schools, subject to the availability of vaccine,” he said in a tweet. Sisodia added that there was 100% turnout at the vaccination centres on Monday. An official said that all slots were booked for the next two days.More than 45,000 beneficiaries in this category can get jabs at the 300 centres in a day, according to the government.“I am glad that the vaccine process for 18+ has started smoothly. It’s heartening to see that youngsters are coming out in large nos to get vaccinated. Get your elders vaccinated too. Encourage ur friends and relatives also to get vaccinated,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.Around 9.2 million people in India are eligible for the jabs in the 18-44 age group.Sisodia said the Delhi government has received 450,000 vaccine doses so far for the third phase. “We want to ensure that all citizens between the ages of 18-45 are vaccinated, and are committed to scaling up vaccination centres in Delhi in a way that each school has 10 vaccination centres,” he said during his visit to a school to inspect the drive.India has two Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers active at the moment, and both of them put together produce about 80 million doses a month. The two manufacturers are Serum Institute of India (SII), which is locally manufacturing Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield, and Bharat Biotech, which is producing Covaxin.As per SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla, the company has a production capacity of about 60-70 million Covishield doses per month. Bharat Biotech currently produces about 10 million doses of Covaxin in a month.On Monday, 250 people per centre were called in for the vaccination drive, with 100% turnout, Sisodia said. “I am confident this turnout will prevail because the youth is looking forward to get the Covid-19 vaccine. I met several people who informed me that while they faced no hindrances in getting vaccinated at the centres; there were challenges with regard to booking appointments. This is so because we only have 450,000 vaccines at the moment with limited centres, but we will resolve these challenges as we continue to expand our centres,” he said.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for managing the Covid-19 situation, said the Delhi government was in constant touch with companies and will continue to receive more doses.Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai said the Delhi government aimed to allocate at least one school in each of the 274 wards of Delhi.The Centre has made it clear that free vaccine doses are meant only for those above the age of 45, who are seen to be more at risk of severe disease or death with Covid-19. Vaccine makers will need to supply in a 50-50 ratio, with half going to the Centre, which will pass it on to states for the 45-plus vaccination in a formula it is yet to announce, and the rest directly to states and private hospitals.The government has set up the vaccination centres in schools to accommodate the large number of beneficiaries in this phase, an official told PTI.Before the current phase, vaccines were being given to those aged above 45 at about 500 centres in the national capital.Around 60,000 people aged above 45 can be inoculated in the Capital every day, the official quoted above said. Pre-registration is mandatory for vaccination in the 18-44 age group, and there are no walk-ins under this category for now, the official added.While Delhi’s Max Hospital started vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group at limited centres from Saturday, Fortis Healthcare began the exercise on Sunday.The Delhi government has placed orders for 13.4 million vaccine doses, which will be delivered over the next three months. Of these, 6.7 million doses are of Covishield vaccine, which are being procured from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, the official said.Kejriwal last Thursday said that a plan has been formulated to vaccinate all adults against Covid-19 within the next three months. He had then said that everybody aged above 18 would be administered Covid-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi.Experts said it is imperative for the vaccine drive to cover as much ground as quickly as possible.“The vaccination drive was announced for people over the age of 18 years from May 1 without ensuring availability of doses. No one is able to procure Covishield, which is what we have been administering...,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Hospitals Forum and the chief executive director of Saroj Hospital.Dr Narin Sehgal, Delhi secretary of Association of Healthcare Providers (India), said, “There is no clarity from the Delhi government on whether the private centres will receive any doses from them; they have started the drive today. Only a few private hospitals have started the immunisation drive with doses that they have procured themselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccination-of-18-44-year-olds-takes-off-in-capital-101620073625676.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools request CBSE to extend date for class 10 results||Two days after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the guidelines for the revised assessment scheme for class 10 students, in the wake of board exams being cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, principals of Delhi government schools have expressed concerns over the timeline given by the board and said it may be difficult to submit the result sheets to the CBSE by June 5, as directed. The board plans to declare the results on June 20.The CBSE on Sunday asked each school s to form a results committee, comprising the school principal, five teachers, and two external examiners, by May 5 and to finalise a “rationalisation document” by May 10. The committee would be in charge of preparing the class 10 results which will be calculated this time on the basis of internal tests and assessments.The unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases and fatalities in the second wave of the pandemic across the country -- and the fourth wave in Delhi -- had forced the CBSE to cancel class 10 exams. But with several government schools turning into Covid care centres and vaccination centres, and teachers being allotted Covid-19 duties, several principals said they would not be able to carry out the steps listed by the CBSE within the stipulated time frame.For instance, principals have said it is “impossible” to select five teachers and two external examiners by May 5 and follow guidelines like ensuring that there is no overlap of teachers in the committees of two nearby schools.Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of Vice- and Principals’ Association of Delhi, said, “All heads of schools are of the opinion that nothing should be started in May. Many schools have been converted into vaccination centres and Covid care centres in Delhi. There is a 100% risk of getting infected if principals and teachers are asked to step outside of homes. It is not possible to form a committee by May 5.”In a letter to the CBSE chairperson on Monday, Yadav asked the board to defer implementation of the May 1 notification till the pandemic situation improves.Sujata Tamta, head of school at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya at Molarband, said, “We won’t be able to form the results committee by May 5. Our vice-principal and around seven teachers have already tested Covid positive and this number keeps increasing. Many of the teachers also have to arrange medicines and other items for their family members who are ill. We will revisit this in a few days.”CBSE officials, however, said the members of the committee could work from home. Controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj said, “We are only talking about five teachers and they don’t have to come to the school. This can be done from home as well.” Schools have to submit marks to the CBSE by June 5 and results will be declared on June 20.Awadhesh Kumar Kha, principal of Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, however, said the different clauses and modalities stated in the notification will make it difficult to coordinate remotely.The board had also directed that if any candidate has not appeared in any of the assessments conducted by the school, the school may conduct an offline/online or a telephonic one-on-one assessment.“Work from home will not be feasible because not many internal exams were conducted due to the pandemic. The notification from the CBSE suggests that teachers will have to conduct these exams by May 15. We have around eight sections of class 10 in our school. To ensure standardisation of marks, as directed by the CBSE, will require analysing subject-wise marks of three years and these things cannot happen remotely. Teachers will have to come to school for this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-schools-request-cbse-to-extend-date-for-class-10-results-101620071411976.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Back to school as nearly 91K queue up for vaccines in Delhi||Hand sanitisers, double masks, and face shields — residents of the national capital stepped out of their homes on Monday during a lockdown to queue up for Covid-19 vaccine jabs at public schools in different parts of the city that have been converted into inoculation centres as part of the state government’s plans for the expanded drive to cover those between 18 and 44 year of age.The summer heat, which was just shy of 40°C on Monday afternoon, did not play spoilsport for people who said they’ve been waiting for a vaccine since the pandemic broke out. No sign of hesitancy here.Classrooms that were abruptly shut because of the virus last year, opened again on Monday, but this time as “war rooms against Covid-19”, a civil defence volunteer said.At the Kendriya Vidyalaya in Tughlaqabad, Class 1-D became an observation room where those who got the jab waited for 30 minutes to observe for adverse events.Class 2-D was the attendance room, where one had to show their appointment slip. A few rooms away, two auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), sitting on class teacher’s chairs in front of an undusted blackboard with notes from a February 2020 mathematics lesson, were ready to administer the vaccines to beneficiaries.Schools across the city saw similar scenes on Day 1 of the expanded drive, which was rolled out two days late, owing to a shortage of doses in the city.As the Capital reels under the fourth wave of infections, the Delhi government began the mass vaccination programme in 76 schools, which had 301 inoculation centres between them.More than 45,000 beneficiaries in this category can get jabs across the 300 centres in a day, according to the government.Around 9.2 million people are eligible for the jabs in the 18-44 age group.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the Delhi government has received 450,000 vaccine doses so far for the third phase.On Monday, about 90,803 people across age-groups across the city got doses of the vaccine.“We waited for this moment for more than a year. I checked the Co-WIN website all day on Sunday. I lost all hopes of getting a slot, but one finally opened up around 11.30pm,” said Aditya K, who took the jab at the Tughlaqabad school.Outside the centres, Delhi Police personnel and civil defence volunteers ensured people kept the required distance.Some volunteers said it was unclear to many people that walk-in vaccinations weren’t allowed for the 18-44 age group.A civil defence volunteer posted outside a school in south-east Delhi’s Molarband said, “There were many people who do not use smartphones but came with their Aadhaar cards. It was difficult to explain to them that one has to use the internet and get themselves registered. Many believe it is a walk-in vaccination site. The government must come up with an alternative method for people to get an appointment.”But it wasn’t smooth sailing everywhere.Officials at a school in Badarpur said they did not get time to prepare signage that would have helped people. Every school had at least three vaccination points.The centre number is specified on the appointment slip, but these were not displayed in most schools.A couple had to be pacified at a school in south-east Delhi’s Jaitpur after they were told they were at the wrong centre.“The address of the centres in the Co-Win app is vague. I went to three different schools before coming here,” said Amar Singh, who was waiting outside the girls senior secondary school in Jaitpur.At several places, the drive began well after 10am, leading to large crowds. For instance, vaccine vials arrived late at a Delhi government senior secondary school in Jangpura.The school’s principal, Harish Chand, said 15 teachers, five IT persons, five civil defense volunteers, five ANMs and one doctor were deployed at the vaccination site.“There is also an ambulance outside if anyone reports any adverse event,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/back-to-school-as-delhi-queues-up-for-vaccines-101620071351214.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Pleas seek mother’s milk for Covid-19 orphans||While requests for leads on hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, plasma and medicines galore on social media amid the Covid-19 pandemic in the capital, pleas for breast milk donors for newborns and infants whose mothers were infected with the virus or succumbed to it are also slowly making their way onto our timelines.The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said that they have acted on several similar requests on their helpline number or through people who tagged them on social media. Officials at breast milk banks in Delhi too said that they have been receiving several such request from many private maternity hospitals.Between Sunday and Monday, a Delhi-based family’s plea, for a breast milk donor for a newborn whose mother died of Covid-19 last week, caught the attention of Twitter. A family friend whose number was shared in the message confirmed the authenticity of the message and said that they managed to arrange milk from personal acquaintances.In another request floating on social media, a Lucknow-based family pleaded for a breast milk donor for a day-old infant whose Covid-positive mother died while giving birth. Several others requested for breast milk donors for infants separated from Covid-19 infected mothers.Abhinav Sharma, a resident of Rajendra Nagar, said that his wife, a new mother, tested positive for Covid-19 last week. “We had to find a milk donor for our one-week-old son. We put out a request on Instagram and Facebook following which several lactating mothers approached us. We then contacted a breast milk bank for guidance, and they helped in the selection of the donor and collection of milk,” he said.Ohika Chakraborty Malik, the spokesperson at Breast Milk Foundation in Safdarjung Enclave, said, “We recently received a request from a private maternity hospital in Rohini wherein the mother was Covid positive and had given birth to twins. We sent them batches of milk stored with us.”Malik said that there is a scarcity of stored mother’s milk at their bank currently. “There has been no donation amid the pandemic. Our freezer is almost empty right now. We request lactating mothers to come forward and donate milk so that we can help more such kids,” she added.Officials at the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said they have also received several requests for donors through social media in the last few weeks. Ranjana Prasad, a member of the commission, said, “We helped such families connect to the milk banks and possible milk donors. We also counselled them to not panic and start giving pasteurised milk to infants whose mothers are not in a position to nurse them.”Nurses working in maternity wards across several Covid designated hospitals also said infected mothers can nurse their infants while taking all precautions.Babita Rani, a senior nursing officer at the Covid maternity ward at the Employees’ State Insurance Model Hospital in Basaidarapur, said, “We have several such mothers at our hospital. We make them wear masks, and wash their hands before nursing their kids. In case the mothers are too weak to sit for long then we express milk and feed the kid. In case mother died of Covid or any other complication, the infant can be given pasteurised milk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pleas-seek-breast-milk-donors-for-infants-whose-mothers-are-infected-or-have-died-due-to-covid-101620071291864.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia writes to Rajnath Singh seeking army’s help to set up more beds, transport oxygen||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has written to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh urging him to mobilise the army to set up and run Covid-19 facilities, to augment bed strength by another 11,000, and ensure adequate supply and transportation of medical oxygen and 40,000 additional oxygen cylinders, as the Capital grapples with the tsunami of fresh infections and daily deaths, and people frantically search for oxygen and other medical essentials.Since Delhi is recording an average of 25,000 new cases every day, and about 10% of these require some form of hospitalisation, the additional health infrastructure will soon be at its capacity, Sisodia wrote in the letter dated May 2.“The army has always stood at the forefront during times of crisis, helped and protected the citizens of this great nation. I shall be grateful if your ministry could lend the services of our armed forces to set up, operationalise and run some Covid health facilities with about 10,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,000 ICU (beds). Since health infrastructure machinery is overwhelmed by the management of the existing hospitals and the upcoming Covid hospitals, it will be a timely help to the people of Delhi if the ministry of defence, with the considerable resources at its command, is tasked with the responsibility to provide and man the additional Covid health facilities,” Sisodia wrote.He also requested the defence ministry to arrange for the supply of medical oxygen for the Covid health facilities that will be set up.The letter came after the Delhi high court, on Saturday, directed the Delhi government to seek the help of the armed forces in getting oxygen and setting up more Covid facilities. On Saturday, the court also asked the Delhi government why nothing was done despite the court asking it two to three days ago to that to seek the help of the armed forces.While the defence ministry is yet to respond to the letter, the Centre informed the high court on Monday that defence minister Rajnath Singh is looking into the request of the Delhi government asking for the army’s help to set up hospitals with oxygenated and ICU beds.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli was informed by additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma that an officer was in contact with the defence minister, and they will let the court and amicus curiae know more details once they receive information.“The matter is now being looked into by the defence minister himself,” Sharma said.The court asked the Centre for a report on the matter, while stating that there was a “good case” to seek the army’s help.“…there is a good case made out for the army. It is a national calamity, no doubt about it,” the bench said.Delhi has 16,272 non-ICU oxygen beds and 4,866 ICU beds at the moment, and the Delhi government has said it will create an additional 15,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,200 ICU beds in the next 10 days. But it is yet unclear how it will get the oxygen to supply for these beds given that the Capital has been grappling with a shortage.Sisodia also urged the ministry to provide cryogenic tankers for the transport of liquid medical oxygen. “Additional allocation (of medical oxygen by the the Centre) has been made from plants located more than 1,500km from Delhi -- i.e. Durgapur, Rourkela and Kalinga Nagar. The government of Delhi, with necessary help from the government of India and other state governments, is augmenting the transport infrastructure by sourcing cryogenic tankers even from abroad. It would be an extraordinary help from the armed forces if the ministry can provide cryogenic tankers for transport of liquid medical oxygen,” he wrote in the letter.Delhi also needs the army’s help in procuring about 40,000 D-Type medical oxygen cylinders, the deputy CM said.“The operational details can be mutually worked out after receipt of in-principle approval from the defence ministry,” Sisodia wrote.The Covid-19 crisis in Delhi worsened in April, and was compounded by the scarcity of oxygen and beds.Taking note of the situation, the Supreme Court on Sunday issued an order asking the Centre to address Delhi’s oxygen issue by Monday midnight. It also asked the Centre to create a buffer stock of oxygen that can be used by all states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-writes-to-rajnath-singh-seeking-army-s-help-to-set-up-more-beds-transport-oxygen-101620070691720.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||21 at Jaipur Golden hospital succumbed to comorbidities, not O2 shortage: Delhi govt to High Court||The Delhi government on Monday denied before the Delhi high court that 21 patients who died at north Delhi’s Jaipur Golden hospital on April 23-24 lost their lives due to the lack of medical oxygen, and claimed that 20 deaths were due to pre-existing conditions and one due to the lack of specific medicines.The claim was made in an inquiry report submitted before a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli.Twenty-one critically ill patients died overnight between April 23 and 24 at the hospital in Rohini amid a serious oxygen crisis. “The oxygen pressure has dipped as we are running out of stock,” Dr DK Baluja, the medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital said on April 24. The same day, senior advocate Sachin Datta, appearing for the Jaipur Golden Hospital, told the high court that the hospital lost 20 patients due to the shortage of oxygen, and was still facing a deficit in supply.The Delhi government on April 28 constituted a a committee to ascertain the number of deaths due to shortage of oxygen in the hospitals across the national capital, following a direction by the high court on April 27.The four-member committee was mandated to examine the case sheets of all such patients, and to determine whether the cause of death was shortage of oxygen or otherwise; in addition to seeking data from all hospitals and nursing homes on such deaths.In response to the query of the city government, six hospitals and nursing home sent reports on an email ID created for this purpose.Documents reviewed by HT have shown that the committee said that all 21 patients at Jaipur Golden Hospital were sick or critical and suffering from Covid-19. It said that all 21 patients were getting oxygen therapy or ventilation throughout their hospital stay including at the time of resuscitation, and there was no mention of oxygen shortage in any of the case records.“In view of natural virulent course of the disease and lack of any evidence suggestive of oxygen shortage in the case records, the committee was of the opinion that shortage of oxygen as the cause of death could not be ascertained,” the Delhi government told the high court bench on Monday.The committee noted that the deaths took place over the course of seven hours. While the first patient died at 10.44pm on April 23, the last death was reported at 5.51am on April 24, the document seen by HT said.The committee said that many of the patients had one or multiple co-morbidities such as heart disease, diabetes, hypothyroidism and hypertension.“All these patients were receiving some form of oxygen therapy and/or ventilator support during the hospital stay,” the report said, adding that “all patients were given supplemental oxygen till their resuscitation/death”.“There was no mention of shortage of oxygen in any of the case sheets and patients were given oxygen supplementation till last, based on the clinical requirement, as per records made available to the committee…The reason of death in all 21 cases has been uniformly mentioned as “respiratory failure” in the proforma submitted by the hospital,” the report said.The committee has also said that shortage of a drug was recorded in the case sheet of one patient. However, shortage of oxygen, if any, was not recorded.The hospital did not respond to requests for comment.Meanwhile, some relatives of the 21 who died at the hospital labelled the Delhi government’s move a “cover up”.“This is a complete cover up by the Delhi government. Hospital authorities started making SOS calls to the government regarding the shortage of oxygen but to no avail, “ said Erick Massey, whose mother Delphin Massey (61) died on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/21-at-jaipur-golden-hospital-succumbed-to-comorbidities-not-o2-shortage-delhi-govt-to-high-court-101620067639441.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||PM house in new Central Vista given green clearance||The Vice President’s, and Prime Minister’s new residences are scheduled to be completed by May and December 2022, respectively, according to Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the nodal agency for the Central Vista Project, as the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has granted the necessary clearance for the rest of the buildings under the plan.The buildings also include a Common Central Secretariat and the Special Protection Group (SPG) building.According to the CPWD’s submission to the ministry, the work on the new Parliament has been scheduled to be completed by November 2022, the vice-president’s enclave by May 2022, and the PM’s residence andthe SPG building by December 2022.The cost of project, which also includes a Common Central Secretariat, has been estimated at Rs.13,450 crore.The plan, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024.Tata Projects Limited was tasked with the construction of the new Parliament complex on September 29, 2020.The environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) meeting, held on April 13, the minutes of which were made public on Monday, said, “The EAC (Infra-2)...recommended granting environmental clearance to the project subject to the following specific conditions and other Standard EC Conditions as specified by the Ministry vide OM dated 4th January, 2019 for the said project/activity, while considering for accord of environmental clearance.”In December 2020, the EAC conditionally approved new terms of reference for the development or redevelopment of common central secretariat buildings a central conference centre, the prime minister’s residence, vice-president’s enclave and a building for the Special Protection Group (SPG).Under the Central Vista project, the Prime Minister’s residence will be shifted behind the existing South Block, while the V-P’s residence is proposed to be relocated behind North Block.The plan also includes razing buildings like Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are currently located across 30 buildings.The EAC added that there will be ample provision for greenery.“As proposed, at least 4,918 trees to be maintained within the project site during the operation phase of the project. The landscape planning should include plantation of native species. A minimum of 1 tree for every 80 sqm of land should be planted and maintained. The existing trees will be counted for this purpose. The species with heavy foliage, broad leaves and wide canopy cover are desirable. Water intensive and/or invasive species should not be used for landscaping,” it noted.It also said that there should be two continuous online Ambient Air Quality Monitoring stations in the project area before the start of demolition work. “As committed, at least 50 anti-smog guns and 15 anti-smog towers shall be provided to curb air pollution during construction phase. 15 anti-smog towers shall be installed during operation phase as proposed,” it added.Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research, said, “The Central Vista project has been broken up into several components: a new parliament, Central Vista avenue and now this consolidated proposal which still does not include the Prime Minister’s Office, as the land use change for that is still pending. The EAC which had asked the CPWD to avoid a piece meal approach and submit a consolidated proposal back in November 2020, recommended environment clearance going against its own observations. In effect, the cumulative environmental impact of the Central Vista project, which also includes constructing the new India garden on the Yamuna floodplains has not been assessed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/central-vista-v-p-pm-residences-to-be-ready-by-2022-101620026340743.html
