05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi not receiving enough Covid-19 vaccine doses, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Wednesday said the city is not getting enough vaccines, and reiterated if doses are made available in time his government could vaccinate everyone here within three months.He also said the Delhi government will decide about extending the ongoing lockdown in the city depending on the number of Covid-19 cases.“Right now the citizens of Delhi themselves want this lockdown to continue to stop the spread of this virus,” he said after visiting a vaccination centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Rajendra Nagar.He said Delhi has put in place infrastructure for vaccination which can be used to scale-up inoculation drive massively within 24 hours."Supply of more vaccine is the fundamental requirement right now. If vaccine is provided in sufficient quantity, we can achieve our target of vaccinating entire Delhi in 3 months," he said.The Delhi government has already ordered 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines."The process of vaccination has started successfully. We have received a very less quantity of vaccines. Now the kind of infrastructure we have developed based on that we can ramp up the vaccination drive within 24 hours," he said.Full-fledged vaccination of people in the age group 18-44 years began in Delhi on May 2, after the city government received 4.5 lakh doses of vaccine.The vaccination drive in the city has begun at both private and government facilities, and a large number of youth are turning up for taking jabs, the Chief Minister said."As I earlier said that we want to vaccinate every citizen here within three months but to do that we need proper supply of vaccines. I am very hopeful that we can reach that target but for that sufficient supply of vaccine should be ensured."Kejriwal also said his government is working with the Centre on the issue of oxygen supply. "We completely understand that the Central government is responsible for ensuring oxygen to the entire country. But we hope that Central will provide Delhi with its quota of required oxygen," he said.The Centre has allocated 590 MT of oxygen per day to Delhi. The city government has complained of getting less oxygen than the fixed quota and demanded it to be raised further to 976 MT."For the past several days, we are battling with the scarcity of oxygen. During this tough time, we have also received massive support from the Supreme Court and the High Court. I am hopeful that in the coming days the situation will improve.”The oxygen supply is being constantly monitored, he said.A total 43 SOS calls for oxygen were received from hospitals on Tuesday, Kejriwal said, and added the Delhi government is working round the clock to ensure there is no fatality due to lack of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-not-receiving-enough-covid-19-vaccine-doses-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101620231792305.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 20,960 fresh Covid-19 infections, positivity rate at 26.37%||Delhi reported 20,960 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Wednesday and 311 related fatalities which pushed the total number of cases in the city to 1,253,902 and the death toll to 18,063. The positivity rate, which is a measure of the percentage of people who test positive for the virus of those who have been tested overall, stood at 26.37 per cent, according to the state health bulletin. Within the same period, 79,491 tests were conducted and the active cases in the city now stand at 91,859.The total number of recoveries in the national capital stood at 1,143,980 as 19,209 patients recovered from the virus during the period. The number of containment zones in the city rose to 47,704 from 44,052 the previous day, the bulletin showed.Read more: DRDO to install medical oxygen plants in Delhi; equipment arrives at AIIMS, RMLOn Monday, Delhi recorded 19,953 new Covid-19 and 338 deaths while the positivity rate stood at 26.73 per cent.Delhi is currently under lockdown till May 10 during which only essential activities are allowed. These include sale and supply of food items, groceries, medicines, movement of health care workers, frontline workers, government staff, judicial officials, journalists and those seeking medical care.The hospitals in the city have been reporting shortage of oxygen supplies, beds and essential medicines as the health infrastructure continues to crumble under the pressure of the unprecedented rise in the number of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen or ICU support.Read more: 10 states account for 73% of new Covid-19 deaths. Here's all you need to knowDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced free ration to all beneficiaries and also extended financial help of ₹5,000 to auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers who have been affected by the lockdown imposed in the national capital.India on Wednesday recorded 382,315 fresh Covid-19 cases which pushed the nationwide infection tally to 20,665,148. 3,780 new fatalities were recorded in the same duration which pushed the death toll to 226,188, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. The number of active cases in the country currently stands at 3,487,229, comprising 17% of the total confirmed cases. As many as 338,439 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours with which the total number of recoveries stood at 16,951,731.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-20-960-fresh-covid-19-infections-positivity-rate-at-2637-101620142456848.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||AIIMS nurse skips grandmother’s funeral for Covid duty||Rakhi John, a nursing officer at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, got a call from her family in Kerala on Sunday afternoon that her grandmother had succumbed to Covid-19. A few hours later, John picked herself up, reported to the Covid ward of the hospital and discharged her duties for the day.The 32-year-old said her grandmother raised her after she lost her mother at the age of one. “I addressed her as Amma. She was more than a mother to me. The news of her demise shattered me. I felt helpless, and orphaned at the same time. My husband asked me to take leave and go home. But I knew I would not be allowed to attend her last rites because of the Covid norms. Besides, there are so many patients banking on me. If I manage to save their lives, it will be my tribute to Amma,” she said.Amid the deadly second wave of Covid-19 in the country, and the fourth in Delhi,thousands of people are testing positive for the disease and over 2,000 are succumbing to the infection every day. The virus has not spared healthcare workers either. Many of them have tested positive, are in need of oxygen support themselves while some have lost their loved ones to Covid-19.Also Read | Centre moves SC against show cause notice of contempt over oxygen supply deficitJohn, who hails from Thiruvananthapuram, and lives here with her husband and two children, said her decision of not going home in such a situation was not easy. “I would have collapsed emotionally had I visited home now. I am needed here right now and that’s why, I decided to continue doing my duty. My aunt recorded the video of Amma’s last rites and shared it with me. I am yet to watch it. I am avoiding it so that I can remain mentally strong and work right now,” she saidSeveral other doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers have been on duty without a break. A senior doctor from Rajeev Gandhi Superspeciality hospital said, “A couple of days ago, two of my doctors lost their family members. One of them, who lost his parent, called me and said, ‘Sir, I am going for the cremation, I will not be able to make it to the evening shift. Can I take the morning shift instead?’ This is the level of dedication among my staff. Many of them have several family members who are down with Covid-19 and yet, they come for their duty.”A 48-year-old nursing officer at Safdarjung Hospital, who tested positive for Covid-19 during the course of her duty, reported back to work immediately after testing negative. “I lost 6kgs in the last 14-15 days. I feel weak all the time. It is difficult to climb to the second floor without getting tired. But I cannot afford to take a break at a time when almost half of my colleagues are down with Covid-19. My husband and two daughters also got infected because of me,” she said.A senior nursing officer at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital said two of her colleagues lost their husbands to Covid-19. Similarly, officials at the Employees’ State Insurance Model Hospital in Basaidarapur said many of their colleagues have been discharging their duties despite having personal losses. Babita Rani, a senior nursing officer at the hospital, said, “A colleague recently lost her husband to Covid-19. The husbands of two other nurses are currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the hospital. They are performing their duty without a break. It’s very difficult but we cannot help. We all need some therapy for our mental well being once the dust settles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-nurse-skips-grandmother-s-funeral-for-covid-duty-101620203542418.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||#FightAgainstCovid: Doctors go beyond their call of duty||There seems to be no stopping the havoc that the pandemic is playing in our lives. And amid this crisis, even though the frontline workers are facing a severe burnout, there are some doctors in Delhi-NCR, who are going above and beyond their professional call of duty to ensure that they serve denizens in whichever way possible.Some like Dr Harjit Singh Bhatti — who started an initiative Doctors on Road to help the underprivileged in Delhi — have so far catered to migrant labourer in certain colonies of Okhla, South Extension, Nehru Nagar and Kidwai Nagar. “Small bastis in and around Delhi still have no access to healthcare or information about the pandemic. We provide them with masks, soaps and sanitisers since the infection can be curbed by these preventative measures,” says Bhatti. Overseeing work of 25 volunteers in his team, he adds: “There is a shortage of oxygen and beds in the city, so I believe teaching the poorer sections about Covid appropriate behaviour will go a long way in mitigating the problem. We are trying to connect more doctors in different cities and create a network that will aid all those in need.” Turn your attention to the community hall at Saket Court Residential Complex, and here’s Dr Kiran Kukreja tending to the non-critical Covid patients, with urgent care to those who have lowering oxygen levels. “Till they get transferred to a hospital, it’s important that they get some medical attention. And this seemed to be the best possible way in such times,” says Kukreja, who is working on shifts with another Delhi-based doctor, Dr Vinod Raina. She adds: “I received a request from the Residents Welfare Association to help with non critical members in the society, for they had a lot of infected people and a few casualties. To provide relief to the families, I opened the centre with round the clock nurses and doctors from my own team... Once a young girl was brought to me in a state of unconsciousness. We managed to stabilise her oxygen levels, till the time she could be referred to a hospital. This makes me happy. My family and friends worry about my safety, but I tell them – It’s our responsibility to help those in need.”Not just on ground physical care, even over the telephone, doctors are voluntarily extending help to those in need. For patients who were finding it difficult to seek medical advice in these times, Gurugram-based Dr Rajan Taneja started providing free teleconsultation services, after his office hours. “People are in a state of panic because of the extent of the second wave of the pandemic. And many patients are not seeking proper medical advice due to the inability to move out or financial constraints. We do not want them to suffer because of lack of resources, and offer sound advice,” says Taneja, who is presently attending more than 50 callers everyday. He adds that he doesn’t stop there. “After finishing our shifts at the hospitals, my wife, sister-in-law and I offer consultation both on WhatsApp and calls, to Covid patients and pregnant women in particular, guiding them on the right course of action. I get tired, but helping others gives me a dopamine surge, a feeling of happiness and fulfilment. As doctors, this is all we can do today.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fightagainstcovid-doctors-go-beyond-their-call-of-duty-101620201923715.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||#NewNormal: Tired of household chores? Delhi-NCR folks put robotic cleaners on the job||Robotic cleaners are the new it thing when it comes to cleaning. With most city folks giving paid leaves to their house helps, to support them during the lockdown, and managing work from home and work at home alongside, the queries for these robotic cleaners are seeing a rise on various online platforms. And Delhi-NCR residents say that these robotic cleaners are a boon especially for households that have young children or pets. With work from home having become a norm, getting a robot to do the cleaning became a necessity for Meena Kapoor, a Delhi-based freelance writer. She explains, “It’s quite a lot of floor area, so I would end up cleaning two rooms every few days (in absence of my house help). For some time I could tolerate it, but not on a regular basis. Then my house help also developed a severe spinal problem, which made me start research on robot vacuums. I have lots of friends abroad who have robots, and was aware that these things exist. A couple of my friends here have also bought them recently. I asked them about their experiences with robotic cleaners, and then decided to buy one for myself online. Now having experienced it, I feel things work better than humans as a robot will gather more dust than a jhadu would.” Seema Sandhu, a Gurugram-based radiologist, who didn’t have a house help for almost 10 months last year, initially bought a vacuum cleaner and has of late invested in a robotic cleaner. She recalls, “In September we got home two dogs, and my workload increased like anything. The hand held vacuum takes a lot of time. So we decided to buy the robot cleaner. One has to map the place for the robot, and it takes some time to get a hang of it. It needs to be charged as well, and sometimes gets stuck. But if you use both the vacuum cleaner and robot, then it’s just perfect!” For those battling Covid, robotic cleaners have been a boon in disguise. Take for instance Ruchi Vidhani, a Gurugram-based business manager who recently bought one such machine. “I was down with Covid and nobody could enter my room to clean it. And I was obviously not in the state to clean it myself due to exhaustion. That’s when this robot came in handy and did the job for me. It’s such a worthwhile buy, and kept me stress free about the cleaning concerns while I recovered from the illness,” she says.Some like Surbhi M Tangri, a handicraft dealer, saw this challenge coming and bought a robotic cleaner right when the pandemic intensified. “I haven’t kept any domestic help since the pandemic hit last year since both my parents have comorbidities. I gave my house help a paid leave, and learnt to manage things on my own. But when the lockdown was lifted last year, I rushed to buy a dishwasher and a robot cleaner. These gadgets have been a blessing and totally worth the money. In fact, now I’m trying to convince my neighbours and friends to buy such cleaners till the new Covid wave settles down,” she says. And there are some who have made up their mind to buy these machines pretty soon. Paarul Chand, an author is now looking for available options to buy a robotic cleaner. “I’m not sure which one? But I have to buy for sure! We have live in house help, but when everyone is home during such lockdowns, it’s extra work for them to do cater to each family member’s demands and also do the cleaning. Also, when everyone’s home, the house gets dirty faster than usual. So I’m keen to buy a robot cleaner that mops as well, as that would be an extremely big help,” says the Gurugrammer. Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/newnormal-tired-of-household-chores-delhi-ncr-folks-put-robotic-cleaners-on-the-job-101620196591453.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||This Delhi-based doc is honouring the fighting spirit of Covid warriors through music||Since the Covid-19 pandemic has struck, alongside the health care workers there have emerged many kind souls who are relentlessly working as warriors to combat challenges at the frontline. Honouring their fighting spirit is a lyrical tribute by Dr Gurpreet Gulati, a former AIIMS professor turned musician. His recently released lyrical poem, Tere Saath Hoon (on YouTube/joerocks _aka_gurpreet) is a tribute to corona warriors.‘Tere saath tha, tere saath hun. Aae mere dost, Mai tere paas hun...’ are the opening lines of this tribute by Gulati, a radiologist who goes by the stage moniker Joerocks. He explains: “Earlier when we would talk about frontline warriors, we’d talk about people in the healthcare industry. But now, ordinary people are working silently and tirelessly, risking their own lives. This poem is for all those who today make us believe that humanity exists and together, we shall overcome.” He answered his inner calling of becoming a musician in 2013, and since then there has been no stopping him. “My career as a doctor was very demanding. I had to quit music for a few years, but while revaluating my choices, I decided to quit medicine and dedicate myself to music,” he says, adding how he hopes to bring positivity in the lives of people during such tough times. In 2020, during the initial months of the lockdown, Gulati came up with a corona warriors anthem, Kahe Ghabraye, which went viral on social media for its motivational theme. He recalls: “I had to record at home, and we had to film the whole song — that had doctors from AIIMS Delhi performing in it — in one day! It was another tribute to all the corona warriors, and showcased sanitisation techniques, PPE kits, masks, etc.” The singer-songwriter, who often writes on social and health issues such as mental health and organ donation, has been working on multiple songs during the pandemic; including two projects that are yet to release. “Agrasar is one of them. It’s a motivational song that tells us not to fear, go ahead and get vaccinated while maintaining all precautions; it’s the only way to beat the virus! I’ve other songs in the pipeline that I will release once we all have recovered and the situation isn’t grim. Till then, whatever little I can do with music, is all I can do right now while at home. But I wish to contribute in whichever way I can,” he concludes. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/this-delhi-based-doc-is-honouring-the-fighting-spirit-of-covid-warriors-through-music-101620195682046.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||A hot day ahead for Delhi today, mercury likely to touch 40°C||Delhi is likely to see a hot day on Wednesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 25°C, and the maximum temperature was 42°C.Also Read | ‘No need for RT-PCR test if...’: ICMR issues new testing guidelines for Covid-19Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 156. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 173.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category. Surface winds are high and southwesterly, a change in wind direction to easterly is forecasted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-hot-day-ahead-for-delhi-today-mercury-likely-to-touch-40c-101620186561885.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Fire in Delhi’s Vikaspuri Covid hospital, 26 patients rescued||A fire broke out at a private Covid hospital in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri late Tuesday night, but the fire fighters and hospital administration were able to rescue all patients in time. Of the 26 patients rescued from the hospital, 17 were those admitted with Coronavirus infection, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services. Also Read | Gangs from other states under scanner for duping Covid patients, families“No patient or anyone else was injured in the blaze. All were rescued safely with the help of hospital staff,” said Garg. The officer said that the call about the blaze was made around 11pm from the UK Nursing Home. “We were told that it is a Covid hospital with infected patients inside. We sent eight fire tenders,” said Garg. The blaze, which allegedly began in a store located on the first floor of the building, was controlled by 11.45pm. The cause of the fire remains unclear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-in-delhi-s-vikaspuri-covid-hospital-26-patients-rescued-101620183801032.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Gangs from other states under scanner for duping Covid patients, families||The prevailing crisis in supply of oxygen, life-saving medicines, injections and equipment for treating Covid-19 has not only thrown open opportunities for hoarders and black marketeers, but also activated syndicates previously involved in phishing and other online cheating, police said. The new trend is that these online fraudsters dupe Covid patients and their family members by offering to deliver essential items.Pointing to how such incidents of online cheating have increased in the last 10 days, officers said they have reason to believe that gangs operating from Delhi-NCR, Jharkhand’s Jamtara, Bengal’s Purulia, and Mewat in Haryana are behind several of the crimes.They said most of the bank accounts to transfer the cheated money were being hired on a commission basis -- a common modus operandi of these gangs.Delhi Police said they busted one such gang on Monday, and arrested a 26-year-old man from Faridabad who was not only directly involved in cheating Covid patients and their relatives but also rented out his bank accounts to other gang members to transfer money.Pointing to the home town of the accused, Rohit Kumar Yadav, who is from Jharkhand, police said they were not ruling out his links with cyber frauds operating out of the Jamtara area in the state.“Yadav and his associates, who are yet to be caught, used to call people who were sending SOS messages for oxygen cylinders or life-saving drugs on social media, and trick them into depositing advance money for delivery of the goods. They collected between ₹2,000 and ₹4,000 but never delivered the items and subsequently ignored the victims,” said DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Police officers said that apart from looking for targets posting SOS messages along with their contact numbers on social media, these gangs were also widely circulating their phone numbers online, claiming to be the suppliers of oxygen cylinders, medicines and medical equipment used for treating Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangs-from-other-states-under-scanner-for-duping-covid-patients-families-101620170493493.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police to freeze 95 bank accounts of Covid frauds||A day after Delhi Police said that they were joining hands with different agencies to prevent cyber criminals from duping Covid victims, investigators have identified 200 mobile phone numbers and initiated steps to freeze 95 bank accounts involved in some of the frauds.Police said they have coordinated with banks to freeze accounts so that the duped money is not withdrawn or spent, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said.“We have also sent the 200 suspicious phone numbers to the Department of Telecommunications for mandatory KYC verification so that these numbers are not used anymore,” said Biswal.In addition, police have identified 33 unique transaction reference (UTR) numbers and 17 UPIs and online wallets used by the fraudsters to target victims, most of who fell prey in their desperation to find oxygen cylinders, concentrators, and medicines.“For the UTRs, UPIs and wallets, we have reached out to the National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) to block the payment so that the money can eventually be reversed to the victims,” said Biswal.As on Tuesday morning, Delhi Police registered 113 FIRs related to different kinds of crimes committed against coronavirus patients and their kin. Of these, 61 were related to cheating on the pretext of providing medicines or oxygen, and the rest were related to black marketing, hoarding or overcharging. Biswal said that 100 people have been arrested so far for their alleged roles in these crimes.Delhi Police, in association with the ministry of home affairs (MHA), already has a cyber helpline number, 155260, to help victims of online financial frauds recover their money, if they report the fraud in time.On Monday, police decided that apart from the complaints received on this number, even the online financial fraud complaints received on the police’s Covid helpline number, 011-23469900, were to be dealt in the same way, with a focus on helping victims recover the money.Police have said their analysis of some of the cheating cases has suggested that some phishing gangs from Mewat in Haryana and Jamtara in Jharkhand were also taking advantage of the situation in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-freeze-95-bank-accounts-of-covid-frauds-101620170258925.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Makeshift site at Delhi's Pusa road boosts jabs drive on Day 2||The expanded inoculation programme for people aged between 18 and 44 picked up pace in the national capital on Tuesday at 301 vaccination sites across 77 government schools, and at a large makeshift facility set up by a private hospital in central Delhi.Over 89,000 people received a shot of either Serum Institute of India’s Covishield or Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on Monday, after the numbers dropped to just over 1,500 on Sunday, with just one government site and a handful of private sites operating on the day.Tuesday’s vaccination numbers, which the government did not disclose till the time of going to press, are likely to be boosted by a temporary vaccination facility set up in 48 hours by BLK-Max Super Speciality Hospital at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB) campus on Pusa Road.The makeshift facility currently has 20 vaccination sites, while 30 will be added later; these will allow the hospital to administer 10,000 jabs a day, officials said.Over 3,000 jabs of Covishield, at Rs.900 a dose, were administered at the centre on Tuesday.The doses were provided by Max Healthcare, which procured vials directly from the Serum Institute of India (SII).“The facility is spread out over a large area, and patient flows have been organised in a manner that ensures social distancing, with Covid norms being followed at all times,” the hospital said in a statement.Dr Abhay Soi, chairman and managing director, Max Healthcare, said, “I am happy to share that our team has been able to set up this facility in just about 48 hours with complete support from members of RSSB. We will scale up vaccinations in the coming days and try and reach out to as many people as possible.”While vaccinations also picked up in government schools that were converted into vaccination points exclusively for the 18-44 age group, people reported a lack of social distancing and delays for the second day in a row.Amrita Paul, 28, who went to a school in Sangam Vihar, said that although she booked a 9am slot, she got her shot only after 11am because of a delay in the delivery of doses.“I reached the centre at 8.45am and there was already a queue outside. Once the gates opened, people rushed in, but the vaccines hadn’t arrived. People kept standing in the queue, but got impatient as the day started to get hotter. However, once doses arrived and the tokens were handed out, it just took 10 minutes to get the shot,” she said.Some others, however, said the vaccination system was efficient. “We feel quite relieved now. It is amazing how efficiently resources are being managed to run vaccine sites in public schools smoothly,” said Deepak Vohra, a lawyer, who along with his wife Shilpa Vohra, a teacher, took the first dose of vaccine at a school in New Ashok Nagar.Meanwhile, uncertainty over supplies meant that vaccination sites run by private centres fell behind. There were only 65 sites run by private centres on Tuesday, according to the government’s Co-WIN portal, of which 20 were at the BLK site in Pusa Road. Private hospitals said they had no assurance from Delhi government on receiving doses, while the two vaccine manufacturers in the country turned down requests for supplies.“No vaccines are available from either of the companies,” said an administrator from Holy Family hospital. Sir Ganga Ram hospital previously said that Serum Institute of India told them that vaccine doses will be available only after six months, whereas Bharat Biotech said it would get back.Dr Narin Sehgal, Delhi secretary of the Association of Healthcare Providers (India), said, “We haven’t received any communication from the Delhi government as well.” The Delhi government has ordered 13.4 million doses, split into half Covaxin and Covishield.With inputs from Abhishek Dey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/makeshift-site-at-pusa-road-boosts-jabs-drive-on-day-2-101620169761635.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||15 held in action on Covid-related crimes||Two ambulance drivers have been arrested for allegedly overcharging, and 13 other people including an Ayurvedic doctor and a contractual nurse working in a private hospital were arrested for allegedly black marketing remdesivir injections, oxygen cylinders and concentrators, and oximeters, in raids conducted over the last three days, police said on Tuesday.The ambulance drivers were arrested on Monday from south Delhi’s Sunlight Colony and Mukherjee Nagar in north-west Delhi using decoy customers. They had allegedly demanded ₹7,000 and ₹5,000 to transport dead Covid patients to crematoriums a few kilometres away.In another operation, the crime branch arrested an ayurveda doctor, Prashant (30), and his associate for allegedly selling remdesivir injections, which were issued by his hospital for elderly Covid patients, for ₹30,000 and above.A 24-year-old nurse of a private hospital in Lajpat Nagar and her three associates were also arrested for allegedly stealing remdesivir vials of Covid patients who had died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/15-held-in-action-on-covid-related-crimes-101620169478702.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi RWAs ask L-G for nod to set up shot centres in colonies||Several resident welfare associations (RWAs) in Delhi have requested Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal to allow them to set up paid Covid-19 vaccination facilities in their colonies in a bid to extend the coverage of the jabs amid a spike in cases that has overwhelmed the Capital’s health care infrastructure.In a letter sent to the LG on Monday, the resident groups also asked for permission to begin “drive-in vaccinations”, as hs been started in Mumbai. HT has seen the letter.The Delhi government began vaccinating people aged 18 to 44 on Monday, across 301 government centres in 76 schools. Several private hospitals have also been offering paid vaccinations.“Most residents in our colony wish to get vaccinated but are scared of contracting Covid-19 due to the crowd at centres. Most of the residents are willing to pay for the vaccination facility and don’t mind paying a little extra if it is made available in our colonies,” the letter read.“We feel that if free vaccination camps are being held in government schools, paid camps can be held in residential colonies in association with RWAs. Most RWAs and residents will be willing to sponsor the paid vaccination for their staff – guards, helps, drivers, garbage collectors, etc,” it added.The letter was signed by the RWAs of around 30 localities, including Sainik Farms, Navjivan Vihar, Vasant Kunj, Hauz Khas Enclave, Chattarpur Enclave, Nizamuddin East, Green Park Extension, New Friends Colony, Mehrauli, and Defence Colony, among others.Officials at the L-G’s office did not respond to requests for comment.The RWAs said that they have prepared a list of beneficiaries. “RWAs will provide full support – arrangement of space, support staff, vaccine storage facility, and other requirements,” the letter read.They also suggested that the vaccines could be administered in neighbourhood clinics or nursing homes.The RWAs also said they would pay for doctors, nurses and ambulances for these proposed vaccination sites.Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjivan Vihar RWA, said, “Nearly all residents wish to take the vaccine, but their biggest fear is the risk of getting infected in crowded centres. Vaccination camps in their own colonies will encourage more residents to get vaccinated, resulting in maximum coverage in the shortest time leading to control of the disease at the earliest.”“Doorstep vaccination has been very successful in many countries as it obviates the risk of further spread of infection. RWAs can provide much-needed logistical support in tandem with the governmental agencies,” said Devalina Kohli, vice president of the Hill View Apartments RWA in Mehrauli.The L-G office did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-rwas-ask-l-g-for-nod-to-set-up-shot-centres-in-colonies-101620168607649.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||DU suspends online classes till May 16 due to Covid surge||The Delhi University administration on Tuesday suspended all online classes till May 16 and rescheduled all final-year exams to be held in that period, owing to the severity of the ongoing Covid-19 surge in the Capital, after appeals from students and faculty members. The move comes days after the university deferred the final-year undergraduate examinations, which were to begin on May 15.“In view of sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, online teaching shall remain suspended till May 16, 2021,” read the order signed by DU registrar Vikas Gupta.Following this order, students of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) also demanded the same for the varsity’s postgraduate students. Hundreds of JNU students are scheduled to appear for their end-semester exams this month. However, the university’s administration has made no announcement yet.Later in the day, the Union education ministry asked all central universities to postpone offline exams scheduled in May. “The online exams may however continue,” higher education secretary Amit Khare said in the letter to all centrally funded institutes on Monday. “The situation will be reviewed in the first week of June and appropriate decisions conveyed.”HT on April 29 reported that first-year undergraduate students of several DU colleges asked their principals to suspend all online learning activities for at least two weeks. Students of these colleges are now focusing on assisting those peers who missed their classes due to Covid or other reasons.“The administration should facilitate voluntary revision or doubt-clearing sessions (without attendance), which could be arranged between small groups of willing and healthy students and teachers, so that those who have missed their classes till now can cover the syllabus and are on an equal footing with their classmates by the end of the two-week class suspension,” said Kshitij Jain, a first-year student of St Stephen’s College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-suspends-online-classes-till-may-16-due-to-covid-surge-101620168298371.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||App data on beds, ground reality at odds in Delhi: Residents||People with Covid-19 seeking medical assistance have reported being confused by available bed data released on a realtime, with many turning up at facilities that were meant to have vacancies as per a government mobile app -- Delhi Corona -- but were in reality full.Around 3pm on Tuesday, the government’s Delhi application showed there were 1,515 Covid-19 beds and 56 intensive care unit (ICU) beds available.But people reported none were available. HT reached out to eight of the 65 hospitals where beds were apparently vacant as per the Delhi Corona app. Requests for beds were turned down in all of these hospitalsExperts and officials said this is happening mostly since hospitals are too stretched and have been unable to update their vacancies and occupancy data.Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of department (pulmonology) at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh said, “At this crucial time, which hospital will want to turn down patients? The problem is there aren’t enough ICU beds, so we are having to keep critically ill patients, who need ICU care, in wards. So, as soon as a bed gets vacated in the ICU, a patient from our ward moves in”.“This is happening because people get admitted to private hospitals expecting better treatment and care,” said Dr Maurya.The Delhi government did not respond for comment.Aditi Raj, a 27-year-old resident of south Delhi’s Saket, said she was looking for an oxygen bed for her sister on Monday after her oxygen saturation levels dipped to 82. She followed the information on the Delhi Corona app but was turned away from all hospitals where beds were reportedly vacant.“I tried at least five hospitals.The app showed there are 20 vacant beds in one hospital. When we went there, the administration told us that they have not had a vacant bed in the last two days. Is this the ‘real-time’ information that the government is providing to people? When families are already in the worst mental state, they are misleading us and wasting our time,” said Raj who finally admitted her sister to a private hospital in Greater Noida.A senior official of the Delhi government said the oxygen shortage also led several hospitals, including Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB), Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality and Batra hospitals, to reduce their bed capacity, which might not have been updated on the portal by the hospital administrations.“Amid the rising Covid cases, we are also facing a shortage of oxygen supply, which has thrown plans off gear. The responsibility of updating the status of beds in real-time is the job of the respective hospitals. Many hospitals are also refusing to admit critically ill patients because of this (oxygen) shortage,” said the official, asking not to be named.According to a letter written by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday, Delhi has total 21,138 Covid beds, of which 16,272 are normal beds and 4,866 are ICU beds. Not all, however, are hospital beds. This number includes beds in Covid Health Centres and Covid Care Centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/app-data-on-beds-ground-reality-at-odds-in-delhi-residents-101620167695467.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||High court asks centre to reply on plea seeking to strike down new NCT act||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked for the Centre’s response on a PIL that sought to strike down the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Amendment Act, which hands the state Lieutenant Governor greater power, that was passed in Parliament in March, and was notified last week.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Union ministries of law and home affairs, seeking their stand on the plea. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma and central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul accepted the notice on behalf of the ministries.The plea, by law student Shrikant Prasad, claimed that the Act, “redefines Delhi government as the Lt Governor” and curbs the Delhi Assembly’s power to conduct proceedings.“Further, the Act provides that the opinion of the L-G must be obtained before taking any executive action on decisions of the Delhi government, on such matters as may be specified by the L-G,” the petition has claimed.Prasad contended that the provisions of the Act are in contrast with the Supreme Court’s July 2018 order on the powers of L-G and the Delhi government. The apex court said the L-G will be bound to follow the aid and advice of council of ministers except in matters of land, police and public order.Prasad argued that the Act was only going to increase the suffering of the citizens of Delhi, who are already grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic and related problems of shortage of oxygen, essential medicines and beds.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-court-asks-centre-to-reply-on-plea-seeking-to-strike-down-new-nct-act-101620167340716.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Mohalla clinics a waste if not used during pandemic: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up the Delhi government for not using its Mohalla Clinics to augment the facilities for Covid-19 patients, saying that “it’s a waste of resources” if they are not being used, even as the government submitted that the clinics cannot handle serious patients.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said it was the best time for the use of these Mohalla Clinics, while also asking the Delhi government to explore using government and municipal schools for adding more facilities for the citizens.“What is the use of your mohalla clinic?... It’s a waste of resources… If you made this infrastructure.. what worth is it if it can’t be used for any purpose during the pandemic?” the bench asked.The observations come after senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for the Delhi government, told the court that the Mohalla Clinics cannot be used as addition to the existing infrastructure as they are very small facilities and have one only one entry and exit point. He also said that the mohalla clinic cannot deal with the serious patients as it is meant for community service where private doctors come and see patients voluntarily for a couple of hours.Additional standing counsel Satyakam, for the Delhi government, added while testing is taking place in the Mohalla Clinics, vaccination cannot be done there as it may lead to crowding.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma for the Centre took a jibe at the Delhi government and said, “The situation has been like this for more than one year. The entry and exit should have been changed… You said that you have a world-class facility.” He also argued that in the last 10 months, the Delhi government had not bought a single ventilator.Mehra shot back, “I am happy that Centre is acknowledging that the Mohalla Clinics are good.” He also assured the court that they will speak with the civic bodies and explore the feasibility of using schools.The discussion took place on the suggestion by senior advocate Tushar G Rao, appearing for one of the petitioners, who said that the Delhi government can use its Mohalla Clinics.The court, during the hearing, also asked the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to create awareness among the public by releasing videos and graphics on Covid-19 symptoms, treatment, protocol, and equipments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mohalla-clinics-a-waste-if-not-used-during-pandemic-delhi-hc-101620166912692.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Amid oxygen supply crisis in Delhi, smaller hospitals hit hardest||A children’s hospital in south Delhi’s Kalkaji sent out an SOS on Tuesday morning, saying it had only two hours of oxygen supply left with at least 10 children on oxygen support and six on ventilator.Triton Hospital is among several mid-size and smaller hospitals or nursing homes which continue to face a supply crisis, with Delhi receiving roughly half of its daily liquid medical oxygen demand. Need for medical oxygen in the city has shot up in the wake of hundreds of people rushing to hospitals with severe lung infection, requiring oxygen support as an unprecedented wave of Covid-19 infections sweeps through the city.Most of these hospitals or nursing homes depend on oxygen cylinders for their supply, requiring up to 100 cylinders that need to be refilled at 14 designated vendors every day.The Delhi government sent supplies to Triton after several people shared a written appeal by the hospital on Twitter. “Fret not! We’ve got this. Have assigned 3 D-type cylinders from our SOS reserves maintained at Rajghat Reserve Point, to Triton Hospital. We will also assist the hospital re-establish their oxygen supply chain,” tweeted senior AAP leader Raghav Chadha.The Capital on Monday received 433 MT medical oxygen – lower than Saturday’s 454MT, which was the highest for a single day yet – even though the Supreme Court asked the central government on Sunday to ensure Delhi receives 700MT. With the city receiving over 400MT for three days in a row, bigger hospitals received supply with some time to spare. The smaller ones, largely dependent on oxygen cylinders, continued to face the crisis and resorted to pooling cylinders.By Tuesday noon, Delhi received 307MT, which includes 205MT that arrived through oxygen express trains, said a government official, who did not wish to be identified. The full figures for Tuesday will be summarised after midnight, the official said. A senior railway official said another 244MT oxygen was scheduled to arrive in Delhi on oxygen trains in the early hours of Wednesday.“On May 3, we received 433 MT oxygen against a demand of 976MT oxygen – which is roughly 44% of the total demand. Over past one week, Delhi received around 393MT oxygen per day on an average – which is around 40% of the total demand. This oxygen deficit is leading to distress situation in hospitals across the city. We have put in place an effective management system to deal with distress calls from hospitals. We have created SOS reserves,” said Raghav Chadha, who is in charge of the oxygen SOS management system in Delhi.He further said, “Yesterday (May 3), we received 41 SOS calls from hospitals. These hospitals collectively have 7,142 oxygen beds. It gives a sense of the scale of risk we are dealing with. All 41 calls were resolved. We sent total 21.3MT oxygen in response to the distress calls from the hospitals – which include Irene, Kukreja, Triton and Rainbow hospitals. In one case, an oxygen truck heading for one hospital – which still had some oxygen left in its reserves -- was diverted towards another that suddenly reported a worse crisis.”Among the hospitals that sent out calls for help was Indian Spinal Injury Centre. Early Tuesday morning the hospital said its stock will last only 30 minutes. “We got the supply in the nick of the time. We are always in a crisis like situation – our requirement is around 4.8MT, the government allocated us 3.9MT, and we have been getting around 1.83MT. And, in the last 10 days the number of sick patients has gone up, they need a lot of oxygen to maintain saturation,” said Jasleen Kaur, general manager marketing, Indian Spinal Injury Centre. She said that the government has been helping with the liquid oxygen supply but getting their hands on cylinders has been a challenge. The hospital need cylinders for the additional beds that do not have facility for oxygen pipeline as it is mainly an orthopaedic hospital.Govt sets up helplineThe Delhi government said on Tuesday that it has set up a new 24x7 emergency helpline and a call centre to attend distress calls from hospitals regarding oxygen shortage, even as it estimated that the supply was likely to increase over the next two days.In a statement, the government said that the new helpline is expected to bolster the current strategy of oxygen allocation among hospitals on a day-to-day basis aimed at “optimal utilisation of the given oxygen”.The statement further said that the government has deployed officials across several oxygen plants in other states to ensure hassle-free supplies.“The Delhi government has appointed three IAS officers and more than 20 call centre executives to ensure smooth functioning of Oxygen supply and distribution,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-oxygen-supply-crisis-in-delhi-smaller-hospitals-hit-hardest-101620166049474.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Amaltas in a season of loss||The tree is clothed in golden yellow, but of a very pale shade. Amaltas flowers are known for more glow, more flamboyance. This tree, here in Green Park, must be an exception.It is that giddy time when summer begins and Delhi avenues lit up with the blooming of the amaltas. But in this year of pestilence, when people we personally know are dying due to the coronavirus infection, the blossoming might not bring that same happiness. This evening, nobody stands under the tree. Nobody is to be seen on the road either, except for a masked guard outside a bungalow.Indeed, this year, one can’t go out to view the amaltas in bloom. The grief-stricken Capital is in curfew. You will miss the show at central Delhi’s Hailey Road, where the sleepy stretch of tarmac will soon be lined on both sides with dense bunches of amaltas flowers. You will not be able to experience what you had taken for granted in any other summer — all day long, flowers falling down on the pavement like a continuous snowfall, making the dusty ground look as if it covered by a golden mat.Nor will you be able to see the splendour of the alamtas at Amrita Shergill Marg. There, the blooming trees appear like a painting by an artist who has lost all her sense of proportion, and has gone overboard with golden-yellow smudges.Nor will you be able to make that noon-time trip to Second Avenue, the path that links Lodhi Road to Jor Bagh Road. There, just beyond Bharat Taxi Stand, a row of amaltas trees is splayed out into a dramatic sight. You feel as if you’ve entered a tropical forest of florescent yellow. In a week or so, the snaky branches will transform into impenetrable thickets of yellow that will spar with the unforgivingly hot sky.Gone this year, too, the pleasure of walking down Bungalow Road, in north Delhi. Its great treasure of amaltas flowers is swept away every morning by the municipal staff.And forget, too, about enjoying the amaltas at night, when its yellow colour becomes entangled with the gold of the street lamps, the branches twinkling like baby chandeliers.Meanwhile, here under this Green Park amaltas, a flower is falling dead every other moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-amaltas-in-a-season-of-loss-101620163158001.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||HC ultimatum on Delhi O2 crisis: ‘Lives at stake’||The Delhi high court on Tuesday put the Union government on notice for contempt of court after taking a strong view of the continuing oxygen crisis in the Capital, which was seeking at least 700 metric tonne (MT) in a day but has been making do with far lower quantities that, coupled with the Delhi government’s inability to transport oxygen, has pushed hospitals to the brink of a catastrophe.The city was set to receive at least 550 MT of supplies by the end of Wednesday, including two deliveries through “oxygen express” trains – one of these arrived in the morning with 205 MT and another was expected with 244 MT later in the day.But these quantities were still lower than the 700 MT projected demand, which the Supreme Court said must be met when it issued final orders on Sunday.On Wednesday, the high court pulled up the Union government for the continuing deficit. “We are not going to take no for an answer. There is no way that you won’t supply 700 right away. We won’t hear anything except compliance,” the judges, justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, told the Centre’s lawyer, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma.In its order, the bench issued a show-cause notice for why contempt proceedings shouldn’t be initiated against the Union government and sought the presence of Piyush Goyal, additional secretary, ministry of home affairs, and Sumita Dawra, additional secretary, to be present during the next hearing on Wednesday. “Enough is enough. We mean business and give it by whatever means. ….We had said that contempt action against the officers will be the last thing on our mind. But that does not mean we cannot do it. That option still remains. Your officers will face the notice. We are not going to take this.”The most amount of medical oxygen Delhi has received in a day was on Saturday after the high court first warned of contempt proceedings. From 454 MT that day, the number marginally dipped over the next two days, leaving smaller hospitals that rely on more ad-hoc arrangements struggling for supplies.“On May 3 we received 433 MT oxygen against a demand of 976 MT oxygen – which is roughly 44% of the total demand. Over the past one week, Delhi received around 393 MT oxygen per day on an average – which is around 40% of the total demand. This oxygen deficit is leading to distress situation in hospitals across the city. We have put in place an effective management system to deal with distress calls from hospitals,” said Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha, who is currently in charge of the oxygen SOS management system in Delhi. A Delhi government statement later said it expects supplies to improve. “Today the oxygen supply should touch 450 MT and by tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the supply should be in the range of 500 MT... The Delhi government is working on strengthening supply chain management of oxygen,” said the statement.Hospitals have said that they are running at reduced bed strength in order to ration whatever oxygen they get among their existing patients, and most still face a tense wait for replenishments that often with only hours or minutes to spare.“We got the supply in the nick of time. We are always in a crisis like situation – our requirement is around 4.8MT, the government allocated us 3.9MT, and we have been getting around 1.83MT,” said Indian Spinal Injuries Centre’s general manager of marketing, Jasleen Kaur.At the court, the Union government and the Delhi government continued to spar over the crisis – with the ASG disputing the specifics of what the Supreme Court ordered.During one particular exchange, senior advocate Rahul Merha, who represented Delhi, said: “590 is what you have to deliver. With 420, citizens are dying”. To this, the ASG replied: “Let’s not get into rhetoric.”This particular exchange drew in a sharp remark from the judges. “This is not rhetoric. Is it not a fact? Sorry Mr Sharma. You may be blind, we are not. How can you be so insensitive? There are lives at stake,” the judges said. “…the Centre will quibble on these little things and let the people die by not supplying the oxygen. Mr Mehra is not saying this, we are telling you this. Are you living in ivory towers? You can put your head in the sand like an ostrich, we will not,” the judges added. “We are facing the grim reality everyday of people not able to secure oxygen beds, even ICU beds. Situation has come to this that hospitals have had to reduce beds offered by them because they are not able to service due to shortage of oxygen,” the bench said.The ASG disputed the 700 MT figure as what has been ordered by the SC, but the high court did not accept the contention. “We reject the submission that the Delhi government is not entitled to receive 700 MT per day in light of the present medical infrastructure... Even 590 MTs per day has not been delivered for a single day,” said the judges, while going on to point to specific parts of the order.In hearings that took place last week, the HC also pulled up the Delhi government for not preparing for the crisis by arranging for adequate number of cryogenic tankers, which emerged as one of the bottlenecks in expediting supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-ultimatum-on-delhi-o2-crisis-lives-at-stake-101620161591888.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Covid spread in ‘empty’ women’s cell takes Tihar admin by surprise||At least 57 of the 444 women prisoners lodged in the women’s jail in Tihar have tested Covid-positive in the last one month, according to prison officers privy to the development who added that the spread of the infection was far quicker than seen in jails holding male prisoners.Sub-jail number 6 holds only women prisoners and is far less populated than the barracks and jails meant for men. While jail number 6 has just 444 inmates, a men’s jail like sub jail number 1 has over 2,000 prisoners. Other jails have around 1,000-1,300 inmates.The officers quoted above also said that of the five prisoners who died of the infection last week, one was a woman inmate -- Kahkashan, 41; she died on Aprl 29 -- who was admitted to the GTB hospital.Currently there are 49 active cases in the women’s jail, the officers said.There are 16 sub jails under Tihar prisons where nearly 20,500 prisoners are currently lodged. Prison officers said that there are 253 active cases in the prisons system at the moment.Besides 49 women, 204 male prisoners lodged in 16 different jails at Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli campuses have got the infection.There is only one jail for women at the Tihar campus.An officer, who asked not to be named, said, “For some reason, the infection spread rapidly in jail number 6 (women’s jail). We have created a Covid-19 ward inside the women’s jail. Any women prisoner who shows symptoms are not only quarantined or isolated but their health is also monitored at a special ward that has been set up inside jail 6. There are oxygen cylinders too in case of any emergency. Still if anyone is critical, we immediately refer them to hospital.”Last week, the prison administration stopped sending new prisoners directly to jail number 6. Unlike male prisoners who are isolated or put in quarantine within the same complex for at least 14 days, the new women prisoners are first sent to Mandoli jail for 14 days before being brought to Tihar. At Mandoli campus, too, in the last one month, 12 women prisoners have tested positive but many of them recovered or were released after treatment. There are only two active cases of infection in the women’s cell at Mandoli.The prison administration wrote to the Delhi government last week to consider releasing prisoners on parole and special bail, like last year when over 6,000 inmates were released after the pandemic broke out in March.The jail officials said it was important to decongest the prison since there were almost double the number of inmates inside Tihar than the jail’s capacity.Delhi government officials said they were looking into the request.Until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners. In fact in February, there was not a single active case, as the overall positivity rate for Covid-19 in Delhi dropped to 0.17%.As Delhi is going through the fourth wave of the infection now, the positivity rate is hovering around 30%. In February, not a single member of the jail staff was infected.With over 20,500 prisoners at the moment, Tihar holds the highest number of inmates in its history. Experts such as former law officer Sunil Gupta and Ajay Verma have suggested that the government either set up temporary jails in school buildings or release some prisoners who are not a threat.In March last year, the 6,000 prisoners who were released to decongest the prison surrendered over February and March this year to complete their sentences after remaining outside the jail for nearly 11 months||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-spread-in-empty-women-s-cell-takes-tihar-admin-by-surprise-101620153999603.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt's plan to import oxygen from abroad hits hurdle||The Delhi government’s plan to import 18 cryogenic containers from Bangkok and 21 oxygen generation plants from France has hit a roadblock due to “technical and administrative” reasons, senior government officials said on Tuesday.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a plan to import these on April 27, as the crippling shortage of medical oxygen came into focus. The state has now put the plan on the back-burner, according to officials who asked not to be named.“The procurement of the tankers has been delayed due to some technical and administrative issues. It is taking longer than what we had anticipated,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. The officials, however, did not elaborate on what these technical and administrative issues were.This comes at a time when the Centre has failed to ensure the supply of 700 metric tonne (MT) quota of medical oxygen to the national capital, and the Delhi government has been unable to arrange for cryogenic tankers to pick up supplies, both of which continue to remain key hurdles in ensuring an adequate amount of the medical essential, as hospitals send out desperate appeals for uninterrupted flow to save critically ill patients.Now, to meet the growing oxygen demand in the city, the Delhi government has written to the central government, asking for 50 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants for Delhi, even as it continues to look for viable options of sourcing tankers from within India.On Sunday, the central government told the Delhi high court that, on April 26, the Delhi government wrote to the Centre saying it plans to import three cryogenic tankers from Thailand and requested its help to lift those tankers through Indian Air Force aircraft. But, it said that they “never heard anything” from the Delhi government after that, and awaited the request with specific details (like the date of airlifting, bill of loading, etc.) so that the air force planes can be allocated to bring the cryogenic tankers from Bangkok.“Till date, the Central government has not received any communication regarding the import of containers,” it told the court.Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the matter.A second senior Delhi government officer said the administration is now looking at sourcing tankers from within the country.“We have made several attempts -- some have been successful, while others have failed. We have been able to procure at least five tankers on our own so far. The central government has given seven. Apart from this, the oxygen suppliers are also arranging tankers on their own. Many companies are also helping us,” said the official.In an email to HT, oxygen supplier Linde South Asia said it was using 18 tankers (2,000 gallons each) which can transport 8.65 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). It is also using 5 T-75 ISO tankers that transport 20MT of LMO. It further said it has also converted a number of liquid argon and liquid nitrogen road tankers into liquid oxygen service to boost the supply chain.“Linde was the first to suggest the idea of renting ISO tanks from the international market to de-bottleneck the LOX (liquid oxygen) supply chain. In collaboration with our sponsors Tata Steel and ITC, Linde has been bringing such rented ISO tanks by air into the country… In collaboration with Indian Railways, Linde has further set up a railway delivery system for high speed delivery of LOX from Eastern India to Delhi. This has been tried for the first time in this country, and till Monday, 2 such rakes each capable of carrying 120 MT LOX and 1 rake capable of carrying 80 MT LOX have already been deployed and more will be deployed in the days to come,” the company said.Oxygen plants at Delhi hospitalsSenior government officials said that two of the four PSA oxygen plants being set up by DRDO are going to be operational by Wednesday. Apart from this, in 10 days, Delhi has set up PSA oxygen plants in at least four state-run hospitals, taking the total number of Delhi government hospitals having oxygen generation plants to five.These hospitals are Burari hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital, Lok Nayak hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini and Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospital.The plant at Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospital was set up on Tuesday and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said it will be operationalised from Wednesday. It is one of the four small-sized oxygen generation plants donated by France. The other three have been used at BLK Hospital, Haryana Super Specialty Hospital and state-run Ambedkar Hospital.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the defence ministry said two of the four plants to be set up by DRDO have reached Delhi and are being installed at AIIMS (main) and RML hospital, respectively.While these two will be ready by Wednesday, the other two will be set up by May 10. These are to be installed at AIIMS Trauma Centre, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital (RML), Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College and one at AIIMS, Jhajjar, Haryana. There are all hospitals run by the Union government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-s-plan-to-import-oxygen-from-france-hits-hurdle-101620152668132.html
