06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospital sees increase in deadly fungal infection among Covid-19 patients||A city hospital has reported an increase in the number of cases of a rare fungal infection triggered by the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the cases of the viral infection has increased exponentially in the city. Six patients with the rare infection mucormycosis were admitted to Sir Ganga Ram hospital over the last two days. In December last year, the hospital had seen 10 cases of the fungal infection in patients with Covid-19 or those who had recently recovered from it in a period of fifteen days. If not detected early, the infection – Mucormycosis also known as black fungus – can kill half the patients. Others might lose eye-sight or have to get their jaw bones removed if the infection spreads. It is an opportunistic infection that happens in mostly immune-compromised Covid-19 patients such as those with diabetes, kidney disease, or those who have had transplants. “We are again seeing an increase in the number of the dangerous fungal infection triggered by Covid-19. Last year, this deadly infection had caused high mortality with other suffering from loss of eye sight, removal of nose, and jaw bone,” said Dr Manish Munjal, senior ENT surgeon at the hospital. Doctors say that use of steroids in the treatment of Covid-19 patients might weaken the immune system of the already sick patients resulting in the black fungus. “Use of steroids in treatment of Covid-19 infection in addition to the fact that many Covid-19 patients have diabetes as co- morbidity could be one of the reasons for this rise in black fungus infection again,” said Dr Ajay Swaroop, Chairman, Department of ENT at the hospital. “Early clinical suspicion on symptoms such as nose obstruction, swelling in the eyes or cheeks and black crusts in the nose should immediately prompt a biopsy and start of antifungal therapy as early as possible,” Dr Munjal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospital-sees-increase-in-deadly-fungal-infection-among-covid-19-patients-101620320873994.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Restaurateurs’ challenges: Struggle for e-passes, orders||Just when the restaurant industry was starting to regain ground lost in 2020, the second wave of Covid-19 has brought in a new set of challenges. Restaurateurs are facing several hurdles including a struggle to get e-passes for staff, and a drop in orders due to apprehension among customers. “The major challenges are availability of passes for staff movement to deliver and come to work,” says Amit Bagga, co-founder of Daryaganj. Echoing similar sentiments, Kazem Samandari, founder L’Opera, shares, “Is the second wave going to be a short-term phenomenon, what type of restrictions will be enforced, what will be the mood of the population, etc? These are some questions everyone is asking.”On the delivery front, the eateries have been receiving a mixed response from customers. ““Our home deliveries, which were 15% of sales till last month, are slightly lower, but we expect them to increase now,” says Bagga. Same is the situation for burger delivery joint, Burgerama as co-founder Kabir Bose opines that the entire restaurant industry has been through a hard year and the second wave has delivered another huge blow to the recovery, and adds that there has been a small drop down in the sales. Another co-founder of the brand, Vivek Prakash says, “We have seen a slight dip in number of orders but we are sure now that Navratras are over this will bounce back”. However, co-founder, Viraaj Badhwar, says, “There is of courses a general sense of fear with how bad the situation is but we take great pride in being able to add just a little bit of joy to our customers lives during these hard times.”Restaurateurs have also noticed a change in order preferences. Mayur Gupta, chef and founder, Curry and Co, says, “Orders for main course dishes have gone down, but chaats and rolls are still doing well.” And, as Samandari observes, “In these times...you will concentrate on absolute essentials... We do understand this and will accompany our customers during these challenging times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/restaurateurs-challenges-struggle-for-e-passes-orders-101620309654678.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||In line of duty: Kind gestures help delivery boys||As we follow the protocol of ‘stay home and stay safe’, many are out and about, including delivery personnel, risking their lives to ensure that our essentials and meals get delivered timely at our doorstep. And a few good Samaritans in the city are trying to provide them some relief in the course of their work, albeit with necessary safety precautions.“I’ve kept a crate of small packaged drinking water at the main gate of our house. So whenever there’s a delivery boy at the door, I ensure they take one along. That’s the least I can do,” says Suhani Gulati, a resident of Punjabi Bagh.Some others have taken the traditional route to quench thirst of delivery men in this scorching heat. One such individual, Prateek Sachdeva from Pitam Pura, says, “We’ve stopped stepping out and as we’ve a joint family, some or the other member is receiving deliveries every other day. So, my mother has kept an earthen pot of water for the riders. Earlier we used to keep old plastic bottles but have now replaced them with takeaway paper glasses for safety.”For some, giving out tips is their way to help riders. “Since our delivery agents are working so hard, I try to tip them extra by paying the round-off amount. This way, I’m able to avoid monetary exchange and he gets to earn little extra,” shares Kritika Daksh Mehra, a resident of Saket.And not just consumers, but some restaurateurs too, are making effort for comfort of delivery personnel. Mayur Gupta, who owns an eatery in south Delhi, has placed tables and chairs for riders. “Many delivery boys have to wait for their order, so they can sit for a bit,” he says.Such efforts are being duly acknowledged as well. Kapil Chauhan, a delivery boy with a food aggregator, feels the pandemic has made customers respect their job. “Ab hume frontline worker jaisa feel aata hai. Kaafi ‘thanks’ bolte hai log, jo pehle thoda missing lagta tha,” he says. His sentiments are echoed by another delivery agent, Sukham Singh, who shares, “Pichle saal tak bura lagta tha, log hume hi Covid samajhte they, seedha sanitiser spray karne chale aate they. But ek saal mein kaafi badlav dekha hai. Ab sabse pehle paani offer karte hai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-line-of-duty-kind-gestures-help-delivery-boys-101620309115558.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||4 arrested for black marketing of oxygen concentrators in Delhi||Delhi Police has arrested four people from a restaurant and bar in Lodhi Colony in connection with alleged black marketing of oxygen concentrators.Police have recovered 419 oxygen concentrators, which were being sold for over ₹70,000 each.During area patrolling, Delhi Police personnel came across a restaurant in Central Market, Lodhi Colony. It was found open amid lockdown.After searching the restaurant, one person was found sitting with a laptop and was getting orders for oxygen concentrators via an online portal. On searching the restaurant premises, a total of 32 boxes of oxygen concentrators with nine-liter and five-liter capacity were found along with a box of thermal scanners and another box containing N-95 masks.An FIR under sections of the Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act was registered against four accused Gaurav Singh, Satish Sethi, Vikrant, and Hitesh, all residents of Delhi. All four have been arrested.On detailed interrogation, the accused revealed they also have a warehouse in Khullar Farm, Mandi Village.A further search was conducted and 387 more units of oxygen concentrators were recovered, which were being sold at exorbitant rates in the black market.Invoices of the oxygen concentrators being sold at high prices of over 70,000 ₹were also recovered.In total, 419 oxygen concentrators were recovered from the black marketers.A detailed investigation is being carried out to nab more offenders behind the black marketing racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4-arrested-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-concentrators-in-delhi-101620296730792.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, expresses gratitude for supply of oxygen||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and expressed his gratitude for the supply of oxygen amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to the national capital. "I express my gratitude on behalf of the people of Delhi for the supply of 730 MT of oxygen yesterday. I request you to supply the same amount of oxygen daily to Delhi," Kejriwal said in a statement.For the first time, Centre supplied 730 tons oxygen to Delhi y'day. Delhi requires 700 tons. We're thankful to Centre, Delhi HC & SC. With their efforts, we received 730 tons of oxygen. I request everyone with folded hands to not bring down the supply, we'll be thankful: Delhi CM pic.twitter.com/T81bbumxzjDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, says, 'I express my gratitude on behalf of people of Delhi for the supply of 730 MT oxygen yesterday. I request you to supply the same amount of oxygen daily to Delhi' pic.twitter.com/sR4UY6myu3Earlier in the day, the Centre told the Supreme Court that it has complied with its order and has ensured a supply of 730 metric tonnes (MT) to Delhi for treating Covid-19 patients.The apex court was also told that the demand of 700 MT oxygen by Delhi is much in excess of the scientifically determined amount needed by the national capital. Providing excess oxygen to Delhi will invariably reduce the supply to other states in northern India that are witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the court.The Supreme Court was hearing the Centre’s appeal against Delhi high court's order of issuing contempt notice and seeking the personal appearance of its officials for non-compliance of its directive on the supply of oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients in Delhi.Earlier on April 23, Kejriwal had informed PM Modi about the oxygen crisis across the national capital. Raising alarm that a "big tragedy" may happen due to oxygen shortage in hospitals, Kejriwal had said that the Centre should take over all oxygen plants through the Army. Kejriwal appealed to PM Modi to take strict action to contain the situation due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, else "there will be a tragedy".Delhi on Thursday recorded 19,133 fresh Covid-19 cases and 335 deaths, taking the caseload and the death toll to 1,273,035 and 18,398 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin.Several hospitals in the national capital have been flagging crisis of oxygen, beds and medicines on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-modi-expresses-gratitude-for-supply-of-oxygen-101620293605908.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 19,133 new Covid-19 cases, 335 deaths in one day; positivity rate below 25%||Delhi on Thursday recorded 19,133 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 335 deaths, taking the caseload and the death toll to 1,273,035 and 18,398 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 20,028 patients recovered on Thursday, taking the total recoveries in the national capital past 1.16 million while the active cases have climbed to 90,629, the bulletin showed.Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate on Thursday went below 25% and stands at 24.29%. Nearly 78,800 tests were conducted on Thursday of which 14,251 are rapid antigen tests and the remaining 64,529 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests, the health department’s bulletin showed. The number of patients under home isolation in Delhi are at 50,562 while containment zones have gone past 49,000 (49,123 exact), the bulletin added.The health infrastructure of the national capital continues to suffer from the shortage of oxygen amid an unprecedented rise in cases and deaths. Several patients of the Covid-19 disease who were at a critical stage, have lost their lives as hospitals are unable to procure supplies of the life saving gas on time.COVID19 | Delhi records 335 deaths, 19,133 new infections and 20,028 recoveries in the last 24 hours; active cases 90,629 pic.twitter.com/X96AQP0yZdTo address this shortage, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on April 27 that the Delhi government will import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France. However, the imports have been delayed due to technical and administrative reasons, senior government officials told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.The daily requirement of oxygen in Delhi was at 700 metric tonnes (MT) which has now gone up to 976 MT. On Wednesday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led Delhi government urged the Centre to regulate the distribution of cryogenic tankers across India and provide 187 tankers to Delhi in order to meet its daily oxygen requirement.Also Read| Delhi sees over 1,349% jump in Covid-19 containment zones in past 1 monthMeanwhile, 68,205 beneficiaries were vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease on Thursday, taking the cumulative figures to 3,552,037. With the third phase of the vaccination drive underway where doses are being administered to those in the age group of 18-45, CM Kejriwal claimed on Wednesday that Delhi is not getting sufficient vaccine doses. He added if the doses are provided in sufficient quantities, the entire population of Delhi can be vaccinated in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-19-133-new-cases-335-deaths-in-one-day-positivity-rate-at-2429-101620292547368.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||'Moral fabric dismembered': HC on hoarding, black marketing amid Covid-19 surge||The Delhi High Court Thursday said the moral fabric of people has been "dismembered" to a great extent as instead of coming together to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, they are engaging in hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders, medicines and concentrators."We are still not understanding the gravity of the situation and that is why we are not coming together. Which is why we are seeing instances of hoarding and black marketing. Our moral fabric has been dismembered to a great extent," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said.The observation came in response to a suggestion by a lawyer that medical professionals who have retired, medical students or nursing students can be tapped to provide assistance in the prevailing situation when there is shortage of personnel also not just medicines, equipment and beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/moral-fabric-dismembered-hc-on-hoarding-black-marketing-amid-covid-19-surge-101620291332625.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees over 1,349% jump in Covid-19 containment zones in past 1 month||The national capital has witnessed a staggering 1,349 per cent jump in the number of its Covid-19 containment zones in the past one month, with South Delhi accounting for the maximum 21,172 such zones out of the total 47,704, according to official figures.Northeast Delhi has 600 containment zones closely followed by East Delhi (504) which has the lowest number of such zones.Delhi had 3,291 containment zones on April 6. The number shot up to a staggering 47,704 -- an increase of over 1,349 per cent -- by Tuesday.According to data from the city government's revenue department, south Delhi has the maximum number of 21,172 containment zones -- nearly 45 per cent of the total -- followed by central Delhi (7,114), New Delhi (4,946) and southwest Delhi (3,238).Out of the 11 districts in the national capital, seven have less than 3,000 containment zones. These are North Delhi (2,801), West Delhi (2,525), Southeast Delhi (2,027), Northwest Delhi (1,487), Shahdara (1,290), Northeast Delhi (600) and East Delhi (504).Since the beginning of the pandemic, Delhi has had a total of 65,527 containment zones, with South Delhi recording 22,546, the highest in the city. Of these, 17,823 have been de-contained.There are 42,244 active containment zones in the city.In compliance with the Union Health Ministry regulations, an area or building is marked as a containment zone when three or more COVID-19 positive cases are reported there. To prevent further contamination, more stringent restrictions are imposed in these areas.Delhi recorded 20,960 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday and 311 related fatalities which pushed the total number of cases in the city to 1,253,902 and the death toll to 18,063.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-over-1-349-jump-in-covid-19-containment-zones-in-past-1-month-101620291464309.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Gargi College students help differently abled, underprivileged women||Even the pandemic hasn’t been able to douse the spirit of students of Delhi University’s Gargi College, who have always gone an extra mile for women empowerment. Paving a way to uplift the marginalised sections of the society through their acts of compassion, around 90 girls of Gargi College are imparting digital vocational training in making masks, pouches, bags and the likes from discarded cloth waste as part of Enactus’ Project Rachna, to empower the rural women.Supporting the rural women in such tough times, these students have managed to successfully reduce 341 kgs of cloth waste and contribute to the financial independence of 36 women. “The creative team teaches the rural women to make products like folders, masks, pouches, scrunchies from cloth by recycling and upcycling the raw materials. Another team markets and sells their products through various digital platforms and distributes the proceeds among the women, to uplift their social status,” says Adya Sukhija, a first year student of BA (Hons) Business Economics.Not one to get bogged down by the challenges of the lockdown, the students are giving their best to benefit the rural women by using technology. Charu Arora, a second year student pursuing BCom (Hons) says, “We have conducted a few online sessions and are working on introducing new product ideas for the rural women. Some students have even shot some DIY videos and sent to the women to continue teaching them during these difficult times. Apart from this, we are providing help by marketing the products made by them. And recently, using money through a grant, we provided an LED TV to some women who have partial auditory impairment, to help them make the products through the visual media.”Adding value to the lives of the underprivileged and the differently-abled women, these self motivated youngsters have been contributing to the cause whole heartedly. “For me, the motivation to support the cause comes from the positive difference it generates. When I see the women create something beautiful out of someone else’s cloth waste, it feels like an achievement. To give an object which is perceived as a discard, a beautiful form, and a new shelf life is moving. Seeing the professional growth of these women makes me realise the importance of being independent myself,” Avineet Kaur, a final year student of BCom (Hons). And Sanjana, a final year student pursuing BCom (Hons), adds: “When I went to train these women, they were so enthusiastic that despite their household work they took out time and worked hard to finish making the products and achieve targets on time. Their consistency and loyalty towards their work has taught me a lot about life and discipline.”In the presently rocky market place, due to the havoc of pandemic waves, the students are aiming to secure the future of these rural women. “Due to Covid-19, their community has lost pre-existing market, and are struggling to boost their sales. Therefore, our vision is to upgrade the virtual demand of the products made by them,” says Nitya Maniktala, a second year student of Political Science (Hons). And Shunyam Gupta, a second year student of BCom (Hons) adds, “Once the lockdown ends and the situation becomes better, we will resume setting up seasonal stalls at corporates and markets across Delhi like in Greater Kailash and Dilli Haat. The women working under this project have become adept at making eco-friendly products such as folders, diaries, sling bags, rugs etc which sell really well!”And the women who have benefitted from this project are grateful to the students for their efforts. “The money we have earned has not only helped us in making ends meet but also enabled us to buy gifts for our children. Seeing them happy makes me satisfied as well,” says one of the rual women, on condition of anonymity.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/campuscalling-gargi-college-students-help-differently-abled-underprivileged-women-101620287514753.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 patients in home isolation can now apply for oxygen online||Amid the growing demand for oxygen due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government on Thursday said that all persons requiring oxygen for home isolation can apply on http://delhi.gov.in with a valid photo ID, Aadhaar card details and Covid-19 positive report.Based on stock and availability, the District Magistrate (DM) will issue a pass to the patient stating the date, time and address of the oxygen dealer. "Each district has been assigned one re-filter for accessing its lump sum allocation and the respective District Magistrates have been directed to supervise the management of distribution of cylinders from the refillers to various recipients as per the allocations in the Annexure-4 of the afore referred order," said Office of the Divisional Commissioner, Covid data management cell in a statement.The DMs shall ensure that adequate number of office personnel are assigned to scrutinize all the incoming applications and issue the e-passes quickly as time is of essence in such cases. This may be accorded top priority, the order further read.Delhi Government says all persons requiring oxygen for home isolation can apply on https://t.co/a9JS34ui8y with a valid photo ID, Aadhaar card details and COVID positive report pic.twitter.com/QVbx4LXpj4The order further stated that the DMs shall ensure that the dealers regularly get their cylinders refilled from the designated refilling plants.Earlier on Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal directed officials in charge of managing Covid-19 patients in home isolation to make sure they get connected to a doctor within 24 hours of being diagnosed.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry on Wednesday said that two medical oxygen plants have been installed at AIIMS and Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Dellhi with PM-CARES fund. The plants were airlifted from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu and installed in the capital on Tuesday on a war footing, it further said.Delhi on Wednesday reported 19,953 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours according to the health bulletin. While 338 people have died due to the infection, 18,788 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-patients-in-home-isolation-can-now-apply-for-oxygen-online-101620277063758.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Over 67,000 more people administered Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi||Over 67,000 people were vaccinated against coronavirus in a day in the national capital, according to data shared by the government on Thursday.As per the data, 47,086 people in the 18-44 age group got vaccinated till 9.30 pm on Wednesday.A total of 5,230 people in the 45-59 age group were vaccinated, while 1,629 people, aged above 60, received the first dose of vaccine.As many as 1,571 frontline workers and 591 healthcare workers were also given the first jab on Wednesday.Over 11,200 people received the second dose of the vaccine during the same period, the data showed.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had last week said a plan has been formulated to vaccinate all adults against coronavirus within the next three months.He had said that everybody aged above 18 would be administered Covid-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-67-000-more-people-administered-covid-19-vaccine-in-delhi-101620275381576.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi likely to see rain, thunderstorm today: IMD||Delhi is likely to witness rain accompanied by thunderstorm on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 38°C. The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 24°C and the maximum temperature was 40.5°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 156. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 175 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Also Read | AIIMS Delhi adds 150 more beds for Covid patientsAccording to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category on Thursday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the moderate to poor category over the next five days.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category. Satellite fire data indicate effective fire counts have decreased and around 1,000 which are mainly wheat crop burning in the northern part of India. Model trajectory and transport-level wind direction are not very favourable for fire-related intrusion. Surface winds are high and Southwesterly, a change in wind direction to easterly is forecasted. SAFAR Model forecast improved wind speed, good ventilation and less long-range transport for the next two days. Hence, AQI is likely to stay improved in the Moderate category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-see-rain-thunderstorm-todayimd-101620271368464.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Anatomy of Capital oxygen crisis: 5 things Delhi govt didn’t get right||Amid a raging fourth wave of the Covid-19 cases, Delhi, in the past 15 days, has been hit by an unprecedented medical oxygen crisis. While several Covid-19 patients have died waiting for beds with oxygen support, the family members of at least 32 say they died inside hospitals due to oxygen shortage.The Delhi government says it continues to face oxygen shortage because of inadequate allocation and supply by the central government, but the crisis also seems to have been caused by its own failings, such as the inability to manage logistics or the absence of an allocation plan to hospitals.There is a demand-supply imbalance. There is a demand-supply imbalance. “We need 976 MT of oxygen, but it was only yesterday that we started getting more than 500 MT. On April 19 and 20, when the oxygen crisis first began to unfold in the city, Delhi used to receive only 241 to 355 MT every day,” said a government spokesperson.Communications sent by the Delhi government to the Centre, as seen by HT, showed that the city administration projected a demand for 700 MT per day till April 28, and revised its demand to 976 MT based on its bed augmentation plan on April 29. The Centre, however, began to increase Delhi’s quota of oxygen on a piecemeal basis from April 21, when it first raised it from 378 MT to 480 MT; then on April 30 to 490 MT; and then on May 1 to 590 MT.But the crisis is not one of demand-supply alone. From supply chain management to distribution within Delhi to better preparation to robust information exchange with citizens, experts said there were several steps the Delhi government should have taken to manage the crisis better.SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENTOfficials and company representatives said that the biggest problem--the lack of cryogenic tankers--became worse because Delhi started looking for tankers only from mid-April.“By then, most of the tankers available with transporters in north India were booked by states such as Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Other states had predicted that there would be a clamour to grab tankers as the demand for oxygen first grew, and then spiked suddenly. Delhi kept its focus on demanding extra allocation from the Centre without giving much thought about the transportation bit,” said KK Yadav, a transporter in Faridabad, who was approached by the Delhi government between April 17 and 19.Besides, the Delhi government’s announcement of procuring 18 cryogenic tankers from Bangkok was also a non-starter due to “technical and administrative issues”. A government spokesperson said it has now sourced seven tankers from the Central government, apart from procuring around five on its own. “Some industrialists and other states have also helped in providing tankers, but it is not enough. The high court has said it is the Central government’s responsibility to ensure oxygen reaches Delhi’s borders.”A senior government official said a big challenge is to reduce the turnaround time of containers because at least 100MT was being sourced from over 1,500km away . “It is only over the past two days that Oxygen express has been pressed to full service for Delhi to reduce the turnaround time. The Centre should have done it from a week before,” said the official.A central government official, however, said the railways were ready with rakes for several days but the Delhi administration could not arrange for tankers to lift the oxygen.DISTRIBUTION NETWORK INSIDE DELHIDelhi had no daily hospital-wise allocation plan for oxygen until a week ago. Earlier, the hospitals had contracts with oxygen suppliers. But, this arrangement went haywire with the sudden surge in demand for oxygen. On April 22, the government decided it will start giving daily schedules of allocation to every hospital. But, it was a rudimentary plan which did not work well.It was only on April 29, when the crisis was at its peak, that the Delhi government issued an order prescribing quantities of oxygen to be used by each hospital in Delhi. This order also came after the directions of the high court.On the basis of this, now Delhi government increases and decreases the oxygen supply to different hospitals depending on the total quantum received in the city on any day.And while hospitals started sending SOS to the government from April 18, it was only on April 22 that the administration set up a helpline number, with a senior IAS officer in-charge of it, to coordinate with all medical facilities and address their demands and grievances.CITIZEN FACILITATIONDelhi does not have a verified central helpline number for people to meet their oxygen requirement, or get admitted to hospitals. It has not spread awareness about phone number or addresses of the 14 oxygen cylinder refillers in the city, and most people are managing their individual demands through crowdsourcing on social media or by word of mouth.The Delhi government said that work on a centralised system was going on, but did not give a timeline of when it will be operational.On April 28, when scores of people were waiting outside refillers for 6-10 hours for oxygen, the Delhi government issued an order clarifying that people will get to refill their cylinders in Delhi only with their own ID card, the patient’s ID card, and a doctor’s prescription for medical oxygen.Uma Tyagi, whose 48-year old husband died of Covid-19, said her son and daughter waited outside two separate refillers for eight hours to get one cylinder. “My son was turned away because he did not have the documents. Nobody told us what papers were required. My daughter somehow managed one, but my husband died hours after that cylinder got over,” she said.The state health department has now asked all district magistrates to deploy teams round-the-clock at refilling plants or retail establishments to check documents and to ensure adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.PSA PLANTST Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said even if the central government failed to install PSA oxygen plants within the past one year, nothing stopped the Delhi government from being proactive and getting things done on its own during the entire run of the pandemic. The Delhi government has 11 hospitals under it, and the Centre is installing PSA oxygen plants in seven of them.“The internationally required number of beds per 100,000 population is 300, India has only 50. So, we were anyway working at one-sixth efficiency of health care management. When a crisis comes, even the one-sixth becomes one-60th. About 20% of air is oxygen, the raw material is everywhere. It is only a matter of converting it into medical oxygen by using huge plants,” John said.On April 27, the Delhi government announced that the city will import 21 PSA plants from France, but that remains on paper till now, which is why the Delhi government is now looking to DRDO for more such plants. In a letter to the Union health ministry, the Delhi government on Sunday sought 50 oxygen generators to Delhi instead of just four, as per the existing plan.LATE CALL FOR HELPDr Amit Singh, associate professor at Centre for Infectious Disease at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, said Delhi could have planned better during January-February, when cases had plummeted after the third wave. Even during the fourth wave, the administration’s response to the crisis was delayed on almost all aspects -- putting in curbs, going into lockdown, seeking the Centre’s help, and planning for augmentation of beds and oxygen.To be sure, several states in India are guilty of the same lapses.“We could have planned better considering all other countries had a second wave. When it comes to planning about beds, oxygen etc., it all depends on predictions of how much the intensity of the second wave is likely to be. Because of lockdown during the first wave, we did not see as many fatalities, so we should have prepared for a fivefold increase in intensity, and calculated the percentage of people who need ventilator and oxygen support,” said Dr Singh.“The lockdown should have been earlier (when the positivity rate was going up), but that can only be done if you envisage through data that there is going to be a huge wave,” he added.Talking to reporters, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Delhi government will continue the lockdown based on the situation of the Covid-19 cases in Delhi. “Right now, the citizens of Delhi themselves want this lockdown to continue to stop the spread of this virus... We are continuously monitoring the oxygen situation. Yesterday, we received 43 SOS calls regarding oxygen. I know that there were some unfortunate incidents but right now, we are working round the clock to ensure that no fatality in Delhi happens due to lack of oxygen,” he said.“But our only hope is that the central government will provide Delhi with its full quota of oxygen. During this tough time, we have also received massive support from the Supreme Court and the high court. I am hopeful that in the coming days the situation will improve,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/anatomy-of-capital-oxygen-crisis-5-things-delhi-govt-didn-t-get-right-101620260846250.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||‘Exempt Delhi ATC staff from breath tests', says controllers’ guild||Shortage of manpower is plaguing Delhi’s Air Traffic Control (ATC) with at least 21% of staff are either down with Covid-19 or are in isolation. In the wake of the increasing Covid-19 cases detected among the controllers, the controllers’ guild has written to the Airports Authority of India (AAI), requesting it to suspend breath analyser tests that enhance the risk of infection.According to officials in Delhi ATC, as many as 85 of the total 402 air traffic controllers are either Covid-positive or are in quarantine.“While at least 55-60 controllers used to work in a shift earlier, the strength has now reduced to 35-40 controllers. In order to deal with any crisis, we do have at least 10-12 controllers as back up at all times. The situation is somewhat under control as the air traffic movements per day have fallen to around 700 from 1,000,” said an official who asked not to be named.The letter from the controllers’ guild read that the machine used for the breath analyser test did not have the potential to transmit the virus but the environment in which the test is conducted needs to be given due consideration. “The BA test is conducted in a small closed room for air traffic controllers (ATCOs), while undergoing BA test, mask is removed and exhalation is done in BA test machine. This process can release droplets inside room, which may affect subsequent officer undergoing BA test,” read the letter dated April 25.JB Singh, general manager, corporate communications, AAI, declined to respond on the request made by the guild to do away with BA tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/exempt-delhi-atc-staff-from-breath-tests-says-controllers-guild-101620260497568.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||AIIMS Delhi adds 150 more beds for Covid patients||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) added 150 more beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients on Tuesday, taking the total number of beds in the main hospital building to 241. The additional beds are on the second and sixth floors of the ward block of the hospital.Of the total 241 beds, 193 were occupied as on Wednesday night, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app. The hospital has 294 beds at the hospital’s trauma centre, which had been converted to a complete Covid-19 treatment centre last year. In addition, there are 489 beds in its cancer centre in Jhajjar.Delhi has 21,805 beds earmarked for the treatment of the viral infection across city hospitals, where the occupancy on Wednesday night was 92.7% as per the Delhi Corona app.The Delhi government plans to set up 1,200 makeshift intensive care unit beds once Delhi starts receiving more oxygen from the central government’s quota.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday also said that its newly constructed Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka will start 500 oxygen beds by next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-adds-150-more-beds-for-covid-patients-101620258804778.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt seeks cylinder donations to create common oxygen pool in all district||Each of the 11 districts in Delhi will now have a common oxygen pool of 20 cylinders to start with, while those wanting to donate cylinders can do so at the Raj Ghat depot of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), senior Delhi government officials said on Wednesday. The move is aimed at giving easy access to oxygen to the 50,000-odd Covid patients undergoing treatment in home isolation.The government, through an order, allocated 11 DTC bus depots to create a pool of oxygen cylinders in each district. Each of these depots will be linked to the district magistrate (DM) of that zone, the order said.Delhi, according to government officials, currently needs 976 MT oxygen per day. The allocation to the capital is only 590 MT, which the Supreme Court has ordered, must be increased to 700 MT.Hospitals,meanwhile, continue to send out appeals for uninterrupted flow of oxygen to save critical patients.“NGOs, religious organisations and individuals are doing a lot on their own. We request them to donate it (cyclinders) to the Delhi government... To donate, citizens can call on the helpline -- 23270718,” a senior government official said about the facility at the Raj Ghat depot. He asked not to be named.The district magistrates concerned will be responsible for the judicious distribution of cylinders among Covid patients in home isolation as well as hospitals having an urgent requirement of oxygen, stated the order.“Also, DMs have been authorised to create a buffer stock of 10% cylinders to meet any SOS calls, till the pool is expanded to fulfil the requirement of all individuals. The common pool will be boosted in a phase-wise manner through procurement, donations as well as those seized during searches of hoarders and black marketeers. The oxygen filled cylinders will be provided to Covid patients in home isolation and hospitals in return of empty ones,” the government order said.Two DTC depots are providing buses to carry medical oxygen cylinders to hospitals in emergency situations, said a DTC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-seeks-cylinder-donations-to-create-common-oxygen-pool-in-all-district-101620258596274.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Supply eases but no respite for small hospitals in Delhi||With Delhi receiving 555 MT of medical oxygen on Tuesday – a significant improvement from the average 445 MT per day recorded between May 1 and 3 – the oxygen crisis in the city eased a bit with bigger hospitals saying they are receiving more quantities of oxygen per delivery, which led to fewer alarm calls. Smaller hospitals, which mostly depend on cylinders, however, continue to struggle.The quantity of oxygen received by Delhi still remains lower than 700 MT, which the Supreme Court has asked the central government to earmark for Capital, in the light of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases that has left the health care system overburdened.“Delhi on Tuesday received 555 MT oxygen – the highest so far. It has come as a relief in a severe crisis situation even though our requirement at this point is 976 MT... But there has been a lot of ad-hoc arrangements from oxygen plants,” said Raghav Chadha, vice chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board, who is monitoring the day-to-day oxygen supply process in the capital.Dr DS Rana, chairperson of Sir Ganga Ram hospital, said the hospital was receiving two or three large refills every day. “Oxygen situation is much better than before, we do not have to raise alarm every two to three hours like before. If the government gets as much oxygen as needed, the situation is likely to improve,” Rana said.The hospital was sent a 10 MT tanker, but could not use the oxygen as the connector port of the tanker was not compatible with the one in the hospital. The hospital, however, has sufficient oxygen for now.“The situation has improved. This is directly related to the amount of oxygen that Delhi gets. On the days that Delhi received a little higher amount of oxygen, we weren’t on the edge,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital.Smaller hospitals continued to struggle as they had to queue up at the 14 designated refilling stations for replenishing their oxygen cylinders.“I think the oxygen situation is better today, but we face a challenge because of our filling station. The government keeps changing our vendor and our current vendor has no system in place. I have been personally waiting in the queue since 3pm, and I do not know when I will get a refill because the station now says that their stock is over,” said Dr CM Bhagat, medical director the Bhagat Chandra Hospital, Dwarka.Chadha expressed hope that the Centre will develop more systematic ways to ensure oxygen supply to Delhi.“Also, it should not be like Delhi ends up receiving a decent amount of oxygen as a reaction to the high court pulling up the central government,” he said.On May 1, 2 and 3, Delhi received 454 MT, 447 MT and 433 MT oxygen respectively – an average of 445 MT per day, with the entire process under the scrutiny of both the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court. Between April 21 and 30, Delhi received 353 MT oxygen per day on average.While the Centre has failed to ensure the supply of 700 metric tonnes (MT) quota of medical oxygen to the national capital, the Delhi government has been unable to arrange for cryogenic tankers to pick up supplies – both of which continue to remain key hurdles as hospitals send out desperate appeals for uninterrupted flow to save critically ill patients.“We received 48 oxygen-related SOS calls on Tuesday. All of them were resolved. We supplied 36.40 MT oxygen from out SOS oxygen reserves. These hospitals collectively have 4,036 occupied oxygen beds,” said Chadha.Government records showed, of the 48 distress calls, 20 were addressed with cylinders, 13 with liquid medical oxygen, and 15 pertained to streamlining supply and distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supply-eases-but-no-respite-for-small-hospitals-in-delhi-101620258312650.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||3 arrested for passing off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders||Police searched a scrap godown in outer Delhi’s Alipur, and arrested three men for passing off empty fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders, and selling them at exorbitant rates. Police said they seized 532 empty fire extinguishers -- painted black and fitted with nozzles to make them look like oxygen cylinders -- from the godown.“Liquid oxygen is filled in a cylinder at a pressure of 300 bars (1 bar = 100,000 Pa). Oxygen cylinders are made of tough metal, and are tested as per the protocol before they are deemed fit for use and refilling. But fire extinguishers do not need that much pressure. If a fire extinguisher is used for refilling oxygen, it may burst because of the high pressure and cause danger to human lives,” said Delhi Fire Services (DSF) chief Atul Garg.Apart from the empty fire extinguishers, 26 oxygen cylinder nozzles, two electric grinder machines used for removing the red paint of fire extinguishers, three silver spray paint cans, and other items, were also seized||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-arrested-for-passing-off-fire-extinguishers-as-oxygen-cylinders-101620257876179.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Water supply to be affected for 3 days in various parts of Delhi||Water supply will remain affected in various parts of the national capital for the next three days as a result of Haryana releasing less raw water into the Yamuna, the Delhi Jal Board said on Wednesday.The DJB said in a statement that the supply from Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants was hit due to a reduction in the release of raw water into the river, which has consequently pulled down the water level at Wazirabad pond. At present, the level at Wazirabad pond is 667.2 feet against a normal of 674.5 feet.“Water supply in parts of central Delhi, north Delhi, south Delhi, west Delhi and Cantonment areas will remain affected in the morning and evening for the next three days. The situation is likely to persist till the pond level improves to normal,” DJB’s statement read.On average, the DJB supplies 900 MGD (million gallons daily) water, with demand peaking at 1,100 MGD in summer months.DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Saturday said the depleting water levels in the Yamuna is leading to a shortage of drinking water in several parts of Delhi, and may also affect hospitals in the city in the coming days. He urged Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to release more raw water into the Yamuna so that sufficient drinking water is available in the national capital.The water from Wazirabad pond is drawn for treatment at Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal treatment plants. The Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants are supplying 228 MGD of drinking water currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-to-be-affected-for-3-days-in-various-parts-of-delhi-101620257619345.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||AAP demands 187 cryogenic tankers for Delhi||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday urged the Union government to regulate the distribution of cryogenic tankers across the country – the way in which it regulates the supply of medical oxygen – and said that Delhi should be provided 187 tankers to meet its daily medical oxygen requirement.“India has 1,631 cryogenic tankers to transport total production of around 8,500 MT oxygen across the country. This the central government has told the Delhi high court. By our calculation, 1,631 tankers are capable of catering to transportation of 23,000 MT oxygen. So, there is no dearth of tankers in the country, but evidently a factor of mismanagement. Delhi is not an industrial state. Even the high court has noted that. So we don’t have sufficient tankers. But several other states which have the tankers are learnt to have reserved it for themselves,” Raghav Chadha, AAP’s national spokesperson said.Chadha, who is also a Delhi MLA, further said, “Cryogenic tankers are now national assets. Central government regulating supply of oxygen in the country without regulating the distribution of tankers does not make sense. Tankers should also be distributed among states proportionally in accordance to their oxygen needs at a given point of time. We request the central government to regulate distribution of cryogenic tankers across the country and allot 187 tankers to Delhi.” The Delhi government, which asked for 700 metric tonne (MT) per day, now says its requirement has gone up to 976 MT.Piyush Goyal, additional secretary in the home ministry, told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the shortage of containers is the key problem and “production of oxygen is not a problem”, during a hearing on review petition by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-demands-187-cryogenic-tankers-101620257212290.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Antivirals, oxygen biggest draw in Delhi's Covid black market||A flourishing black market of medicines and medical devices has come up ever since the ongoing Covid-19 wave has overburdened the health care system, leading to desperate calls for hospital beds, oxygen, antiviral injections, and devices such as oxygen concentrators, flowmeters, and pulse oximeters.In the last three weeks, the police have busted at least 75 cases and arrested more than 90 people who were either hoarding these items or selling them at exorbitant rates.An HT analysis of these cases shows that remdesivir is still the most sought-after medicine across the city, and it is being sold at anywhere between Rs.25,000-50,000 for a single vial while the original price is between Rs.899-3,490 depending on the brand. Investigating officials, who have arrested people for hoarding and selling the medicine, said that the relatives of many Covid patients are ready to pay any amount for it because it is hailed on social media as a “magic cure”.The demand for this antiviral drug is such that there have been at least three cases of nurses stealing it from hospitals to sell it at high prices.“On Tuesday, we arrested a contractual nurse from a prominent hospital in south Delhi. She had stolen the remdesivir injection vial from the hospital, forged the records to show that she had given it to patients, and later passed it on to her contacts to sell it. She does not have a record but was lured by greed. She and her gang were selling the medicine for ₹70,000 each,” said a senior police officer privy to the investigation. He added that they found enough buyers even at that price.The cases also show that most of the people arrested so far for such crimes are those connected to hospitals -- a doctor, security guards, nurses, lab technicians -- or are medical salespersons, chemists, and drivers who work for private ambulance and cab services. In their interrogation report, the motive, as mentioned by the police is usually the same -- “earn quick money.”One investigating officer, who asked not to be named, said that, barring a few, most of them do not have a previous criminal record but “wanted to earn quick money”.After remdesivir, other sought-after items sold in the black market for profit are oxygen cylinders, concentrators, and flowmeters.The cases show that both filled and empty cylinders are in high demand. Police have seized at least 220 cylinders, 225 concentrators, and 82 oxygen flow regulators.A police officer from the New Delhi district, who busted a case recently, said: “Oxygen concentrators are expensive. Not everyone can hoard in bulk, and sell it later. So, some people are trying to make profits quickly by selling small oxygen canisters. We arrested a medical supplier who was selling oxygen canisters for Rs.5,100 when the price of the canister as mentioned on the can was only Rs.400. That man had recently sold an oxygen concentrator for around Rs.1,25,000, more than twice its price.”At a time when several fraudsters have been found luring relatives of Covid-19 patients, police are calling numbers circulating in WhatsApp groups, or posing as decoy customers outside hospitals. In one such operation, a team from the New Friends Colony police station arrested two men on the road outside the Escorts and Holy Family hospitals.“The price of a 10-litre oxygen cylinder is around ₹6,000. These two men had bought a cylinder from their contact in Haryana for Rs.25,000, and planned to sell it for Rs.63,000. They were looking for needy people when we arrested them,” said an inspector who was part of the operation.And it isn’t just medicines or medical items. Ambulance drivers, too, have been caught overcharging people to transport Covid-19 patients or bodies. On Wednesday, police shared two cases in which a driver had charged ₹6,000 for a 5km ride to transport a Covid-19 patient between Deep Chand Bandhu hospital and Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh.In another case, an ambulance driver charged Rs.20,000 for a 10km ride from Jaitpur to AIIMS. Police said these were ambulance cabs, and not those with life support systems.Deputy commissioner of police Chinmoy Biswal, who is also the police’s spokesperson, said in all police districts, teams have been assigned tasks to trace people who are taking advantage of the pandemic by hoarding items, selling them at higher prices, or cheating the people desperately looking for medical help.“Our teams are sending decoys and calling such people offering to sell medicines. Our teams are also posted outside hospitals. We will book them under stringent sections. We have registered at least 75 cases against at least 91 people. We are proactive, and will act sternly,” Biswal said.He said people can complain on the police helpline 011- 23469900||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/antivirals-oxygen-biggest-draw-in-delhi-s-covid-black-market-101620256467499.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: When the grief is raw||She is young and living through intense grief in this season of collective loss. Protiti Bhattacharyya, 22, a history student in the University of Hyderabad, kindly agrees to share a glimpse of her current life. Connecting on WhatsApp video from her house in Delhi’s West Kidwai Nagar, she is sitting on the chair that belonged to her father.You lost your father and grandmother last month.Baba had Covid and had been on the ventilator for a few days. The news of his death came in the way of a solemn phone call from the doctor, one of his colleagues from the same hospital he worked in. Ma has respiratory issues and so does my elder sister who lives in Noida, so I saw it as my responsibility to do the needful. I only cried once, when I had to recognise him at the morgue. Thampu (grandmother), who had the symptoms but had tested negative, died in her sleep a few days later at home, which meant that this was a very intimate death as compared to how baba left. I went to the same cremation ground that I’d gone to for my father. While the staff hadn’t been too cooperative the last time (maybe because I was alone and more importantly, an unaccompanied woman), they were extremely empathetic the second time. I felt like I was a regular, familiar in the most grotesque of settings.How are you coping?I have people who have constantly checked up on me, friends who’ve sent me jars of peanut butter and tacos. All I want is to bury my head in someone’s chest and sob. Ma is diagnosed with Covid as well, which has made all of this tougher.How are your days?I’m addicted to my morning walk accompanied by my colony dogs and the morning phone call with my boyfriend. Sticking to yoga has helped me breathe better. I made bhindi ki subzi yesterday. Getting back to (online) classes has helped with structuring days better and also to take my mind off things. My professors, classmates, friends and didi have been my pillars of strength. Heartbreak does not cut it any more, my heart is severed and shattered in so many pieces that I don’t think I’ll ever be whole again.What are your hopes from the coming months?I hope we are all able to lead more meaningful lives, and I never want to take life and my time with someone for granted ever again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-when-the-grief-is-raw-101620250820792.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC wants an oxygen distribution blueprint||The Delhi high court on Wednesday said it appears that the Delhi government was not taking enough steps to create a buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in the city, and asked the administration to take the help of IIT-Delhi and Delhi Technological University (DTU) to prepare a blueprint for its storage and distribution in the city.Wednesday’s observation and direction by the bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli came after a lawyer, appearing for one of the petitioners -- in pleas by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra and several hospitals seeking directions for better facilities and the continuous supply of oxygen -- said that large static cryogenic tanks for storing LMO were available, and could be installed to create a buffer of the life-saving medical essential.“We direct GNCTD (Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi) to explore the possibility to get these tankers and create storage, this obligation is passed to both UOI (Union of India) and GNCTD. The Delhi government should consider taking help of IIT Delhi, Delhi Technological University (DTU) to prepare a blueprint of the supply and distribution infrastructure, LMOs and oxygen cylinders,” the bench said.“GNCTD needs to provide the necessary areas where tanks need to be installed and also for purpose of transport and infrastructure LMO and cylinder,” the bench said, adding that it was the obligation of both the Centre and the Delhi government to get the job done according to the Supreme Court’s directions of April 30.On April 30, the apex court directed the Centre to collaborate with all states to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen to be used for emergency purposes to ensure supply lines continue to function even in unforeseen circumstances.After this, on Tuesday, the high court directed the Union government to collaborate with the Delhi government to set up a buffer stock of 100 MT of LMO in Delhi, or for supply to the Capital and neighbouring areas. It said that steps for the creation of the buffer stock should be taken in three days.The lawyer who on Wednesday raised the issue of the cryogenic tanks, Aditya N Prasad, said that smaller tankers can pick up oxygen from the larger tanks and distribute it in the city. This, he said, would enable Delhi to not fall upon other states or the Centre for tankers to transport oxygen once buffer stock was created. He suggested that the tanks could be installed with the help of the army.The court noted that it was for the Delhi government to explore all the possibilities for creating storage facilities for oxygen, and asked it to identify the necessary areas where such tanks can be installed.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that in the last few days they have not got sufficient oxygen supply to make any storage possible, but hopefully things would become better in the coming days with the SC’s order of Wednesday directing the Centre to supply 700 MT oxygen every day. “We will work with the Centre, and we should be able to get it done,” he said.The Centre’s counsel, additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, told the court that the armed forces are already facilitating the transportation of the tankers, and their resources are stretched. He also said that it has been decided in principal not to set up field hospitals and bring the army in civil administration.To this, the court said, “Fair enough.” It asked the Centre to explore the possibility of using the civil and engineering wings of the army for assistance.The court also sought to know the rationale of a Delhi government order directing small nursing homes to treat patients only on the ground and first floors, and not on the top floors.Mehra said that this was a general direction for the fire safety norms.He claimed that in the garb of the pandemic, the nursing homes have been flouting norms and admitting more patients than their capacity.The court expressed surprise over the timing of the order. “Prior to the pandemic, they were taking patients and treating them on the top floor. You don’t ask them even as to how the operations are going on. This is a sword hanging on their (nursing homes) heads... At this time we are concerned only and only about patients,” the bench said.The bench also said that the foreign aid, particularly medical equipment, was meant for people suffering from Covid-19, and not meant to be kept in boxes at some institution to become “junk”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-wants-an-oxygen-distribution-blueprint-101620249929483.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Tragedy averted as 26 patients rescued in nick of time after fire in Delhi nursing home||Twenty-six patients, including 17 infected with Covid-19 and some of them on oxygen support, were trapped after a fire broke out late Tuesday night in UK Nursing Home at Vikaspuri, fire and police officials said. The medical facility was recently converted into a Covid hospital.All the patients, and around 50 members of the hospital staff were rescued in a 45-minute-long firefighting and rescue operation carried out by 30 firemen involving eight fire tenders. Three serious Covid patients who were on ventilator support in the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) were immediately shifted to two private hospitals in west Delhi – Kalra and Central – in ambulances, said fire official and the hospital administration.“As water was dripping in the ICU from the roof, we removed three Covid patients as a precautionary measure. Two were shifted to Kalra hospital while another patient was sent to Central hospital. The fire started in the first floor store room, where administrative records were kept. All patients are safe and they were shifted to ground and second floors,” said Pankaj Maini from UK Nursing Home’s administration department.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said the fire control room received a call around 11pm that a fire has broken out in the hospital, and people were trapped inside.“Immediately, eight fire tenders were rushed to the hospital. The building has a basement, ground, and two upper floors. The fire originated in the storeroom on the first floor. While the flames were seen only on the first floor, the smoke had engulfed the entire hospital building,” he said.Since it was a Covid hospital, the firemen were divided into four different teams – one to douse the flames and three others to rescue the patients and hospital staff.None of the rescuers wore PPE kits since it catches fire easily. The firemen wore the regular uniforms, helmets with face shields, and eyeglasses and masks, said assistant divisional officer (DFS) Bhupender Prakash, who was leading the teams.According to Prakash, the firefighting team entered the hospital building through the main gate, and reached the first floor using a ladder installed on the porch. The patients on the first floor were immediately evacuated, and water was sprayed to douse the flames. The glass windows towards the front portion of the building were broken for ventilation.The fire officer said that there were six patients in the ICU on the ground floor, right below the first floor store room where the fire broke out. The water used to douse the flames started dripping inside the ICU from the roof. All the six patients were evacuated. The false ceiling of the ICU collapsed soon after all the patients were taken away safely, he said.“The members of our rescue teams evacuated patients from the ground and second floors, as well with the help of the hospital staff. We used the stretchers and wheelchairs to move the patients to safe places. Within 45 minutes, the fire was controlled while the entire operation continued till 1am on Wednesday,” said Prakash, adding that they found fire fighting equipment such as fire extinguishers in the hospital.The firefighters said that though they knew they had Covid patients inside, they knew they must carry out the rescue operation. All firefighters were properly sanitised after the rescue operation, and their uniforms were discarded.“We take calculated risk as saving lives is the top priority of fire fighters even in situations where there are chances of getting infected from Covid or other virus. As a precautionary measure, for two days we isolate the firefighters who were directly exposed to Covid patients, and watch their health condition,” DFS chief Garg said.Meanwhile, the ministry of home affairs has asked all the states and Union territories to ensure that no fire incident occurs in any of the health facilities (particularly Covid-19 dedicated facilities).The ministry has taken cognisance of fire incidents, caused by short circuits, in hospitals and nursing homes in the last few days across the country.In his letter to the states and UTs, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla said that in the context of recent fire incidents, and particularly in view of the impending summer season, it needs to be highlighted that either because of high temperature, lack of maintenance or high load on the internal wirings within facilities, short circuits take place, leading to fire incidents and consequential loss of life and essential infrastructure.Fifteen patients died after a fire broke out on April 23 at Vijay Vallabh hospital in Virar, Mumbai. On April 25, 3 patients died in fire at hospital in Gujarat’s Surat.The ministry of home affairs has asked the states/union territories to conduct a detailed review with officials from the health, power and fire departments, and prepare a detailed plan of action to ensure that fire safety measures are in place in all hospitals and health facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tragedy-averted-as-26-patients-rescued-in-nick-of-time-after-fire-in-delhi-nursing-home-101620240640193.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Why are health bulletins often delayed in Capital?||On Tuesday, the Delhi government failed to release its crucial daily health bulletin, which gives updates on the city’s Covid-19 numbers from the previous day. This was the third time since the pandemic hit the national Capital in March 2020 that the government has been unable to release the bulletin till the end of the day.The second wave of Covid-19 across the country, and the fourth in Delhi, has turned out to be the deadliest one yet in terms of cases and deaths. Delhi is currently recording an average of nearly 23,000 new Covid cases and nearly 400 deaths every day over the past seven days. While every state issues bulletins, some later than others, Delhi’s health bulletins over the past several weeks have often been released late in the night, even though the data is from the previous day -- a decision taken last year after a health bulletin was missed (the logic being that it would be easier to compile the previous day’s data).Experts say that the quick sharing of data is the essence of public health action. “This is a national health emergency and Delhi is now the worst hit city-state. At such a critical juncture, it is critical to release data to the public on time. I do not know if it was just not released to the public, and if officials had it on time. This approach may hinder timely interventions in pandemic management,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The health bulletins were also not uploaded on the Delhi government website on May 3 and May 4, even as the administration released them to reporters and on social media.In a statement on Wednesday, the Delhi government admitted Tuesday’s delay. “We’d like to sincerely apologise for the delay in sending the health bulletin. It has always been our effort to lay the facts bare in front of the people. Health bulletins are an indicator of how we fare, what factors remain a matter of concern, where the government needs to take immediate measures and where the public can hold us to account. We’re deeply sorry and regret that we were unable to share an important document yesterday. What we can promise, is that this will never happen again in the future. We are also looking into the reasons why it was delayed,” the statement said.The Tuesday bulletin (with Monday’s data, as per the norm), was released at 8.55am on Wednesday. Later that afternoon, the Wednesday bulletin was released as well. A government spokesperson said that there was a serious effort being made to rectify the problem, and that the bulletin would be released in the afternoons, rather than late in the evenings, from now on.The other days when the bulletin did not come till midnight were June 9, 2020 (it was released at 5.30am on June 10); and on April 28 (when it was put out at 12.11am on April 29).A senior official said on condition of anonymity said that a bulk of the data used to prepare the bulletin generally come in by 1pm. “This is the data of the previous day. It comes from hospitals and our team compiles it. These days, because of the surge in case, a few batches of numbers come in by evening, because of which the bulletin sometimes gets delayed. Also, officials who need to sign the bulletin are often in some meeting or the other to handle the Covid-19 crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-why-are-health-bulletins-often-delayed-in-capital-101620240228304.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi not getting enough vaccine doses: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday expressed concerns over the short supply of Covid-19 vaccines, even as he asserted that with the current infrastructure in place, the entire population of Delhi can be vaccinated in three months if supply is scaled up.“In the coming days, we will need a large scale supply of vaccines. The latest consignment we have received is not a large one. With the established procedures in place, we can scale up (the vaccination drive) in 24 hours. But there is a shortage of vaccine production. If production and supply are scaled up, we are capable of vaccinating the entire population of Delhi. Right now, the only obstacle is a short supply of vaccines,” Kejriwal said on the sidelines of his visit to a vaccination centre in central Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar.While vaccination of people aged over 45 years was underway at around 500 sites, the drive was opened to people aged between 18 and 44 years on a wider scale on May 3, in a different set of 300-odd sites scattered across all 11 revenue districts in the city.Government records showed, as on 10am on May 5, Delhi had a balance of 411,030 vaccine doses in the central government’s stock and 377,120 vaccine doses in the state government’s stock. Of the total 788,150 doses, 371,600 were of Covishield -- the Indian version of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) – and the remaining are doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior government official said going by the current rate of vaccine coverage in the city, this stock would last for eight to nine days, unless replenished. Government records showed around 89,500 people are getting vaccinated a day on average these days.Delhi’s adult population, as per electoral rolls revised in January, is around 15 million – it essentially means the city needs 30 million doses of vaccines, of which 3.25 doses were already administered by April 30, government data said. On May 1, the Delhi government had received its last consignment of around 450,000 vaccines, said the government official.Kejriwal on Wednesday also expressed concerns over the issue of oxygen shortage and said that the ongoing lockdown is likely to remain imposed till it is necessary.“We are working with the central government to ensure the oxygen shortage problem in Delhi is resolved at the earliest... Even though currently there is a severe shortage of oxygen, we are trying our best to ensure that oxygen shortage should not lead to deaths,” said Kejriwal.On being asked about the lockdown, he said, “It is likely to remain till it is necessary. It is not the government imposing a lockdown. People in Delhi want a lockdown in the light of the surge in cases. The pandemic has taken a massive shape. We are augmenting health infrastructure (during lockdown).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-not-getting-enough-vaccine-doses-arvind-kejriwal-101620239348533.html
