07-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Kejriwal instructs officials to ensure availability of beds, oxygen supply||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday instructed officers to ensure that there is no shortage of beds, now that the oxygen supply situation is coming under control, reported news agency ANI. In a high-level meeting to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in Delhi, Kejriwal also instructed that no life should be lost due to the shortage of medical oxygen and the vaccination drive should be complete in three months, reported the news agency.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Earlier in the day, the Delhi government passed an order directing MS/MD/directors of all hospitals and nursing homes to update the bed availability status on the Delhi Corona app/portal frequently, but no later than two hours. The order was aimed to help prevent hardships faced by the public due to the non-availability of the beds.In an order issued today, the Delhi government has directed MS/MD/Directors to update bed status of all hospitals on Delhi Corona App/portal frequently, but not later than every 2 hours.This will help in preventing hardships faced by the public regarding availability of beds. pic.twitter.com/VQ3AaBSI60The Capital is among the worst hit by the second wave of Covid-19 and the healthcare system was caught underprepared during the destructive wave. Delhi witnessed an acute paucity of all essential medical supplies, like vaccines, drugs, oxygen and hospital beds required for Covid-19 treatment. Many lives were lost due to the shortage of oxygen in the hospitals.In the meeting, the chief minister also directed the district magistrates to visit two to three vaccination centres daily for inspection and to pay surprise visits to relief camps and old age homes, reported ANI.Also read | ‘Won’t let anyone die of oxygen shortage if…’: Kejriwal thanks Modi govtOn Thursday, Kejriwal said that the Aam Aadmi Party-led government will set up 48 oxygen plants, including 21 that are being imported from France, across Delhi to meet the demand for the life-saving gas that is on peak due to the rising number of infections.Delhi reported 19,832 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, while 341 people lost their lives to the illness, according to the daily health bulletin. The positivity rate now stands at 24.92 per cent with an active caseload of over 91,000, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-kejriwal-instructs-officials-to-ensure-availability-of-beds-oxygen-supply-101620397434990.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records slight rise in new Covid-19 cases, deaths||The capital on Friday recorded 19,832 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reporting a marginal spike compared to the 19,133 cases reported on Thursday. The positivity rate in the Capital also dropped to 24.92%. Delhi reported 341 deaths on Friday pushing the toll to 18,739, according to a medical bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases in Delhi reached 1,292,867 on Friday.Delhi had recorded 19,133 on Thursday, 20,960 cases on Wednesday, 19,953 on Tuesday, 18,043 on Monday, 20,394 cases on Sunday and 25,219 on Saturday. This is the fourth time this week that the Capital recorded less than 20,000 cases. The rise in the number of cases comes in the backdrop of increased testing. Delhi had conducted 78,780 tests between May 5 to May 6 while it conducted 79,593 tests between May 6 to May 7. The bulletin showed that out of the total number of tests 65,663 tests were RTPCR tests. The capital currently has 91,035 active cases of Covid-19.The case fatality rate in Delhi remained at 1.45%. The city saw a marginal spike in the number of deaths. Delhi reported 335 deaths on Wednesday, 311 deaths on Wednesday, 338 deaths on Tuesday, 448 deaths on Monday, the highest so far since the onset of the pandemic; 407 deaths on Sunday, 412 deaths on Saturday and 375 deaths on Friday.Delhi reported 19,085 recoveries which pushed the tally of recovered people to above 1.183 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-slight-rise-in-new-covid-19-cases-deaths-101620393006115.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||1.84 lakh youth have got first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in 4 days: Sisodia||Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said that 1.84 lakh people between the age group of 18-44 years have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine in the first four days of the start of third phase of the vaccination drive in the national capital.Sisodia made the remarks in response to tweet by a Delhi resident thanking the Delhi government for "smooth arrangements for vaccination of people under 45 in the Delhi government schools"."In Delhi 1.84 lakh youth have got the 1st dose of vaccine, in first 4 days of 18-45 years age group opening. In total 38.88 lakh people have got the vaccine in all age groups till yesterday evening," he said.The third phase of the vaccination drive commenced in the country on May 1 and began symbolically in the national capital also.The "large-scale vaccination drive" for the newly added category started on May 3 in the national capital. The Delhi government has allocated 77 government schools for administering vaccines to people between the age group 18-44 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/184-lakh-youth-administered-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-4-days-sisodia-101620388791055.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||I’m available 24X7 for anyone in distress: Ghritashri Bhuyan Narula||“My cousin brother in Delhi got coronavirus, and had to be hospitalised. It was then that I realised the extent of struggle that people are going through, for we faced a great difficulty in arranging a bed for him. That’s when I resolved to help others in need,” says Ghritashri Bhuyan Narula, the Delhi Police Northeast Representative (DPNER). Over the last fortnight, Narula has single-handedly helped many Delhiites find hospital beds, plasma, oxygen cylinders and more. “I get hundreds of queries, especially from people from the Northeast, and try to help everyone with right from arranging consultations with doctors to procuring medicines. I’m available 24X7 on calls for anyone in distress,” says Narula. As soon as she gets an enquiry, she starts making calls to all possible leads, verifying their authenticity amid the deluge of information circulating online, and then helps connect the people in need with the correct resources. “A big problem that I’m facing currently is the shortage of plasma donors. People aren’t coming out to donate, after recovering, for the fear of getting reinfected. I’m trying to convince more and more people to donate plasma, and have even managed to inspire a few.” The Delhi-based social worker is presently in talks with representatives in the Northeastern states to make essential medicines, including Remdesivir, available to the locals. “People from the Northeast who are based in Delhi, and need these medicines are calling me. But I can’t send medicines through someone because they may get lost en route... There is a nexus of black marketeers who are profiting from the current scenario, and I want to tell people to not to buy medicines from the black market as many are being duped. Only verified links should be approached,” she opines. It’s challenging to keep one going in such tough circumstances, but Narula says that when she sees recovery of people who she has helped, it gives her strength to carry on. She shares, “Recently, I got a call from a girl in Gurugram, who was Covid positive. Her oxygen level had dropped to 61. I had to make many calls to arrange for a cylinder and a mask, and also sent her medicines. After she was full recovered and I got to know about it, I felt how rewarding all this was. Happiness of patients like her makes every sleepless night worth it!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/im-available-24x7-for-anyone-in-distress-ghritashri-bhuyan-narula-101620388680333.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Battle for survival vs greed: Strict action demanded||The deadly second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has brought strangers together offline and online, trying to help each other in every way possible. Even the heartbreaking stories of death and bereavement have not stopped some from indulging in unethical and immoral practices such as black-marketing of medical life-saving necessities, hoarding and cheating in the name of Covid-19 medical supplies and charging exorbitant fees for ambulance service. The Delhi Police recently seized 419 oxygen concentrators after they raided a fine-dining restaurant, Nege & Ju in Lodhi Colony. These were being sold at an exorbitant price of ₹69,999 with fake MRP stickers pasted on them. And in the latest development, 96 oxygen concentrators were confiscated from Khan Chacha, a popular food joint in Khan Market. City’s eminent personalities call for strict actions against perpetrators of such illegal and inhuman activities when Delhi-NCR is reeling under the worst crisis ever. AD Singh, managing director, and co-founder, Olive Group of Restaurants, recalls being victim to a fraudulent incident. “In my own family, my mother in law was tested positive for Covid-19 ahead of a trip while the rest of us tested negative. Ten days later, we saw in the papers that a doctor at the lab and the collection agents involved were arrested for running a scam and giving random results and pocketing the tests fees,” he says. He feels lucky to have survived but believes that it was criminal behaviour.He adds, “There is a huge need for medical supplies in the city including oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, and key medicines. Despicably this has led to a roaring black market and a huge number of scams making a very difficult situation for all of us even worse.”Model Sonalika Sahay feels that unprecedented times shows extreme behaviours of humans. “There are people like Sonu Sood working relentlessly and even auto-rickshaw drivers trying to save lives with no resources because they want to help people around. And on the other hand, some are trying to make a quick buck when people are losing their lives,” says Sahay who reiterates that this is not the time to make money but open hearts and come together.Resonating with Sahay’s view, designer Rahul Mishra too feels tough times shows true colours and real side of human beings as he elaborates, “It’s a privilege for many to be able to be at home protecting our loved ones while corona warriors are out there fighting and saving lives. But taking advantage of such a situation, becoming greedy of opportunities and hoarding and black marketing life saving drugs - people really need to introspect.” Mishra also feels, “When masses at large are scared and there is panic buying, it leads to giving big sharks opportunities to hoard and black-market.”Designer, JJ Valaya, feels that the pandemic has shaken India like never before is known to all, yet in the midst of all this and shockingly, greed thrives in the form of hoarders and black marketeers who are exploiting sickness for profits. He says, “They will be dealt the hand of fate when karma comes knocking but all of us too have a similar responsibility of not hoarding life-saving medicines and oxygen because of our fear ... our insecurities are costing needy patients their lives and we must do all we can to help, not hoard. Let’s all be an empathetic part of creating solutions and miracles will happen.”FDCI chairman, Sunil Sethi, too narrates an incident where they had to run from pillar to post in search of medicines but were fortunate to be able to manage at nominal price. He says, ”The problem is of 10 times the cost of medicines, scrupulous activities – which is neither acceptable to me, nor to the citizen of the country. However, when there’s a black marketer, there are good Samaritans who are coming forward to offer free of cost help. I am fortunate to be connected with them. My heart goes out to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/struggle-for-survival-during-the-second-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-hit-by-greed-strict-action-demanded-101620382499720.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi burial grounds out of space with Covid death toll high||Abdul Wahid, a resident of east Delhi’s Khichripur area, wanted to bury his 55-year-old woman neighbour, who had succumbed to Covid-19, at the nearby Mulla Colony burial ground on Monday. But he, like many others, were turned away by the burial ground for want of space, Wahid said.“We got her admitted to GTB Hospital on Sunday -- she had some lung infection. However, she succumbed to the virus on Monday. Hospital authorities told us we could choose one of three burial grounds -- at Mulla Colony, Shastri Park, or ITO-Delhi Gate. The first two refused to accommodate the body, leaving us in a fix,” said Wahid.The family then had to arrange for the burial at the ITO-Delhi Gate facility, which is already full, given the sharp rise in daily fatalities due to Covid. The second wave of Covid-19 across the country -- and the fourth in Delhi -- has turned out to be the deadliest one yet in terms of cases and deaths. Delhi is currently recording an average of 23,000 new Covid cases and 375 deaths over the past six days.Amid such high numbers, several smaller burial grounds have been facing a shortage of space and are having to turn away bodies.Also Read | Glimmer of hope: Covid care facility at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj SahibSuleiman Ali, who manages the one acre Shastri Park burial ground in north-east Delhi, said they have been turning away Covid bodies for 15 days now. “In April itself, we buried around 100 bodies, well beyond the capacity of 25 bodies a month. We had no space left and had to divert the bodies to other burial spaces. We have also asked our attached hospital [GTB hospital] to send bodies elsewhere.”Ali said the burial ground committee has decided to hold meetings with managements of nearby burial grounds to figure out a way to handle the crisis.East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said apart from the two burial grounds designated for Covid burials -- Mulla Colony and Shastri Nagar -- they were also preparing burial facilities at Sunder Nagri. “We are currently in the process of preparing the Sunder Nagri burial ground to accommodate more bodies. We have also asked local burial grounds, including Mulla Colony and Shastri Park, to try and accommodate more bodies instead of sending them elsewhere.”The three civic bodies have allotted five burial grounds for Covid-19 deaths -- ITO-Delhi Gate, Mangolpuri, Mulla Colony, Shastri Park and Madanpur Khadar. Since the smaller burial grounds have refused to take in more bodies, the load falls on the ground at ITO-Delhi Gate, which is one of the largest burial grounds in the capital.Mohammad Shamim, supervisor at the ITO-Delhi Gate burial ground, said, “We have been facing a space crunch for about two weeks and have informed the Waqf board about it. We have been assured of another plot. But unless we get that, we have to struggle to accommodate all bodies and, sometimes, we are forced to divert them elsewhere.”Amanatullah Khan, chairman of the Delhi Waqf Board, which manages most burial grounds in the capital, said there are around 45 active burial grounds in the national capital of which five have been allocated for Covid burials.“The number of burials has dwindled in the past week and most burial grounds are receiving fewer than 10 bodies a day. The ITO kabristan received 10 bodies in the past two days. We have another burial ground near Indraprastha and have been in touch with the police to allow burials there as well,” he said.Last week, Khan also provided assistance to the Okhla burial ground to use the adjacent plot after they reported a shortage of space. “Due to the shortage of space and issues faced by burial grounds, we have also asked people to bury their dead by following Covid protocols in their localities itself,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-burial-grounds-out-of-space-with-covid-death-toll-high-101620377398591.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Glimmer of hope: Covid care facility at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib||Almost every imaginable medical facility — doctors, nurses, ambulance, oxygen cylinders and concentrators — alongside food for patients as well as doctors, will be available at the newly set-up Covid care facility at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib in the Capital. With a capacity of 250 oxygen beds, and all other services absolutely free of cost, this centre is nothing short of a glimmer of hope that one needs in such times of crisis, when the second wave of Covid is posing serious obstacles to those critical patients who are looking for hospital beds. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, says this facility will be “dedicated to humanity”. “Hospitals mein jagah nahin hain. People need oxygen, which is also not available. So many people have been calling us. Itni umeed se phone karte hain ki shayad unki jaan bach jaayegi,” says Sirsa, whose team has worked day and night to put in place the infrastructure at the facility, within a span of one week! The hall that has been converted into a Covid care facility has a capacity of 10,000 to 15,000 people. “It was earlier used for religious and social purposes... This is the place where Guru Tegh Bahadur was cremated. And this is the first instance when we are using it for medical purposes; considering Guru Sahib ki jagah hai, sab jaldi theek bhi ho jayenge!” says Sirsa, hopeful that the Omnipotent will heal and bless everyone. He adds: “The doctors will be staying here as well, and we’ll be providing every facility ranging from medicines to doctors and nurses. We’ve imported oxygen concentrators from New York and Singapore, and more are lined up. Today, we have 200 concentrators and 150 oxygen cylinders with us. So we can use both together. Plus we have 15 ambulances as well. In the next one week, we’re getting another 100 bedded hospital.” The facility, which will be operational from May 10, will also be connected to an ICU hospital in case of any emergencies. “Health minister Satyendar Jain has suggested that we run it as a 400 bed facility. He said that they will link it to one newly made special ICU hospital, and in case of emergency the patient could be transferred to the ICU as well,” informs Sirsa. A volunteer at this centre, Gurmeet Singh Tinku, says, “God has gifted us humanity. I’ll be helping here with langar, three times a day. Kayi sansthaye humare saath mil ke kaam kar rahi hain. Humari yehi koshish rehti hai ki jis patient ki need kahi aur poori nahin ho paa rahi, uski need yahan poori ho.”Jujhar Singh, another volunteer, who will be helping by providing milk, fruits and dry fruits to the patients, says, “Itna bada centre banana aasan kaam nahin tha. Aur ab jab ye banke almost tayyar hai toh hygienic and nutritious food is very important to provide, since a Covid patient needs it to recover soon. One patient needs 2,000+ calories, and we consider it as our responsibility to provide it!”Author tweets @Nainaaroa8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/glimmer-of-hope-covid-care-facility-at-gurdwara-rakab-ganj-sahib-101620371116595.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: 2 held in Delhi for black marketing of medical equipment||The Delhi Police have arrested two persons from the Greater Kailash-1 area of the national capital for alleged black marketing of COVID-19 related medical equipment.The accused were arrested on May 5.The police also recovered 10 medical oxygen concentrators, 82 plastic pipes used in concentrators, 3486 digital thermometers, 263 digital gun thermometers, 684 oximeters and 10 nebulizers.The accused were identified as Saeed resident of Jamia Nagar and Muqueem resident of Shaheen Bagh, the police added.Both the accused disclosed that they were selling essential life-saving equipment at higher rates than the market rate, the police claimed.A case under Section 3/7 Essential Commodities Act, Section 3 of Epidemic Act has been registered.Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-2-held-in-delhi-for-black-marketing-of-medical-equipment-101620364120310.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s north municipal corporation plans drive-in Covid vaccination centres||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation plans to start drive-in vaccination centres in its parking lots. The civic body is going to write to the Delhi government for permission to start these centres where people can get vaccinated while sitting in their cars.The corporation is inspired by the success of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s vaccination centre at a multi-level parking site in Dadar. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “We held a meeting to discuss this plan with our officials. To begin with, we plan to start the drive in our multilevel parking lots and then in surface-level parking sites. We will write to the government for permission soon.”The permission for the same will come from the Delhi government and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.The drive, Jai Prakash said, will help speed up vaccination process, especially for the elderly and those with physical disabilities.Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deaths“Our focus should be to ramp up the vaccination drive. This facility will allow people to get vaccinated while sitting in their cars,” he said. There are over 20 multi-level parking lots in the city in areas such as Hauz Khas, Connaught Place, Munirka, Rajouri Garden, Jangpura, Model town, Chandni Chowk, etc. The three civic bodies also manage surface parking lots.Jai Prakash said, “If we get the permission, we can start this facility in no time, as we have adequate staff available.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-north-municipal-corporation-plans-drive-in-covid-vaccination-centres-101620366897722.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi today; AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature is likely to be 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 38°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 26.5°C and the maximum temperature was 39.7°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 129. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 156 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Also Read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripAccording to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category on Friday and Saturday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the moderate to poor category over the next five days.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category. Surface winds are moderate and Easterly. SAFAR Model forecast moderately faster wind speed for the next 24 hrs. Isolated thunderstorms are likely for the next two days. Isolated dust spike at few locations for one or two hours is likely. Hence, AQI is forecasted to stay improved in the moderate category for tomorrow, and the moderate to lower end of the poor category is forecasted for the next two days. Satellite shows rabi crop burning induced fire counts in north India are significantly reduced and its influence is negligible in Delhi air.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-today-aqi-in-moderate-category-101620358196786.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Three sell drugs at inflated prices, held||The police have arrested two men, including a nurse at Fortis hospital, Shalimar Bagh, and recovered eight injection vials of the antiviral drug remdesivir from them. The injections were imported from Ukraine, and the three were allegedly trying to sell them at inflated prices in outer Delhi.In another case, police arrested a graphic designer for allegedly trying to sell dexamethasone injections, a corticosteroid used in the treatment of Covid-19. The injections, which cost ₹10 per vial, was being sold for ₹10,000 each, police said.Amid a sharp rise in Covid-19 hospitalisations, the Capital has been hit by a severe shortage of several drugs used to treat Covid-19 patients.When asked for a comment on the arrest of the nursing staff, a spokesperson for Fortis Hospital said, “At Fortis, all medicines are issued in the name of the admitted patients against an indent through the IT system, and the medication administration is recorded in the patient’s chart. As per the press release issued by the police, the seized drug appears to have been illegally imported from Ukraine and are not from our inventory. We have a zero-tolerance policy towards any malpractice and are committed to offer complete cooperation to the authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-sell-drugs-at-inflated-prices-held-101620350071803.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A father’s pandemic||He calls himself “mayoos”, or disappointed.This is something.Ajit Singh Nivediya — Sudama to friends — isn’t one of those folks to be easily disappointed (his smile is infectious). But this year of the pandemic, and especially its current surge, along with the weeklong lockdown that started in Gurugram, where he lives, have finally taken their toll. The most crushing consequence —“I want my daughters to have a good education. I’m unable to give it to them.”“I’m helpless,” he says, chatting on the phone from his one-room home in Sheetla Colony. It’s seven in the morning, and Mr Nivediya woke up a while ago. A tailor, his wife and son died some years ago, leaving him alone to take care of his two girls. Every morning he rides a bicycle to his little establishment in Sector 31, but is obliged to stay at home due to the lockdown. “My earnings plummeted since the start of the bimari (disease), most customers stopped coming.”Some kind acquaintances, including long-time patrons in the apartments, have helped him survive this tough period, giving him cash and sometimes food rations.But that’s not enough to support the education of his daughters, he admits. The private school closest to home, he explains, is unaffordable for him, and the government school “is beyond a road where my girls might not be safe”. Until early last year, Harshita and Sonakshi were in another private school, with affordable fee, but it was only going till 8th standard, which the elder girl finished before the first lockdown.Yes, of course, the father is aware that schools have been doing online classes throughout this year, “but we have only one smartphone, which made it impossible for both the girls to attend their respective classes at the same time.”A few times the sisters downloaded educational apps on the phone, “but those apps charge money.”So, since last year, Mr Nivediya’s daughters spent most of their time indoors, doing the housework, such as cooking the meals. The father’s limitations have made them prematurely thrifty for “they no longer ask me to buy chips or fruits for them.”Until last year, Harshita, who was then in 9th standard, and Sonakshi, who was in 7th, longed to be an engineer and a doctor (the pic is from that year-old chat). But now? “I still want to be a doctor and didi still wants to be an engineer, but papa doesn’t have enough money,” explains Sonakshi. “Maybe things will improve by next year and we will go back to school,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-father-s-pandemic-101620338207417.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Bar busted for selling O2 device||The Delhi Police on Thursday said a bar and restaurant south Delhi’s Lodhi Colony was being used to hoard and black market oxygen concentrators. Police said they seized 419 concentrators, which were allegedly being sold at inflated rates, after an investigation.“To portray that the machines were being sold at a fair price, stickers carrying fake maximum retail prices were pasted on them,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south) adding that the concentrators costing about ₹20,000 were sold for nearly ₹70,000.Also read | Water supply to Capital hit but Covid hospitals sparedPolice have arrested four people -- manager of the restaurant-cum-bar Nege & Ju and three employees of a private company, Matrix Cellular.Thakur said the private firm was used to import concentrators and store them at its godown in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, from where the police recovered 387 concentrators. The remaining 32 concentrators were seized from the restaurant The private firm’s help was also sought in selling the equipment both offline as well as online.The DCP said the restaurant is owned by Navneet Kalra, who also runs other businesses in central Delhi. “Kalra’s role is being investigated,” he said. HT tried to contact Kalra, his restaurant, and Matrix Cellular for comments. However, none of them could be reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bar-busted-for-selling-o2-device-101620337973885.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Water supply to Capital hit but Covid hospitals spared||Water supply to several parts of the city was affected on Thursday after the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) alleged that Haryana was releasing less water into the Yamuna. The utility, however, assured people that the supply to Covid-19 hospitals and care centres was not impacted.In a statement released on Thursday, the DJB said the water production at the Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants was hit because Haryana was not releasing the requisite amount of water to Delhi.“However, special attention is being paid to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to ensure that there is no shortage of drinking water in hospitals. Area officials shall be in constant touch with hospital authorities to ensure that a sufficient quantity of drinking water is supplied,” DJB said.Officials added that apart from ensuring piped supply, water will also be provided to these hospitals through tankers.Also read | New quarantine rules for those from Andhra and Telangana“Delay in supply to Covid hospitals will be dealt with seriously,” the statement read.The supply from Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants has been hit due to the reduction in the release of raw water into the river and a reduction in water level at Wazirabad pond.The worst hit areas were Civil Lines, Kamala Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Karol Bagh, Paharganj, Kalkaji, Patel Nagar, New Rajinder Nagar, Govindpuri, Tughlakabad, Sangam Vihar, and Ambedkar Nagar among others.On average, DJB supplies 900 MGD (million gallons daily) water, with demand peaking at 1,100 MGD in summer months.In a release, the DJB said on Wednesday that the depleting water levels in the Yamuna is leading to a shortage of drinking water in several parts of Delhi, and may also affect hospitals in the coming days. Chadha had urged urged Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to release more raw water into the Yamuna so that sufficient drinking water is available in the national capital. The Haryana government did not respond to email and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-to-capital-hit-but-covid-hospitals-spared-101620337718265.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi government caps rates of private ambulances||After putting a cap on RT-PCR tests and hospital beds, the Delhi government came out with an order on Thursday capping the price on private ambulance services and said overcharging will be punishable with cancellation of the driving licence of the ambulance driver, cancellation of the ambulance registration and impounding of the vehicle.“It has come to our notice that some private ambulance drivers or service providers are charging exorbitant rates in Delhi. It has therefore been decided by competent authority that maximum rates … shall be capped in Delhi,” read the order from special secretary (health) Sandeep Mishra.A patient transport ambulance, used to move stable patients from home to hospital or back, can charge a maximum of ₹1,500 for a 10km trip and an additional ₹100/km after that, read the order.Also read | Delhi govt asks hospitals to conduct more antigen testsA basic life support ambulance, for transporting non- critical patients and has monitoring equipment, medicines available, can charge ₹2,000 for the first 10km and ₹100/km after that.An advanced life support ambulance for transporting critical patients can charge ₹4,000 for the first 10km and ₹100/km after that, read the order.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal put out a tweet saying it has come to his notice that private ambulances were charging exorbitant rates and hence the government took the decision to cap rates.Meanwhile, in neighbouring Gurugram, ambulance operators called off their strike on Thursday after the district administration hiked the fares for private ambulances. Deputy commissioner Yash Garg said fixed charges of ₹500, ₹750 and ₹1,000 have been set for distances up to 3km, 3-7km and more than 7km, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-caps-rates-of-private-ambulances-101620337359403.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||New quarantine rules for those from Andhra and Telangana||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday said people who arrive in Delhi from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana by any mode of transport will have to quarantine themselves for 14 days either in a government centre or at a paid facility. This is only applicable if they arrive without a negative RT-PCR test report -- valid for up to 72 hours from the time of issue.If such travellers possess a negative RT-PCR report with the above-mentioned validity or even if they are fully vaccinated, they shall have to mandatorily home quarantine themselves for seven days.Also read | Delhi govt asks hospitals to conduct more antigen testsThe step was taken in the light of a severe spike in cases in the southern states, especially Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.The order from the DDMA said, “A virulent variant of Covid-19 has been reported to be found recently in the state(s) of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and this new strain of Covid-19 has a shorter incubation period and high transmission rate and the progress of disease is much more rapid. Therefore additionally precautionary measures in respect of persons coming from the states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to Delhi via airlines, trains, buses, cars, trucks or any other mode of transportation are required to be taken in public interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-quarantine-rules-for-those-from-andhra-and-telangana-101620337074275.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt asks hospitals to conduct more antigen tests||After a recent Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) testing advisory recommended that states increase the number of faster rapid antigen tests (RAT) amid a surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Delhi government has directed all its hospitals to conduct the tests at their flu corners, fever clinics, and emergency departments round the clock.The tests will also be conducted on Sundays and other national holidays, according to an order by principal health secretary Dr Ashish Chandra Verma.Almost 80% of the tests conducted in Delhi over the past seven days were the more accurate RT-PCR tests.The RT-PCR test amplifies the genetic material of the virus to detect an infection, and hence is more accurate than the rapid antigen test, which detects the presence of viral proteins on the swab sample without any amplification.Also read | Panel recommends releasing prisoners in view of ‘threatening’ situation in CapitalBut daily testing numbers have reduced in the capital over the past three weeks, shows the data from the state daily health bulletin. Delhi tested 114,000 people on April 10, the highest figure for the city till date. The numbers have declined since then and on Thursday, Delhi conducted 78,780 tests. The use of more RATs may boost testing, though they do throw up more “false negatives”. “RAT has a shorter turnaround time -- of 15 to 30 minutes -- and thus offers a distinct advantage of quick detection of cases and opportunity to isolate and treat them early for curbing transmission and for favourable outcome,” the order from Verma read.The order also directed all hospitals to ensure that a follow-up test, the more accurate RT-PCR test, is done only for symptomatic persons whose RAT is negative. “It is reiterated that all teams must adhere to the ICMR norms …follow up RT-PCR testing of symptomatic individuals detected as “negative” by the rapid test and updation of results on ICMR portal in a timebound manner,” the order read.ICMR on Tuesday issued the fresh Covid-19 testing advisory recommending the conducting of antigen tests, a deviation from its previous policy of ensuring that at least 70% of tests conducted are done using the more accurate and gold-standard RT-PCR.Currently, ICMR approves RAT kits if they have a sensitivity of 50%, meaning that the test might actually give a false negative report for as many as half the positive cases. However, a positive RAT result is considered accurate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-asks-hospitals-to-conduct-more-antigen-tests-101620336821054.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Home isolated patients may apply on govt portal for O2||Those in need of oxygen supply for patients in home isolation will soon be able to apply on the Delhi government’s website www.delhi.gov.in with a valid photo ID, Aadhaar card details, and a Covid positive report.In an order issued on Wednesday by Delhi government’s principal secretary (revenue) Sanjeev Khirwar, the process was to start from Thursday, and the link to “Online booking for refilling of oxygen cylinder-Delhi government-corona relief” was made available on the government’s portal.The link was yet to be made operational, and is expected to function in the coming days. Officials aware of the matter said the government decided to start the online booking of oxygen cylinders for people in home isolation in view of the long queues outside oxygen plants.There were also complaints from residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and people who had patients at home about difficulties being faced by them in arranging oxygen cylinders. There are 50,562 Covid-positive patients in home isolation in Delhi, according to Thursday’s government bulletin.The government ordered the district magistrates to process the online applications and direct people to authorised dealers from where people can get or exchange an oxygen cylinder.“District magistrates have been directed to streamline the process. People will apply online, and they will be informed about the dealer from where they can collect the oxygen cylinder,” a second official said.Also read | Control room starts today to monitor oxygen supplyAnother senior Delhi government official said the link could not be made operational from Thursday because of some pending preliminary work to link the dealers with refillers.“The district administrations have started the work to streamline the process. Some districts are identifying areas close to dealers from where people can collect the oxygen cylinders. The details are being worked out. The date from which the process will start will be notified soon,” the official said.Once the online process starts, people can book for a refill or a new oxygen cylinder by uploading the patient details on the link provided on the Delhi government’s website.All district magistrates have been directed to depute officials to process applications and e-passes to people who want oxygen cylinders.“This may be accorded top priority….The DMs shall identify dedicated dealers/deports to distribute such cylinders to individuals who shall not be redirected to refilling plants under any circumstances,” read the order issued by Khirwar.The DMs will issue passes to people depending on the availability of cylinders with dealers. The passes will contain the date, time and address of the depot or dealer from which oxygen cylinders can be issued or exchanged. “Before issuing the pass, the DM must ensure that a filled oxygen cylinder is available as per the pass issued,” read the order.On Thursday, people complained about not being able to apply online. SB Singh, president of Lajpat Nagar-3 RWA, said, “It is a good move to streamline the process but the web link to place the request for booking a refill is not working. We tried doing it the entire day. The government should immediately start the process.”Currently, people have to go to the oxygen refilling plants authorised by the Delhi government in areas such as Mohan cooperative area, Mayapuri, Bawana, etc. “This process will continue for the time being,” said the official.Satyajit Vaish, President of Manav Vikas Society and a resident of Panchsheel Park who has been helping people in home isolation arrange oxygen cylinders, said, “The government should advertise it before starting it. We had to rely on our sources outside Delhi. The system needs to be streamlined.”Amid a raging fourth wave of the cases in the past 15 days, Delhi has been hit by an unprecedented medical oxygen crisis. Most people have been managing their individual demands through crowd sourcing on social media, or by word of mouth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/home-isolated-patients-may-apply-on-govt-portal-for-o2-101620336492764.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Panel recommends releasing prisoners in view of ‘threatening’ situation in Capital||The high powered committee constituted to decongest jails to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has said that there is a need to release prisoners on interim bail for 90 days or eight weeks’ parole in view of the “alarming” and “threatening” situation of the pandemic in the national capital.The committee, headed by Justice Vipin Sanghi, observed, “The entire country was engulfed by the second wave of Covid-19, which according to the medical and expert opinion is more virulent and fatal in comparison to the last year’s strain and in a matter of few weeks has left everyone gasping for air.”“Right to Life under Article 21 is the most precious Fundamental Right of every citizen of India. It unconditionally embraces even an under trial/convict walled off from the society,” the committee said while laying down the criteria for release of around 4,000 under trial prisoners (UTPs) on interim bail for 90 days.The recommendation by the panel comes a week after the Tihar Jail administration wrote to the Delhi government, asking them to release prisoners in the wake of over 200 Covid cases in the jail at a time when it was at its congested worst. The jail has over 20,000 inmates as on date, more than double its sanctioned capacity of 10,000.Last year in March when the pandemic broke out, nearly 6,000 undertrial prisoners were released on bail or special parole to decongest Tihar. Most of them surrendered on court orders in February.The committee said since its last meeting in February this year, the situation “has taken a 360 degree turn and is becoming alarming with each day”.Also read| HC: State must ensure treatment to all patients“Accordingly, there is an imminent and urgent need to take affirmative and effective steps to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19 inside jails and for ensuring social distancing inside prisons by identifying and determining the class/categories of prisoners who can once again be released on interim bails/paroles,” it has said.It has further said that according to statistical data of Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the situation was “not only alarming but threatening” as not only the positivity rate but the death rate in Covid-19 positive cases was also “spiking sharply”.The committee has said that in such a situation, which was much more dangerous than last year, and with the prisons in Delhi holding almost double their capacity of prisoners, it has not only stressed the jail administration but has also “jeopardised the necessity of observing social distancing, which is the need of the hour to prevent the spread of virus amongst the inmates”.The committee has laid down 11 categories of undertrial prisoners like those in civil imprisonment, senior citizens who are facing trial for offences with a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail, those who are suffering other serious illnesses and are facing trial for offences with punishment ranging from 10 years to life, would be eligible for grant of up to 90 days interim bail on furnishing of a personal bond.With regard to release of convicts on parole, Director General of Prisons told the committee that a letter was sent to the Delhi government on April 26 to grant emergency parole of eight weeks to those prisoners who surrendered after expiry of emergency parole granted to them last time during the first wave of the pandemic.The committee then recommended grant of emergency parole to eligible convicts and the principal secretary (home), Delhi government assured the panel that necessary efforts will be taken to get the needful done.Vaccination for inmatesThe Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the superintendent of central jail-6 of Tihar on Wednesday to send a request for Covid vaccines for the inmates in the 18-44 years age group within 48 hours and said the ministry of home affairs (MHA) will supply the requisite doses within 15-30 days.Justice Prathiba M Singh issued the direction after the prison authorities told the court that the jail has not received any vaccine for its 279 inmates in the 18-44 age groups.The prison authority said it has only received vaccines for the 136 inmates in the 45-plus age group, but just 12 of them have been vaccinated as the others were either hesitant to get the jab or did not have an Aadhaar card, a pan card or a mobile phone number to be put on the CoWIN portal for registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/panel-recommends-releasing-prisoners-in-view-of-threatening-situation-in-capital-101620336170170.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Control room starts today to monitor oxygen supply||The Delhi government will start a control room from Friday to monitor the oxygen supply and demand in the city on a real-time basis, even as the administration received only 10 urgent calls from hospitals on Thursday, with the administration saying the Capital received sufficient oxygen.The government has also roped in e-commerce giant Amazon to track the cargo carrying liquid oxygen in the capital.“Now that we have somewhat sorted the supply chain, our focus is on strengthening or improving the demand side. A control room will be set up by Friday, May 7, to monitor the real-time dashboard of the oxygen supply and demand in the city,” said Ashish Kundra, principal secretary transport and OSD, health.He said the Delhi government has got a GPS tracking system on 41 tankers carrying oxygen in the city. Amazon has been roped in as a partner to track the cargo carrying the liquid oxygen in the national capital, he said.Kundra said the increased allocation of oxygen for Delhi has eased the crisis to a great extent. “From 60 SOS calls we got from hospitals on May 2, the number of SOS had come down to 10 on May 5. The supply side change has had an immediate impact,” he said.Also read | Can add 9,000 beds if O2 quota is met: Arvind Kejriwal﻿The government also said that oxygen supply has been strengthened by the containerised cargo movement through railways.“The volume of oxygen increasing from 120 MT till May 4 to around 360 MT through the railway route on May 5 has expedited the supply. The movement is further being ramped up. Movement through railway is more efficient as there is no road congestion or chances of breakdown, etc,” Kundra said.The Delhi government has appointed two IAS officers at the Kalinga Nagar facility of Tata Steel where oxygen is being produced. The government has formed a decentralized management system for the distribution of oxygen within the city to various hospitals and institutions, it said.Besides, Delhi is also getting oxygen supply from cities such as Ghaziabad, Modinagar, Panipat and Rourkela (Odisha) through tankers and containers.“Delhi on Wednesday received 730 MT oxygen – the highest so far – even though the demand is 976 MT. What we received on Wednesday was nearly 75% of total demand and came as a big relief. We thank the central government for this. But there is something that is concerning. Out of the 730 MT, around 250 MT were sourced through ad-hoc arrangements by the central government,” said Raghav Chadha, vice chairperson of Delhi Jal Board who is monitoring the day-to-day oxygen supply system in Delhi.“We appreciate the initiative but we are also concerned about instability in supply in the coming days. We urge the central government to ensure that they send 700 MT oxygen from stable sources. If needed, permanently add all the sources from which ad-hoc 250MT was sourced on Wednesday to Delhi’s supply chain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/control-room-starts-today-to-monitor-oxygen-supply-101620335595484.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||HC: State must ensure treatment to all patients||The Delhi high court on Thursday directed the Delhi government to ensure treatment was available to all Covid patients from the national capital, and said that medical facilities in city was unable to hold up to the test it was put under by the pandemic’s current wave.The remarks and directions were given by a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli which was hearing a plea by a 53-year-old Covid patient who was unable to get an ICU bed with a ventilator after his oxygen saturation fell to around 40 (from the ideal 95 and above).“The existing medical infrastructure in the state is completely exposed... when it was put to the test... The obligation of the state to provide sufficient infrastructure to protect the lives of the people cannot be understated. At the same time, one cannot lose sight of the fact that we are faced with a once-in-a-century pandemic and even most economically advanced nations have found their infrastructure to be lacking to deal with the massive surge of cases,” it noted in its oral order.When senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, argued that the court should not say the medical infrastructure was in “shambles”, the bench responded: “Now you are behaving like the ostrich with its head in the sand. When you defend this situation, then you are not rising above the politics. We always call a spade a spade.”Mehra admitted that existing infrastructure is “struggling”, but requested the court that it is not in shambles as that has a different connotation to it.Also read | Can add 9,000 beds if O2 quota is met: Arvind Kejriwal“In the absence of oxygen what could the infrastructure do? Hospitals were reducing beds due to lack of oxygen,” he said, adding that the city government has taken several initiatives, like augmenting beds by 15,000 and ICU beds by 1,200, which are in the pipeline and the oxygen is also coming in.To this, the bench said: “It is not just oxygen. Is oxygen enough? If you have oxygen, do you have everything? Pipeline is pipeline. They are not there now.”Mehra withdrew the statement saying that he only wanted to state the reasons behind the infrastructure failure.The court said that it was bound to issue directions to the state for the petitioner, and several others like him, because it was their fundamental right.“The petitioner needs an ICU bed with ventilator facility and ideally the same should be available. We are bound to issue a writ to the state to provide the infrastructure to enable the petitioner to undergo the treatment required to save his life... At the same time we cannot lose sight of the fact that thousands of others are afflicted by the same disease in the city and whose condition may be as bad as that of the petitioner, if not worse,” it said.The court added that just because the petitioner was able to approach the court cannot be a reason to pass an order in his favour so that he can steal a march over others who may not have had the same option.“We, therefore, dispose of the petition with a direction to the respondent (Delhi government) that they shall provide facility for medical treatment as may be required by all the residents of Delhi who are suffering from Covid-19.“In case they require hospitalisation, it shall be provided. If medicines, it shall be provided. If oxygen, it shall be provided. If ICU with or without a ventilator, the state would be obligated to provide that too,” the bench said.Meanwhile, another bench of the Delhi high court on Thursday asked why the Delhi government was not using a 150-bed multi-speciality hospital, which was closed down due to an insolvency resolution process against its parent company, and whose services were being offered by the doctor who established it.The high court said the Delhi government should “think out of the box” in view of the Covid wave, which has led to a shortage of beds for patients in the national capital.“150 beds are there. We are struggling to find beds every day. We are fighting for it everyday, and you are saying you will not touch it (hospital)... He (petitioner-doctor) is offering his hospital, he is ready to bring in his medical team, what else can you ask for?”chief justice DN Patel said.The bench was hearing a plea by Dr Rakesh Saxena seeking permission to operate the Febris Multispeciality Hospital to cater to Covid-19 patients in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-state-must-ensure-treatment-to-all-patients-101620335053367.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||In minutes, Delhi goes from torrid to cool, wet||Several parts of the national capital received rainfall on Thursday, bringing some much awaited respite from the scorching heat. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) added that Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh also received moderate to heavy rain, coupled with thunderstorm and hail in several parts.A senior meteorological department official said gusty winds with a speed of 45-60kmph hit the national capital on Thursday afternoon, followed by moderate rain and thunderstorms.“This was an intense western disturbance activity that impacted Delhi, Gurugram, Hodal, Hisar, Panipat, Karnal, Jind, Rohtak, Narwana, Jhajjar, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Gohana and Gannur, etc. Some parts of Delhi and NCR also received hailstorms,” the official said.The official said that rainfall during this time of the year is not unusual. Delhi-NCR experiences showers during the onset of summer, as temperatures rise and humidity levels increase.On Thursday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 39.7 degrees Celsius.The day, however, started with the minimum temperature soaring to 26.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year.Also read | Monsoon set to keep June 1 onset date with KeralaAccording to the Met department, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station on Wednesday was 40.5 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity recorded on Thursday morning was 59%, which increased to 67% by 5pm.The IMD has forecast that in the next two days the temperatures are expected to hover between 38-39 degrees Celsius. However, this respite will be brief, as the temperatures will rise again from May 9, IMD scientists said.“But from May 10, we are likely to experience another impact of western disturbance, which will be stronger and the spell will also last for a longer duration. We might see rainfall activities in Delhi-NCR from May 10 to May 15,” another IMD official said.In its long-range forecast, the IMD on April 16 said the annual monsoon rains are likely to be normal at around 98% of the long period average (LPA) after two years of above-average rainfall. It added there could be a variation of 5% over or under the prediction.Private weather forecasting agency Skymet Weather’s assessment earlier in April said that monsoon is likely to be a “healthy normal” at 103%. The IMD’s forecast indicated it at the lower end of its normal LPA range. The LPA is the average rainfall (88cm) recorded from 1961 to 2010. Rainfall between 94-106% is considered “normal”.India has recorded above-average monsoon rains for two consecutive years. A normal monsoon this year will significantly help the agriculture sector.Good rains have been a prime reason for the farm sector’s resilience for two years despite the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-minutes-delhi-goes-from-torrid-to-cool-wet-101620334737437.html
