08-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records slight dip in daily Covid-19 cases, positivity rate remains below 25% for 3rd straight day||Delhi recorded 17,364 new Covid-19 infections on Saturday, taking the tally of cases to 13,10,231. This marks a slight decrease in the daily tally of cases as on Friday, 19,832 new cases were recorded on Friday. A total of 332 fatalities were also recorded in the national capital, which took the toll to 9,071. There are 87,907 active cases in Delhi as of Saturday, according to the data released by the health department.Saturday also marked the third consecutive day of the Capital recording a positivity rate below 25%. On Friday, Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 24.9% which went further down to 23.34% on Saturday. The average positivity rate stayed above 30% consistently in the last two weeks.A total of 74,384 Covid tests have been conducted in the national capital in the last 24 hours, marking a slight reduction from the 79,593 tests conducted on Friday. Out of these 74,384, a total of 62,921 tests were RT-PCR tests and 11,463 were antigen tests.The national capital also witnessed a slight fall in the daily toll on Saturday, after it reported 332 deaths in the span of 24 hours as against the 341 reported on Friday. The fatality rate went up slightly from 1.45% recorded on Friday to 1.46%, recorded on Saturday.A total of 20,160 people recovered from the disease on Saturday, a slightly higher number than the 19,085 recorded on Friday. Total recoveries in the capital city have surpassed 1.2 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-slight-dip-in-daily-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-remains-below-25-for-3rd-straight-day-101620478999655.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Adani Group procures 48 oxygen carrying tanks for fight against Covid-19||As India suffers the world's worst outbreak of COVID-19 cases, port-to-energy conglomerate Adani Group says it has deployed all resources at its command - from staff and logistics to ports and airports - to secure medical oxygen and transportable cryogenic containers as well as augment health infrastructure.The Adani Group has already procured 48 cryogenic tanks capable of carrying 780 tonnes of liquid oxygen across the nation, a group spokesperson said.The health ministry reported 4,187 fatalities over the past 24 hours, taking the overall death toll to just under 2.4 lakh. Cases rose by 4,01,078, bringing the nation's healthcare system to the brink of collapse, with a scarcity of hospital beds, medicines and oxygen.The Adani Group is ramping up its efforts in India's battle against the pandemic."As soon as the second COVID wave hit India, the Adani Group began leveraging its overseas connections to procure hard-to-find supplies of critical essentials like medical oxygen and transportable cryogenic containers," the spokesperson said.It procured 48 cryogenic tanks from leading manufacturers in countries like Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Singapore, Taiwan and UAE.While some of these large cryogenic tanks were shipped in through the group's Mundra Port in Gujarat, others were airlifted into the country with the help of the Indian Air Force, which deployed its biggest transport aircraft for these time-critical operations.These cryogenic tanks are a vital addition to the hardware India sorely needed to manage the medical oxygen requirements of patients across the country.Even as the group continues its relentless search for more of these cryogenic tanks, the tanks imported so far are already in the service of the nation, ferrying precious liquid oxygen round-the-clock from filling centres to wherever it is needed, in accordance with distribution lists and directions from the government."Our rail and road logistics infrastructure is playing a critical role in the efficient last-mile delivery of these life-saving supplies," said the spokesperson. "The Adani Group has also partnered with global oxygen producers like Linde and Air Products to quickly refill and despatch liquid oxygen to all corners of India by the fastest means available."The Adani Group is also sourcing high-throughput oxygen generator plants and oxygen concentrators. Sixteen of these independent oxygen plants and 300 oxygen concentrators will be pressed into service in the next few days.In several states and districts, the group is also refilling and distributing thousands of medical oxygen cylinders every day to augment and fill gaps in the local oxygen supply chain.Subsequently, Adani Ports, announced priority berthing and unloading for vessels carrying COVID-related cargos and waived storage, handling, and vessel-related charges.In Gujarat, where the Adani Group is headquartered, the group has intensified its focus on the provision of direct medical care. To reduce the systemic overload on Ahmedabad's hospital infrastructure, the Adani Foundation has converted the Adani Vidya Mandir school into an emergency COVID Care Centre with oxygen support and catered food.Equipped with doctors, nurses, paramedics and support staff, this first-responder care facility is housing infected and moderately ill COVID patients. Isolating patients when they are at their most infectious will also help to break the chain of infection and significantly curtail the spread of the disease.In Kutch, India's largest district, the battle against COVID is being led from Bhuj by the GAIMS (Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences), the principal medical facility serving this remote part of western India. The Adani Foundation has upgraded and converted GAIMS into a 100 per cent COVID hospital with all its 800 beds equipped with oxygen support."This hospital has become a medical oasis for the thousands of people in Kutch and its neighbouring districts. We have installed three oxygen plants and a fourth one would be available soon. This is in addition to liquid oxygen supplies being provided by the Adani Group," said Vasant Gadhvi, Director, GAIMS. "Many of our personnel have lost family members to COVID but they have put aside their personal grief to continue working for 12 to 14 hours each day."The Adani Hospital in Mundra has been similarly upgraded into a 100 per cent COVID hospital with an additional CT-scanner installed to diagnose COVID faster. Its bed capacity has been doubled and all its beds have been converted into oxygen beds.This hospital serves not only the people of Mundra but also the residents of 20 neighbouring villages whose medical care alternatives are limited.Within the Adani Group's operations, all employees and their family members have been brought into the Group's free vaccination programme. The Group has also extended its vaccination drive to include the thousands of people living in and around its corporate headquarters at Shantigram in Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/adani-group-procures-48-oxygen-carrying-tanks-for-fight-against-covid19-101620478926413.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi still facing shortage of Covid-19 vaccine, need 3 crore doses: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday there is still a shortage of vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the national capital needs three crore doses to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries within three months. He urged the Centre to provide the requisite number of doses.Addressing a press briefing, Kejriwal said, “How many vaccine doses do we need to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries in three months? If I give you an estimate, Delhi’s population is 2 crore. Of this, 1 crore people are in the age group of 18 and 45; 50 lakh below the age of 18 and the rest 50 lakh above the age of 45. Hence, there are almost 1.5 crore people above the age of 18. These 1.5 crore people have to be administered two vaccine doses. Hence, 3 crore doses are needed of which the Delhi government has received 40 lakh doses. We need 2.6 crore more doses and around 80-85 lakh doses are needed per month.”Kejriwal expressed confidence if the Delhi government gets 80-85 lakh doses per month, the vaccination process can be completed within the set target of three months. “To complete vaccination within three months, we need to vaccinate 3 lakh people every day. Currently, we are inoculating 1 lakh people in a day. I request the Centre ensure adequate availability of vaccines to Delhi.” he added.If we get adequate vaccine doses, we can complete vaccination within 3 months. There're 1.5 crore people above 18 years of age in Delhi so we need 3 crore doses. Out of this, Delhi Govt has got only 40 lakh doses so far. We need 2.6 crores more doses: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal pic.twitter.com/Q21mk0oenZThe chief minister pointed out the current requirement of doses can also go higher as beneficiaries from the NCR region are also coming to Delhi to get inoculated.A day earlier, Kejriwal chaired a high-level meeting on the overall Covid-19 situation in the national capital where he directed officials that all eligible beneficiaries should be vaccinated within three months. District magistrates have been ordered by the chief minister to pay surprise visits to vaccination centres and relief camps to review the preparations.Delhi has so far vaccinated 3,666,694 beneficiaries till now of which 114,657 were administered doses in the last 24 hours.Also Read| Kejriwal instructs officials to ensure availability of beds, oxygen supplyDuring Friday’s meeting, Kejriwal also said that oxygen supply has been improved and urged officials that no infected patient in Delhi should suffer from a shortage of the life-saving gas.“Now that Delhi has received oxygen, no one in Delhi should suffer because of shortage of oxygen. All the hospitals in Delhi should increase their beds and every DM should arrange new oxygen beds in their districts so that no deaths happen due to lack of oxygen in Delhi,” Kejriwal said adding that the hampering of oxygen distribution has to be rectified so that there is no disruption.Also Read| Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, expresses gratitude for supply of oxygenSince last month, several critical patients of the Covid-19 disease lost their lives as hospitals across Delhi were unable to procure oxygen supplies on time or were only able to procure limited supplies which got over very quickly.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government has recently faced criticism for not ensuring adequate availability of oxygen to hospitals and other medical facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-still-facing-shortage-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-says-cm-kejriwal-101620453521240.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Khan market oxygen concentrator seizure case transferred to Crime Branch||The Khan market case involving the recovery of 105 oxygen concentrators has been transferred to the Delhi Police Crime Branch, said the Delhi Police on Saturday.Five people were arrested on Friday for involvement in the case.The two restaurants - Khan Chacha and Town Hall - owned by Navneet Kalra, who is currently absconding, while the manager and three staffers were apprehended on Friday for running a black marketing racket in the national capital.The Delhi police got their hands on screenshots of Navneet Kalra's WhatsApp chat group which reveal his involvement in the case.According to the police, on April 26, Kalra has written about the demand and supply of oxygen concentrators. They have also received video footage of the area outside Khan Chacha restaurant.Gourav Khanna, CEO of Matrix Cellular was also arrested in connection with the case. His company had received a consignment of 650 concentrators, out of which 524 have been seized. These concentrators were being sold for ₹71,000 each, as per the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-khan-market-oxygen-concentrator-seizure-case-transferred-to-crime-branch-101620454348913.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Sufi island in the heart of the city||A little island. Circled with trees. With four graves.This Sufi shrine feels as secluded as if the island stood in the middle of the sea.But this is Delhi’s heart, within the India Gate grounds. (This excursion was undertaken before the Central Vista redevelopment project earnestly took off in the area). Turned away from the public gaze, this tiny spot exists like a self-contained world. The India Gate revelers are not lurking very far but also not close, letting this place enjoy an eerie charm and a sense of extreme remoteness.The island is in the middle of a pond, and is accessed by hopping and slipping along a slender stretch of humid, weedy earth. On this grey overcast afternoon the mound is cloaked in absolute solitude. No sound here, even birds are quiet, at least at this moment. You feel as if you could touch the silence. The shrine’s four graves are covered with colourful chadors—sheets of fabric for sacred offerings—implying that coming on pilgrimage here hasn’t fallen yet into obsolescence.A crudely painted sign on a green stone slab identifies the place as the burial place of Hazrat Shabbir Shah Baba. There is no knowing about this mystic, but then Delhi is full of small and big Sufi shrines. The patron saints of a few of these shrines are known across the world, while the biographies of a great many have been lost to history. Many such shrines are also believed to have disappeared over the years, as the expanding metropolis added more buildings to its already limited space.The absence of a substantial architecture makes it impossible to determine the age of this secretive landmark. Perhaps it’s 500 years old. Perhaps 50. The mystery makes the shrine truly enigmatic. In a fast-changing city, this spot of land has managed to survive largely unnoticed. It doesn’t figure in any noteworthy guidebook.One is now left to wonder how this place will look like following the completion of the Central Vista project.After, say, 50 years, will this barely known island hillock, and these barely known graves, still exist as they do now, or will they have become a part of our city’s undocumented history?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-sufi-island-in-the-heart-of-the-city-101620425761867.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Ambulance operator held for overcharging||Police on Friday said they have arrested a 29-year-old ambulance operator, an MBBS doctor by qualification, for allegedly overcharging Covid-19 patients.Police said one of his victims was an elderly Covid patient who was charged ₹1.20 lakh for a 350km journey -- from Gurugram in Haryana to a hospital in Punjab’s Ludhiana. The ambulance has also been seized, police said.The payment receipt issued by the ambulance operator, identified as Mimoh Kumar Bundwal, was widely shared on social media on May 6. After the post went viral, Bundwal returned ₹95,000 to the elderly person through an online transaction on Thursday, the police said.“Bundwal used to work as a junior resident at a government hospital in south Delhi. He quit the profession two years ago and started an ambulance service company,” said deputy commissioner of police Urvija Goel, adding that Bundwal was overcharging patients for the past one month and has cheated numerous people in this manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ambulance-operator-held-for-overcharging-101620425552127.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||BJP protests against vax centres’ closure||BJP MLAs, along with senior party leaders, staged a protest outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Friday against the government for shutting 45 of the 137 corporation-run Covid vaccination centres in the capital.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said at a time when the government should be increasing the number of sites to vaccinate more and more people, the AAP-led Delhi government was indulging in politics over vaccination. Gupta said the 45 centres were shut over the past two days, causing great difficulties to the public.Gupta said on Thursday he had spoken to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal in this regard. “I have raised the issue with the L-G, as this decision of the government will only create problems for residents. Those who have taken the first vaccine dose from a nearby centre would prefer to go there for the second dose as well. But now, after the closure, that may not be possible.”The Delhi government did not respond to HT’s queries on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-protests-against-vax-centres-closure-101620425209799.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Staff crunch, high volume of samples delay Covid reports||Mahesh Singh Rajput (63), a resident of southwest Delhi’s Dwarka, made several frantic calls to diagnostic centres in his locality for home collection of samples after his 59-year-old wife started showing Covid-19 symptoms. After at least eight labs declined, he drove his wife, who was already suffering from incessant coughing and high fever by then, to a diagnostic centre and waited for around 30 minutes before his wife’s sample was collected.His wait, however, did not end there. It took two days for the blood reports to arrive and another two days for the RT PCR report to come, which confirmed that Rajput’s wife had tested positive for Covid-19.“Though we started the basic treatment for her, the doctors kept asking for the blood test reports to determine the severity of her infection. We got the results four days after my wife started showing the first symptom,” said Rajput.Many residents in Delhi are facing hurdles in getting tested for Covid-19--be it at their homes or at diagnostic centres. With testing facilities being pushed to the limits amid the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, booking a slot for RT-PCR test and blood sample collection for CRP (C-reactive protein), D-Dimer and IL-6 and getting the reports, is proving to be quite a challenge.Owners of several private and government testing centres said shortage of manpower and an overwhelming surge in requests for testing has led to instances of samples getting lost and longer wait for test results.Also read | Fall in positivity rate a ray of hope for cityOn April 22, the Delhi high court directed the state government to ensure test reports are delivered within 48 hoursMany private labs said several staff members testing positive for Covid-19 and many others not reporting to work have led to severe shortage of trained manpower in laboratories conducting RT-PCR tests.“There is acute shortage of manpower. My technicians have to look inside the mouth of a suspected patient and collect the sample, what is the incentive? They too have families,” said the owner of one of Delhi’s biggest laboratories.Lab technologists in the city reiterated that manpower crunch has also forced most laboratories to stop collecting samples from home. It has also resulted in delay in giving the reports.“There may be some laboratories that are picking up more samples that they can process, thereby delaying the reports. At our centre, we collect only as many samples we can process in a single day. Earlier, we used to keep our sample collection centre open from 8am to 8pm. Now, with people rushing to get tested, we collect samples till about 1pm and on some days, till 11am,” said the owner of another laboratory in Delhi.A third laboratory owner said, “With the government capping the prices of RT-PCR tests, it is a challenge for laboratories to buy new machines and hire people to do the tests. When the pandemic is over, these machines are likely to be underutilised.”While labs are grappling with problems of their own, doctors said early detection of infection is the key to control the symptoms.“A delayed test report holds no value. In many cases, the symptoms start manifesting very fast and to control them, you need to put the patient on anti-viral or on steroids. This is why we need to scale up testing and make it more efficient. The load of the virus, if detected early on, can be controlled. We have observed mild cases turn severe just because requisite reports are not delivered on time,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/staff-crunch-high-volume-of-samples-delay-covid-reports-101620425005807.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Gangster dies of Covid-19 as Tihar readies to decongest||Tihar jail officials on Friday said they were preparing a list of nearly 5,000 undertrials who could be released either on interim bail for 90 days or on eight weeks’ parole following a Supreme Court-appointed high powered committee recommending that the prison be decongested in view of the “alarming” and “threatening” situation of the pandemic in the Capital.Currently, Tihar has nearly 19,679 inmates, almost twice the prison’s sanctioned capacity of 10,026. It is also the country’s most populated prison complex. The jail currently has about 250 active Covid cases and six deaths have been recorded in the ongoing Covid wave. The latest prisoner to die of the infection was Gaurav Jhareda, a 38-year-old alleged gangster whose name featured in the list of Delhi’s most wanted. Jhareda died on Thursday night.After the high-powered committee’s recommendation, the state government is likely to order emergency parole for 1,000 convicts by Monday or Tuesday. The 4,000 undertrials, being selected based on the criteria set by the HPC, will be released on interim bail after the orders of the respective courts where their cases are being heard.“Each jail has prepared a list of prisoners. There will be approximately 5,000 prisoners who could be released. We are waiting for the government’s order. It should happen anytime next week,” said a prison officer who asked not to be named.Also read | Fall in positivity rate a ray of hope for cityThe first 1,000 convicts who will be released are those who surrendered in February and March after 10-11 months of similar parole, during the first nationwide lockdown in March last year. The undertrials who will be released are those who are currently facing trial in non-heinous cases -- in which punishment is less than 7 years. Other undertrials who have HIV, cancer, kidney dysfunction (requiring dialysis), or Hepatitis B or C, will also be considered for release, the officerThere are three prison complexes under Tihar Central prisons -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli. Tihar has nine sub jails, Rohini has one sub jail and Mandoli has six small sub jails. The prison is headed by one director general rank officer and assisted by an inspector general. Nearly 14,000 prisoners are lodged in the Tihar complex, while Rohini has around 2,000 and Mandoli has around 3,000 inmates.The committee has laid down 11 categories of undertrial prisoners -- such as those in civil imprisonment, senior citizens who are facing trial for offences with a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail, those who are suffering other serious illnesses and are facing trial for offences with punishment ranging from 10 years to life -- who would be eligible for grant of 90 days interim bail on furnishing of a personal bond.The jail administration wrote to the Delhi government last week to consider releasing prisoners on special parole to decongest the prison.In February, there was not a single case of Covid-19 among prisoners or jail officials in Tihar. Even until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19. But in the last one month, Tihar has reported over 300 Covid-19 cases among prisoners. Currently there are 249 cases of infection. Activist Umar Khalid, arrested in the Delhi riots case had also tested positive. Chhota Rajan, underworld gangster, too, tested positive last month and is admitted at AIIMS.While two prisoners died in June-July last year, in the last two weeks at least six prisoners have died of Covid-19.The last prisoner to die of the infection, Jhareda was allegedly involved in at least 18 criminal cases, including murder, robbery, arms act and extortion, among other heinous crimes.Also read | Govt to create oxygen reserves to handle distress calls by hospitalsJhareda, who was lodged in sub jail 8/9 tested positive for the virus on April 29. He was undergoing treatment at the Guru Teg Bahadur hospital.On May 1, former gangster turned politician Mohammed Shahabuddin also died of the disease.1,406 O2 cylinders provided to patients in home isolationA total of 1,406 oxygen cylinders have been provided by district magistrates to Covid-19 patients recovering in home isolation, officials said on Friday.According to the latest health bulletin released by the Delhi government, 50,425 patients are in home isolation. The number of active cases in the city stands at 91,035, while there are 50,785 containment zones.The government has created a common cylinder pool in each district of Delhi to supply oxygen to Covid-19 patients in home isolation and meet the emergency needs of hospitals.Patients in home isolation can contact the district magistrate concerned for an empty or filled cylinder, an official said.The filled cylinders will be provided in lieu of empty ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-dies-of-covid-19-as-tihar-readies-to-decongest-101620424375050.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Police raid Khan Market restaurants, seize O2 devices||A day after 419 oxygen concentrators were seized from Nege & Ju, a restaurant-cum-bar in Lodhi Colony, and private company Matrix Cellular’s godown in Chattarpur, Delhi Police said on Friday that they raided Khan Chacha and Town Hall restaurants in Khan Market and recovered 105 more concentrators.According to Delhi Police, these restaurants are owned by Navneet Kalra, a businessman who also owns Dayal Opticals. Police said Kalra was avoiding cooperating with the investigation since the raids were conducted at his restaurants and oxygen concentrators seized.“With further seizure of 105 #OxygenConcentrator from Khan Chacha & Town Hall, 2 upscale restaurants in Khan Mkt, total 524 seized frm #blackmarketers Owner Navneet Kalra, also owns Dayal Opticals, is on run. Manager, 3 staffers arrested by #DelhiPolice SouthDist. Further raids on,” the Delhi Police tweeted on Friday from its Twitter handle.“We tried contacting Kalra but his cellphone is switched off and he is absconding. Notices will be served to the management of all the three restaurants to join the investigation and explain their role in the entire hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators and as to why 96 such concentrators were stored in their restaurant,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.In a late evening development, the 47-year-old chief executive officer (CEO) of Matrix Cellular, Gaurav Khanna, who is a resident of Gurugram, was arrested in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his company’s godown in Chhatarpur, DCP Thakur said.Also read | Govt to create oxygen reserves to handle distress calls by hospitalsA senior office-bearer of the Khan Market Traders Association, who did not wish to be identified, confirmed that all three restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – are owned by Kalra. Khan Chacha restaurant’s website has Kalra’s name in the “About us” section. In the “Celeb Presence” section, he is seen inside the eatery with cricketers and Bollywood actors.While 96 oxygen concentrators were seized from Khan Chacha, another nine were found illegally stored at Town Hall. The fresh recoveries were made following the interrogation of four people, whose arrests along with the recovery of 419 concentrators were made public by the south district police on Thursday. With this, the total recovery made in the case, which is being probed by the Lodhi Colony police station, now stands at 524, the retail price value of which is around ₹1.04 crore. A concentrator costing between ₹20,000 and ₹50,000 is being sold for between ₹70,000 and ₹1.25 lakh in the black market, the police said.Senior police officers said they were probing a nexus between the restaurant owner and the private company in hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators, a device whose demand soared following the steep rise in Covid-19 cases in the ongoing second wave.HT tried to contact Kalra, Matrix Cellular and the restaurants (Nege & Ju, Town Hall and Khan Chacha) on Friday through phone calls and text messages through Thursday and Friday but there was no response till the time of going to press.Social media users commented extensively on the development. “I feel sorry for poor Khan Chacha & his family. First they lost the use of their name to Navneet Kalra & now they are being dragged through the mud for no fault of theirs because Kalra was using his eateries to store concentrators allegedly for sale on the black market,” tweeted Omar Abdullah, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and vice-president of the Jammu Kashmir National Conference (JKNC).The police on Thursday said that they had arrested four persons in connection with the raids on Nege & Ju and Matrix cellular. They were identified as Hitesh, manager of Nege & Ju, and three employees of Matrix Cellular – Gaurav, Satish Sethi and Vikrant.“To portray that the machines were being sold at a fair price, stickers carrying fake maximum retail prices (MRPs) were pasted on them. The concentrators costing about ₹20,000 each were sold for as much as nearly ₹70,000,” Thakur had said on Thursday.A senior police officer privy to the developments said, requesting anonymity, that the investigation so far has revealed that people involved in the nexus were into the illegal trade of oxygen concentrators since October and had already sold many such devices.The officer said they are probing the role of the three arrested Matrix Cellular employees for allegedly getting the concentrators from outside India.In a separate raid, a Greater Kailash police station team arrested two individuals, Saeed and Muqueem, and seized 3,486 digital thermometers, 10 oxygen concentrators, 263 digital gun thermometers, 684 oximeters and 10 nebulizers, allegedly meant for sale in the black market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-raid-khan-market-restaurants-seize-o2-devices-101620423658228.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||184k between 18-44 years got their first jab so far: Sisodia||Over 184,000 people between the ages of 18 and 44 years have received their first jab against Covid-19 in four days since the drive began, according to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. In comparison, 18,795 healthcare workers were immunised in the first four days in Delhi when the vaccination drive was rolled out from January 16.“In Delhi 1.84 lakh youth have got the 1st dose of vaccine, in first 4 days of 18-45 yrs age group opening. In total, 38.88 lakh people have got the vaccine in all age groups till yesterday evening,” Sisodia tweeted.The arrangement was described as “pretty smooth” by Kritika Goswami, 24, who took the shot on Friday at a government school in Dwarka. “The whole arrangement was pretty smooth and I was done in around 30 minutes. I had a slot for 3pm to 5pm, I had reached the centre a little early and got the shot before 3 o’clock. There were only five or six other people at the waiting hall and social distancing was followed,” she said. She received a dose of Covaxin.The Delhi government now plans to create outreach vaccination camps for journalists. “This is currently at the planning stage. Letters will be sent out to media houses to get a list of their employees and vaccinate them at outreach camps at their office. No timeline has been fixed yet,” said a senior government official, on condition of anonymity.Also read | Fall in positivity rate a ray of hope for cityChief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a high-level meeting, directed district magistrates to pay surprise visits to vaccination centres and relief camps in order to review the preparations done for the convenience of the people.He also directed the officials to ensure that all eligible people are vaccinated within the next three months.He said, “We will be able to stop the third [national] wave of corona from coming to Delhi, only by being able to administer vaccines to everyone in Delhi as soon as possible in the next three months.”Kejriwal on Wednesday expressed concerns over short supply of Covid-19 vaccines, even as he asserted that with the current infrastructure in place, the entire population of Delhi can be vaccinated in three months if supply is scaled up.“In the coming days we will need large scale supply of vaccines. The latest consignment we have received is not a large one. With the established procedures in place, we can scale up [the vaccination drive] in 24 hours. But there is a shortage of vaccine production. If production and supply are scaled up, we are capable of vaccinating the entire population of Delhi. Right now, the only obstacle is a short supply of vaccines,” said Kejriwal on the sidelines of his visit to a vaccination centre in central Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar.While vaccination of people over 45 years old was underway in around 500 sites, the drive was opened to people aged between 18 and 44 years on a wider scale on May 3, in a different set of 300-odd sites scattered across all 11 revenue districts in the city.According to the Delhi government bulletin on Friday, a total of 2,856,955 people have received their first dose of Covid vaccine in Delhi so far. It also said that 809,739 have got their second doses as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/184k-between-18-44-years-got-their-first-jab-so-far-sisodia-101620423408730.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Few ambulances with critical care a concern||The shortage of ambulances with ventilators has emerged as a concern amid the ongoing coronavirus disease wave in the Capital, with a large number of critical patients needing life support while being taken from their homes to hospitals, or from one medical facility to another in search of a bed.There are 2,287 ambulances registered with the transport department. Of these, 265 are permanent ambulances under the Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) fleet. The remaining are operated by private hospitals and private service providers. The state government has also temporarily augmented the fleet of CATS with around 400 more ambulances.“Of the total number of ambulances functional in Delhi, 25 CATS ambulances have ventilators and, at this point, and less than 125 private ones have ventilators,” said the senior official who asked not to be named.Also read | Delhi government caps rates of private ambulancesThe shortage of ambulances with ventilators translates to critically ill patients sometimes having to wait, officials and patients said. Since people often cannot wait, they take the risk of ferrying critical patients to hospitals in ambulances with high-oxygen flow systems. This becomes very risky, said Narendra Lakra, head of the Delhi CATS Ambulance Union.“We come across a high number of cases in which a patient, who is already admitted in a hospital, becomes critical and needs to be moved to a ventilator. But then there is a shortage of vacant ventilators in hospitals too. So, the patient has to be taken to another hospital where a ventilator is available. How do you do that without an ambulance that has a ventilator system?” Lakra said.What makes things more difficult is that earlier, an ambulance used to take one to two hours to pick up a patient and finally get relieved after hospital admission. Now, with a crisis of beds, the waiting time in hospitals has increased, officials said. A government spokesperson did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/few-ambulances-with-critical-care-a-concern-101620423156132.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Plea in HC over distribution of O2 by minister||The Delhi high court on Friday directed the state food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain to appear before the court on Monday on a plea over stopping the alleged “unauthorised”, “unlawful” and “arbitrary” distribution of oxygen cylinders by the MLA in his constituency Ballimaran.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli issued a notice to Hussain seeking his reply, and said it needed to be figured where he was procuring the cylinders from.“Suppose he is not getting it from refillers in Delhi... Suppose he has independent arrangement from some supplier in Rajasthan, Faridabad, or wherever…. If he is getting it from there and he is giving it to some people in need in his constituency, then you cannot have a grievance because then he is only augmenting supply to Delhi. Even gurdwaras are doing it,” said the court.“If he’s not eating away from the allocated source... He has arranged his own cylinder. Let us be clear about it,” it added, saying that there could be a grievance if Hussain was taking it from the allocation made for hospitals, nursing homes, or for individual use at homes in the national capital.Also read | Govt to create oxygen reserves to handle distress calls by hospitalsThe court’s observation and directions came while hearing a plea which alleged irregularities in the supply of medical essentials and sought an enquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Advocate Amit Tiwari, representing petitioner Vedansh Anand, showed a Facebook post referring to the distribution of oxygen by Hussain, and contended that there was hoarding involved. The Delhi government counsel Rahul Mehra said that whether it is BJP MP Gautam Gambhir or AAP MLA Hussain, strictest possible action will be taken if any violation is found. His reference was to Gambhir’s tweet on April 21 that people in need of Fabiflu tablets could get them for free at his office. Fabiflu is an anti-viral used in the management of symptoms of Covid-19 infection.The court is hearing a plea by Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.During the hearing, the court rejected a suggestion to bring the Armed Forces for setting up field hospitals in the national capital saying that they should be first ready for the duty they have been raised for.Meanwhile, another bench of the high court asked the Delhi government to treat as a representation a PIL seeking compensation for the families of those patients who died due to shortage of oxygen. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh directed that the representation be decided in accordance with the law, rules, regulations, and policy applicable to the facts of the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-in-hc-over-distribution-of-o2-by-minister-101620422922373.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Govt to create oxygen reserves to handle distress calls by hospitals||With the daily oxygen supply to the city still in flux, the Delhi government plans to create oxygen reserves at several points across the Capital to answer SOS calls by hospitals, senior AAP leader Raghav Chadha said on Friday. Delhi on Thursday received 577 MT of oxygen -- 153 MT less than the previous day’s supply of 730 MT.“We have been creating SOS reserves stocked in various places in Delhi from where it will be supplied to hospitals in an emergency, if their regular supply is not initiated. For example, if a 300-bed hospital that was supposed to be delivered oxygen through a tanker from a designated company fails to get it due to some unforeseen circumstances, Team Kejriwal steps in,” said Chadha, who is monitoring the day-to-day oxygen supply in Delhi.The acute dip in supply earned the Centre reproach from the Supreme Court on Friday. The apex court warned the Centre of “coercive steps” if there is any deficit in the future. The city is estimated to require at least 700 MT to sustain the critical care patient load and consistently lower supplies have caused several hospitals to reduce the number of beds, officials have said.“We have been very clear that you have to give 700 MT to Delhi every day. We said it in our earlier order and also clarified this yesterday (Thursday). Don’t drive us to a situation where we have to take firm and coercive steps,” the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre.Also read | Fall in positivity rate a ray of hope for cityChadha explained that multiple oxygen reserves will help the SOS tankers reach hospitals early. For instance, Batra hospital, where 12 patients including a senior doctor admitted to the hospital died for the want of oxygen on May 1, the tanker reached late because it was in Burari--over 30km away.The Delhi government has been demanding 976 MT of oxygen to ensure that they are able to increase the number of oxygen beds by 15,000 and ICU beds by 1,200. “The supply of oxygen has to be regular. We cannot give sufficient oxygen one day because of increased supply and completely deprive the patients another day because the Centre decreased our supply,” said Chadha.He added, “If the Kejriwal government wishes to substantially increase the number of these beds in Delhi to up to 40,000-45,000, it will need regular and uninterrupted supply of oxygen.”In a high-level review meeting on Friday, chief minister minister Arvind Kejriwal asserted that nobody should die because of lack of oxygen. “Now that Delhi has received oxygen, no one in Delhi should suffer because of shortage of oxygen. All the hospitals in Delhi should increase their beds and every DM should arrange new oxygen beds in their districts so that no deaths happen due to lack of oxygen in Delhi.”Hospitals such as Delhi government-run Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur said they will start increasing the beds eventually but will monitor the oxygen supply for a couple of days. The hospital reduced its beds from 550 to 350 due to the uncertainty over oxygen supply.Also read | SC warns of coercive action if Delhi’s O2 quota not metKejriwal also urged everyone to use oxygen efficiently and avoid wastage. Several hospital have already implemented measures such as restricting the number of patients being put on “oxygen-guzzler high flow nasal oxygen”.The chief minister said, “The 48 oxygen plants should be installed immediately as soon as they reach Delhi. These plants have an oxygen production capacity of 40 tonnes. This will further help in improving Delhi’s oxygen situation.”Kejriwal also expressed displeasure over complaints that patients in home isolation were not being given pulse oximeters, which was part of the protocol to manage those who were recuperating at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-create-oxygen-reserves-to-handle-distress-calls-by-hospitals-101620422661609.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Doctor conducts last rites of woman as son recovers in hospital||For over a year now, doctors and other health care and frontline workers have been shouldering the burden of India’s battle against Covid-19. On Thursday, a 37-year-old doctor at a Delhi hospital took on some more weight. He performed the last rites of an elderly woman, who succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital because her son, also diagnosed with the viral illness, was not in the condition to perform the rituals.“I got a call from a junior working at the Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital late on Wednesday, and he told me that an elderly woman had died of Covid there, and her son was unable to perform the last rites since he was still Covid-positive. I asked him to contact their immediate family and neighbours. When no one came forward till Thursday, I decided to help the family. I asked my doctor friend to get the consent from her son so that I could perform the rituals,” said Dr Varun Garg, assistant professor of forensic medicine at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation Medical College and Hindu Rao Hospital.“Her son gave us written consent, and authorised me to perform the rites in his stead. It was quite painful to realise that none of the woman’s relatives nor her friends and family were there,” he added. The woman’s son is currently admitted to the Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital.The doctor then coordinated with his colleagues at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital and brought the body of the 78-year-old woman to the Nigambodh Ghat cremation ground. “I performed all rituals, and lit the pyre. I have stored her ashes in a locker at the crematorium so that whenever her son recovers, he can immerse them,” he said.Garg said he and his family -- his mother and his wife -- recovered from Covid-19 last week, and he resumed work on Saturday. “If there is anything that can help us overcome these challenging times, that is empathy and compassion. We need to help each other in any way we can amid this pandemic,” he said.The 37-year-old has been working at the hospital since 2015 and has been on Covid duty since last year.Delhi, bearing the brunt of its fourth and worst wave of infections, has seen long queues at crematoriums in recent weeks as the city has been consistently recording more than 300 daily deaths for the last 16 days. On Friday, Delhi again added 341 deaths and 19,832 new Covid-19 cases.In these difficult times, good samaritans and others have come forward to help. Last month, police helped cremate the bodies of an elderly couple who died in their homes while in quarantine in north Delhi’s Burari.In some cases, family members of the victims have been unable to reach India for last rites, leaving them to rely on funeral organisers.Officials at Messy funerals, a service provider in Civil Lines, told HT in April that they also carried out the last rites of two elderly people, aged 76 and 82, in neighbouring Ghaziabad as their children were in the United States.Garg, who is also the in-charge of the mortuary at the hospital, said there was a similar incident in his hospital on Friday.“A man from Rohini has died of Covid-19 and no one from his family has turned up for the last rites. We are still waiting to hear from them. If no one comes forward, we will inform the police and see what we can do,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doctor-conducts-last-rites-of-woman-as-son-recovers-in-hospital-101620421795012.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Fall in Covid-19 positivity rate a ray of hope for Delhi||The average weekly test positivity rate – proportion of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19 – in Delhi has now dropped at least five percentage points in the past week, offering a much-needed glimmer of hope at a time when the Capital’s administration and its people are engaged in a brutal battle against the city’s fourth Covid wave.What may be the first signs of recovery (with the positivity rate, and subsequently, cases starting to plateau) for Delhi started to appear around two weeks since the time the city went under a lockdown, data shows.The move, experts suggested, appeared to have helped bring the transmission of the disease under control, although they warned that removing curbs on social movement prematurely may again start the spread of the infection.On Friday, the daily positivity rate was 24.9%, remaining below 25% for the second day in a row, even as the Capital added 19,832 new cases and recorded 341 new deaths, according to the government’s bulletin on Friday, taking the total number of infections in the city to 1,292,867 and fatalities to 18,739.In the past week, 27.4% of all samples have returned positive in Delhi, against 32.5% the week before. The average positivity rate was consistently above 30% in the two weeks before the current one.Also read | SC warns of coercive action if Delhi’s O2 quota not metTo be sure, even at 27.4%, the current average positivity rate in Delhi remains more than five times the 5% threshold recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) at which the Covid-19 infections in an area can be said to be under control.Positivity rate is a crucial metric that shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and over time it provides an idea of whether a region’s testing strategy is adequate to contain the virus. Generally, this metric serves as a precursor to the movement of new infections in a region – for instance, if a region’s positivity rate is rising, it means that cases will likely remain rising (if the same amount of testing is maintained) over the coming days.This apparent cresting of the wave is reflected when we take a look at the case curve in Delhi – the seven-day average of daily infections have dropped 19% from the peak of 25,294 for the week ending April 23 (exactly two weeks ago) to 20,505 for the week ending Friday.Deaths due to the disease, however, are yet to see as proportionate a drop as cases have – the seven-day average of daily deaths have only seen a marginal drop of 7% from peak value so far. However, studies have shown that death figures generally catch up to change in rate of cases at a 14-day lag. This is because studies have showed that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it (if things go South) is around 13.8 days.Experts said the reduction in positivity rate appeared to show that Delhi has reached its fourth peak.Watch | ‘Covid third wave may not happen if we take strong measures’: Dr K VijayRaghavan﻿“The reducing positivity rate is a signal that Delhi has reached the peak of infections. Now, whether the current reduction is because of the lockdown, we cannot know for sure. This could be the natural progression of the disease; any infection can spread only to a certain extent before coming down. Lockdown, if properly implemented, prevent interfamily transmissions giving hospitals a breather – allowing them to arrange beds, oxygen, medicines etc,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at the Christian Medical College-Vellore.But he warned that removing curbs on social movement may again start the spread of the infection. “However, with an airborne infection like Covid-19, the infections are likely to start spreading again when the lockdown is lifted. The government has to ensure that 100% masking is followed after lockdown,” he said.“A stringent lockdown may be used to break the chain of transmission. However, we cannot remain in lockdown for months on end. So, while planning to come out of the lockdown the government has to ensure that a significant proportion – 40% to 50% -- of the people are vaccinated,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fall-in-positivity-rate-a-ray-of-hope-for-city-101620416275846.html
