09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police conducts raids in neighbouring states to trace restaurateur Navneet Kalra||The Delhi Police on Sunday intensified the manhunt for businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the recovery of over 500 oxygen concentrators from his restaurants and conducted multiple raids in neighbouring states, officials said.It is suspected that Kalra has left Delhi along with his family, the police said.Teams have been formed and raids are being conducted in Delhi-NCR and neighbouring states, a senior police officer said.On Friday, 105 oxygen concentrators were recovered from two upscale restaurants in south Delhi's Khan Market area. The restaurants are owned by Kalra.On Saturday, the police transferred the case to the Crime Branch.On Thursday, 419 oxygen concentrators were recovered from another restaurant owned by Kalra and a farmhouse in south Delhi. Four men were arrested during the raids.The oxygen concentrators had been imported from China by a private company.Kalra has been absconding since the raids and his mobile phone is switched off, according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-conducts-raids-in-neighbouring-states-to-trace-restaurateur-navneet-kalra-101620581254801.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi received 71% of SC-approved oxygen on Saturday, weekly average 76%, says oxygen bulletin||The Delhi government on Sunday said that the national capital received 499 metric tonnes of oxygen on May 8, which is only 71 per cent of the medical oxygen to be delivered by the Centre to hospitals in the national capital daily.The oxygen bulletin was posted on Twitter by Raghav Chadha, the vice chairman of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and MLA from Rajinder Nagar.The bulletin also had a section about the weekly average, which said that the average oxygen to be supplied to the national capital as per direction of the Supreme Court in seven days was 700 MT, while the average oxygen supplied to Delhi in the last seven days stands at 533 MT.The oxygen supplied as a percentage of quantity directed by the Supreme Court in the past seven days is 76%, it further added.Delhi's oxygen bulletin for 8th of May 2021 pic.twitter.com/JPo2hFMNMeThe oxygen bulletin also said that the Delhi government received four SOS on Saturday. "Total SOS oxygen supplies on Saturday stands at 15.50 MT," the bulletin said.The Supreme Court had directed the Centre to ensure the availability of 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi on a daily basis. It said that the Centre is under an obligation to ensure a daily supply of the said quantity of oxygen to meet the existing requirements of the national capital and directed that there shall be no reduction in the allocation and availability of medical oxygen to Delhi."We direct the Union of India to remedy the situation forthwith and to ensure that the direction issued by this court for the availability of 700 MT is strictly observed on a daily basis, pending further orders," the bench said in its order passed on May 6 and uploaded on Saturday.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday that Delhi received the court approved amount of oxygen for just one day, and that the Centre has failed to supply even 600MT a day after that. He urged the Centre to streamline its processes and ensure that all states and union territories receive oxygen in better quantities so that states don’t have to fight for oxygen supply.Also Watch: ‘Delhi lockdown extended by a week till May 17’, says KejriwalDelhi witnessed a slight dip in Covid-19 cases with only 13,336 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin by the Delhi government released on Sunday.The Covid-19 positivity rate also dropped to 21.67per cent, the lowest since April 17.The Delhi government has extended the ongoing lockdown for another week till May 17. Delhi has been under a lockdown since April 19 in view of the record surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-received-71-of-supreme-court-approved-oxygen-on-saturday-says-oxygen-bulletin-101620565167750.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 17. Check what's allowed, what's not||The Delhi government on Sunday extended the lockdown for another week till May 17 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Capital.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) first imposed restrictions to curb the movement of individuals in the territory of NCT Delhi from 10 pm on April 19 to break the chain of transmission amid an unprecedented surge in the number of infections.Also read| Delhi has got SC-mandated oxygen quota only once, urge centre for more: SisodiaAfter the review of the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, it was observed that "the positive cases, as well as positivity rate of Covid-19, is still very high and occupancy (Oxygen supported/ICU beds) in the dedicated Covid-19 Government & Private is also on the higher side," DDMA's order read.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also said that this time a strict lockdown will be imposed as the metro services, which were till now operational for essential service workers will also be suspended.Here's all you need to know about the restrictions:Delhi metro services shall not function during the period. "In the wake of revised guidelines issued today by the Govt. of NCT of Delhi, on the extension of Curfew in Delhi for the containment of Covid-19, the Delhi Metro services on all its Lines shall also remain suspended for passenger/essential services from 10 May till 5:00 AM of 17 May," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said.Organising marriage ceremonies at public places, marriage halls, banquet halls, hotels and similar places is completely prohibited. The wedding ceremony can, however, be organised in court or at home with not more than 20 people. Movement for such occasions is only allowed on the production of soft or hard copies of the marriage card.The DJ, sound system, tentage, catering or similar kind of services will not be allowed for the marriage ceremony, the order stated.Also read| Madhya Pradesh: Man attends wedding despite testing Covid-19 positive, FIR filedFollowing Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing a mask, social distancing is mandatory in all mandis, ISBTs, Railway platforms/Stations as well as at all shops which are providing essential goods & services during the curbs.All other shops dealing with non-essential goods and services are to remain closed. All authorities concerned are required to ensure that no weekly markets are functioning illegally within the jurisdiction of respective District Magistrates, the order read.E-pass is necessary for movement connected to essential goods and services. People going to get vaccinated or for medical emergencies are also exempt and will have to show a valid ID card.Delhi on Sunday reported a decline in new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours after 13,336 people were found to be infected with the virus, in contrast to over 17,000 on Saturday. 273 people succumbed to the deadly virus in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 19,344, according to the health bulletin.The positivity rate in the Capital stood at 21.67 per cent on Sunday, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-17-all-you-need-to-know-about-curbs-101620551508622.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records over 13K fresh Covid-19 cases, deaths fall below 300||Delhi on Sunday recorded 13,336 fresh cases of coronavirus disease, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,323,567 as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the lockdown by another week. The national capital's daily death count also fell below 300 on Sunday after 273 fatalities were recorded, the health bulletin showed. A total of 19,344 people have succumbed to the viral disease so far, the bulletin stated.Also read: Lancet blames Centre for Covid-19 crisis, says it ignored warningsThe positivity rate - the proportion of samples that turn positive among all tests conducted - also dipped to 21.67 per cent on Sunday, a sharp decline from 35 per cent recorded last month, indicating reduced spread of the disease among people in Delhi. The national capital's positivity rate rose to its highest at over 35% two weeks back on April 26 but has gradually come down afterward.Authorities on Sunday carried out 61,552 tests, out of which 49,787 were RT-PCR and 11,765 were rapid antigen tests. On Sunday, Delhi's active cases dipped slightly to 86,232 from 87,907 recorded a day earlier. Among the infected, 52,263 people are recovering from the disease in home isolation. The containment zones in Delhi increased to 53,127 on Sunday from 51,338 recorded on Saturday. India’s capital extended its lockdown for another week and adopted stricter restrictions to control a new wave of Covid-19 infections as the country battles the world’s fastest-growing outbreak of the virus.The lockdown, which had been set to end Monday after being extended several times, will now run through the early morning of May 17, CM Kejriwal said in an online briefing.Also read: Delhi Covid-19 lockdown extended till May 17, stricter enforcement promisedDining-in at restaurants will remain prohibited, shopping malls will continue to be shut and employees of businesses outside of essential services will be required to keep working from home. Metro service will be stopped as an additional measure.“The stricter the lockdown, the faster we will be able to control” the virus, Kejriwal said. India on Sunday found 403,736 new virus cases, reporting more than 4,000 Covid-19 deaths for a second day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-13k-fresh-covid-19-cases-deaths-fall-below-300-101620552348745.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police launches 'COVI Van Helpline' for senior citizens amid Covid-19||Delhi Police has launched a helpline number for senior citizens who are struggling with their essential needs amid Covid-19.South District Police of the national capital have launched a COVI Van Helpline (012- 26241077) for senior citizens in the neigbourhood amid the coronavirus situation here."After receiving any call for COVI Van, deployed police official on COVI Van with beat officer will go to the house of senior citizens and help them in getting their needs, including any essential item, vaccination and medicines," the Delhi Police statement said on Sunday.The information of commencement of COVI Van has been disseminated in the Greater Kailash -1 area through beat officers and Residents Welfare Association (RWA).All the precautions including - sanitisation, gloves, masks and social distancing - will be taken while and after every visit.The city's Health bulletin released on Saturday said that it recorded 17,364 fresh Covid-19 cases and 332 deaths over the last 24 hours.Delhi's cumulative caseload has reached 13,10,231 including 87,907 active cases and 19,071 related deaths. Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 23.34 per cent and case fatality rate of 1.46 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-launches-covi-van-helpline-for-senior-citizens-amid-covid19-101620551869253.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 lockdown extended till May 17, stricter enforcement promised||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi by another week and promised to tighten its enforcement while ordering complete suspension of metro rail services this week, citing the need to control the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 cases in the capital and scale up the health infrastructure proportionately.“In the last few days, we spoke with large sections of people – men, women, youngsters, traders, etc. The larger public opinion suggests that we cannot let our guards down now. So, we are forced to increase the lockdown by another week for the safety of people,” Kejriwal said, making it clear that saving lives was a bigger priority right now. “If we survive, we can think of economic recovery in later stages,” he said.The current lockdown, which was earlier supposed to end at 5 am on Monday, May 10, has now been extended till 5 am May 17 through an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) at 12 noon on Sunday. DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and CM Kejriwal is its vice chairperson.“We have also decided that now enforcement of the lockdown will be scaled up and metro services will remain completely shut down. I am sure people will follow all regulations,” Kejriwal added.Under the ongoing lockdown imposed since April 20, there are restrictions on general movement of people and economic activities in Delhi, with exemptions for essential services and goods with certain conditions. So far, the metro service was open for people engaged in the delivery of essential services.“On April 20, we were forced to impose a lockdown because of an unprecedented increase in Covid-19 cases. We were also running out of beds, ICUs, etc. On April 26, the positivity rate increased to 35%. After April 26, because of the lockdown, the situation slowly started improving. Positivity rate has now reduced to 23%... We cannot afford to go back to a worse situation from this stage. The situation has to be further controlled,” said the chief minister on Sunday.Delhi recorded 17,364 fresh Covid-19 cases and 332 deaths in the last 24 hours preceding the release of the health bulletin on Saturday. The national capital has lodged a total of 1,310,231 cases including 87,907 active cases and 19,071 related deaths. The test positivity rate for the disease is at 23.34% and the case fatality rate is 1.46%. In the last few days the number of infections recorded daily has come down along with the test positivity rate, making some health experts spot early signs of plateauing of the second wave which paralysed the health infrastructure with shortage of life saving medicines, oxygen, oxygenated beds, ICU beds and ventilators causing several deaths. The chief minister said Delhi had used the lockdown to strengthen the health infrastructure and it needed to continue.“...Now, the oxygen situation has slightly improved with interference of the Supreme court and Delhi high court and cooperation of the central government. The vaccine drive has also been expanded now. All arrangements are in place and turnout is high. There is a shortage of stock but we have sought help from the central government in this regard and we are sure this will be resolved soon,” he said.Apart from suspension of metro services, the DDMA has imposed a complete prohibition on organising any marriage ceremony at any hotel, banquet hall, marriage hall, or a public space. Marriages can happen only in court and in private spaces with (a) maximum gathering of 20 individuals, it said.“DJ, sound system, tentage, catering and similar kind of services will not be allowed for the marriage ceremony. Owners of the marriage halls, banquet halls, hotels, DJs, sound system, tentage, catering and other service providers will have to either return the advance amount paid by the customer for conducting marriage ceremony during curfew period or they will have to mutually agree to organise the marriage on a later date,” said the order.While, under an order issued on April 11, there was already a cap of 50 guests for marriages in Delhi, there was no clarity on how marriage ceremonies even with 50 guests could be organised after the lockdown was imposed on April 20. A senior government official, who did not wish to be identified, said that lack of clarity on the matter was leading to instances of violation of the DDMA orders related to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-may-17-cm-seeks-stricter-enforcement-101620547572873.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Mother’s Day: Frontline warrior moms juggle work and family||It’s the second Mother’s Day that will be celebrated during the pandemic. While some may get to be with their mothers today, there are some others whose mothers are frontline warriors, and will head out for a regular day away from their children, to fight the battle against coronavirus. Hear from some such Delhi-NCR based mothers, on how challenging yet fulfilling it has been to juggle home and work during the pandemic. There is fieldwork involved but I try to keep my kids safe: JyotiFor Jyoti, Inspector Investigation at Chanakyapuri, the pandemic has been the toughest part of her 14 year career in Delhi Police. “Even though we were vaccinated on priority, there is always a fear of spreading the infection at home. I was put on announcement duty in various Covid containment areas and small localities. While I sanitise everything the minute I go home, I know I have to go back to work the next day and face the same risk. But it’s a part of the job. Duty is duty,” says Jyoti adding that while her seniors are supportive, spending long hours away from her kids is hard. “I have two daughters — one in 10th and the other in 5th standard — who have been my strength through this time. I wish I could spend more time with them, but they know their mum is a Covid warrior, and they are happy to see me work, which is the best Mother’s Day gift!” she says. As a lactating mother, it’s hard to be away from my baby: Rakhi JohnPosted in the gynaecology Covid ward at AIIMS Delhi, nurse Rakhi John has been doing alternate shifts with her husband, who is also posted at the same hospital. In order to take care of their two daughters — the younger one being barely a year old — John has been juggling between her professional duties and motherhood responsibilities with extreme care. She says, “If my husband does morning shifts, I do evening shifts. I’m constantly worried about infecting my kids, and this is after I wear a PPE kit with masks and shield all day! As a lactating mother, it’s hard to be away from my baby. But amid the pandemic, healthcare workers like us have a responsibility and I can’t shirk away from it! Simply being able to come home each day to my kids in the current scenario feels like a blessing!”It has been 14 months since I got a welcome hug at the door: Dr Sarika Verma “At our dining table we have a ‘no phone rule’. But, over the last one year, I’ve been taking 4-5 calls even when in the middle of dinner as I can’t ignore them. Though my kids are young, they are aware of what I do... It has been 14 months since I got a welcome hug at the door when I’m back from the clinic. They know I’ve to sanitise myself and take bath first,” says Dr Sarika Verma, a Gurugram-based ENT surgeon. “As an ear, nose and throat specialist, we are seeing and treating Covid patients all day. I have a strict process; I wear surgical gown, masks, face shield and gloves. All this is to keep my kids safe since this wave is infecting younger generation as well. I know my kids might have some plans for Mother’s Day, but the fact that they are mature, independent and allow me to do my job without stress, brings me immense joy,” adds Verma.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mothers-day-frontline-warrior-moms-juggle-work-and-family-101620546255909.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 lockdown: Metro services to be shut for a week, starting Monday||Metro services in Delhi will be suspended for a week starting Monday after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital. "This is a dangerous wave, we need to stay indoors to protect lives," the chief minister said in the briefing as he made the announcement.Until now, metro services were exempted from the lockdown restrictions, in effect since April 20, and were functioning with 50% of its capacity. "The lockdown has been extended after thorough consultation with traders, women and youth," said Kejriwal.The restrictions have helped Delhi as the positivity rate has gradually come down and is near 24% now. The positivity rate in Delhi soared to its highest on April 26 when it reached 35%.Kejriwal further said that the Delhi government "used the lockdown period to ramp up health infrastructure in the national capital by introducing more oxygen beds."Last year the metro services were suspended in March when the Centre announced a complete lockdown in the country to control the explosion of Covid-19 cases. The services were resumed from September 7 in a phased opening under the central government’s Unlock 4 guidelines.Speaking on vaccination drive in the city, Kejriwal said, "We've made excellent arrangements at our schools. Youngsters are participating in large numbers. We have a shortage of vaccines but I hope the Central government will help us."The Covid-19 crisis is spiralling in Delhi leading to an acute shortage of medical oxygen and other medical necessities. Though the number of daily cases has dropped from the peak of the fourth wave, the number of fatalities is still hovering above 300.On Saturday, Delhi recorded 17,364 fresh Covid cases and 332 deaths over the span of 24-hours. It was the fifth time in the last six days that the number of new cases remained below 20,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-lockdown-metro-services-to-be-suspended-from-monday-101620542323941.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 17||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said his government has decided to extend the lockdown for another week till May 17. Kejriwal added that the government has decided to impose a stricter lockdown this time, as metro services will also be suspended.The chief minister said the decision to extend the lockdown for another week has been taken after thorough consultation with traders, women and youth. While the positivity rate in the national capital has come down to 23% from 35% in the last two to three days, he said, the situation still needs to be improved and taken under control.Also read: Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh extends partial ‘corona curfew’ till May 17He said that the positivity rate in the Capital on April 26 stood as high as 35 per cent and it was after that the cases gradually started declining as the chain of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections began to break.Speaking about the existing Covid-19 curbs in place, Kejriwal said that the Delhi government used the lockdown period to step up the healthcare infrastructure by adding more oxygen beds.Delhi was among the worst-hit states as it suffered from an acute shortage of medical essentials required to combat the destructive second wave of Covid-19. The heavy paucity of oxygen, even in the hospitals, claimed many lives.On oxygen shortage, the chief minister said that the situation of availability of life-saving gas has improved now and SOS calls, reports from hospitals running out of oxygen supply have also declined significantly. He said the high court and Supreme Court's orders and the Centre's assistance helped in the improvement of the situation in the past few days.Kejriwal also spoke of the recently started phase 3 of the vaccination drive. The vaccination drive has been accelerated in Delhi, however, we face a shortage of vaccine supplies, he said, adding that the government has asked for support from the Centre.Also read: Why Covid-19 cases exploding in India? WHO top scientist answersDelhi reported 17,364 new Covid-19 infections and 332 deaths in the last 24 hours on Saturday, according to the health bulletin. In the last six days, the Capital reported less than 20,000 new infections in 24 hours for the fifth straight day.The positivity rate in the national capital, which is currently under lockdown also remained below 25 per cent for the third consecutive day, the Covid-19 dashboard showed.Lockdown in Delhi was imposed on April 20, and since then it has been extended several times to contain the spread of the virus. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said the number of Covid-19 cases has come down in the last few days but it is important to extend the lockdown to prevent it from deteriorating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-17-metro-services-to-be-suspended-101620541369484.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records minimum temperature of 23.2°C, two notches below average||The national capital on Sunday morning recorded a minimum temperature of 23.2 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season's average, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.According to Meteorological (MeT) officials, the maximum temperature will be settled around 40 degrees Celsius.The relative humidity was 58%.The weatherman predicted partly cloudy skies during the day.The air quality in the city was recorded in the "moderate" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 121 at 8.05 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-minimum-temperature-of-23-2-c-two-notches-below-average-101620535230952.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records over 115,000 new Covid-19 cases in 6 days as lockdown nears end||The ongoing lockdown in Delhi, which was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on April 19 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will end in the early morning hours of Monday, unless extended for a third time. The lockdown came into force at 10pm on the very day it was announced, and was originally scheduled to end at 5am on April 26. However, subsequently, it witnessed two week-long extensions, as announced by CM Kejriwal on April 25 and May 1 respectively.Here's a look at the Capital’s Covid-19 numbers thus far from this week, a day before the lockdown's scheduled end. The Delhi government will release figures from the last 24 hours later in the day.(1.) From May 3-8, Delhi saw more than 20,000 fresh infections only once, 20,960 cases on May 5. Throughout the previous week, the city’s Covid-19 tally rose by more than 20,000 cases per day.Also Read | Delhi given large part of foreign aid: Data(2.) The current week began with 18,043 infections on May 3. On May 4,6, 7 and 8, there were 19,953, 19,133, 19,832 and 17,364 cases respectively. Overall, in six days thus far, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally has risen by 115,285 cases or an average of more than 19,000 cases a day.(3.) In comparison, from April 26-May 1, there were 146,837 cases in total or more than 24,000 cases in a day, on average. Additionally, last week’s tally increased by 20,394 cases on May 2.Also Read | Lancet blames Centre for Covid-19 crisis, says it ignored warnings(4.) The number of samples tested in five of these six days has been more than 70,000, except on 61,045 on May 3. This was also the day that the positivity rate, or the number of samples testing positive of the total samples tested in the preceding 24 hours, was at its highest this week, at 29.56%. From May 4-8, the positivity rate stood at 26.73%, 26.37%, 24.29%, 24.92% and 23.34%. In all, 447,947 tests have been conducted this week thus far.(5.) Related fatalities recorded on each day have been 448, 338, 311, 335, 341 and 332 or 2,105 deaths in total. The week also has also seen 117,563 recoveries. The cumulative infection tally stands at 1,310,231 including 1,203,253 recoveries, 87,907 active cases and 19,071 deaths.(6.) As per the latest bulletin by the health department, issued on May 8, the number of beneficiaries vaccinated thus far stands at 3,746,494. Of these, 2,924,708 have been vaccinated with the first dose, while 821,786 have received both the doses. CM Kejriwal has said if Delhi could get 8-8.5 million vaccine doses every month, then the whole city could be vaccinated in the set target of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-115-000-new-covid-19-cases-as-lockdown-nears-end-101620534745408.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||23 Covid-19 patients missing, Delhi's Hindu Rao Hospital says||At least 23 Covid-19 patients admitted at north Delhi’s Hindu Rao Hospital have reportedly gone missing from the hospital between April 19 and May 6, confirmed officials from the hospital administration and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.Officials from the north corporation, which runs the hospital, said the 23 patients left without informing authorities. The hospital currently does not know whether these patients have taken admission in other Covid hospitals or have gone home.This is not the first time that the Hindu Rao Hospital has reported cases of patients who “left against medical advice.” Last year, between June 27 and July 18, five Covid-19 patients had left the hospital without informing authorities.Mayor of north corporation Jai Prakash said on Saturday the 23 patients did not go missing altogether and left on different dates. “In many cases, patients find better facilities in other hospitals and shift there. This happens in hospitals run by the Delhi government also. The police have been informed so that we can trace the patients as they are Covid positive and can infect others,” said Prakash.Also read | Delhi has got SC-mandated oxygen quota only once, urge centre for more: SisodiaA senior police officer from north district, who did not wish to be named, however, said, “We have not been informed either by the hospital authorities or the concerned civic agency about the missing patients.”Around 800 patients have been admitted to Hindu Rao Hospital ever since it was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility on April 19.A senior doctor of Hindu Rao Hospital, who requested anonymity, said poor medical infrastructure and sanitation in the hospital has compelled many patients to move out as soon as they found better facilities. However, in this case, since the hospital does not know whether these patients have actually shifted to other facilities, there is a higher possibility for them to spread the infection. “Around mid-April, when people were desperately running around in search of beds, they were taking admission in any hospital available. But at a time when so many people are dying of the infection, everyone wants the best treatment and facility for their family and most people prefer private hospitals. There is a proper procedure for shifting patients to other hospitals,” said the doctor.Experts said that it was irresponsible of the authorities to be unaware of the whereabouts of Covid-19 patients at a time when the governments are grappling with a large number of cases.“There is a reason why Covid-19 patients are asked to isolate themselves from the people around them. This is a highly contagious disease and we still do not know the ways in which people are getting infected. So, it is imperative to contain the disease,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/23-covid-19-patients-missing-delhi-s-hindu-rao-hospital-says-101620508999812.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi has got SC-mandated oxygen quota only once, urge centre for more: Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said Delhi has received 700 metric tonnes of oxygen, as mandated by the Supreme Court, for just one day, and that the Centre has failed to supply even 600MT a day after that.Addressing a press conference, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management, said the city received 577 MT of supply on Thursday and only 488MT on Friday. He urged the Centre to streamline its processes and ensure that all states and union territories receive oxygen in better quantities so that states don’t have to fight for oxygen supply.Also read | Need 26 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses for Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal“It is my humble appeal to the government of India to increase Delhi’s oxygen allocation to 700MT as soon as possible. At present, Delhi requires a minimum of 700MT oxygen supply to cater to the patients admitted in hospitals. Further, an increase in Covid beds and health infrastructure will necessitate a total oxygen allocation of 976MT for Delhi... With this deficit, it would be hard to manage proper supply for all hospitals,” he said.Sisodia said 700MT of oxygen is the “bare minimum” required for Delhi, based on the Centre’s formula for allocating oxygen supply to hospitals and patient-wise data.“During court proceedings, the Centre claimed that India continues to receive a surplus in oxygen, with 10,000MT oxygen produced and 7,000-8,000MT consumed. The Centre told the court that there is no shortage of oxygen,” he pointed out.Watch | ‘Maintain 700 MT oxygen’: Manish Sisodia highlights Delhi’s demand | CovidSenior AAP leader and the party’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Delhi government has put the demand of 976MT of oxygen for the city aside for now and is focusing on getting at least 700MT from the Centre on a daily basis. “We might not be able to make huge stock reserves of oxygen through this 700 MT, but we will be able to conveniently run the beds that need oxygen,” Chadha said.Union government spokesperson did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-has-got-sc-mandated-oxygen-quota-only-once-urge-centre-for-more-sisodia-101620508723475.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Fewest new infections in a day since April 15, positivity rate falls to 23.3%||The Capital added 17,364 new Covid-19 infections on Saturday, the fewest since April 15, when the city logged 16,699 cases. Further, in what may be seen as a hopeful sign, Delhi’s test positivity rate continued its slow, but steady, decline, dipping to 23.3% on Saturday, with over 74,000 samples collected in the previous 24 hours.The positivity rate, which is an indicator of the spread of the infection, shot up to 36% on April 22, during the peak of the current surge of the infections.The World Health Organization recommends a positivity rate below 5% for two weeks for an infection to be considered under control in a region.The city also reported 332 deaths due to the infection on Saturday’s bulletin, taking the toll to 19,071. The infection has claimed over 300 lives every day for 17 days now, with the toll crossing 400 on three days.The seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of positive people who die of the infection – has also started inching upwards, standing at 1.82% as on Saturday. The cumulative CFR – calculated on the basis of total cases and deaths reported in the city since the pandemic began – stood at 1.46%.Also read | Need 26 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses for Delhi: Arvind KejriwalWith fewer cases and more recoveries, the number of active cases in the city dipped below 90,000 for the second time in a fortnight, and was the lowest on Saturday in this period.On Saturday evening, 99.2% of the 5,661 ICU beds in the city were occupied, while 92.6% oxygen beds were taken, the state government’s health dashboard showed. The Delhi government plans to set up 1,200 makeshift ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, as part of its plans to tackle the fourth wave of infections.Meanwhile, state health minister Satyendar Jain inspected the bed expansion work at GTB Hospital. “Inspected the extension of the GTB 500-bedded ICU hospital. Work at this hospital is almost complete. Remaining final touches will be completed in a day or two,” tweeted Jain.Health experts said Delhi’s infection numbers must be treated cautiously.“This is a good sign, but we have to approach it with cautious optimism. Some of the mathematical models have shown that Delhi is likely to reach the peak of infections earlier than the whole country because the number of cases in Delhi were very high and the numbers started going up before they did for the country. So, that is what might be happening. We need to see a downward trend for at least a few days before we say anything. Also, the decline has to be accompanied by persistent high testing,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-fewest-new-infections-in-a-day-since-april-15-positivity-rate-falls-to-233-101620503237243.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Need 26 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses for Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said Delhi’s current stock of vaccines against coronavirus will last only five to six days, and urged the central government and manufacturers to expedite the supply of doses so that every adult in the national capital can be inoculated within three months.Giving a breakdown of figures, Kejriwal said Delhi has received 4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines so far and it requires at least 26 million more doses to inoculate its entire adult population of around 15 million in the next three months. Out of these, nearly 20 million doses will be needed for the around 10 million people in the age group of 18-44 in Delhi.“Today a major obstacle we are facing is that of vaccine scarcity. If we get adequate doses, we will be able to vaccinate the entire Delhi in three months,” the CM said at a digital news briefing.Delhi is currently in the grip of its fourth and worst wave of Covid-19 infections that has overwhelmed the city’s health care infrastructure, leaving people to scramble for hospital beds and crucial medical supplies such as liquid oxygen and life-saving drugs in recent weeks.Also read | SC task force to audit oxygen usage nationwideOn Saturday, Delhi added 17,364 cases and 332 deaths.Amid this public health crisis, the eligibility for India’s vaccination drive, which began on January 16, was expanded to cover all adults under phase 3 from May 1. However, most states said they were not able to purchase shots for the 18-44 age group and won’t be able to kick off the third phase of the drive on time.In this phase, the central government is supposed to provide vaccines to states/UTs for inoculating people aged 45 and above. For younger adults in the 18-44 age group, state governments and private hospitals directly procure shots from vaccine makers.While some private hospitals in Delhi began vaccinations for younger adults from May 1, the Delhi government only started doing so from May 3.While the Delhi government is in the process of increasing the number of schools -- which are presently being used as vaccination centres for younger adults -- from 100 to about 300, Kejriwal said scaling up Delhi’s capacity will still not be possible if the city does not get around 8 to 8.5 million vaccine doses every month.“Delhi’s population is 2 crore. About 1 crore people are in the age group of 18-45, approximately 50 lakh are under 18, and another 50 lakh are older than 45. So, those above 18 years are roughly 1.5 crore. These 1.5 crore people have to be given 3 crore vaccines, which is our requirement. From these 3 crore vaccines, the Delhi government, as of now, has received approximately 40 lakh vaccines. Therefore, we need 2 crore 60 lakh additional vaccines,” he said.Also read | Delhi records slight dip in daily Covid-19 casesThe chief minister further said this is the minimum number of doses that Delhi needs and the actual requirement is likely to be higher because many people from the neighbouring cities and towns of Noida, Ghaziabad, Sonepat, Faridabad and Gurugram are also coming to the Capital to take the jab.“In fact, more doses will be required since people from the NCR and other neighbouring areas are coming to Delhi to get vaccinated. But the minimum requirement of Delhi must be met with. Thus, I appeal to the central government that sufficient vaccines be made available to us,” he added.As per government data at 10am on Saturday, Delhi had a stock of 771,860 doses of vaccines, out of which 339,080 doses are those procured by the city administration for those between 18-44 years and 432,780 are from the central government, meant for those 45 years old and above.On average, for the last seven days, the city has been administering 63,511 shots per day, according to the daily health bulletin.With the current stock remaining as is without getting replenished and the same rate of daily vaccinations, the Delhi government will run out of shots 12 days from Saturday: May 20.Delhi government officials, however, said on condition of anonymity that they expect to receive vaccines from manufacturers and the Centre soon as orders have already been placed. The officials did not give details about the timeline or number of vaccines they are likely to receive.Around 79,800 recipients were administered the jab on Friday, according to the government’s health bulletin issued on Saturday. Later in the evening, government officials updated the figure to 114,657.Overall, 3,746,494 “cumulative beneficiaries” had been vaccinated in the city, the bulletin said.“To vaccinate every adult in three months, we have to administer 80-85 lakh vaccines every month. It means we need to administer 3 lakh vaccines daily. Today, we are already administering 1 lakh vaccines in 100 schools (and other centres). This will be increased to 300 schools. So, we can easily increase our capacity to 3 lakh vaccines per day. But in the end, it will all depend on how much and how quickly vaccines are delivered to us,” Kejriwal said.Delhi has enlisted schools, which are closed down due to the pandemic, to inoculate younger adults, while government-run medical facilities are for the older age groups.Watch | Blood clots in Covid patients: Top doctor decodes early signs & prevention﻿On Saturday, the vaccination drive at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital, run by the central government, was delayed by an hour in the morning “due to shortage of vials”, according to the hospital spokesperson Smriti Tiwari.The hospital is a vaccination centre only for those who are 45 years and above. A senior doctor, who did not want to be named, said, “The vaccine doses are distributed by the district officials. There were no leftover vaccines in the hospital today and there was a delay in getting the vials from the administration.”The hospital has a capacity to store vaccines for a couple of days.Several other states too have brought up the issue of limited vaccine supplies. The Maharashtra government, which is also facing the issue, said earlier this week it is “constantly” following up with the Centre to provide vaccine doses for inoculating people aged 45 and above.Kejriwal on Saturday also appealed to all experts and the Centre to arrange vaccines for those below 18 years of age.”We are particularly concerned about children. Youngsters and children under 18 cannot get vaccinated right now. I appeal to all experts and the Centre to arrange a vaccine for them too so that they can also get inoculated,” he said.To be sure, most vaccines against Covid-19 have only conducted clinical trials involving adults. Canada is the only country in the world to have approved the Pfizer-BioNtech’s Covid-19 vaccine for adolescents as young as 12. The US and Europe are expected to do so shortly.Experts say the current lockdown and adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour will slow the spread of the virus, but vaccinating entire populations is key to fighting the pandemic as a long-term measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/need-26-million-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses-for-delhi-arvind-kejriwal-101620502214866.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||125kg heroin, worth ₹860 crore, seized from Afghan couple||The Delhi Police on Saturday said they had seized over 125kg of heroin, worth ₹860 crore, allegedly from an Afghan refugee couple in west Delhi’s Khyala.According to police, the couple had allegedly moved the drugs in a car from a place in north Delhi’s Wazirabad village to Khyala and were waiting for someone to receive it, when they were caught. Police suspect the drugs were headed to Punjab.While they did not have any movement passes required for driving around during lockdown, police said the couple, who were travelling with their six-year-old daughter and 14-year-old son, allegedly tricked personnel at police pickets by claiming that their daughter was ill and needed to see a doctor.Police said the couple, who have been in India since 2012, produced a photocopy of a refugee card issued by United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) but they were unable to show its original.Speaking about the latest seizure, possibly the second largest seizure of heroin by the city police in recent years, deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said police were tipped off about two heroin suppliers coming near Ganda Nala Road in Khyala to deliver a consignment of the contraband on Friday afternoon. Accordingly, a trap was laid and around 4.30 pm, a white car with two occupants arrived at the spot and began their wait. As the receiver did not turn up, the raiding team caught the two occupants, who identified themselves as Mohammad Shafi (48) and his wife Tareena (36), the DCP said.“Seven plastic bags containing heroin were found in the car. The total weight of the contraband was 125.84 kg. A case was registered and the couple was arrested. They identified themselves as Afghan refugees living in Delhi since 2012. They had brought the drugs from their home in Wazirabad village,” she said.During questioning, DCP Goel said the couple allegedly revealed that the raw materials had come from Afghanistan and were delivered to them by a person at their home on Thursday. The couple allegedly converted them into heroin and was supposed to deliver it to another person in Khyala for transport to Punjab.“The couple has made many disclosures but we need to verify them all. We raided their Wazirabad home... The two are being interrogated further to ascertain the entire network of drug peddlers involved in smuggling and supply of heroin,” said Goel.Meanwhile, pegging heroin rates at over ₹6.75 crore per kg, Goel estimated the total value of the seized 125.84kg drugs at ₹860 crore in the international market.A senior police officer from the special cell -- Delhi Police’s anti-terror unit that usually makes such big seizures of heroin -- said they value the seizure based on kg rates of heroin mentioned on the website of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.“As per the website, one kilo of heroin is around ₹40 lakh at the point of sale (where the contraband in raw form is produced and processed). The drug has to pass through six or seven channels to finally reach India. Drug dealers have to bear 30% to 40% illicit value addition in the actual rate at each channel. Eventually, when the contraband reaches India, it costs many times the price at the stage of the raw form, depending on quality,” the officer said.In all their previous seizures, the special cell estimated the value of fine quality heroin to ₹4 crore per kg. Their biggest ever drug haul was in July 2019 when 150 kg of heroin was seized from five men, including two from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/125kg-heroin-worth-860-crore-seized-from-afghan-couple-101620500049277.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Court sets aside order to release O2 concentrators for use by police||A Delhi court on Saturday set aside an order directing the release of 12 oxygen concentrators seized by the city police for use by police officers and judicial officers.Setting aside the May 5 order by the Metropolitan Magistrate (MM), principal district and sessions judge Narottam Kaushal said, “The MM, in his zeal to provide life saving machines to front line workers i.e. the Delhi Police and to his judicial fraternity, was so dazzled that he forgot that a judge on account of the office he occupies has to act & behave like a self-less, dispassionate saint.”“He has to rise above the interests of self and his ilk. Benevolent and well-intended, his act may be; the same cannot breach the Constitutional provisions of equality. On the touchstone of these morals & principles of law, MM seems to have faltered,” the judge said in his order.Also read | Covid-19 in Delhi: Fewest new infections in a day since April 15, positivity rate falls to 23.3%Additional Public Prosecutor (APP) V K Swami, appearing for the state, argued that “the oxygen concentrators should be released to such facilities where they could be used round the clock for those who needed it the most”.On May 5, MM Anuj Bahal had ordered the release of 12 oxygen concentrators seized from two accused persons, Vinay Agarwal and Akash Vashist.The court noted that the MM was greatly influenced by the fact that two judicial officers had lost their lives in battle with Covid-19. “One of them being his own brother colleague with whom he shared the corridors. As I pen down this order, the judicial fraternity has lost one more officer, who also succumbed to Covid-19 virus,” the judge noted.The court asked the Investigating officer (IO) to move a fresh application before the District Magistrate who, according to the directions of the Delhi high court, would release the seized concentrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-sets-aside-order-to-release-o2-concentrators-for-use-by-police-judicial-officers-101620499509783.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Crime branch to probe recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from 3 restaurants||The Delhi Police on Saturday said that the case pertaining to the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three restaurants and a private firm’s godown has been transferred to the crime branch, even as Navneet Kalra, the owner of the restaurants who was allegedly involved in the purported hoarding and black marketing of concentrators, is still on the run.Police officers, who asked not to be named, said that teams have been making efforts to track Kalra, whose cellphone’s last location, they said, was in Uttarakhand before it was switched off. The cellphones of people who are close to Kalra have been put on electronic surveillance and a close vigil is being kept on their movements as well, the officers said.HT tried to contact Kalra on Saturday through calls and text messages but he could not be reached for comment.After recovering oxygen concentrators from the firm’s godown, police also arrested Gourav Khanna, the 47-year-old chief executive officer (CEO) of Matrix Cellular company from Gurugram on Friday in connection with the alleged cheating, criminal conspiracy, hoarding and black marketing case that was registered by the south district’s Lodhi Colony police station. Khanna is the fifth person to have been arrested in the case.The other four include the company’s business head, manager and a sales executive, and the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, from where the first batch of 32 oxygen concentrators, a carton of thermal imagers and a carton of N95 masks were recovered.Also read | Police raid Khan Market restaurants, seize O2 devices“Khanna was overseeing the import of oxygen concentrators and their sale at high prices. The private firm (Matrix Cellular) was being used to import oxygen concentrators and they were being sold through ’Xpect Everything’, an online portal,” deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said after Khanna’s arrest on Friday.On Saturday, all the files and documents related to the case were handed over to the crime branch team that will further investigate the case to establish the entire nexus behind the alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators. According to police, the accused were selling oxygen concentrators, costing around ₹20,000, for around ₹70,000 using fake price tags. Police said that the 524 seized concentrators were among 650 such machines that were imported from China and Hong Kong earlier this month.“Apart from tracing the remaining 126 concentrators that were already sold, the investigating team will also look into rumours that the illegal trade started in October-November and many such devices were sold in the past five-six months. Khanna’s questioning may help the investigators piece together the missing links in the case and also identify other players who were involved ,” said an officer, requesting not to be named.According to the police, of the 524 seized oxygen concentrators, 96 were recovered from Khan Chacha restaurant and nine from Town Hall restaurant, both in Khan Market, following raids on Friday. The remaining 419 were recovered from Nege & Ju restaurant-cum bar in Lodhi Colony and the Matrix Cellular company’s godown in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur two days before.“All oxygen concentrators have been imported and acquired by paying applicable import duties, GST / IGST and all sales are done through on their mobile app, and payments are received through online banking channels,” said Samudra Sarangi, lead counsel for Matrix.“The charges of black marketing and hoarding are not only baseless in law, but also irresponsible in such times when Matrix should be focused on fixing the demand-supply gap for oxygen concentrators. Unfortunately, Matrix is victim of police excess and will follow the due legal process to defend itself and its employees to the fullest extent. Matrix has complete faith in our justice system and trusts that the Courts will protect the unjustly victimised,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crime-branch-to-probe-recovery-of-524-oxygen-concentrators-from-3-restaurants-godown-101620499509196.html
