10-05-2021||Delhi||BJP MP Parvesh Verma opens 100-bed Covid care centre in Delhi’s Ashok Nagar||Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Parvesh Verma on Monday launched a 100-bed Covid care centre in west Delhi’s Ashok Nagar locality, a statement by his office said.Rashtriya Swabhiman, an organisation founded by his father and former chief minister Sahib Singh Verma, has collaborated with Radha Soami Satsang Beas and the district administration to set up the centre, the Lok Sabha MP from West Delhi said.The opening of the Covid centre comes at a time the health infrastructure in the national capital Delhi has come under intense strain due to the latest surge in Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the lockdown in Delhi by one more week. On Sunday, the city had recorded 12,651 new Covid cases and reported a test positivity rate of 19%.“The centre will be a boon for west Delhi residents due to its centrally-placed location in West Delhi. It has 100 oxygen beds to start with and has the capacity to be expanded to 200 beds,” a statement by Verma’s office read.The statement said each bed at the centre is linked to oxygen concentrators and will be manned by an adequate number of doctors and nurses. The centre will take care of all immediate needs of its patients including their medicines and food.“People should immediately reach the Covid care centre in case of dropping oxygen levels to combat the disease in the early stage,” Verma said.The NGO, Rashtriya Swabhiman, was started by his father Sahib Singh Verma in 1998, the same year he had to step down from the Delhi chief minister’s post to make way for his colleague Sushma Swaraj ahead of the Delhi assembly elections.Over the next several years till his death in a road accident in 2007, Sahib Singh Verma, who served as Union labour minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet, used the NGO to carry out relief activities not just in Delhi and neighbouring states but also in states such as Odisha and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-mp-parvesh-verma-opens-100-bed-covid-care-centre-in-delhi-s-ashok-nagar-101620666260843.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC seeks suspension of challans by red-light violation cameras during Covid-19 pandemic||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has been moved in Delhi High Court seeking direction to the Union Home Ministry and Delhi Police to suspend the issuance of challans by the red-light violation cameras in Delhi till the Covid-19 situation in Delhi gets better."Due to the deterrence of drivers standing in front of ambulances at a traffic light, being scared of the repercussions of either crossing the red light or even moving over the "STOP" line to get the ambulance to pass over, the ambulances do not get their Right of Way, and have to stand for crucial minutes on every traffic light where such a camera is installed," the plea said.The petitioner, Utkarsh Trivedi, a law student who filed a plea through Advocate Satyam Singh, sought direction to the respondents to either suspend the usage or cancel the issuance of challans during the lockdown imposed in Delhi, or till the Covid-19 situation becomes better."If the particular cameras are not suspended from the traffic lights, then it will cause an irreparable loss in life, and the violation of Right to Health under Article 21 of the Constitution of India," the petition added.The plea further stated that in the present situation severe patients travelling in ambulances with disabilities can neither enjoy the full benefit of hospitals nor do they have adequate mechanisms to get their right to health enforced. The underlying basis of the Motor Vehicles Act is to ensure that lives are saved on the road, however, with the usage of the same cameras, crucial time is being wasted on the roads, it said.The Bench of Justice DN Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh is scheduled to hear the PIL on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-in-delhi-hc-seeks-suspension-of-challans-by-red-light-violation-cameras-during-covid-19-pandemic-101620659845393.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Exams cancel? High-schoolers come to Covid patients’ rescue||Suffering inspires compassion. Proving this are school going youngsters, who have been led by the Covid-19 crisis to find an opportunity to utilise their time and energy to serve the humanity in this grim situation caused by the pandemic. Amid the second wave of Corona, as exams of most high school students stand either postponed or cancelled, they have taken to saving lives by providing verified leads to those looking for oxygen cylinders, plasma donors, ICU beds, etc. From saving lives of their relatives, to supporting strangers, these youngsters are doing it all and shining bright while they provide a glimmer of hope to the city residents. “I was casually talking to my cousin when she told me about how her friend’s mother needed plasma. I was moved by her condition and really wanted to help, so I started digging up resources and making phone calls,” says Ananya Sharma, a class XII student of a Ghaziabad-based school, adding, “The next day, I saw an Instagram story of a girl looking for an ICU bed for her grandfather. Luckily, I was able to help her too, and felt magical after that! One thing led to another until volunteering became a full-time thing. Eventually, I joined a lot of WhatsApp groups through which I got connected to more volunteers. People posted their requirements on these groups, and the rest looked up resources for them. That’s what I’ve been up to. And due to social media platforms getting flooded with phone numbers, we divide the work among ourselves, to work more efficiently.” With eyes that shine with the dream of seeing a pandemic free world, these youngsters are driven to save every life they can. “I got inspired by a DU student who was saving lives amid the pandemic and decided to help too,” says 16-year-old Bhumik Dirolia, a student of a Haryana-based school, adding, “An 11-year-old boy from Hisar came to meet me after I saved his father’s life, and this was the best feeling ever! Ek insaan dusre insaan ki madad nahi karega to kaun karega? So far I’ve helped 500 people, but out of those I’ve saved approximately 100 and belive that I saved 1,000 lives because every person has 10 family members behind them. Now I’ve set a goal to help 10,000 people. When I had started helping people, I initially got 20-30 calls. But straight from day two, I got 50-60 calls and currently I get 200 calls per day. I verify each and every lead by calling them up, whether it’s 20 or 200, I verify them all and then only share them with the patient or their relatives. Just yesterday I verified 400-500 leads personally by calling each one up, and I’ve been helping people all over the country and not just those in Delhi-NCR. I have also donated a part of my pocket money to the needy, to help provide them ventilators, oxygen, and medicines etc... I want to set an example to the youth of my age that we all can make a corona free India! If only 1,35,000 people out of the country’s population work everyday on helping 10,000 people in a month, it will help all the 135 crore people of IndiaAnd these youngsters even know the significance of a heartfelt conversation, and how it can make a difference in the lives of people struggling due to Covid. “A lot of my friends who were Covid positive needed someone to talk to, and I was there for them. I helped ease their fears, and even read them stories on the phone... Whatever pocket money my parents give me, I donated all of it to the foundations that have been helping Covid patients with oxygen cylinders. Though I can’t go out of my house, but I ensured that I’m able to help in whatever capacity I can, as there’s not much to study right now since exams have been postpones. So I used the time to help those who I know were infected, by verifying leads for their relatives who were running out of time to make so many calls. Now, I’m looking forward to getting vaccinated when it’s my turn,” says Nikhil Kumar, a class XII student at a public school in Delhi.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/exams-cancel-high-schoolers-come-to-covid-patients-rescue-101620660501709.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi government to add 990 ventilator beds in 15 hospitals, makeshift facilities||In a bid to scale up intensive care unit (ICU) facilities in the city, the Delhi government has procured 990 portable ventilators for fifteen hospitals and makeshift facilities, which have been directed to install immediately, HT has learnt. Of the 990, the highest allocation of 150 ventilators was for the newly constructed Indira Gandhi hospital in Dwarka that the Delhi government is currently operationalizing for Covid-19 patients. The Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had earlier said that the hospital will start with 500 oxygen beds for the patients with the viral infection. “To augment medical resources, optimum utilisation of space is being done. 500 oxygen-bedded centre will be set up here by next week,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said last Wednesday.Two new hospitals that were operationalized last year for treating Covid-19 patients by the Delhi government in Burari and Ambedkar Nagar have also been allocated 80 ventilators each. Other hospitals to receive 80 ventilators were Deen Dayal Upadhaya in Hari Nagar and Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini. The government allocated 80 ventilators each to makeshift facilities such as the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in Chattarpur, the extension of Burari hospital, and Sant Darshan centre. Two hospitals of the Employees State Insurance Corporation in Okhla and Jhilmil were allocated 50 ventilators in total. Currently, Delhi has 5,872 intensive care unit beds, not all of which have ventilators. Of these, 98.9% of the beds are occupied. The occupancy is likely to reduce over the week as the number of cases in the city has started going down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-to-add-990-ventilator-beds-in-15-hospitals-makeshift-facilities-101620654019373.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||'In what greed': Manish Sisodia slams Centre for Covid-19 vaccine export||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia once again hit out at the Centre on Monday for exporting Covid-19 vaccines to the country at a time when a resurgent second wave has affected lakhs of people in the country. The experts were conducted as part of the 'Vaccine Maitri' initiative of the government.“In what greed were 6.50 crore vaccines supplied to foreign countries when people in our own country are dying?” Sisodia said at a press conference.The deputy chief minister of Delhi also claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) allegations of the Delhi government ordering only 5.50 lakh doses of vaccines is incorrect as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had placed orders directly with the two vaccine manufacturers in the country for 1.34 crore doses to vaccinate those above 18 years of age.“Today BJP alleged that Delhi govt ordered only 5.50 lakh doses of vaccine. The Government of India decided in April that the two companies can sell vaccines to states directly, states were also told the same. We ordered 1.34 crore doses for Delhi for people above 18 years,” Sisodia further said.Sisodia alleged that after the Delhi government placed orders for vaccines with manufacturing companies, the Centre stepped in to inform the government that Delhi would be receiving only 92,840 doses of Covaxin and 2,67,690 doses of Covishield to inoculate its citizens.“Right after our order, Centre sent us a letter - vaccine companies hadn't responded by then - that Delhi can get only 92,840 doses of Covaxin and 2,67,690 doses of Covishield in May,” said Sisodia.“BJP is lying that we ordered only 5.50 lakh doses. We had ordered 1.34 crore doses,” he added.Earlier in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain told reporters that the national capital is left with only a day’s worth of Covaxin stock. Delhi had received 1,50,000 doses of Covaxin for inoculating those within 18-45 years of age, and after administering 1,02,020 doses till Monday morning only 47,980 doses are available on hand, he said. The national capital’s stock of Covishield is expected to last for 3-4 days more, the minister added.Both Jain and Sisodia’s remarks came a day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s letter to Union minister Harsh Vardhan urging an increase in vaccine supply to the capital between May-July.Earlier on Monday, the BJP had slammed Arvind Kejriwal government over the Covid-19 crisis, claiming the chief minister has been busy spending crores on publicity and "misleading" people while washing his hands of responsibility and leaving everything to the Centre.Addressing a virtual press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited a RTI reply to say that the Kejriwal government has spent around ₹805 crore on advertisements since 2015 but not opened a single new hospital in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-what-greed-manish-sisodia-slams-centre-for-covid-19-vaccine-export-101620652424585.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal explains how Delhi is preparing for next wave of Covid-19||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that his government is boosting the infrastructure to prepare the national capital for the next wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Delhi has seen a surge in the number of daily cases of Covid-19, which led the Kejriwal government to announced strict lockdown-like measures to check th spread of the infection in second wave."We're increasing oxygen beds... we must prepare for the third wave. In this wave, Delhi recorded maximum 28,000 cases in a day. The scale at which we're creating infrastructure, we'll be able to deal even if 30,000 daily cases are reported in next wave," the chief minister said.His comments come on a day when the Delhi's health minister Satyendar Jain said that the city was running out of vaccines, with just three to four days of supplies remaining of AstraZeneca's Covishield, made by the Serum Institute of India and a day for Covaxin."We're left with vaccine stock vaccines for 3-4 days. We're placed orders with companies but I think Central government is allocating the vaccines because we get letter from the Centre about the stock that we would get in a month. We request Centre to give us more vaccines," said Kejriwal.On Monday, Delhi entered a fourth week of lockdown, with tougher curbs such as the shutdown of the suburban rail network (metro trains) and a ban on outdoor weddings and gatherings."This is not the time to be lenient," Kejriwal had said on Sunday. "This phase is so tough, this wave is so dangerous, so many people are dying...the priority at this hour is to save lives," he said in a televised address.Delhi on Monday reported 319 fresh Covid-19 fatalities and 12,651 new infections, the lowest in four weeks, with a positivity rate of 19.10 per cent, according to health department bulletin.The dip in new cases, the lowest since April 12, can also be ascribed to a smaller number of tests (66,234) conducted on Sunday.At 19.10 per cent, the positivity rate is the lowest since April 16, when it stood at 19.7 per cent, according to government data. On April 22, a positivity rate of 36.2 per cent, the highest so far, was recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-explains-how-delhi-is-preparing-for-next-wave-of-covid19-101620649792755.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covaxin doses to last a day, Covishield 3-4 days: Health minister Jain||Delhi’s stock of Covaxin will last only a day and that of Covishield will last three to four days, according to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. “There are two vaccines available in India; we have stock for just one day for one and for three or four days for the other. Covaxin stock will last a day and Covishield three or four days,” said Jain during his visit to a 400-bed Covid facility at Guruwara Rakab Ganj Sahib. There were just 274,460 doses – both Covaxin and Covishield – meant for those between the ages of 18 and 44 years purchased by the state as on May 9. There were 467,190 doses allocated by the Centre meant for those above the ages of 45 years, healthcare workers, and frontline workers till May 9. As per Centre’s directives, the states have to use 70% of these doses to give the second shot to those who have already received one.Also Read | 400-bed Covid care centre at Gurudwara Rakab Ganj to begin operations todayDelhi has been giving nearly 95,000 shots a day during the last week, according to data shared by the government. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to the Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday, stating that the government must come up with a uniform price for the vaccine doses as states and private hospitals were competing for the same supply. The companies have to provide 50% of their manufactured doses to the Centre. “A uniform price should be fixed for vaccines for supplies made to governments (Central or state) and to private hospitals. The inherent fallacy and danger in the current pricing mechanism is that there is an obvious incentive for private manufacturers to prioritise supplies to private hospitals over supplies being made to governments since under the current mechanism they will earn more from the latter,” the letter read. Meanwhile, the Centre has justified in the Supreme Court its Covid-19 vaccination policy, saying its response and strategy is completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion which leaves little room for judicial interference and emphasised that citizens of all age groups will get free vaccination throughout the country.In 218-page affidavit filed late Sunday night in the top court’s suo motu case on Covid-19 management, the Centre said, this policy “conforms to mandate of Article 14 and Article 21 of the Constitution of India and is made after several rounds of consultation and discussion with experts, state government and vaccine manufacturers requiring no interference by this Court as while dealing with a pandemic of this magnitude, the executive does have a room for free play in the joints, in larger public interest”. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covaxin-doses-to-last-a-day-covishield-3-4-days-health-minister-jain-101620642979191.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||400-bed Covid care centre at Gurudwara Rakab Ganj to begin operations today, says Satyendar Jain||The 400-bed Covid care and centre at Gurudwara Rakab Ganj Sahib will be operational from Monday, said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who was on a visit to review the amenities. Thanking the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC), the health minister said the facility is equipped with essential oxygen support and medicines.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19"The 400 bed Covid Care & treatment Centre at Gurudwara Rakab Ganj is commencing service from today. Visited the facility to review the amenities. It is equipped with oxygen support and medicines. Thankful to Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee for their undying support," Jain tweeted with pictures of the facility on Monday.The 400 bedded Covid Care & treatment Center at Gurudwara Rakab ganj is commencing service from today.Visited the facility to review the amenities. It is equipped with oxygen support and medicines. Thankful to Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee for their undying support. pic.twitter.com/4PZtzu9UGBThe facility with 400 oxygen beds will be functional from Monday 2pm, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee said.The most significant part of the facility is that it has been attached to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, the Covid-19 dedicated hospital. "The Covid care centre is being managed by 50 doctors from the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital. They will be supported by a team of 150 nurses and ward boys," a PTI report quoted Singh as saying.इस कठिनाई के समय में उम्मीद की किरण - DSGMC द्वारा तैयार की गई श्री गुरु तेग़ बहादुर कोविड केयर फ़ैसिलिटीTo be dedicated to Humanity today 2 PM pic.twitter.com/zTB0sjYMiZJain recognised the centre's association with LNJP and said, reported ANI, "This facility has been attached to LNJP Hospital. There is a ray of hope as no. of cases is going down in Delhi but we need to stay alert."The national capital faced an acute shortage of life-saving gas, with hospitals like the LNJP and Ganga Ram sending out SOS alerts to the state government as only a few hours of supply was left with them.Also read: From Himvir to Corona warrriors, ITBP shows the wayChief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the number of reports and SOS calls from hospitals running low on oxygen has decreased due to Delhi high court, Supreme Court and the Centre's assistance. Kejriwal extended the lockdown in the Capital for another week till May 17 with stringent restrictions to break the chain of transmission, as he said the infection rate is still high.Actor Amitabh Bachchan also contributed a sum of ₹2 crore to the Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Covid Care Centre to help Delhi fight the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/400bed-covid-care-centre-at-gurudwara-rakab-ganj-to-begin-operations-today-says-satyendar-jain-101620634371078.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Fire erupts at Delhi lab conducting over 1,000 RT-PCR Covid-19 tests daily||A fire broke out at a private lab in South Delhi's Greater Kailash on Monday, said the Delhi police.There were no casualties in the fire mishap, said the police.According to the police, the fire broke out at the Bhasin lab in the S Block of Greater Kailash today.#NewsAlert | Fire breaks out at a private pathology lab in Delhi's Greater Kailash, four fire tenders present at the spot(reports ANI) pic.twitter.com/2VHOiOBXwWIt is the biggest lab of South Delhi conducting more than 1,000 RT-PCR Covid-19 tests and other tests on a daily basis, the police said.The police stated that the entire staff of the Greater Kailash police station rushed to the spot and helped the staff of the lab to get out of the premises.The fire was doused after seven fire tenders reached the spot."There were no casualties. The swift action of the Greater Kailash police station has saved lives of staff and patients of the lab who came there for testing," the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-erupts-at-delhi-lab-conducting-over-1-000-rt-pcr-covid-19-tests-daily-101620635521470.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Lookout notice against Navneet Kalra in oxygen concentrator case||The Delhi Police on Monday said they have got a look out circular (LoC) issued against Navneet Kalra, owner of Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nege & Ju restaurants in Khan Market and Lodhi Colony, from where 137 oxygen concentrators were seized following raids last week. Another 387 concentrators were recovered from the registered office of Matrix Cellular company in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur. All the 524 recovered concentrators were connected to Kalra and the employees of the private company, the police said. Also Read | Delhi Police issue look out circular against wrestler Sushil Kumar in murder caseA senior crime branch officer associated with the case said that crime branch teams have been trying to track Kalra who went underground along with his family soon after the raids at his Nege & Ju restaurant-cum-bar in Lodhi Colony and the Chhatarpur office of Matrix Cellular company last Wednesday. “With apprehension that Kalra may try to flee the country, the investigating team got a look out circular issued against him. Raids are still on to nab him,” said the officer, who did not want to be named. A Delhi court on Monday issued notice to the Delhi Police on a plea filed by Navneet Kalra seeking anticipatory bail. The matter will be heard on Tuesday. The prosecution told the court that they are yet to receive the anticipatory bail plea, after which the court adjourned the hearing for tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lookout-notice-against-navneet-kalra-in-oxygen-concentrator-case-101620631817769.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police issue look out circular against wrestler Sushil Kumar in murder case||The Delhi Police have issued a look out circular against Olympian wrestler Sushil Kumar in a murder case. Police teams are looking for Kumar and his associates since they allegedly beat another wrestler to death in Chhatrasal stadium in northwest Delhi’s Model Town past Tuesday. Earlier, the police said they have a video footage in which Kumar and others can be seen assaulting wrestler Sagar Dhankad and his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar.Also Read | Oxygen Express with highest volumes of LMO arrives Delhi from Gujarat’s HapaThe incident took place on Tuesday night. The next morning, Dhankad succumbed to his injuries while Sonu, who was admitted for treatment, named Kumar and his aides as assailants in his statement.Police registered a case of murder and multiple teams of Delhi Police are raiding areas in Haryana, Uttarakhand and Delhi-NCR.During preliminary probe, police found that the fight between the two groups was over a disputed flat in Model Town, which belonged to Kumar and Dhankad live in. Dhankad was the son of a Delhi Police head constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-issue-look-out-circular-against-wrestler-sushil-kumar-in-murder-case-101620628877713.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Covid positive, no more: DU hostellers share recovery tales||Being in the comfort of your home when battling Covid-19 is one thing, and being alone in a hostel or rented accommodation is another. “The most scary thing was standing all alone in line in a Covid testing line in a Delhi hospital. I was trembling with fear, hearing other people say things like ‘I don’t want to die’, ‘I’m here to re-check my results’, ‘I don’t want to infect my family’ etc.” This is what most hostellers of Delhi University went through, who were away from their families when infected by coronavirus. Yet, they went on to defeat Covid! Being mentally strong, at a time when they were away from their loved ones, wasn’t easy. “Being with your family is always a blessing, it makes you stronger than any sort of medicines or medications, however we didn’t have that privilege so we had to make the best use of what was at our disposal,” says Ranjan Kumar, a PhD student who is a resident of Gwyer Hall hostel. Kumar adds, “My friends and the hostel authorities went out of their way to help me with medicines, food and everything, when I was self isolated, and that kept me upbeat! I’m grateful to the hostel administration for their support during this crisis; they converted the Teacher Court (TC) to Doctor Court (DC) — a separate ward in hostel for quarantining of students where they don’t have to use the common facilities. Starting from water to food supply, everything was nicely maintained. And most importantly, the main authority like the Provost, Warden and Section Officer of the hostel were always active and connected with me over chat and call to check on my health. This made me feel cared for, and my fellow hostellers and hostel authorities became my extended family. I recovered with their help, with good food and medicines. Talking heart to heart with others is extremely important when you’re scared and Covid positive.” For Avinash Chandra, a master’s student residing in Post Graduate Men’s Hostel, DU, it was knowledge that came as a source of comfort. “I missed my family during quarantine, but knew that ultimately I couldn’t travel in these conditions. So I spent most of my time resting or on video calls with my bhaiya, didi, and mummy. Connecting with them virtually made me feel supported in crisis. I recommend every hosteller or those who are not with their families and battling this virus, to communicate frequently and open up to their family members,” says Chandra, whose hostel authorities ensured that he gets regular access to kaadha, turmeric milk, and fresh fruits. “They even called me from time to time to ask about how I was doing... And I realised that knowledge is power, and used the time to surf online to learn more about Covid and the precautions that one must take. This knowledge comforted me. Besides, I did certain exercises and yoga in my room’s balcony, watched movies and listened to songs that kept me engaged.”For some it’s candid conversations and for others it’s knowledge, which helped them recover well. But for hosteller Shyamjeet Yadav, a PhD student staying at a hostel near DU’s North Campus, it’s yoga and reading that kept him upbeat during his recovery. “My family was in Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh, and I was battling Covid here in Delhi, all alone. My family was worried, but I told them that I’ll be okay. We need to understand that Covid is not serious in most cases. As my symptoms were controllable, I reassured my folks back home that I’ll be fine. Meanwhile, here, I practised a lot of yoga, including surya namaskar, and meditation. This helped me gain mental strength. I even read many books of my interest, and saw upbeat web series during my quarantine period. It’s all about what you choose to focus on! I focused on positive, upbeat news and practised yoga diligently. Now my family has asked me to come back as soon as I get a negative report,” says Yadav, further advising, “According to the reports, 97% people are recovering themselves. In my hostel, all 15 students who were Covid positive recovered well. So we need to get rid of the panic, take medicines in time, and keep friends virtually close!”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-positive-no-more-du-hostellers-share-recovery-tales-101620628405322.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||DU’s foreign students share their pandemic experiences||Within a few weeks of Delhi University opening admissions for foreign students, the seats have been reportedly filled up, even before the last date. Youngsters hailing from different homelands are ready to bite into the campus life, at a time when the world is engulfed by a pandemic. Exuding extreme mental strength and resilience, the foreign nationals who are presently studying in various colleges, share what makes the DU experience worthwhile, even though the pandemic has curtailed their campus life!Easy to make friends @DUKokoro Okamoto, who hails from Japan and is a student of Psychology (Hons) at Lady Shri Ram College For Women, says: “My experience of the pandemic can be summed up in one word ‘Online classes’, which has been bittersweet. Bitter in the sense that I’m yet to visit my college campus where I’m missing out on the college fun with my friends or eating at the cafe and canteen, meeting new people and definitely the physical essence of the societies that I have joined during the past months. In terms of sweet, being an ambivert, sometimes I love to stay at home and enjoy these online classes where I can attend them at my own comfort zone. Despite having a pandemic year, which was plagued with uncertainty and loneliness, I would recommend DU as a place to be! India is great, wherever you visit, the culture, food and the people you meet are different. This is something that is unique to India and I really want students from other countries to experience these wonderful moments. Moreover, the education here, I believe is great when one compares it in terms of the cost to study in India with countries, because it is relatively affordable. Apart from education, one can learn something valuable like connecting to animals which is rare in other countries and being around with stray dogs and cats really teaches us the importance of their presence. Lastly, this is something I have noticed in my pandemic year that making friends with Indians is very easy and they are willing to become friends with you and help you whenever you struggle, miss your family or are just having a bad day, which made me love this country more.”Stuck in homeland, eager to visit IndiaArefa Mohibe, from Afghanistan, who is pursuing Economics (Hons) at Daulat Ram College, says: “My pandemic experience has been challenging. I prefer physical classes rather than online ones because as foreign students we have many kinds of challenges such as economical issues, internet connectivity, electricity shortage and lack of course materials. These impact our studies as sometimes we miss out some of our classes. Sometimes we need to buy books online, but for many of us it’s difficult to buy them through the internet. I’m in my first year and second semester, so unfortunately I haven’t been able to even come to India yet, and haven’t experienced the physical campus. Those like me who are on a scholarship, have signed an undertaking that unless we are not in India we would not be paid the scholarship stipend, so that’s another challenge. And as a foreign student, I’m really interested to study offline and meet my classmates and teachers and have discussions on our lessons. Hopefully that time will come soon.” #FOMO Complete campus experienceYoutso Rakdo, a Tibetan national pursuing MA in English at Jesus and Mary College, says: “This is my first year at DU, and sadly, I never got to experience the real campus life. I wish things would go back to normal soon. I never got a chance to apply for a hostel since the lockdown started before my admission, but the admission process was quite a breeze. The authorities at Foreign Students’ Registry, DU, were helpful in addressing all my concerns. Most of my professors have been extremely dedicated and try to not let the pandemic jeopardize our education... Online classes for me have been very convenient, I feel like this is where my privilege comes into play. I’ve been lucky to have internet access and electronic devices at my disposal. But nothing can beat the real life experience of a physical class. Especially the environment of my college. I had so many plans for my campus debut. I miss every detail of my college – the food, class, library – all of it looked so interesting on the brochure!”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dus-foreign-students-share-their-pandemic-experiences-101620628040692.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Oxygen Express with highest volumes of LMO arrives Delhi from Gujarat's Hapa||Indian Railways on Monday informed that Oxygen Express carrying around 225 MT of oxygen from Gujarat's Hapa will be offloaded in Delhi Cantt today.According to Railways, the train has the highest volumes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) which is being transported on a single train.Ministry of Railways tweeted and informed about its departure of the train on Sunday night."Another Oxygen Express carrying 11 tankers with 224.67 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) has departed from Hapa, Gujarat to Delhi Cantt. This train has highest volumes of LMO being transported on a single train," Ministry tweeted.The Indian Railways has so far delivered nearly 4,200 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen in 268 tankers across the country.According to a statement issued by the Ministry of Railways, as many as 68 Oxygen Expresses have completed their journey so far. "Till now, 293 MT has been offloaded in Maharashtra, 1230 MT in Uttar Pradesh, 271 MT in Madhya Pradesh, 555 MT in Haryana, 123 MT in Telangana, 40 MT in Rajasthan, and 1,679 MT in Delhi," the Ministry said."More loaded Oxygen Expresses are expected to start their journeys later in the night," it added.The country is currently witnessing a devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, with over 4,03,738 fresh cases and 4,092 deaths in the last 24 hours. The cumulative caseload reached 2,22,96,414, including 37,36,648 active cases, 1,83,17,404 discharges and 2,42,362 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-oxygen-express-with-highest-volumes-of-medical-oxygen-arrives-delhi-from-hapa-101620618164095.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi; AQI in moderate category today||A day after rain and hailstorm brought the temperature down, Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky with the possibility of thunder and lightning on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 23.2°C, which is two degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 39.4°C – one degree above normal. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the lower end of the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 109. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 166, which is in the higher end of the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely for May 11 and 12, it may lead to isolated dust spike at few locations for one or two hours is likely. Better ventilation is forecasted for the next three days. Hence, AQI is forecasted to stay improved in the moderate category for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-aqi-in-moderate-category-today-101620615077127.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||COVI Van to the rescue of senior citizens in South Delhi||Keeping in mind how vulnerable senior citizens are amid the fourth wave of Covid-19 that has gripped the Capital, Delhi police on Sunday launched a vehicle helpline “COVI Van” for senior residents of south Delhi.Senior officers said the area’s beat officer will take the vehicle to visit senior citizens at their homes and assist them by taking them to the hospital for their due appointments, vaccination or visit nearby marketplaces to buy medicines or daily essentials.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said to start with, the facility has been launched at the Greater Kailash police station.“Keeping in view the problems faced by senior citizens due to the ongoing pandemic, that has restricted their movement, the initiative has been launched for their safety. It is a 24X7 helpline 011 26241076. The vehicle, an SUV, that has been named ‘COVI Van’, has been donated for this purpose by Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers,” said Thakur.The DCP said after receiving a call on COVI Van, the police officer deployed at the van, along with the beat officer of the concerned area, will visit the senior citizen at their home and assist them as required. “From taking them to hospitals to taking them for vaccination, or ferrying them to the local market to buy essentials or things of daily use, all the possible assistance will be extended by our staff. All the necessary precautions related to Covid-19, such as sanitization of vehicle, wearing gloves, face masks and maintaining social distancing, will be adhered to at all times and during every visit,” said Thakur.He added the information about the commencement of ‘COVI Van’ service has been disseminated in the Greater Kailash - 1 area through beat officers and the resident welfare association (RWA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covi-van-to-the-rescue-of-senior-citizens-in-south-delhi-101620599261067.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Street life in the pandemic||This narrow lane in the Walled City doesn’t go past any historic monument. No beautiful doorway opens into it.And yet, the lane shows so much. Especially these days, with its scenes conveying the oppressiveness and distress of the curfew and coronavirus pandemic.Here’s an anthology of impressions collected over a handful of days.6am: An elderly beggar is sitting on the street-side, his arm resting upon a cloth bundle of what presumably gathers his possessions. The man is without mask, and his back is resting against a shuttered store named Discount Medicura, a pharmacy whose banner announces “free home delivery” and “20 percent discount.” The street is otherwise empty, save for a few cats and dogs.7am: Another beggar is sitting on another part of the street. He is in a mask. A cat settles close to him, but far enough to respect the codes of social distancing, and is staring at him attentively.9am: The aforementioned pharmacy is open. A side-shelf is mostly decked with oximeters. (Until recently, that space was dedicated exclusively to glucometers for the diabetics.) The young man behind the counter is wearing two masks. His phone is playing the film song “Didi tera dewar deewana.”11am: Two men are riding a bike. The man at the back is holding an oxygen cylinder.1pm: A figure hesitantly appears from a side-lane. His mask is falling under his nose. The man has ventured out “because our whole family lives in a one-room house, with no balcony or window. I have come for fresh air.” He is coughing as he speaks.2.30pm: A public announcement of a local resident’s death echoes through the street. It is coming from a mosque. The janaza, the departed one’s journey to the graveyard, will start after the evening prayers.4pm: The street is filling up with a thin streamof shoppers despite the curfew. Everyone is wearing a mask, if not always correctly. Sounds of coughing every now and then. A kebab stall has a poster stuck on its counter—“Please wear mask, no sitting permitted.”6pm: A burial procession passes.8pm: A rickshaw appears, with two passengers on the seat, and a masahri—a metallic bed to carry a body—on the roof (see pic).Around midnight: Neighbourhood kids are playing cricket in the otherwise empty lane.2am: The pharmacy is still open, still lit, looking like a lighthouse in the dark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-street-life-in-the-pandemic-101620598831027.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Working beside docs, nurses, multi-tasking staff lead fight||While the pandemic has thrown doctors and nurses to the forefront of the fight against the infection in the national capital, supporting their efforts are thousands of ward boys, attendants and sanitation staff who have been working tirelessly behind the scenes.In most hospitals across Delhi, at least two such staff, known as multi-tasking staff (MTS), work in each ward in every shift, sharing tasks ranging from serving food to patients to helping clean them or change clothes and clean the wards. Above all, they have also become a medium to connect patients with their families who are not allowed inside Covid wards.Manoj Kumar Paswan (37), a ward attendant at RML hospital, looks after at least 20 patients during his regular morning shift. “First I serve breakfast to all the patients. It’s important for them to eat first so that they take the day’s first dose of medicine. Many of the patients are either very weak or old and require assistance to eat. I also help such patients in changing their diapers, clean them and change their clothes,” he said.Also read | Regulate supply of Covid-19 vaccine shots: Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to health minister Harsh VardhanTirath Ram (44), a helper at the civic-run Swami Dayanand Hospital, said that many patients admitted at the hospital belong to economically weaker sections, who do not own smartphones. He said that he does not hesitate in passing on his phone number to their relatives so that they can be in touch with each other or at least enquire about the well-being of the admitted patients. “Doctors and nurses are busy... Covid symptoms are treated by doctors, I can only provide some mental peace to patients and families that are already stressed,” said Ram.Abhishek Singh, an attendant at Lok Nayak Hospital, said that many a times, patients seek help to make video calls to their family members. “There is hardly any communication... They just want to see their loved ones...It feels good to help,” he said.Suresh (38), who is lovingly called ‘Suni bhaiyya’ at the Hindu Rao Hospital, said that two weeks ago, a 19-year-old patient admitted to the hospital expressed her wish to eat Parle-G biscuits. “She was nearly my sister’s age... I bought her two packets of Parle-G at my own expense. She was so happy... These are the small joys that we hold on to,” Suresh said.Some attendants said they also encountered “misbehaviour” by relatives of patients. A ward attendant in GTB hospital said, “A few days ago, a patient could not be revived as he was brought in very critical. The family members started to abuse us and the nurses. We tried to make them understand but later had to call in security.”Meanwhile, many said the fear and guilt of infecting family members is also on their minds. Shamsher Rai, an attendant at RML hospital who lives with his family of six including elderly parents, said, “Even as I wear PPE kit all the time in the Covid ward, the fear of infection is always there... If people living in big houses are getting infected, what are the chances of a family of six living in a two-room set of not getting the virus?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/working-beside-docs-nurses-multi-tasking-staff-lead-fight-101620598504846.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Mercury drops as hailstorm, light rain lash several parts of Capital||Several parts of the national capital witnessed a short spell of rain and hailstorm on Sunday, bringing down the mercury and providing a much-needed respite from the heat to residents.Delhi witnessed a maximum temperature of 39.4 degrees Celsius, even as the India Meteorological Department’s weather app showed that rain and strong winds had brought the temperature down to 32 degrees Celsius by 5.30 pm.The minimum temperature fell down to 23.2 degrees Celsius, which is two degrees below the season’s average.The sudden hailstorm took many by surprise as people took to social media to share photos and videos of the phenomenon.Meanwhile, the city’s air quality hovered in the ‘moderate’ category.The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 166 at 4 pm, as per real-time data provided by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-drops-as-hailstorm-light-rain-lash-several-parts-of-capital-101620598187983.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Sisodia hits out at Centre for jab exports||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia attacked the Centre on Sunday for sending Covid-19 vaccines to other countries even as India was facing a vaccine shortage, calling it “image management”.“When it was time for our youth to get vaccinated, Delhi government opened centres all across the capital but (the) central government gave only 5.5 lakh vaccines for the youth. 5.5 lakh vaccine for our youth and 6.5 crore vaccine for other nations. These numbers show that our central government doesn’t value the lives of our younger generation,” said Sisodia in a press statement on Sunday.Citing a report in The Indian Express newspaper, Sisodia said the Centre sold coronavirus vaccines to 93 countries of which 60 per cent had Covid-19 under control, and also where there was no threat of loss of life due to the virus.“A report published by Indian Express claimed that (at) a time when Indians were reeling from Covid-19 and deaths, (the) central government, instead of collecting vaccines for India, sold 6.5 crore doses of vaccines to 93 other nations. Upon doing further research, I found out that 60% of these 93 nations have not reported many Covid cases. In fact, 88 of these 93 nations have not reported many deaths and therefore do not see fatality rate as a big challenge,” Sisodia said.“If other nations, countries like Canada, US gathered enough vaccines and prioritised vaccinating their own citizens first, then why did India fall behind? No other nation, except France, exported vaccines to other countries before fully vaccinating its own people. France exported 1 lakh doses after ensuring enough stock for its people,” said Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management and inter-ministerial coordination.India has so far supplied over 60 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, mostly Covishield, to 76 countries. This includes 8.5 million doses provided as grants and commercial supplies of 34 million doses.Also read | Covid-19: Metro shut in stricter lockdown across DelhiLast month, other opposition parties also attacked the BJP-led Union government for exporting vaccines in the face of an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. The government, however, rejected the criticism as “short-sighted”.“If you ask why are you exporting (vaccines) at all, somebody (else) will ask - why am I exporting to India. That is so short-sighted. Only non-serious, irresponsible people can make that argument,” external affairs minister S Jaishankar said last month.Close to 1.8 million individuals between 18 and 44 years have received their first Covid-19 vaccine shot, shows Union government data.“Ten states account for 66.78% of the cumulative doses given so far in the country,” said Union health ministry in a statement.As per the recent government data, nearly 500,000 Covid-19 positive cases currently are in the intensive care units (ICUs), with over 170,000 persons on ventilator support at various hospitals across the country, with many more seriously ill patients in need of a hospital bed.There was no response from the Union government and the BJP on Sisodia’s remarks till the time of going to press||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-hits-out-at-centre-for-jab-exports-101620596398168.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||13.3k more Covid-19 cases in Delhi: Fewest in 27 days||The Capital recorded 13,336 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the fewest in a day since April 12, as the test positivity rate also continued its steady drop, falling to 21.67%, the lowest since April 16.Delhi had logged 11,491 fresh cases of the infection on April 12, and recorded a test positivity rate of 19.69% on April 16.The fatality numbers also dropped below the 300 mark for the first time in 18 days, as 273 more people died of the infection on Sunday. To be sure, however, this is still nearly double the highest single-day death toll during the third wave of the infection, which was the most severe surge till that point. On November 18, 131 people in Delhi died of the infection.So far, 19,344 people have died of Covid-19 in the Capital.Since March 2 last year, more than 1.32 million Covid-19 cases have been recorded in Delhi, of which 1.22 million have recovered and 19,344 have died, government records said.Also read | Covid-19: Metro shut in stricter lockdown across DelhiExperts, however, asked for caution and said it was too early to draw any conclusions based on the numbers, and stressed that vaccinations needed to be scaled up to prevent further waves.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said a drop in testing may be behind the dip.“There could be multiple reasons for the decline in the number of cases, such as fewer tests, or people not getting tested, and others. It is too early to say anything. The trend has to be observed for at least 10-15 days,” said Dr Kant.According to the bulletin, 61,552 total tests were recorded on Sunday – as against an average of 73,657 tests each day over the previous two weeks.However, it must be noted that tests generally dip on the Sunday and Monday health bulletins owing to the weekend.Epidemiologist Dr PK Sharma, adviser to the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), said: “It is good that the number of cases and the positivity rate have come down, but we should wait for some time before drawing any conclusion. But as the infection is in the community, we have to be very careful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/133k-more-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-fewest-in-27-days-101620589931216.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Metro shut in stricter lockdown across Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday extended the lockdown in Delhi by another week, but said restrictions will be scaled up, with Metro rail services completely suspended for seven days and wedding ceremonies banned in public areas in an effort to control the spurt of Covid-19 cases as the city battles its deadliest wave of infections so far.The chief minister said Delhi “cannot to afford” to let its “guard down” even though the number of cases and the test-positivity rate -- an indication of the spread of an outbreak within an area -- has seen a declining trend over the last few days.“We spoke with large sections of people – men, women, youngsters, traders, etc. The larger public opinion suggests that we cannot let our guard down now. So, we are forced to increase the lockdown by another week for the safety of people. If we survive, we can think of economic recovery in later stages. The current lockdown was supposed to end at 5am tomorrow, (Monday). Now it has been extended till 5am next Monday,” Kejriwal said at an online press briefing on Sunday.He added that the “enforcement of the lockdown” will be stepped up and operations of the Delhi Metro -- which had been available for people engaged in providing essential services until now -- will be “completely shut down”.“We must remember jaan hai toh jahan hai... this time the lockdown will be stricter,” he said.Later in the day, an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, said: “Delhi metro services shall not function during curfew.”The order also prohibited any wedding ceremony at hotels, banquet halls, marriage halls or public spaces. Instead, such events can only be held in courts and in private spaces with a maximum gathering of 20 people, the DDMA order -- a copy of which has been reviewed by HT -- said.Also read | No metro, 20 people in weddings: Delhi to see stricter lockdown till May 17With Sunday’s announcement, Delhi has extended its lockdown for the third consecutive time, although this is the first instance of restrictions being tightened in this wave. The new restrictions will remain in place till 5am on May 17.Under the ongoing lockdown that was first imposed on April 20, when the city was well into its fourth wave of infections, a curfew was imposed except for specific activities (such as going to buy groceries and medicines, or for going to a hospital or airports/railway stations) but all essential services like food and medicine shops were allowed to operate.Weddings were previously allowed in banquet halls and hotels, but the gatherings were limited to 50 guests. Metro services were previously open for people engaged in essential activities and were running with 50% seating capacity.Kejriwal also said on Sunday the extension of the lockdown was necessary to further augment Delhi’s public health infrastructure as the city’s latest surge in Covid-19 cases inundated medical facilities and triggered an acute shortage of life-saving supplies such as oxygen and drugs.“On April 20, we were forced to impose a lockdown because of an unprecedented increase in Covid-19 cases. We were also running out of beds, ICUs, etc. On April 26, the positivity rate increased to 35%. After April 26, because of the lockdown, the situation slowly started improving. Positivity rate has now reduced to 23%... We cannot afford to go back to a worse situation from this stage. The situation has to be further controlled,” the chief minister said.On Sunday, Delhi added 13,336 new cases (fewer than its daily average of 19,383 for the previous seven days on account of low level of testing on weekends) and 273 deaths.The test-positivity rate -- which refers to the proportion of samples tested for Covid-19 returning positive -- also dropped to 21.67%, the lowest in 23 days, data from the government’s daily health bulletin issued on Sunday showed.Also read | 'Need 83 lakh Covid doses every month': Kejriwal explains 3-month plan to CentreDespite indicators of the situation easing, there are still 86,232 active cases in the city and a majority of hospital beds occupied. Of the total 22,545 beds across the Capital, 19,912 are occupied and 2,633 vacant.“We used the lockdown period to strengthen health infrastructure. Oxygen beds were added. We need to continue doing that. We also faced a severe shortage of oxygen because of the high number of cases and high proportion of severe cases compared to the past three waves. Now the oxygen situation has slightly improved with the interference of the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court, and cooperation of the central government,” the chief minister said.Burdened by the massive caseload, hospitals across the national capital sent out several distress calls, resorting even to making appeals on social media websites, as their stocks of medical oxygen dwindled rapidly from the third week of April.Police authorities will ensure effective checking of persons and vehicles on roads by putting an adequate number of pickets, the DDMA order said. “Delhi Police will also ensure that movement of individuals and vehicles should be allowed strictly as per the guidelines/protocols prescribed in the curfew order,” it added.Traders on Sunday welcomed the Delhi government’s move to introduce more curbs, but raised concerns over enforcement.Praveen Khandelwal, national secretary-general of the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said: “There is huge movement of people without any checking. Not only shops but all kinds of activities, except essential commodities, should remain locked down. All the borders of Delhi should be equipped with strict checking of individuals and vehicles. Strict vigilance is required at airports, railway stations, bus terminals, etc.”Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry and an Aam Aadmi Party leader, said: “We did a survey of 480 traders across the city and 65% of them were in favour of increasing the lockdown for another week. Large number of traders have assured that they will adhere to all regulations concerning the lockdown.”Watch | India receives 3 oxygen generators, 1000 ventilators arrive from UKBanquet hall owners, however, said their businesses will take an even bigger hit. “We were told that the curfew was temporary. Both the chief minister and LG had requested people to not leave the city. Our staff that had stayed back has nowhere to go now. Our earnings have come to a halt and with so much uncertainty, we are not sure if we can continue to pay their salaries anymore,” said Ramesh Dang, president of the Community Welfare Banquet Association Delhi.Greesh Bindra, vice-president, operations, The Suryaa, also said that the hotel will push for the deferment of wedding ceremonies. “We will not refund the money but give an option to the customer so that they can come back to us once the curfew is over. The advance amount paid for blocking the date is never refundable,” he said.Kejriwal spoke of the city’s vaccination drive on Sunday and again appealed the Centre to provide more doses to the Delhi government. “The vaccine drive has also been expanded now. All arrangements are in place and turnout is high. There is a shortage of stock but we have sought help from the central government in this regard and we are sure this will be resolved soon,” he said.“The situation in Delhi is not under control yet. Patients are not getting hospital beds, ICUs, ventilators, oxygen, medicines, etc. Even though the Covid-19 numbers and positivity rate are going down, as per the government’s health bulletins, it is too early to draw conclusions. Delhi needs more time to bring the situation under control. It is extremely necessary to minimise gatherings, crowds and the possibility of large number of people in any space. The lockdown is an important step in that regard,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.(With inputs from Sadia Akhtar in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-metro-shut-in-stricter-lockdown-across-delhi-101620588363310.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Deputy CM calls for inquiry into 23 missing Covid patients||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday called for an urgent inquiry into 23 Covid-19 patients going missing from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital.Taking cognizance of a report published in Hindustan Times on Sunday, Sisodia said in a letter, “It is very shocking that to note that such a large number (of) Covid-19 patients have gone missing from Hindu Rao Hospital in spite of separate wards... It is not only dangerous to the lives of these patients but also a setback to the efforts of the government, which has imposed curfew/lockdown to break the chain and to check the spread of this dreaded disease.”Directing health department to submit the findings by Monday evening, Sisodia said, “Responsibility [should] be fixed and action be taken against the erring officials.”Also read | 23 Covid-19 patients missing, Delhi's Hindu Rao Hospital says﻿HT reported on Sunday that between April 19 and May 6 this year, 23 Covid-19 patients admitted to HIndu Rao hospital left without informing the hospital authorities. The hospital currently does not know whether these patients have transferred into other Covid hospitals or have left for their homes.While the civic body officials said that they informed police about instances of patients leaving against medical advice (LAMA), Delhi Police officials on Saturday denied having received any complaint from either the hospital or the municipality.This is not the first time that the Hindu Rao Hospital has reported such cases. Last year, between June 27 and July 18, five Covid positive patients left the hospital without informing the authorities.Jai Prakash, mayor of the BJP-ruled civic body, said the corporation will do everything to give the details of the 23 missing patients. However, he said that the security of the Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi is managed by the Delhi’ government’s civil defence and the deputy CM should seek answers about the lapse in security from their own officials. “Why doesn’t the government first call an inquiry on the hoarding of oxygen cylinders and other equipment by their own ministers and MLAs, or regarding the shortage of oxygen supply in the city that led to the death of so many people in Delhi?” Prakash said.BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the Delhi government should question their own officials as the security of the Hindu Rao hospital and other Covid-dedicated hospitals is managed by the government’s civil defence.“Security to all Covid hospitals is being provided by Delhi government’s civil defence and it is civil defence that owes a reply for missing patients from a hospital of north corporation,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deputy-cm-calls-for-inquiry-into-23-missing-covid-patients-101620588734746.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Cops in PPE on guard outside Covid-19 wards as Delhi hospitals turn high-security prisons||Outside a room in the Covid wing at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), four police personnel wearing PPE suits stand on guard round-the-clock. Unlike other Covid-19 patients, who are lodged in wards and share space with others, underworld gangster, Chhota Rajan alias Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje,62, is lodged in a single room because of the threat to his life. Since April 24, when he was shifted from Tihar jail number 2 to AIIMS, the police’s quick reaction team (QRT) has also been posted at the AIIMS campus along with many others in plain clothes to keep an eye on suspicious movement in the facility.In East Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, where at least 14 Covid-19 prisoners are lodged, police and hospital authorities have dedicated one of the building gates only to the entry and exit of those going to the prisoners’ ward. This is where one of Delhi’s top gangster, Gaurav Jhareda was lodged until Thursday along with at least other Covid prisoners. Jhareda died of the infection on Thursday night. The entry to the building where the prisoner-patients are lodged is sealed by police barricades. Private security guards and Delhi police personnel monitor every suspicious movement.As cases of Covid-19 continue to spread rapidly inside Delhi’s Tihar jail, prompting the jail administration to shift some prisoners to hospitals outside, many hospitals across the city have turned into high security zones with police personnel in some cases donning PPE kits to guard them inside Covid wards. Until last week, when former gangster turned politician Mohammed Shahabuddin was admitted to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, armed police officers in PPE kits guarded his room. In north Delhi, the Burari hospital has been transformed to a mini-temporary jail with at least 21 prisoners admitted there.Also read | Covid-19: Metro shut in stricter lockdown across DelhiA GTB hospital security guard, who wished not to be named said, “On Thursday night, that man(Gaurav Jhareda) died at the hospital. The following day, when his body was being taken for cremation in an ambulance, many of his friends had come and wanted to take photographs. It was very scary. Those men looked tough and insisted on opening the PPE kit to see his face. There were so many people recording the video of the body being transported.”Explaining the need for tight vigil at the hospitals, an officer from the Delhi police special cell, who wished not to be named, said, “Hospital is the most misused place to escape from custody. On March 25, gangster Kuldeep Fajja, who had come to GTB hospital for a medical check,fled from outside the hospital after a shootout with police. These gangsters are desperate and will try to escape the moment they are out. Because of the killings they have been part of, they are also targeted by rival gangs at the hospitals. The fear of Covid-19 prisoners spreading infection after fleeing the hospital is not so much, in comparison to the danger they possess if they escape.”In September last year, a convicted criminal named Mehtab Ahmed, involved in over 10 cases of murder, snatching, kidnapping and robbery, who was admitted at the Lok Nayak hospital for Covid-19 escaped after breaking the window grille of the hospital’s bathroom. He was arrested again after a shoot out.Explaining, the nature of threat to prisoners such as Rajan or Shahabuddin’s outside the jail, the officer quoted above said that even inside Tihar, the two men were lodged in solitary confinement. In Rajan’s case, the Intelligence Bureau had on many occasions alerted Tihar officers to allow only his wife and no other family member to visit him. The IB had also said that Rajan’s rivals could use Delhi’s gangsters behind bars to murder him in prison.Currently, Tihar has 249 active cases of Covid-19. The spread of the infection inside Tihar has been quicker and far more compared to the last three waves in Delhi.In February, there was not a single case of Covid-19 among prisoners or jail officials. Even until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners. But in the last one month, Tihar has reported over 300 Covid-19 cases among prisoners. Six prisoners have died of Covid-19 in the last two weeks.Starting this week, the prison department will release around 5000 prisoners as one of the steps to decongest prison complex. The prison administration is preparing a list of nearly 5,000 undertrials who could be released either on interim bail for 90 days or on eight weeks’ parole following a Supreme Court-appointed high-powered committee recommending that the prison be decongested in view of the “alarming” and “threatening” situation of the pandemic in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-in-ppe-on-guard-outside-covid-wards-as-city-hospitals-turn-high-security-prisons-101620588675331.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Pet boarding facilities inundated with requests from Covid-affected families||With the national capital grappling with an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases amid the fourth wave, many individuals and families are turning to boarding facilities for their pets. Owners of pet boarding facilities across the city said there has been a significant increase in the number of requests for taking in pets.Kuldeep Chauhan, owner of Pet Lovers Hut - Dog Boarding Centre, said his facility is receiving requests from people who are down with Covid-19 or are unable to meet the pet’s requirement due to restrictions. “During this time of the year, people leave behind their pets while going for vacations. This time, people are not going anywhere but our facility is full due to requests from Covid-affected individuals and families. There are instances where the owners have died of Covid and their dogs are left with us,” said Chauhan. He said that the number of requests pouring in due to the pandemic is higher this time. “Last year, we did not get this many dogs. This time, there is a stark difference.”Arun Shivakumar, who runs Asha Arun’s pet home boarding, said the facility has been receiving more and more requests from Covid-affected families since last month. “We receive at least ten calls a day from people battling Covid-19. Last year, we did not have any requests from covid patients in April-May,” said Shivakumar.He said he also received requests from people who want to give up their dogs for adoption as they can’t take care of them due to Covid-19. “My wife and I have conducted counselling sessions with such pet parents to make them understand that Covid is temporary,” said Shivakumar.Also read | 13.3k more Covid-19 cases in Delhi: Fewest in 27 daysNandita Sikka, CEO, Heal Your Paws, a facility located at Sainik Farms, also echoed similar sentiments. “I have been getting a lot of requests from people who are unable to step out of their houses and take their dogs for walks due to concerns arising out of Covid-19. We are taking care of dogs whose owners are Covid positive or are busy in covid-related duties,” said Sikka.In view of the prevailing situation, board facility owners have also adopted additional precautionary measures. Sikka said the staff at the facility have been tested for Covid and are taking extra sanitization measures. Other facilities have introduced mandatory sanitisation of pets.“We have introduced some changes in the processes that we undertake while admitting a new member to the boarding facility. We have created a designated spot at the entrance of the facility where owners are asked to tie the dog. Following that, our caretaker gives the dog a bath, only after which he can enter the kennel. We are not holding any interaction with the pet parents in the current situation,” said Chauhan.He said while most people are upfront and inform the facility if Covid is the reason behind the boarding request, some people do conceal information. “At least three families did not inform us that they had Covid. To avoid such incidents, we introduced the additional layer of sanitization process at the entrance,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pet-boarding-facilities-inundated-with-requests-from-covid-affected-families-101620588674761.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Regulate supply of Covid-19 vaccine shots: Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to health minister Harsh Vardhan||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday wrote to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and asked that the Centre regulate the supply of Covid-19 vaccines to the states while ensuring that they receive enough doses to inoculate all their residents, even as he urged that the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech — the two firms manufacturing vaccines in India — be directed to increase supplies to Delhi between May and July.“The central government should make available to the states the requisite number of vaccines to enable vaccination of all its citizens. The central government should actively monitor and supervise the manufacture of vaccines by private parties so that supplies in adequate quantity are made to all state governments and this crucial aspect is not left to the discretion of the private manufacturers,” read Kejriwal’s letter, a copy of which HT has seen.The letter comes a day after Kejriwal, in a digital press briefing, said Delhi only had enough Covid-19 vaccine stocks to last five to six days, and urged the Centre and manufacturers to expedite supplies, so that “every adult in the national capital can be inoculated within three months.”Spokespersons of the Union health ministry did not respond to requests for a comment.In his letter, Kejriwal also said the Delhi government has approached Dr Reddy’s Labs for the Russian-made Sputnik V, the third vaccine approved for use in India.Dr Reddy’s Labs, which is conducting clinical trials in India on behalf of the makers of Sputnik V, received the national regulator’s emergency use approval for the jab last month. The company will import the vaccine for use in India.In his letter, Kejriwal also appealed that vaccines be priced uniformly, saying that the current model incentivises private manufacturers to “prioritise supplies” to private hospitals over state governments. He also flagged glitches in the CoWIN portal, leading to problems booking slots and urged the Centre to allow states to develop their own registration systems.Covishield, manufactured by SII, and Covaxin, produced by Bharat Biotech, are available to the Centre at ₹150 a dose. However, Covishield is sold to states for ₹300 a dose, while Covaxin is sold at ₹600.Spokespersons of neither SII nor Bharat Biotech responded to requests seeking comments.Also read | Sisodia hits out at Centre for jab exportsTo private hospitals, Covishield is available at ₹600 per dose, and Covaxin for ₹1,200.On May 2, the Supreme Court asked the central government about differential Covid-19 vaccine pricing. The current vaccination policy would “result in a detriment to the right to public health,” said the apex court, and maintained that the policy be “revisited”. The top court asked the Union government to consider procuring vaccines for all the states at the same price, which will then be liable to lift the allocated quantities, and respond by May 10.The Centre in an affidavit on Sunday night turned down the Supreme Court’s suggestion.Kejriwal’s letter to Vardhan further said: “We are procuring the required number of vaccines and providing them free of cost at the government centres. We have already placed supply orders with Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute (SII) and have approached Reddy’s labs for Sputnik vaccines.”The first consignment carrying 150,000 doses of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine landed in Hyderabad, Dr Reddy’s labs announced on May 1.“Delhi has a population of around 20 million, out of which 15 million are aged above 18 years (eligible for vaccines). Vaccinating all of them would need 30 million doses. We have received roughly five million doses so far. Therefore, we need about 25 million additional doses. But we are not able to receive supplies as per our requirement and even get firm delivery schedules. As the third wave is also anticipated soon, we want to complete vaccination of all people living in Delhi within three months,” the CM’s letter to Vardhan said.Till May 8, Delhi administered around 3.90 million doses of vaccines to people aged over 45 years and around 299,000 doses to people aged between 18-44 years, for whom the drive opened on May 1, the letter said.The letter also read, “To complete it (vaccination of all adults) in three months, we would need 2.3 million doses per month from government of India channel during the three months of May to July 2021 (for the 45+ beneficiaries). Delhi has around 9.2 million people in 18-45 age group I urge you to direct Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech to increase their monthly supplies to Delhi to 6 million doses per month during May to July 2021.”“Convergence of sincere efforts of the government of India, states and private sector is essential to ensure faster vaccination. But such convergence is getting constrained by the continued glitches in the CoWin app. These glitches are leading to most people spending valuable time for getting registered or for booking vaccine appointments. Also, a large number of people are not tech savvy to be able to register themselves. As we plan to expand vaccination for the 18-45 age group, such glitches should not be allowed to deprive people of vaccination. Hence, I request you to allow states to develop their separate apps or develop mechanisms other than apps to manage vaccination in their sites,” said the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/regulate-supply-of-covid-vaccine-shots-cm-kejriwal-writes-to-health-min-harsh-vardhan-101620588554733.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||World’s largest cargo plane, carrying Covid aid from UK, lands at IGI airport||The world’s largest cargo plane touched down at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport on Sunday morning, carrying three oxygen generators and 1,000 ventilators from the UK. Experts said the aircraft, Antonov AN 124-100, had flown into the country even in the past to deliver Delhi Metro wagons, specialist construction equipment and military cargo.The 24-wheeler Russian-made aircraft departed from Belfast airport late on Saturday night and landed at the Delhi airport at 8.30 am on Sunday.On Sunday morning, Delhi customs said in a statement that the medical aid onboard the aircraft was cleared within 25 minutes of its landing.On Sunday afternoon, the British high commission in New Delhi also tweeted: “The UK sends life-saving support for India in the world’s largest cargo plane. Three oxygen generation units arrived in India today. Each capable of producing 500 litres of oxygen per minute. It will help save lives and support India’s healthcare system.”Also read | Variant deepening India’s crisis, says top WHO scientistEach of the three oxygen generation units – the size of 40ft freight containers - produces 500 litres of oxygen per minute, enough for 50 people to use at a time, it said.“Taking forward our comprehensive strategic partnership, consignment of 3 oxygen generators and 1,000 ventilators arrives from the UK... Deeply value the contribution from our close friend,” tweeted MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on Sunday.The Antonov AN 124-100 - the world’s largest air cargo carrier - is 70 metres long and nearly 75 metres wide. The plane, which weighs around 1.8 lakh kilograms, usually has six crew members and two load masters.Aviation experts say the aircraft has flown several times to India in the past, mostly to Chennai, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Mumbai and Calcutta, and has shipped a wide range of cargo, including Delhi Metro wagons, election promotion material, specialist construction equipment and military cargo.Aviation safety expert Mark D Martin said the aircraft’s maximun take of weight (MTOW) comes in close to the Lockheed C5A Galaxy Freighter, which was the largest aircraft till the AN 225 Mriya entered service in 1990.“India has welcomed even more larger aircraft in the past, the Lockheed C5A Galaxy operated by the US Air Force has in the past made several flights to India, transporting critical aid and support equipment needed for the visits of U.S Presidents,” he said.Commenting on Indian airports’ capacity to handle an Antonov 124, Martin said, most airports in India have the ground handling capability to support the AN124 as high loaders are not required and the cargo can be rolled down from the rear clamshell doors. “When the AN 124 came to Ahmedabad, tractors could easily ride in to drop off the cargo. Now in India, fork lifts do that function more efficiently,” Martin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/worlds-largest-cargo-plane-carrying-covid-aid-from-uk-lands-at-igi-airport-101620587955736.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||Infra projects in Delhi stare at delays amid labour shortage||The gradual extension of the lockdown in Delhi and declaration of similar curbs in other states has had a visible effect on construction projects -- both public and private -- in the city as many workers return to their home states, forcing officials to rework a few project completion deadlines.Unlike last year, when lakhs of people walked back to their home towns during the nationwide lockdown, construction agencies say that workers have left in batches this time. While some left around Holi, many went to cast their vote during the state and panchayat elections. But a large number of workers have left since the lockdown was announced on April 19.On Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the extension of the lockdown—this is the fourth extension — till May 17 and promised to tighten its enforcement.In the past 10 days, Inamul Haq, a private labour contractor, has helped over 100 construction workers associated with him return home. “The workers wanted to go as they feared a repeat of what happened to them last year during the nationwide lockdown. Given the present situation in Delhi, things are unlikely to normalise anytime soon,” he said.Also read | Covid-19: Metro shut in stricter lockdown across DelhiHaq, too, doesn’t want them to stay back: “Last year, close to 150 of my workers were stuck in Delhi. I took care of their food and stay. But now I can’t do it. I’ll call them back once the situation normalises here.”The slow and gradual reverse migration has slowed down infrastructure projects, once again, in the city. Though construction work is allowed on sites where in-situ arrangement is made for workers, various government agencies say that the work has got affected due to insufficient labour.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, which is undertaking work on Phase-4 project, said that the number of workers at their sites has come down from about 4,100 (as on April 18) to around 2,900 in the last week of April.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “There has been a decrease in the number of workers since the lockdown. Many who left for Holi holidays also haven’t returned. We are hopeful that they will return back with the gradual improvement in the overall Covid scenario. Workers who are currently here are being adequately taken care of with necessary medical care as well.”At the Pragati Maidan redevelopment site, the work is moving at a snail’s pace, as the number of workers has trickled down from 2,500 in March to around 600 now.LC Goyal, chairman and managing director of India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO), said that the workers left in batches this time. “While close to 1,000 workers left during Holi and have not returned, some left the city during the recent state elections. Many workers left after the lockdown was announced in April. Today, we are left with 600 workers at the site. As the lockdown in Delhi has been gradually extended, there is uncertainty among workers,” said Goyal.The deadline for the ₹2,700-crore Pragati Maidan redevelopment project was revised last year to March 2022. “We will have to rework the deadlines depending on how fast we can mobilise the workers and resume the full pace of work,” he added.A major part of ITPO or Pragati Maidan redevelopment project is the ₹777-crore traffic regulation project, which is being carried out by the Delhi government’s Public Works Department (Delhi PWD).The construction of a 1.2-km-long tunnel between Purana Qila Road (near Pragati Maidan Mathura Road) and the Ring Road (near Pragati Power Station), and six underground U-turns on Mathura Road and Bhairon Marg are in various stages of completion.However, the spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and the lockdown has scared workers, said a senior PWD official. “We had around 500 workers before the lockdown. But now we have 200-odd people. Workers are scared that they will contract the infection, as they work in proximity. Though arrangements have been made for isolation and treatment by contractors, workers are scared. Almost every day we find some workers missing. This has adversely impacted the pace of work,” said the official, requesting anonymity.A PWD official said that the tunnel is almost 95% complete though shortage of labour has affected remaining work.The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is the nodal agency for the construction of the new Parliament building and the redevelopment of Central Vista, is also facing a shortage of workers. Though the contractors for the ambitious projects have made arrangements for the stay of labourers, CPWD officials said the pace of work has been affected. The CPWD is also redeveloping four of the seven government residential colonies in south Delhi to provide accommodation for central government employees.A senior CPWD official said, “Labour is not available at sites in enough numbers and this has impacted the pace of work.”Also read | Pet boarding facilities inundated with requests from Covid-affected familiesThe National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is constructing the Dwarka expressway project, said that close to 10-15% of workers have left after the lockdown. “The gradual increase in lockdown period has led to fear among the workers. The biggest problem right now is that there is no inflow of new workers, especially skilled labourers. We are trying to build confidence among workers so that they don’t leave. We have made adequate arrangements for them and are making efforts to get those aged 45+ vaccinated. But the fear among workers is palpable,” said an NHAI official.The National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC), which is carrying out several infrastructure projects in the city, is also facing problems due to labour shortage at its sites. A senior NBCC India official said, “The fear of the disease is forcing people to return to their home states as they want to be close to their families. So while the work is going on at our sites, the pace of work has definitley slowed down.”NBCC is working on projects such as development of East Kidwai Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and Nauroji Nagar; redevelopment of Pragati Maidan and several government office complexes; and development of Bharat Vandana Park in Dwarka, among other.Meanwhile, construction workers in the unorganised sectors are the worst hit.Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of the Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union, said, “Due to the lockdown, they are unable to find work as construction work is allowed only if labourers live on-site. A large number of workers are daily wagers who work as carpenters, masons, plumbers etc. Due to the spike in cases, there is not much work available. People are finding it difficult to make ends meet. While the government has announced financial assistance, there are many who are still not registered with the board (Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board).”Hari Prasad, who has a team of carpenters, plumbers, masons, etc, said that there are no work orders since the lockdown was announced. “A lot of my workers have left, as they were finding it difficult to pay rent and sustain their families. Most of them are daily wagers,” said Prasad.Given the situation at hospitals, Haq said that workers feel that they are safe in their home towns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/infra-projects-in-delhi-stare-at-delays-amid-labour-shortage-101620587895801.html
10-05-2021||Delhi||GTB hospital doc dies within hours of testing positive for Covid||A 26-year-old doctor at Guru Tegh Bahadur (GBT) Hospital, which has been converted into a designated Covid-19 hospital, died within hours of testing positive for the infection on Sunday, confirmed officials from the hospital administration.Dr Anas Mujahid, a resident of north-east Delhi’s Bhagirathi Vihar who completed his internship after MBBS in January, was working at the hospital’s gynaecology ward as a junior resident since last month.Mujahid was known to be hardworking, the most humble and helpful person among his colleagues and juniors at the University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS) at GTB hospital. He was reporting to duty till Saturday, officials said.According to his colleagues and family members, the discharge slip issued by the hospital mentioned that Mujahid was Covid positive and suffered from “intracranial hemorrhage” (bleeding within the skull, including the brain).His batchmate and colleague Amir Sohail said both of them visited Mujahid’s home for iftar (meal to break the day-long fast during Ramzan) on Saturday evening. “Since last month, we have been staying at a hotel provided by the hospital to all doctors who are currently on Covid duty. While returning back to the hotel from Mujahid’s home, he complained of feeling feverish. He decided to take a rapid antigen test at the fever clinic of the GTB hospital before going to the hotel. He tested positive for Covid-19,” said Sohail.“We were sitting in the clinic only when he suddenly collapsed. I, along with other staff members, rushed him to the casualty ward. He was not responding well. The doctors there sent him for a CT-scan. The report revealed a massive bleeding spot in the brain. He was immediately transferred to the neurological department, where he died around 2:30am,” he added.Sohail said he has been finding it difficult to process his friend’s sudden death. “He worked in the Covid ward last year also and was alright throughout. I was the one who contracted the virus while on duty. He was absolutely fine till Saturday evening. I still cannot believe he left us like that,” he said adding Mujahid had not taken the vaccine shots.Mauz Mujahid, younger brother of the deceased, said the family received a call from the hospital around 10pm on Saturday. “We could not believe what Anas’ friend was saying as he was with us till a few hours ago. My parents and my elder brother immediately rushed to the hospital. Within hours, he left us. Our family is in shock. My parents still can’t accept it even after cremating him,” he said. Mujahid’s father is an Unani doctor. He is survived by his parents, two brothers, and a younger sister.Dr. Mohammad Anas, Mujahid’s junior at the college and hospital and his namesake, said, “He was just one year senior to me. I was in the 2016 batch and he was in 2015. We immediately connected because we shared the same name. He was the most humble person I know. Always so polite and helpful...the entire fraternity is in shock. We cannot believe that a person as young as him could die this way without having any severe symptoms.”A K Jain, dean of UCMS at GTB Hospital, confirmed Mujahid’s death. “I am yet to go through his medical reports. It’s really unfortunate that he is not with us anymore.”Dr. Satendra Singh, a faculty at UCMS at GTB Hospital, said that he got to know about Mujahid’s death on Sunday morning. “It’s a rare case of sudden progression (of Covid-19) and it’s alarming. Generally, we have seen cases of blood clots and internal bleeding in patients with severe Covid symptoms. However, according to his friends, he was fine till Saturday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gtb-hospital-doc-dies-within-hours-of-testing-positive-for-covid-101620587894636.html
