11-05-2021||Delhi||DU's Hansraj College offers to turn its hostel into Covid-19 care centre||Hansraj College has offered its hostel for setting up a 100-bed health facility for Covid-19 patients.An RT-PCR testing centre has also been set up at the college and will start functioning from Wednesday, its principal Rama Sharma said."Hansraj College, University of Delhi has always come forward and stood by the country whenever the need has arisen. Hansraj College has a hostel that caters to 200 residents. We are ready to offer the space with your support that can be converted into 100 ICU facility as the Covid patients are not getting hospital beds and that is causing anxiety," she said in a letter to Lt Governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other officials on May 9.The letter has also been sent to Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain and some officials.She also urged the authorities to set up a vaccination centre in the college."University employees and their families are also facing challenges as facilities are scattered and infected people are increasing each day. Testing and vaccination both are important to contain the spread. "We also request you to set up a vaccination (Covishield) and testing centre in the college for the university teaching and non-teaching staff. This will ensure that people above 18 years get vaccinated with Covishield immediately," the letter said.Delhi University had started a Covid-19 isolation centre with a capacity of 180 beds in Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College.The university's Lakshmibai College has also started an isolation centre as a tribute to one of its staffers who died due to the infection.Delhi University has also set up central helplines for its staffers who are looking for ventilator beds, oxygen cylinders, food supplies and even for counselling."We have put in place a centralised system. Earlier it was being done by colleges and other bodies but now we have set up helplines which will be available for varsity staffers," said the varsity's acting vice-chancellor Professor P C Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dus-hansraj-college-offers-to-turn-its-hostel-into-covid-19-care-centre-101620752866244.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Chhota Rajan recovers from Covid-19, returns to Tihar jail||Gangster Chhota Rajan, who was admitted at AIIMS here for treatment after he had tested positive for Covid-19, was taken back to Tihar jail on Tuesday following his recovery from illness, officials said.He was found Covid-19 positive in the Tihar Jail on April 22 and was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on April 24.According to a senior police officer, Rajan was brought back to Tihar on Tuesday as he had recovered.On Friday, the jail administration had dismissed reports claiming that Rajan had died.''News of death of Tihar jail inmate Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje @ Chhota Rajan s/o Sadashiv Nikalje is wrong,'' Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel had said.Rajan, 61, is lodged at the high-security prison since his arrest after deportation from Bali in Indonesia in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chhota-rajan-recovers-from-covid-19-returns-to-tihar-jail-101620752879983.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||'Khan Chacha' owner Navneet Kalra fails to get protection from arrest in oxygen concentrator case||A Delhi Court on Tuesday refused to give any interim relief from arrest to businessman Navneet Kalra for the second time in the alleged oxygen concentrator hoarding and black marketing case. Additional Sessions Judge Sumit Dass also placed his anticipatory bail before the District and Sessions Judge which will now decide which court will hear the plea on Wednesday. “Bail application placed before the District Judge South East at 10 am tomorrow; they will send it to the concerned court. There is no interim relief or any sort of protection to the accused yet,” the judge remarked. The court was hearing the arguments on the issue of jurisdiction on the anticipatory bail petition filed by the businessman in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his upscale restaurants, including 'Khan Chacha' in Khan Market.  During the course of proceedings, Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava said that since the matter was transferred to the Crime Branch after registration of FIR, the court has no jurisdiction to hear the matter.    “On May 7, the court had the power but now since the case has been transferred, it has no jurisdiction over the matter,” Shrivastava apprised the judge. However, advocate Vineet Malhotra, representing the accused, told the court that on May 7, the case was registered at Lodhi Colony Police Station and hence the court has the jurisdiction over the matter, despite the investigation being transferred later. “Just because it was transferred, they cannot take away the jurisdiction of this court. The court cannot be bound to their action,” Malhotra said. The court on Monday had directed the investigating officer of the case to be present in court today along with a copy of the reply to Kalra's pre-arrest bail.During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra and it is suspected that he has left Delhi along with his family. These concentrators are the crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/khan-chacha-owner-navneet-kalra-fails-to-get-protection-from-arrest-in-oxygen-concentrator-case-101620740223830.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Water supply to be hit in various parts of Delhi tomorrow, says DJB; releases list of areas to be affected||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) announced on Tuesday that water supply in many areas in East Delhi, North East Delhi and parts of South Delhi will be affected on Wednesday. In a release, the DJB said that due to very high turbidity in raw water from Upper Ganga Canal, the production/pumping from water treatment plants (WTP) at Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi has been affected.The DJB further said that parts of NDMC area will also be affected in the morning and evening on Wednesday.Some of the areas listed in DJB release are Saket, Pushp Vihar, Katwaria Sarai, Lado Sarai, Khirki, Saidulajab, Gokulpuri, Sonia Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Babarpur, Tahirpur, Dilshad Garden, Nandnagari, Shahdara, Laxmi Nagar, Geeta Colony, Mayur Vihar, Kondli, Dallupura, Yamuna Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Jafrabad, Jhilmil, Mandawali, Laxmi Nagar, Shakarpur, Vivek Vihar, Karkardooma, Jagatpuri, Shalimar Park, Krishna Nagar,Patparganj, Preet Vihar, Vishkarma Park, Lalita Park, Seelampur, Shastripark, Bhrampuri, Gandhi Nagar, Sarai Kale Khan, Okhla, Kalkaji, Batla House Ext., Kalandi Colony, Badarpur, Sarita Vihar, Vasant Kunj, Mehrauli, Greater Kailash, South Extn., Lajpat Nagar, Jal Vihar, Lodhi Road, Kaka Nagar and adjoining areas.The jal board has advised people living in these areas to make judicious use of water.Last week, the DJB had said that water supply will be affected in various parts of Delhi as a result of Haryana releasing less raw water into the Yamuna. The supply from Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants was "adversely" hit due to the reduction in release of raw water into the river.The water from Wazirabad pond is drawn for treatment at Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal treatment plants.On average, the DJB supplies 900 MGD (million gallons daily) water, with demand peaking at 1,100 MGD in summer months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-parts-of-delhi-tomorrow-check-list-of-areas-affected-101620736282268.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid positivity rate declining, but we can’t be at ease: Health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday that the positivity rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital has declined from 36 per cent to 19.1 per cent in the past few days and the new cases have also dropped from 28,000 cases per day to around 12,500. However, he added that the government cannot be at ease until the positivity rate comes down below 5 per cent and the daily tally drops below 3,000-4,000 cases.“The fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi is very much there but its peak has been declining since the last week of April,” Jain said while addressing a press conference.Delhi on Monday saw a considerable dip in its daily Covid-19 disease tally after 12,651 new cases were reported, the lowest since April 12. The positivity rate dropped below 20 per cent (19.10 per cent exact) for the first time since April 14. The highest number of cases in Delhi were seen on April 20 when 28,395 people were detected positive for Covid-19.Also Read| Enable more firms to produce Covid-19 vaccines, Kejriwal urges CentreOn being asked by reporters about the fall in daily tests, Jain said on Tuesday, “We are conducting 80,000 tests per day. On Sunday, 66,000 tests were conducted. The testing figures are coming down due to the imposition of lockdown. People are not coming out of their homes. Earlier, everyone was out in markets and other public places and they were being tested.”The lockdown in the national capital has been extended till May 17 and new stringent curbs have been introduced such as suspension of the Delhi Metro and a ban on marriage ceremonies in public. It has been observed that the lockdown has helped Delhi in controlling the spread of the Covid-19 disease.Amid an acute shortage of vaccine doses for inoculating beneficiaries between 18-44 years, Jain said during Tuesday’s briefing that the Delhi government has made all arrangements for the vaccination drive but unavailability of doses continues to remain a problem. “Delhi government has made arrangements for the vaccination drive on a large scale. There are 100 schools in the city for the purpose and one school can administer 1,500 vaccine doses per day.” he added.Also Read| Covid-19: Metro shut in stricter lockdown across DelhiDelhi has so far vaccinated 3,877,400 beneficiaries of which 1,764 were given doses on Monday.Earlier on Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the Centre to share the vaccine formula of the two manufacturers- Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India- to other pharmaceutical companies in order to ramp up production of doses and also come up with a national plan to inoculate all citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-positivity-rate-declining-but-we-can-t-be-at-ease-satyendar-jain-101620727688066.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Corona numbers on the decline in Delhi, lockdown was successful: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that Covid-19 cases are on the decline in the national capital. Adding that the ongoing Covid-induced lockdown in the national capital has been successful as people cooperated with authorities.“Corona cases are going down in Delhi, so is the second wave. With your cooperation lockdown was successful,” Kejriwal said during his live broadcast.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief also said that the Delhi government has increased the number of hospital beds with oxygen facilities in the past few days, with 500 new beds added in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) near Guru Tegh Bahadur (GBT) Hospital, a dedicated Covid hospital in Delhi. Another 500 beds with ICU facility are scheduled to come up near Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital.“We've increased the number of Oxygen beds in the past few days. Yesterday we started 500 new ICU beds near GTB Hospital,” said the chief minister, adding, “Now there's no shortage of ICU and Oxygen beds in Delhi.”Kejriwal told reporters on Monday that he was hopeful of cases dwindling down as the peak of the second coronavirus wave passes."I hope the peak (of the second wave of Covid-19) has passed. I hope the cases go down in the coming days but being in the government and as the chief minister of Delhi, I would not want to give any concessions," he said.Lockdown in Delhi was extended till May 17 by the AAP-led government. Enforcing strict measures like suspension of Metro train services and prohibition of wedding ceremonies at public venues.Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain reiterated Kejriwal’s statement on Covid-19 cases declining as both positivity rate and caseload is on the decline. Jain added that until the positivity rate goes down below 5% and caseload dwindles down to 3,000-4,000 daily the government won’t be at ease. The World Health Organization has set a benchmark of 5% positivity rate for an outbreak to be considered under control. The national capital’s positivity rate peaked at 36.2% on April 22, staying above 30% for 8 more days before starting to decline.“In the last few days, the positivity rate has declined from 36% to 19.1% with the caseload also going down from 28,000 per day to about 12,500. Till we reach a positivity rate below 5% and caseload below 3000-4000 cases, we can't be at ease,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/corona-numbers-on-the-decline-in-delhi-lockdown-was-successful-arvind-kejriwal-101620724917980.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Allow more pharma companies to manufacture Covid vaccine: Delhi CM to Centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged the Centre to engage more pharmaceutical companies in Covid vaccine production as well as draft a national scheme for vaccinating the entire population of the country in the next few months.“The crisis in Delhi currently is not of ICU or oxygen beds, but the shortage of vaccines… In Delhi, currently, the vaccine turnout is high and all arrangements are in place… Currently, we administer 125,000 doses per day. Soon, we want to scale this up to 300,000 doses per day. Our aim is to ensure that the entire adult population of Delhi is vaccinated in three months. But, in Delhi, we have only a few days’ stock of vaccine left. The entire country is facing a shortage of vaccines. Some states are struggling to widen the vaccine drive because of this shortage. Vaccine shortage is a major challenge now,” the chief minister said in an online press briefing.Also Read | Delhi court to hear today Navneet Kalra’s bail plea in oxygen concentrator caseHe added, “Only two companies in India are in vaccine production. Together, these companies are capable of producing 60-70 million vaccines a month. This way, it would take more than two years to vaccinate the entire population of the country. Such a long span is likely to witness multiple waves, which would lead to more deaths. So, it is important to take up vaccine production on a war footing and draft a national scheme to vaccinate the entire population of the country in the next few months. Unless every Indian is vaccinated, we cannot win the war against Covid-19.”Currently, two Covid vaccines are available in India: Covishield, produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India; and Covaxin, produced by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech.“Production of vaccines in India should not be restricted to the two companies...The Centre should take the vaccine formula from the two companies (SII and Bharat Biotech) and give it to the other companies which are capable of producing safe vaccines. In such tough times, the Centre has the powers to take such decisions… It should be ensured that any plant in India that is capable of vaccine production should be engaged in the process. This is the only way to ensure that the entire population of India is vaccinated at the earliest,” said Kejriwal, drawing parallels with the shortage of PPE kits faced during the first wave of the pandemic in India.He said, “Imagine if only two companies had the right to produce PPE kits, we would have faced a major shortage of PPE kits too. Currently, many companies in India are making PPE kits… India has top pharma companies and the best of scientists. I am sure that they will cooperate in vaccine production. A fraction of the profit made by the other companies could be given to the original two companies as royalty, for they are the ones with the formula. This is the only way we can shield our citizens against the next wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/allow-more-pharma-companies-to-manufacture-covid-vaccine-delhi-cm-to-centre-101620720565753.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Enable more firms to produce Covid-19 vaccines, Kejriwal urges Centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the Centre should divide the responsibility of producing vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) between more firms in order to meet the high demand. Currently, the two vaccine makers in India are Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Covishield and Bharat Biotech, which produces indigenously developed Covaxin.Kejriwal said that the national capital was going to ramp up its inoculation drive and will soon need more jabs as it plans to vaccinate over three lakh people daily.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage﻿"Right now, we're administering 1.25 lakh doses every day. We'll soon begin vaccinating over three lakh people daily. We aim to vaccinate all residents of Delhi within the next three months. However, we're facing vaccine shortage. We're left with stock that will last only a few days," Delhi CM said."Only two companies are producing vaccines. They produce only 6-7 crore vaccines a month. This way, it'll take us over two years to vaccinate everyone. Many waves would have come by then. It is important to increase the vaccine production on a war footing and frame a national plan to vaccinate all," he said.Urging the Centre to intervene, the CM suggested that the formula to make vaccine doses should be shared with other firms capable of producing vaccines in a safe manner. The current vaccine manufacturers can be provided royalty for use of their formula by other companies, he added.Also Read | Jab supplies regulated by Centre, not firms: Manish Sisodia"Several companies should be deployed to produce vaccines, not just two. Centre should collect the formula to produce vaccines from these two companies and give them to all those that can produce vaccines safely. Centre has the power to do this in these difficult times," Kejriwal said.Delhi on Monday recorded 12,651 fresh Covid-19 cases and 319 new deaths, taking the total infection tally and toll to 13,362,18 and 19,663 respectively. According to the state health bulletin, as many as 66,234 tests were conducted in the Capital in 24 hours and 1,764 people were inoculated. With this, the total number of people vaccinated in Delhi till now went up to 38,774,00.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/we-aim-to-vaccinate-everyone-in-delhi-in-3-months-but-there-s-lack-of-doses-cm-101620716205971.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky with a chance of thunder, lightning in Delhi today||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Tuesday with the possibility of thunder and lightning, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be at 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 39°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 25°C, and the maximum temperature was 37°C. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality dropped in moderate category on Tuesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 128. Also Read | Heatwave conditions won’t set in till May 18: IMDAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring center, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely, it may lead to an Isolated dust spike at a few locations for one or two hours. Better ventilation is forecasted for the next three days. Hence, AQI is forecasted to stay improved in the moderate to satisfactory category for the next three days. Rabi crop burning induced fire counts in north India are high in Punjab its influence is low in Delhi air as usual due to unfavourable summer meteorological factors and unfavourable transport winds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-thunder-lightning-in-delhi-today-101620702204214.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The fire this time around||There’s fire raging these days across the city. The gulmohar trees are in scarlet bloom. Their flowering tend to be unpredictable. Sometimes they’re just a few vines of blossom in the tree’s dense foliage, looking like a flash of lightning in the sky. And sometimes the whole tree becomes an entanglement of that red, as if a flame is leaping about uncontrollably.The first flowers start popping out in late April, and by May the gulmohar’s glow covers the city like a blush spreading on a shy man’s cheek. One of the best places to spot them is in... well, Gulmohar Park, the neighbourhood. Nehru Park, too, possesses a few gulmohars of the most brilliant red. The gulmohar aficionados will also like to drive through Shanti Path in the diplomatic enclave. And lest we forget, a handful of gorgeous gulmohars stand on the road between Nehru Place and Kailash Colony Metro station; the broad pavement is presently covered with fallen reds that the municipal staff gathers in the morning. (One wonders where these flowers end up—in the landfills of Ghazipur, where a part of the city’s trash is disposed off?)Since these are extraordinary times, with the city in lockdown, there is no going out for gulmohar-spotting. The best is to look out in your neighbourhood, and marvel at your luck if you are able to catch a glimpse of the flowery flames through a window or balcony. Like this third floor apartment in Hauz Khas village, into which a blossoming gulmohar branch is currently peeping in like a nosy neighbour. Nearby, a forestry area is speckled with stand-alone gulmohars, each separated from the other by neems, peepals, pilkhans, and bougainvillaeas. One dare not enter this wild jungle, but the fence running along the road, connecting Hauz Khas village to Aurobindo Market, has several good observation spots. From there, the gulmohars look like bonfires. This late afternoon, some of the red flowers are falling whole on the pavement. Each flower has five petals, and curiously enough one of them is always white with streaks of red. As you gaze at the petals, you’ll note that they carry many hues of red, almost amounting to orange at places.This is also the season of the blooming for amaltas. Outside a bungalow in Vasant Vihar’s Poorvi Marg, the branches of an amaltas are entangled within the branches of a gulmohar. You are left unsure where your true loyalties lie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-fire-this-time-around-101620687823796.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||DMRC fined ₹4L for felling trees during Phase 4 work||The Delhi forest department has slapped a fine of ₹4.30 lakh on Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for damaging and illegally cutting trees in a deemed forest area between Vikaspuri and Mukarba Chowk, a section of the upcoming Janakpuri-RK Ashram corridor of Metro Phase 4, senior forest department officials said.Documents accessed by Hindustan Times show that the deputy conservator forests (west division) Navneet Srivastava, on April 19, issued the order imposing the fine on DMRC for offences such as cutting, damaging, pruning and concreting 27 fully grown trees between Vikaspuri and Mukarba Chowk.DMRC on Monday reiterated that no tree was damaged for construction on the said stretch and that no work has been going on there since August 25, 2020.“The officials from the west division inspected the site and reported illegal cutting, pruning, head backing, and damaging of trees by DMRC... After going through the facts of the case and as empowered under Section 21 of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act (1994), I agree to compound the offence,” the order issued by Srivastava read.The tree varieties that have been impacted by the Metro construction include banyan, jungle jalebi, alstonia, siras, papri, kachnar and sheesham, said the forest department. The DCF (west) said that Delhi Metro has been fined ₹20,000 each for pruning four trees, ₹60,000 each for the cutting and removal of two trees and ₹10,000 per tree for concretising and damaging the roots of 21 trees.In an e-mail response to HT, DMRC said, “Work has been stopped in the forest area since August 25, 2020, as per the directions and orders issued by the DCF (west), forest department. DMRC is taking all necessary precautions to save the trees along the (track) alignment.” DMRC said 2,958 trees are proposed to be cut between Krishna Park and Mukarba Chowk for the construction of the corridor.While the forest department order states that the penalty amount needs to be deposited by the erring agency within a period of 30 days from the date of the order, the DMRC officials privy to the matter said that they have not received any communication from the forest department regarding the fine.“Since the lockdown started in Delhi immediately after the order imposing a penalty on DMRC was issued on April 19, no exchange from DMRC has come to our notice because our office is now functioning only on a need-to basis,” said a senior forest department official.A senior DMRC official said the body has followed all the necessary protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-fined-4l-for-felling-trees-during-phase-4-work-101620687040155.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||HC asks if minister sourced oxygen from state allocation||The Delhi high court on Monday asked whether oxygen was given to the state’s food and supplies minister Imran Hussain by the refillers supplying the gas to hospitals, nursing homes and individuals.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea to stop the alleged “unauthorised”, “unlawful and “arbitrary distribution” of oxygen cylinders by the MLA in his constituency Ballimaran, asked Hussain to submit documents to support his claim that he bought the oxygen from Faridabad for distribution among the needy.“We are not asking you to stop it.. Delhi government is saying it doesn’t have (oxygen).. if you are taking from them (refillers), you are curtailing supplies..which is not permissible,” it added.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that oxygen was not procured from Delhi. The matter will now be heard on May 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-asks-if-minister-sourced-oxygen-from-state-allocation-101620686772373.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Woman poses as a nurse to offer hospital beds, arrested||A woman was posing as a nurse from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, and taking money to get patients admitted to Lok Nayak hospital, the city’s largest Covid-19 facility, according to a complaint filed by the hospital’s chief medical officer(CMO).Delhi Police on Monday confirmed they have arrested the woman, filed a case of cheating, and are probing the case. Police said, prima facie (at first sight), it appears that the woman was working alone and used a forged AIIMS identity card.Police said the CMO wrote to the central district police on May 2 after being informed that a “nurse from AIIMS” was getting critical patients admitted to the facility. The CMO, Gurpreet Singh, alleged that, on the night of May 2, junior resident doctors spotted the woman with a 66-year-old Covid-19 patient inside the hospital.“The woman was visiting the hospital regularly and she posed as a health worker in full PPE kit. She identified herself as Heena in her identity card and to our junior resident doctors. Our officers found her behaviour suspicious, and reported the matter to the police. A police team reached the spot and took her into custody. She was taking money to admit critical patients. Our CMO suspected that she may have been running this racket for quite some time and so wrote to the police,” said a hospital official, who asked not to be named.Delhi Police officers said they took the woman into custody, and her identity was later revealed as Uttarakhand resident Geeta Saroja. Police found two forged identity cards on her, both identifying her as Heena, one as a nurse from AIIMS and other as an NGO worker.An investigating officer, who asked not to be named, said, “She was taking money from critical patients who queue up outside the hospital. So far, it looks like she was working alone. But we are still probing her contacts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-poses-as-a-nurse-to-offer-hospital-beds-arrested-101620686525585.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Interim bail for jailed Pinjra Tod member to cremate father||The Delhi high court on Monday granted three-week interim bail to jailed Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal to perform the last rites of her father who succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday.Narwal, booked under the stringent UAPA, has remained behind bars at Tihar Jail since May last year after she was arrested for an alleged “premeditated conspiracy” in the northeast Delhi riots in February.Her father, Mahavir Narwal (71), a senior member of the CPI(M), breathed his last at 6pm on Sunday.A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani granted bail to Narwal on a personal bond of ₹50,000, while noting that there is no one else in the family to perform the last rites and cremation.Narwal’s brother, Akash, is also in isolation after he tested positive.Also read | HC: Take steps to stop hoarding, black marketing“...we are of the view that the release of the applicant is imperative in this hour of grief and personal loss and in the facts and circumstances of the case,” the bench said in its oral order. The court also asked her to maintain “radio silence” for the duration of her interim bail and not to tweet anything.Appearing for Narwal, advocate Adit S Pujari, told the court that the hospital in Rohtak, where her father died, is waiting for her to release the body.Special public prosecutor Amit Mahajan, representing the Delhi Police, did not oppose the plea but urged the court to pass directions to Narwal that she should not tweet anything related to the pending case.To this, the bench said, “Do you think at the hour of grief she will tweet?....We are not mentioning in the order but she will maintain radio silence.”It asked her to comply with all the norms of the pandemic and observe all the precautions, including wearing a PPE kit at the time of the cremation. It also asked her to give a negative RT-PCR report to the jail authorities at the time of surrender.Narwal had sought interim bail from a lower court on Saturday to meet her ailing father but it was adjourned for Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/interim-bail-for-jailed-pinjra-tod-member-to-cremate-father-101620686138549.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||HC: Take steps to stop hoarding, black marketing||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the Centre and Delhi government to take steps to prevent black marketing and hoarding of medicines and medical equipment, such as oxygen concentrators.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea seeking directions to declare medicines and medical equipment meant for Covid treatment as essential commodities under the Essential Commodities Act, said both authorities should act without waiting for an order from the court.The court issued notice to the Union health ministry and the Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal, on the plea which has also sought setting up of fast track courts to deal exclusively with cases of black marketing and hoarding of medicines and equipment. The petition by Delhi resident Manisha Chauhan has also sought appointment of special public prosecutors for the same.Also read | Hoarding of oxygen devices: Look-out circular against Khan Market restaurateurAdvocates Sanjeev Sagar and Nazia Parveen, appearing for Chauhan, told the court that in the absence of a notification declaring medicines and equipment meant for Covid as essential commodities, these are being hoarded and black marketed.Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan told the court that the suggestion to fix an MRP on equipments was good and was being considered.The bench asked the government to examine whether it can issue any notification to prevent hoarding and black marketing of the imported items.It also directed the Delhi government to place on record the details of seizure and release of oxygen concentrators, medicines and other equipments.The court also directed all the hospitals to update the data of available beds so that citizens can know the details in real time.During the proceedings, the court also admonished the Delhi government for not advertising to call upon the services of the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-take-steps-to-stop-hoarding-black-marketing-101620685820812.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Jab supplies regulated by Centre, not firms: Manish Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre was regulating the vaccine orders placed by states to the two Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers — Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — and curtailing the doses given to each state.Sisodia was reacting to the BJP’s allegations that the Delhi government had only ordered 550,000 doses and did not plan the jabs drive properly.Addressing a press briefing on Monday, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for managing Covid-19, said the Delhi government in April wrote to the two vaccine makers SII and Bharat Biotech, seeking 6.7 million doses from each. He said instead of the manufacturers replying, it was the central government that wrote back, stating that Delhi was entitled to only 359,000 doses for the month of May.“When the Centre decided in April that state governments could directly approach the vaccine companies for getting the shots, Delhi government wrote a letter to acquire 1.34 crore vaccination doses for citizens in the 18-45 year age group. But instead of receiving the requested vaccines, Delhi government received a letter from the Centre stating that we would get just 3.59 lakh vaccines, of which 92,840 doses would be Covaxin and 267,690 doses would be Covishield,” he said.Also read | Covid-19: Capital’s positivity dips below crucial 20% levelDelhi for two days has warned of an impending vaccine shortage in the city and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, seeking the Centre’s help in procuring more vaccines.Vaccines for adults below the age of 45 need to be procured directly by the states and private hospitals, according to rules by the Union government, which said that its own vaccination campaign will apply only to those aged 45 and older. Vaccine makers will need to keep 50% of their monthly production for the Union government’s procurement, with states and private hospitals eligible for the rest.Sisodia’s statement came hours after BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra accused Kejriwal and the Delhi government of being “busy in advertising”, instead of pushing the vaccination programme in the city. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said the letters shown by Sisodia stated that the city administration was only “planning” to procure that many doses of vaccine and that the actual order was for far less.“The Delhi government’s letter to the manufacturers says it is planning to procure the doses which exposes Sisodia’s claim that his government had ordered for the vaccines. The truth is that they did not place an order for vaccines in time,” he said.Sisodia retaliated by accusing the BJP of “shamelessly lying”. “We do not understand the reason behind such lies because the Centre ultimately decides how many vaccines will be distributed to states, and then to the nations abroad. The papers from vaccine companies and the health ministry itself are proof that the central government has completely overlooked the crisis at hand, and instead exported vaccines to other countries. If 6.5 crore doses that were exported, had been administered to people of the country, so many lives could have been saved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jab-supplies-regulated-by-centre-not-firms-manish-sisodia-101620685532337.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Corporation schools in capital turn vaccine sites for 18-44 age group||After Delhi government schools, municipal schools in the national capital were turned into Covid-19 vaccination centres on Monday to inoculate the 18-44 age group. Officials at the three civic bodies — east, north, and south — have been requesting the Delhi government to turn their schools into vaccination centres so that more number of beneficiaries in this age group are covered.The Delhi government has approved converting 15 schools run by the north corporation, 11 of the south corporation, and seven of the east corporation into Covid-19 vaccination sites.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said four of the 15 centres started functioning on Monday. “The remaining 11 will start functioning on Tuesday. We have been requesting the Delhi government to start centres in each ward to ensure that young people do not have to travel to different parts of the city to get the shot, given the present situation,” he said.In east Delhi, four schools were converted into jab centres on Monday, while the other three will start functioning from Tuesday. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said, “We wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 6, asking for permission to set up centres in our schools. Now the government has allowed us to set up seven such centres,” he said.The south corporation on Monday started four of 11 centres. South civic body education committee chairperson Mukesh Suryan said, “The government will provide us with the vaccine. We will ensure all other support systems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/corporation-schools-in-capital-turn-vaccine-sites-for-18-44-age-group-101620685039984.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to hear plea seeking to halt Vista construction||The Delhi high court will hear on Tuesday a plea seeking to halt the construction of the Central Vista amid the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The project envisages constructing a new Parliament House, a new residential complex for the Prime Minister and the Vice-President, as well as several new office buildings and a Central Secretariat.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh asked senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioner, to file an application for early hearing after he urgently mentioned the matter.Luthra told the bench that he was mentioning the matter as the Supreme Court on May 7 asked the petitioners to seek urgent hearing before the high court on May 10.Petitioners, Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian, had moved the apex court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17.The high court had adjourned the matter saying it wants to study the apex court’s January 5 judgment which gave a go ahead to the Central Vista project.In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the petitioners had contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, it can be put on hold.“Labours are being transported from Sarai Kale Khan and Karol Bagh area to Rajpath and Central Vista, where construction work is going on. This enhances chances of spread of COVID infection among them,” Luthra had told the apex court.On Monday, he made the same argument before the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-seeking-to-halt-vista-construction-101620684770755.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Capital’s positivity dips below crucial 20% level||There were 12,651 new cases of Covid-19 reported in Delhi on Monday, the lowest since April 12, and the test positivity rate dipped below 20% for the first time since April 14 as more indications emerged of the Capital having been able to arrest to some degree the fourth wave of the coronavirus outbreak.While the numbers reported in the government’s Covid bulletin corresponded to the typically fewer tests carried out on a Sunday, these are still lower than the numbers for the last three Sundays, when the city reported 23,582 (May 3), 20,201 (April 26) and 23,686 (April 19) cases.More importantly, the fall in the positivity rate – the proportion of samples turning up a positive result – reinforced the signal, which was also supported anecdotally by several doctors who said they now have some room to let in new patients to their otherwise overburdened health care facilities.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20, soon after the chief minister expanded the night and weekend curfew protocols into a lockdown. That protocol has now been renewed several times, and will stay at least till May 17 in order to further flatten the curve.The Capital’s active case load too has come down from 99,752 recorded on April 28 to 85,258 on Monday, while the number of available hospital beds has nearly doubled from 1,683 to 3,229 in this period, the Delhi government’s health bulletin.Also read | Delhi records 12,651 fresh Covid-19 cases, 319 deaths; positivity rate dipsThe test positivity rate reached a peak of 36.2% on April 22, and stayed above 30% for eight more days before starting to decline. In Monday’s bulletin, it dipped below the 20% mark for the first time in over three weeks. To be sure, this number needs to come down below 5% for the outbreak to be considered under control, according to World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines.Experts said the surge in cases was a stark reminder of why India cannot afford to be careless in its preparations. “The number of cases being reported has come down but the hospitals and ICUs are still full. To prevent another surge like this, we need to look at why it happened. It happened because of the absolute complacency -- people not wearing masks, having parties and weddings, travelling and thinking that Covid is in Maharashtra but Delhi is free of it.“The second reason is the natural course of a viral disease -- Covid-19 resurges every 50 to 100 days or so. Third, there were variants of concern causing infections,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.According to staff in two hospitals, the rush of patients seen towards the end of April appears to have abated, and improvements in the supply of medical oxygen has alleviated a crisis that at one point led to repeated distress calls.“We have now set up an oxygen generation plant that augments our daily requirement. We are better off now and are able to admit more patients. We have 110 oxygen-dependent patients at the moment against our listed capacity of 76 oxygen beds,” said Dr Sunil Kohli, head of the department of medicine at Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital. Several beds were not being utilised as the supply of oxygen was uncertain last week.Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj Hospital said, “Now that the supply of oxygen has stabilised we have increased the number of beds in our hospital from 120 to 150 and the number of ICU beds have been increased from 53 to 63 now.”In all, the city has recorded 1,336,218 cases and 19,663 deaths, of which 319 took place on Sunday.This is the fourth distinct wave of cases in the Capital -- at the peak of the first, there were 84 deaths recorded in a day on average in mid-June. In the second wave, which peaked in early October, 42 people died in a day.Watch | Oxygen Express with highest volume of LMO leaves from Hapa to Delhi﻿A third surge occurred after Diwali, claiming the lives of 116 people on average a day in the third week of November.Till now, in the fourth wave, the most number of deaths recorded as an average of seven days is at 398, which was recorded on May 3.On Sunday, Kejriwal announced the extension of the lockdown and said the curbs will be stricter, with the Delhi Metro services halted and people no longer allowed to hold wedding ceremonies in public places.“We must prepare for the third wave. In this wave, Delhi recorded a maximum of 28,000 cases in a day. The whole infrastructure was under pressure after this. The scale at which we are creating infrastructure, we will be able to deal even if 30,000 daily cases are reported in next wave,” Kejriwal told reporters on Monday.Experts now believe the city will need to accelerate the vaccination campaign in order to avoid a crisis as the one seen in recent weeks if it wants to allow businesses, offices and shops to reopen. “Along with the lockdown we need to increase vaccination. The vaccination drive started with a bang but has slowed down for the want of doses. Unless we vaccinate a large number of people transmission will not stop in the long run,” said Dr Khilnani.The city has raised an alarm about the availability of its vaccine stocks, with the process becoming shrouded in uncertainty since the Union government stepped away from a part of the process, leaving states and private hospitals to negotiate with manufacturers directly.“There is only one day of Covaxin left in Delhi and only three to four days of Covishield. We need vaccines at the earliest,” Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-capital-s-positivity-dips-below-crucial-20-level-101620676268609.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt procures 990 ventilators for 15 hospitals||In order to scale up intensive care unit facilities in the national capital, the Delhi government has procured 990 portable ventilators for 15 hospitals and temporary Covid facilities. Of the 990, the highest allocation -- 150 ventilators -- is for the newly constructed Indira Gandhi hospital in Dwarka that the Delhi government is currently operationalising for Covid-19 patients. Health minister Satyendar Jain had earlier said the hospital would start functioning with 500 oxygen beds for Covid patients. “To augment medical resources, optimum utilisation of space is being done. A 500 oxygen bed centre will be set up here by next week,” Jain had said last Wednesday. Two new hospitals in Burari and Ambedkar Nagar, operationalised last year by the Delhi government for treating Covid-19 patients, have also been allocated 80 ventilators each. Other hospitals that are to receive 80 each ventilators are Deen Dayal Upadhaya in Hari Nagar and Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini. The government allocated 80 ventilators each to temporary facilities such as the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in Chhatarpur, an extension of Burari hospital, and the Sant Darshan centre. Two hospitals of the Employees State Insurance Corporation in Okhla and Jhilmil were allocated 50 ventilators in total. Currently, Delhi has 5,872 intensive care unit beds, of which about 98.9% of the beds are occupied, but not all of them have ventilators. The occupancy is likely to reduce over the week as the number of Covid cases in the city has started going down once again. After recording over 20,000 fresh Covid-19 cases from April 16 to May 5, the numbers fell below 20,000 on May 6, when 19,133 fresh cases were reported. On Monday, Delhi recorded 12,651 fresh cases with a test positivity rate of 19.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-procures-990-ventilators-for-15-hospitals-101620672560141.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||33 MCD schools to have vaccination centres for 18-44 age group||After Delhi government schools, municipal schools in the national capital were turned into Covid-19 vaccination centres on Monday to inoculate the 18-44 age group. Officials at the three civic bodies -- east, north, and south-- have been requesting the Delhi government to turn their schools into vaccination centres so that more beneficiaries in this age group are covered.The Delhi government has approved to turn 15 schools of the north corporation, 11 of the south corporation, and seven of the east corporation into Covid-19 vaccination sites. North Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash said four of the 15 centres started functioning on Monday. “The remaining 11 centres will start functioning on Tuesday. We have been requesting the Delhi government to start centres in each ward to ensure that young people do not have to travel to different parts of the city to get the shot, given the present situation. Municipal staff are already working at vaccination centres in Delhi government schools and some of them can be deployed to these schools as well,” he said.In East corporation, four schools were converted into vaccination centres on Monday and the remaining three will start functioning from Tuesday. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said, “We had also written to the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 6, requesting permission to set up vaccination centres in our schools. Now the government has allowed us to set up seven such centres.”The South corporation on Monday started four of 11 centres. South civic body education committee chairperson Mukesh Suryan said, “I had written to the Delhi government on Saturday requesting that it allow the south corporation to open vaccination centres in its schools. We had highlighted that some wards under the south civic body, including west Sagarpur and Dwarka assembly 46, had no vaccination centre for the age group of 18-44. We appreciate that the government quickly reacted and gave the nod for us to do so.”Suryan said the staff at these centres will mostly be deputed from the respective corporations. “The government will provide us with the vaccine. We will ensure all other support systems,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/33-mcd-schools-to-have-vaccination-centres-for-18-44-age-group-101620672499679.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||West Delhi starts outreach vaccination site in Kathputli colony||The West Delhi district administration has started a Covid-19 vaccination outreach site at the Kathputli Colony transit camp in west Delhi’s Anand Parbat to boost inoculations among residents of the area aged 45 and above.The transit camp houses 2,800 families and was set up in 2016 to shelter residents of Kathputli Colony near Shadipur, as the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) started work on its in-situ slum redevelopment project.“There are 21,500 people (including children) living in the camp. Though only two Covid-19 cases have been reported in the camp, we wanted people to get vaccinated, and nearly 80-90 people are getting the jab every day,” said Sanjay Gaur, a DDA official in charge of the transit camp.The district has vaccinated over 550 people at the outreach site since it started operations on May 3. The centre, which is linked to a government dispensary, has a team comprising a doctor, vaccinator and civil defence volunteers.Ishaan Sharma, officer on special duty (vaccination) in West Delhi, said, “The idea is to get most people vaccinated, especially in clusters where there is a high chance of infection spread.”Residents of the camp said that many didn’t get vaccinated earlier since they had to pay ₹20-40 on to reach the nearest vaccination site, in Patel Nagar. However, they said the inoculation centre at the camp pushed a lot of people to get the jabs.Puran Bhat, an artist and resident of the camp, said, “People had to take an e-rickshaw to reach the vaccination centre. Due to the prevailing situation, several people have lost their livelihoods, and can’t afford to spend money on travel. Though district authorities made arrangements for free transportation, not many availed it. But the vaccination site in the camp has really helped people.”Sharma said some occupants of the transit camp were hesitant to get the shots earlier. “It took a lot of effort to convince the residents. We held meetings with the pradhans of various groups living in the camp. We also held nukkad nataks (street plays) and got announcements made by religious leaders to tell people about the importance of vaccination,” Sharma said.The number of people coming to the vaccination site is gradually increasing. “Initially, we had just 30-odd people coming to the site, but now we have close to 80-90 people getting vaccinated every day,” he added.Patasi (65), a Rajasthani folk artist said many women above the age of 45 are now getting vaccinated.“It has become easier for women to get vaccinated since they don’t have to travel to the dispensary. Earlier, people, especially women, were apprehensive about getting vaccinated. But not now. I tell them to go and take the shot.”While other districts have not started outreach sites, they are mobilising people in lower income groups and slum clusters to get vaccinated. In Northwest district for instance, some vaccination sites in dispensaries have been planned near densely populated slum clusters.A senior official involved in the immunisation drive said, “Some sites have been selected in such a way that they are close to clusters. For instance, in Mangoplpuri, we have a site very close to the cluster. Block level officers or Asha workers are mobilising people in the slum clusters to get vaccinated.”Similarly, east, northeast districts have teams of civil defence volunteers, ASHA workers mobilising residents of clusters.Epidemiologist Dr RK Sharma said vaccinating people who live in densely populated areas is a must.“The chance of spread of infection are very high in these areas, as people don’t have enough space to maintain social distancing and isolating a positive person. The 45 and above age group is a vulnerable lot, said Dr Sharma, who is also public health advisor to the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/west-delhi-starts-outreach-vaccination-site-in-kathputli-colony-101620672439629.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Govt prepping for 3rd wave, city will be able to tackle 30k daily cases: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the national capital is preparing for the third wave of Covid-19 by augmenting infrastructure to a level where the city will be able to handle even 30,000 daily cases.“We are increasing oxygen beds... We must prepare for the third wave. In this wave (second for the country and fourth for the city), Delhi recorded a maximum of 28,000 cases in a day. Going by the scale at which we are creating infrastructure now, we will be able to handle the situation even if 30,000 daily cases are reported in the next wave,” Kejriwal said during a visit to the makeshift Covid care centre near GTB hospital in east Delhi.As on Monday, Delhi had 22,801 Covid-19 beds of which 3,242 were vacant. Also, of the total 5,839 ICU beds, 56 were vacant.Emphasising that vaccination can play a major role in curbing fresh cases, Kejriwal said the Delhi government has been left with 3-4 days stock of Covid vaccines. “Vaccine has played a major role in curbing the Covid-19 cases. We can prevent the third wave, if we vaccinate people on a large scale but the supply of vaccines is an issue,” he said.Elaborating the infrastructure augmentation plan, senior government officials said it includes increasing beds in hospitals as well as creating more centres in open grounds, sites run by religious organisations and stadiums.Government officials said they are already implementing plans to ramp up beds, opening up makeshift centres as well as adding infrastructure in the hospitals.Also read | Covid-19: Capital’s positivity dips below crucial 20% levelAt least 12,200 beds are ready and can be made available in a week or two. These include nearly 1,000 across all hospitals in the city, 11,000 across non-Hospital centres and around 200 in the municipal corporations, senior government and civic body officials said.Experts pointed out that the current Covid wave has shown that besides normal Covid care centres which accommodated patients with moderate symptoms, the city will need more beds with oxygen and critical care support both in hospitals as well as the informal set ups, if it encounters another wave of the infection.“The number of cases has gone down, but the hospitals and ICUs are full. For now, we must focus on breaking the chain of transmission; along with the lockdown we need to vaccinate more people. We also have to keep in mind that the current surge happened because of absolute complacency -- people were not wearing masks, they were gathering for parties and marriages, and travelling. The pandemic is not yet over,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Hospital bedsThe number of ward and oxygen beds in Delhi have gone up by 1,380 and intensive care unit beds by 689 over last week, according to data on Delhi Corona app.Health department officials said Delhi government-run hospitals such as Lok Nayak, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, and Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospitals have added 237 ICU beds. Others such as the Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, which rolled back its number of beds from 550 to 350 due to paucity of oxygen, have added 25 beds. “We will slowly scale up the number of beds again now that the oxygen supply has stabilised,” a senior doctor at the hospital said.The Delhi government on Monday also allocated 990 ventilators to 15 hospitals and makeshift healthcare facilities in order to ramp up ICU beds in the city. Currently, there are 5,872 ICU beds, 98.9% of which were occupied.At the Delhi government’s new 370-bed Burari hospital, the admissions had been restricted for a couple of days when there was an acute shortage of oxygen. “We are not facing any problems now. The supply has stabilised. In addition to that the requirement for oxygen has also gone down. There are fewer new admissions. The pressure on the healthcare system is slowly easing,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. The hospital plans to scale up the number of beds from 370 to 500 in the coming days.The private hospitals too have started admitting more patients.Also read | Hoarding of oxygen devices: Look-out circular against Khan Market restaurateur“We have now set up an oxygen generation plant that augments our daily requirement. We are better off now and are able to admit more patients. We have 110 oxygen-dependent patients at the moment against our listed capacity of 76 oxygen beds,” said Dr Sunil Kohli, head of the department of medicine at Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital. Several beds were not being utilised at the hospital as the supply of oxygen was uncertain last week.Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj hospital said, “Now that the supply of oxygen has stabilised we have increased the number of beds in our hospital from 120 to 150 and the number of ICU beds have gone up from 53 to 63 now.”Non-hospital bedsThe Delhi government has readied at least 11,000 beds which is in addition to the Covid care centres that are already operational. This includes 5,000 beds at Radha Soami Satsang’s South Delhi campus, 2,500 beds in two places in Burari, 1,000 beds in Commonwealth Games Village, another 1,000 beds in Yamuna Sports Complex, 1,000 ICU beds at two Ramlila grounds and at least 400 beds at the Rakabganj Gurudwara.Apart from this, a number of schools and colleges are also being cleaned and readied so they can be converted into isolation centres. On Monday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited Mount Carmel School where its auditorium has been converted into a 40-bed covid care centre equipped with oxygen concentrators and medicines.From Tuesday, the government is opening its 500-bed ICU centre at Ramlila ground outside east Delhi’s GTB hospital. Another 500 ICU beds will be operational in the “next 2-3 days” at the main Ramlila Ground near Lok Nayak hospital, officials said.“There has been a huge demand for ICU beds. We hope that these 1,000 additional ICU beds will help meet the demand. By this evening, we are expected to receive 1,000 oxygen cylinders, and in the next 3-4 days we expecting more oxygen cylinders to arrive. We are creating new oxygen beds across the city, and hope that Delhi will no longer see any shortage of beds,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday.Similarly, the air-conditioned facility at the Rakabganj Gurudwara is also now ready to admit patients, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday. “The centre has been attached with Lok Nayak hospital. The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee has set up this fully AC infrastructure. The Delhi government has supplied medical facilities and equipment. Similar Covid care centres have been set up in various parts of Delhi. We do have ample number of beds and in case patients admitted here go critical, they can be shifted to the ICU ward of the hospital they are attached to,” Jain said.Watch | Oxygen Express with highest volume of LMO leaves from Hapa to Delhi﻿Beds in municipal facilitiesThe three municipalities — north, south and east— are treating Covid patients at nearly six facilities, including hospitals and community centres. Civic bodies officials said at least 610 beds are currently operational across the facilities being run by the three corporations, of which 440 beds are under the north civic body, 85 in east and 60 in south DMC.Officials said that nearly 200 more beds will be created in a week’s time for Covid-19 patients. Out of 610, nearly 440 beds are operational in the north civic body, 85 in east and 60 under the south corporation.Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “In Hindu Rao hospital, we have dedicated 280 beds for Covid treatment; 100 in Rajan Babu and 35 in Balakram hospitals. We will add 65 more beds at Balakram and convert two more community centres in Ashok Vihar and Nabi Karim into Covid dedicated facilities of 25 beds each. So far we have also no dearth of oxygen supply for the three hospitals where Covid patients are being treated.”South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) nodal officer for bed augmentation and Covid management programme, Radha Krishna, said the south body’s Kalkaji hospital will start functioning as a Covid facility with 20 beds and the Tilak Nagar Super Speciality Covid-19 hospital could add 40 beds. He added that to meet the oxygen supply requirements, the SDMC is also installing a plant at its Tilak Nagar hospital.Similarly, the east Delhi municipal corporation (EDMC) has dedicated 85 beds at its Swami Dayanand Hospital. “We will create 25 more beds here. It is a partially Covid-19 facility as maternity and child care facilities are also being provided here,” EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-says-govt-preparing-for-next-covid-19-wave-as-city-augments-health-infrastructure-101620672259668.html
