12-05-2021||Delhi||No Covaxin doses available for 18-44 age group in Delhi from Thursday; Sisodia alleges 'mismanagement' by Centre||People in the 18-44 age group won't be able to get Covaxin shots in Delhi from Thursday as deputy chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that its manufacturer Bharat Biotech has refused to provide "additional" vaccine doses to the city government, a development that is likely to hamper the inoculation drive severely in the national capital.Stocks of the other coronavirus vaccine --- Covishield, will last only nine days, AAP MLA Atishi said while releasing vaccination bulletin of the city.As Covaxin's stock finished, the Delhi government temporarily closed down around 100 centres administering the vaccine on Wednesday.The AAP MLA said that there are four days of Covaxin left for frontline workers and those above 45, while Covishield stock will last three days for such category.Addressing an online press briefing on Wednesday, Sisodia said, "The Covaxin manufacturer has in a letter said that it cannot provide the Delhi government vaccines due to unavailability, under instruction of government officials concerned. It means that the central government is controlling supply of the vaccine."However, Joint Secretary in the Union health ministry Lav Agarwal on Tuesday denied that the Centre had any role to play in the purchase of vaccines by the states.Sisodia accused the Centre of vaccine mismanagement and reiterated that exporting 6.5 crore doses to foreign countries was the "biggest mistake".The Delhi government had ordered 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin on April 26, the deputy chief minister said.According to the Delhi government figures, it has received 1.5 lakh Covaxin and 4 lakh Covishield doses so far to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group.Till now, a total of 48.7 lakh doses of both the vaccines have been received for various categories of beneficiaries, it showed."I had already said exporting 6.5 crore doses to foreign countries was the biggest mistake. It would have been sufficient to vaccinate everyone in Delhi and Mumbai with two doses each," Sisodia added.During the online briefing, he read the letter received from Bharat Biotech, which said, "...we are making dispatches as per the directions of the government officials concerned. We therefore sincerely regret that we cannot make any additional supplies as required by you."The letter written by Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Dr Krishna Ella, on May 11, to the Delhi government's principal secretary (health and family welfare) also mentioned "unprecedented demand" of Covaxin.Bharat Biotech's letter referred to another note written to it by the Delhi government on May 7 regarding supply of Covaxin.Meanwhile, during a press briefing, AAP leader Atishi, an MLA from the Kalkaji constituency, said that Delhi received 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine on May 11."Around 16,000 Covaxin doses, which were available in the morning, were administered at 44 centres. These centres will also be shut after Wednesday evening," the AAP MLA said.Atishi hoped that the central government would intervene and make Covaxin doses available for the 18-44 age category."Soon it will be time to give the second dose of Covaxin to beneficiaries in this category," she added.There are 4.18 lakh Covishield doses left for people in the 18-44 age group. These can last up to nine days, she added."However, there will be no Covaxin doses left for the 18-44 age group after Wednesday evening and all such centres will be temporarily shut," she said.Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said Bharat Biotech's letter cited by Sisodia has "exposed" his claim that the city government ordered 67 lakh Covaxin doses on April 26."The reality is they wrote letter of intent to Bharat Biotech on April 26. Sisodia should disclose what the Delhi government wrote to Bharat Biotech in its May 7 letter," he said.The deputy chief minister also said that the Centre should stop export of vaccines and share the vaccine formulae of the two manufacturers in the country with other companies for mass scale production.He also urged the Union government to approve vaccines available in the international market for use in India, and direct states to vaccinate everyone within three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covaxin-doses-available-for-18-44-age-group-in-delhi-from-thursday-101620835691245.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||'Can't turn blind eye': HC rebukes Delhi govt as Covid-19 patients 'overcharged' by hospitals||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said the Delhi government cannot "turn a blind eye" to overcharging of COVID-19 patients by private hospitals in the city and directed it to hold a meeting of all stakeholders to arrive at a "realistic" amount so that people are not fleeced."We want this taken up on top priority," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said and also asked the Delhi government why it had not done anything till now to address this "serious" issue."Merely because there were no complaints, the situation on the ground cannot be ignored. We agree (with the petitioner) that you cannot turn a blind eye to it."We had asked you to again speak to all stakeholders. That exercise should have been done. You could have seen the condition on the ground, spoken to all the stakeholders and then arrived at a reasonable figure so that people are not fleeced," the bench said.The court also said that once they arrive at a figure, then it has to be enforced by all means.It asked the Delhi government why it has not done anything till now despite the court "repeatedly" telling them to do something on this issue.It referred to a hospital bill, placed on record by petitioner and lawyer Abhay Gupta, in which the ICU package price was ₹30,000, but the charges for Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machine, oxygen, monitors, etc were additional and to the tune of thousands of rupees per day.The bench said that prima facie the BiPAP machine, monitors, oxygen, etc all ought to have been part of the ICU package and therefore, the issue raised by Gupta of overcharging was "serious".It said that the Delhi government was right to say that the private hospitals have to be taken along, during the pandemic, "but that does not mean they can be so exorbitant".Senior advocate and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao told the court that according to his research, a whole bunch of private hospitals were refusing to admit patients, even if they had cashless insurance cover, unless they deposit ₹50,000."Some of these practices have to stop," he said.The court said that the government can have different slabs based on services offered so that there is transparency and each hospital does not charge whatever they feel like.It said it does not want to pass an order saying that all private hospitals and nursing homes have to adhere to the rates fixed by the Delhi government last year as then they would be "up in arms" and may not provide services."But then you should come up with a realistic figure," the bench said to the government.The court directed the Health Secretary to convene a meeting of a cross section of all hospitals and their associations as well as the amicus curiae to discuss the aspect of uniformity and rationalisation of charges levied by private hospitals and nursing homes.The bench said based on what transpired in the meeting, the Delhi government shall issue an order on the amounts to be charged by private healthcare institutions for treatment of COVID-19 patients.The Delhi government told the court that it will try to arrive at a formula which would satisfy all the stakeholders and would also benefit the citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cant-turn-blind-eye-hc-rebukes-delhi-govt-as-covid-19-patients-overcharged-by-hospitals-101620834225881.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi court grants bail to 4 employees of Matrix Cellular in oxygen concentrator hoarding case||A Delhi Court on Wednesday granted bail to four employees of Matrix Cellular, including its CEO and vice president, in connection with allegedly hoarding and selling the equipment at exorbitant prices.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg directed the accused not to tamper with evidence or influence the witnesses and join the investigation as and when called by the police.The company's CEO Gaurav Khanna, vice-president Gaurav Suri and two other employees Vikrant and Satish Sethi were granted bail and asked to furnish personal bond of ₹50,000 each. They were arrested last week in connection with black marketing of oxygen concentrators recovered from three top restaurants in Delhi by the police.According to Delhi Police, Matrix Cellular received a consignment of 650 oxygen concentrators from China, of which 524 have been recovered. The concentrators were being sold for as much as ₹70,000. On Tuesday, the court had come down heavily on the prosecution in the case, saying that it cannot penalise people before making the law. “You came out with an order on May 7 that it [oxygen concentrators] cannot be sold above MRP but the present FIR was on May 5.” the judge had said. The judge had further remarked orally, “Job of the government is not like a terrorist. You have to go by law. If there is no law and you feel there is a vacuum, then you need to fill it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-4-employees-of-matrix-cellular-in-oxygen-concentrator-hoarding-case-101620820527914.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, daily toll falls to 300||Delhi's daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a marginal rise as a health department bulletin showed on Wednesday that 13,287 more people tested positive for the viral disease in the national capital in the last 24 hours. The related death toll, however, witnessed a fall, as 300 more people succumbed to the infection in the city, the bulletin showed.Also Read | Tackling Covid-19: Swift clearing of foreign aid strengthens tertiary medical care, says CentreWith this, Delhi's infection tally has risen to 1,361,986 while total deaths stand at 20,310. In the last two days, i.e. May 10 and 11, the city's caseload rose by 12,651 and 12,481 fresh infections respectively. The death toll rose by 319 and 347 fatalities on the respective days.As per the latest bulletin, 14,071 more patients recovered from the coronavirus disease in a single-day, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,258,951 or 92.43% of the overall caseload. Active cases have fallen to 82,725, down from 83,809 a day ago and contribute 6.07% of the total cases. Deaths, meanwhile, comprise 1.49% of total cases.Also Read | Centre approves procurement of 1.5 lakh units of DRDO's 'Oxycare' systemThe positivity rate, i.e., the number of samples that gave positive results of the total samples tested for the disease, is at 17.03%, down from 17.76% from the previous bulletin. In the preceding 24 hours, 78,035 samples were tested, while 66,234 and 70,276 tests were conducted on May 10 and 11. Total 18,027,606 samples have been tested in the city-state thus far, the bulletin showed.Click here for full Covid-19 updatesOn the vaccination front, 129,291 more beneficiaries were vaccinated, with 84,139 receiving their first dose and 45,152 receiving their second. Total 4,147,654 beneficiaries have been inoculated thus far, of which 3,194,042 have been injected with their first dose while 953,612 have been injected with both the doses. Earlier in the day, the Delhi government alleged that Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed the anti Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, "refused" to supply vaccine doses for Delhi.The national capital is currently in the middle of a lockdown, which is scheduled to end in the early morning hours of May 17. The lockdown, which came into effect on the night of April 19 after being announced earlier in the day, was originally scheduled to end on the morning of April 26, but has since been extended twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-13-287-new-covid-19-cases-daily-tall-falls-to-300-101620816249775.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||DU colleges conduct practical exams amid Covid’s second wave, students distraught||The Delhi University recently issued a notice announcing cancellation of online classes and postponement of examinations for all students. But, some students of the varsity have now claimed that their colleges have gone ahead and conducted practical exams, overlooking the mental and physical health of the youngsters and their families. So far, three colleges have conducted practicals, after the university issued the notice, and students from all three colleges have verified so with deep angst in their voices. Many students feel distraught since they claim that their teachers didn’t consult them before conducting the practical exams. “We weren’t even asked if we are in a situation to sit for virtual exams right now! When we told our teachers that we are not a position to give exams, she informed us that they don’t have a choice in the matter. The second wave of Covid has left many students scouring for basic health care; I was tending to my parents who were both Covid positive and that’s when I got to know that I had to appear for exams as well... I wasn’t in the right frame of mind, but what could have I done,” says a student of Daulat Ram College, on condition of anonymity. A student of Shri Ram College of Commerce rues: “When the teachers are turning a deaf ear to us, who do we go to? My whole family is Covid positive, and I have to take care of everyone. Shall I save lives of my family members or give practical exams?” At Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, students have been asked to submit proofs to the college, if they have tested Covid positive. This, students say isn’t possible since test results are delayed at labs across Delhi-NCR due to the sudden increase in number of new cases during the second wave of Covid. “Despite every student asking the teacher to cancel or postpone the practical exams, our college conducted them. Many students were affected by Covid in our batch, but our teachers asked them for reports to show that they were Covid positive. The students have themselves not received the reports, so how would they have showed them to the college authorities? There’s lack of trust from the authorities, and this lead to the stress of us having to appear for our practical exams even amid such gruelling time,” says a student from the college, on condition of anonymity. Many who have practical exam dates approaching, have tried to convince their teachers to postpone them, but to no avail. “I hope that everyone is safe in these times but the situation is very difficult in the whole country, and in Delhi everyone know what’s the scenario. It’s really difficult for us students to prepare for any test at this time. The practicals should therefore be postponed for at least a few days,” opines a student of Hansraj College. When contacted, the individual college authorities didn’t respond to our query. On the other hand, professor DS Rawat, Dean (Examinations) at DU, told us that the university has given the right to every college to postpone practical exams, taking into account their students and faculty’s situation. “Online exams have been postponed and not the practical exams. So colleges have been given the liberty to conduct and upload marks of practical examination and internal assessment, according to their convenience. We understand that these are challenging times for everyone. Therefore, if 70% of students in a college say that they are unable to give practical exams, then the principal of that college has the right to postpone the practical exams. We might extend the date for submission of these marks from colleges, as we have compassion for everyone’s situation. Students are welcome to reach out to the authorities and raise their concerns; we are here to help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-colleges-conduct-practical-exams-amid-covid-s-second-wave-students-distraught-101620812915660.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Bharat Biotech said it can’t provide 6.7mn Covaxin doses to Delhi: Sisodia||The Delhi government on Wednesday said Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech has expressed its inability to send additional supplies of Covaxin doses to the national Capital, forcing the city administration to shut more than 100 vaccination centres in about 17 schools meant for those between 18 and 44 years.“Delhi had sought 13.4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to inoculate every adult in the city. Of this, we sought 6.7 million doses each of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech and Covishield from Serum Institute of India for Covishield. Yesterday (May 11), the Covaxin manufacturer sent us a letter stating clearly that it will not be able to send vaccine doses to us. As on date, we have zero stock of Covaxin and only those centres having Covishield doses are open for vaccination,” he said during a digital press conference. The letter shared by Sisodia was sent by Dr Kirshna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech to Delhi’s principal secretary (health) and it was in response to a letter written by the Delhi government to the company on May 7. “We appreciate your interest in procuring large quantities of Covaxin for the vaccination program. However, there has been an unprecedented demand for our vaccine and in spite of increasing production every month, we are unable to keep up with the demand. Further, we are making dispatches as per the directives of the concerned government officials. We, therefore, sincerely regret that we cannot make any additional supplies as required by you,” read Bharat Biotech’s letter dated May 11.HT has asked the Delhi government for the letter it sent to the company on May 7 to understand the quantum of Covaxin doses demanded by the Capital. A reply from the administration is awaited. Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19, criticised the Central government for regulating vaccine supplies to states even after liberalising and decentralising the country’s vaccine procurement policy. “Bharat Biotech’s letter clearly indicates that the Central government is deciding which state should get how much stock of vaccines. It is the Centre which introduced the policy of letting every state government procure doses directly from the manufacturers. Then why is the Central government controlling even the stocks that state governments are directly procuring from the manufacturers? From exporting vaccines to controlling supplies to states, the Centre is regulating everything,” he said. Also Read | India’s active Covid-19 caseload declines for 2nd consecutive day: 10 pointsThe deputy chief minister said had the Centre not exported 65 million doses of vaccines, it could have vaccinated the entire population of Mumbai and Delhi together with both doses for every person. Sisodia placed four demands before the Central government: temporarily suspending all exports of Covid-19 vaccines; rope in more pharmaceutical companies to scale up vaccine production; float a global tender for vaccine procurement and give it to states; and directing states to inoculate every person in three months. “I appeal to the Centre to immediately stop export of Covid-19 vaccines and engage more pharmaceutical companies to ramp up vaccine production or else people will continue to die in the potential third and fourth waves. The Centre should understand the gravity of the pandemic in the country and play the role of the national government. Instead of asking states to fight for vaccines in the international market, the Centre should buy these globally and give them to the states after which it should direct every state government to complete vaccination in three months,” he said. On Tuesday, the Delhi government had said it received 150,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for those between 18-44 years and the entire stock is now over because of which nearly 125 session sites across 17 schools have been shut. “So far, we received around 550,000 vaccine doses – 150,000 Covaxin and 400,000 Covishield – for the 18-44 age group. Of the total doses received, 330,000 doses have been used. Currently, we have around 219,000 doses in stock and all of them are Covishield. Going by the current rate of beneficiary turnout, the Covishield stock should last three more days. Also, 266,690 doses of Covishield are likely to arrive in Delhi and that should last for another six days,” said AAP MLA Atishi in the government’s live-streamed bulletin on vaccination on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bharat-biotech-said-it-can-t-provide-6-7mn-covaxin-doses-to-delhisisodia-101620810151284.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||International Nurses Day: Going strong to take care of those in need||The second wave of Covid-19 has left those in the health care services reeling under its brutal impact. And the steep rise in cases of home isolation in the Capital, have made nurses face challenges like never before! Amid heightened stress and exhaustion, those on home nursing duty are burning the midnight oil as there are no fixed work hours; since most are booked for 24-hour care for patients. On International Nurses Day (May 12), some of the Delhi-NCR based home nurses share their tales of struggle. Often spending days with one patient, taking care of all their needs, can leave many worried about getting infected themselves. “But the day I joined this profession, I forgot the idea of fear,” says Imran Khan, a home nurse on duty in Faridabad. He adds, “Some patients recover in a few days; some take 15 days, or even more. It does get tiring; taking care of another person is a tough job, and it gets hard when someone’s health takes a turn for the worst. I have to manage everything - keeping their vitals stable, getting them hospitalised. But the time is such, I don’t want to say no to helping people,” says Khan, from Tejas Care24, as he tends to Covid positive patients while staying away from his family for days together. Their dedication and individualised care is making home nurses a preferred choice among many Delhiites, especially for the elderly in the house. “On an average, we get 20-25 calls every day, from people looking for nurses to take care of their family members,” says Fahimuddin, a resident of Uttam Nagar, who is helping provide nursing staff services to Delhiites. “We administer IV drips and medication as per the prescription, assist in pain management and keep an eye on the vitals of the patients. Nurses on home duty have to take care of it all! And people are preferring to isolate at home, especially during this time, since the hospitals are not only charging a lot but also have limited staff, whereas the services provided by home care nursing staff are available at comparatively subsidised prices and personalised attention.”Staying in close proximity to coronavirus patients is risky, but that hasn’t deterred many of the nurses for their emotion to serve the humanity has been their guarding angel. Ashley, a home nurse in Delhi, who is currently caring for a Covid patient, says, “During my first duty as a home nurse, I got fever, and remained scared for a few days until my health improved. The constant fear of getting infected is both emotionally and physically draining. While we do our best to take care of the patients, the risk of going home and infecting our families is ever present!” Many a times, the risk becomes reality, posing gruelling challenges to these nurses. A home nurse shares that she tested positive soon after visiting a Covid positive patient in Gurugram. “I was with the patient for an hour, and caught the virus in spite of following all the safety measures. I tested positive and soon after my husband too got Covid, and we immediately isolated ourselves at home. We’ve made full recovery, but this hasn’t been the case for quite a few in the health care industry. I’m, even today, constantly afraid of infecting my family, now that I know that people can get reinfected. But, I continue to be on duty because that comes first,” says the nurse on condition of anonymity. The magnitude of the risk factor increases manifold when people lie about their Covid status to book a home nurse. Dr Mukesh Kumar, who runs nursing bureau, Om Nursing Home, in the Capital, says, “We follow all safety measures — PPE Kits, masks, gloves, and sanitisers are provided to all the nurses who are on duty. We’re extremely professional when providing services, with no exploitation of those in need. But, we’ve had instances where people didn’t inform us that the request was for a Covid patient! They make excuses that the patient only had fever and hence they don’t have a report either. This puts our staff and us at peril, even when we are doing all that we can, and at great personal cost... People should spare a thought about nurses as well.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/international-nurses-day-going-strong-to-take-care-of-those-in-need-101620804758473.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Bharat Biotech refused to send Covaxin for Delhi, cited govt directive: AAP||Deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia on Wednesday tweeted a letter written by Bharat Biotech in response to his demand that additional vaccines for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) be provided to the national capital, and said that the pharmaceutical company refused to comply citing directives of the central government and limited supply. "We are forced to shut down 100 Covaxin vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply," the minister said, adding that exporting 6.6 crore doses was the "biggest mistake". Till March, India had supplied more than 6.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, mostly Covishield, to 76 countries. Also Read: Harsh Vardhan to meet health ministers of states lagging in Covid-19 vaccinationBharat Biotech's letter said the unprecedented demand for Covaxin was difficult to meet even as the firm had increased production. "...in spite of increasing production every month, we are unable to keep up with the demand. Further, we are making dispatches as per the directions of the government officials concerned. We therefore sincerely regret that we cannot make any additional supplies as required by you," the letter read. Vaccine mismanagement by Centre Gov- Covaxin refuses to supply vaccine citing directives of Gov. & limited availability.Once again I would say exporting 6.6cr doses was biggest mistake. We are forced to shutdown 100 covaxin-vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply pic.twitter.com/uFZSG0y4HMPune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bengaluru's Bharat Biotech are the only two manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccine in India.In March-end, as it was becoming difficult for the two firms to meet the vaccine demand even within India, it was decided that the focus will be shifted on domestic vaccination programme instead of exports, officials familiar with the development had told Hindustan Times.The Delhi government, meanwhile, has been complaining of vaccine shortage for the past week. A day after saying the city's Covaxin stock was about to get over in one day Covishield's in another four days, the Delhi government said it had to shut down 125 vaccination centres catering to citizens in the 18-44 age group on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bharat-biotech-says-no-extra-covaxin-for-delhi-cites-govt-directive-sisodia-101620802873318.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Cloudy sky today, Delhi may experience light rain||The national Capital is likely to see a cloudy sky on Wednesday with the possibility of light rain as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 24.2°C, a notch below the season’s average, and the maximum temperature was 40.5°C, one notch above the normal for this time of the season. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved to satisfactory category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 96. Also Read | Heatwave conditions won’t set in till May 18: IMDAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring center, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely on May 12 (Wednesday) and May 13 (Thursday). It may lead to an Isolated dust spike at a few locations for one or two hours. Better ventilation is forecasted for the next three days. Hence, AQI is forecasted to stay improved in the moderate to satisfactory category for the next three days. Rabi crop burning induced fire counts in north India are high in Punjab but its influence is low in Delhi air as usual due to unfavourable summer meteorological factors and unfavourable transport winds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-sky-today-delhi-may-experience-light-rain-101620789810667.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Water supply in parts of Delhi to be affected on Wednesday||Water supply in many areas of East Delhi, North East Delhi, parts of South Delhi, parts of NDMC area will be affected on Wednesday."Water supply in many areas in East Delhi, North East Delhi, parts of South Delhi, parts of NDMC area will be affected in the morning and evening tomorrow," Delhi Jal Board has informed yesterday."Due to very high turbidity in raw water from upper Ganga canal, the pumping from Sonia Vihar WTP and Bhagirathi WTP has been affected," read an official statement by the Board.Saket, Pushp Vihar, Katwaria Sarai, Lado Sarai, Khirki are among the areas where the water supply will be hit.The Delhi Jal Board further advised people to make judicious use of water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-in-parts-of-delhi-to-be-affected-on-wednesday-101620779860629.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The lockdown Ramzan||The forever-optimistic Nashir Ahmed Khan in gloom? Impossible, you would think. But the second surge in the coronavirus pandemic has changed everything.“I’m badhal (in bad shape),” he says, “everyone here is badhal, everything is down.” A biscuit seller outside the imposing Jama Masjid in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazaar, Mr Khan, 71, is talking on phone. This late morning he is standing by his two carts, he says, waiting for the few customers who might drop by. During the ongoing lockdown in the Millennium City, shops in this part of Sadar Bazaar are allowed to function from 6am to 11am, he informs.In the final week of the fasting month of Ramzan, the area around the mosque traditionally teems with shoppers. But this ain’t a normal year, and Mr Khan agrees to give a sense of the place.His on-the-ground survey starts with the stairs of the Jama Masjid, that in previous Ramzans (not last year’s though, because of the first lockdown) would be taken over by fasting people sitting there in lethargy, waiting for the iftari hour to break the fast. (The pic above dates from early last year.)“Nobody’s on the Masjid’s stairs, not even a cat,” Mr Khan reports curtly. Even Raja bhai isn’t there—the elderly man would usually be heard before he was seen, always sitting on the same side of the stairs, regularly breaking into most heartfelt devotional songs.Khurshid Ahmad’s kebab stall, though, is open. “But it’s only stocked with feni,” says Mr Khan, referring to a milk-based dish often consumed in this sacred month.All the mosque-facing stalls that would sell trinkets, dates, caps and scarves throughout the year are closed. “Except for one man who, as I see, is selling kurta pyjamas.”The area’s public park—the Masjid Udayan—that would be dotted with resting labourers is empty, reports Mr Khan.“After one hour, at 11, I’ll also go back to my room (in nearby Yaseen Plaza),” he says. “Nobody is earning much... I’m able to afford only dal and chawal.”Even so, one thing hasn’t changed. No matter how hot or freezing it might get, Mr Khan always dresses up in a safari suit. “Yes, I’m wearing my safari,” he confirms, breaking into his trademark laughter, infectious even on mobile.And is he holding a cup of that milky sweet bazaar chai, as he always does?“What are you saying,” exclaims the biscuit seller. “All the chai shops are closed.”He concludes the eye-witness account with his customary farewell salutation—“God bless you too much.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-lockdown-ramzan-101620773488092.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Nehru Planetarium director Dr Nandivada Rathnasree dies of Covid-19||Notable astronomy communicator and director of the Nehru Planetarium, Nandivada Rathnasree, 57, died on Sunday after being infected with Covid. Rathnasree, who joined the planetarium in 1996 as a senior educator and became its director in 1999, has been credited with several new initiatives and projects during her long stint.Anuj Sinha, former director of the National Council for Science and Technology Communication said that she was devoted to her role. “She ensured that the number of outreach events multiplied by several times. She would work on weekends, day and night to ensure astronomy reached people. She brought a lot of life to the subject. I was also in science outreach so she was a great ally to work with. She tried to make sure that the wonders of the sky are seen, appreciated and understood,” he said.Her husband Patrick Dasgupta is a faculty member at the Department of Physics and Astrophysics at Delhi University.Rathnasree was also a member of the Astronomical Society of India, which expressed its condolences Tuesday.“An avid astronomy communicator and accomplished pulsar astronomer, she was pivotal in most astronomy outreach projects of ASI in the last two decades. When ASI formally set up its Public Outreach and Education Committee (POEC) in 2014, Rathnasree was the unanimous choice to be its first chair and she has been a part of the POEC ever since,” the body said in its statement.The society also remembered Ratnasree’s notable contributions during her career. “Till just a fortnight ago, she was involved in organising ‘Astro Adda’ a fortnightly online discussion session with the students. In early May, she caught the infection, which quickly overwhelmed her,” the statement said.During her years in Delhi, she was a focal point for the amateur astronomy community in and around the Capital.Union minister of culture sent condolences to her family. “Extremely saddened to learn about the unfortunate demise of Dr N. Rathnasree, Director of Nehru Planetarium under @_NMML_ passed away on sunday. Heartfelt condolences to the family & prayers for the departed soul & God to provide strength to the bereaved family,” the ministry tweeted.Ramdas Iyer, curator, National Science Centre, said her death was a huge loss for students and the scientific community. “Rathnashree was one of the best in positional astronomy. That was her specialisation. One of her major contributions to astronomy was popularising the Jantar Mantar, as she organised several astronomy walks for school and college students there. She was among few planetarium directors who could design her own shows,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nehru-planetarium-director-dr-nandivada-rathnasree-dies-of-covid19-101620773018985.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||2 behind murder of realtor held after scuffle with cops||After a brief scuffle, Delhi Police on Tuesday said they arrested two men who were allegedly involved in the murder of a property dealer from Najafgarh.A cop received minor injury during the scuffle with the accused, Neeraj Tehlan (27) and Naveen alias Ashish (23). According to police, one of the accused took out a gun and threatened to fire at the police once they were surrounded.Police said the two were the only people yet to be arrested out of the five who allegeldy shot the property dealer 18 times in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla in February.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said the others -- Priyawart alias Kala, a key hitman of jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi; and Rohit and Rahul -- were arrested from Rajasthan and Delhi since March, after tip-offs received through human intelligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-behind-murder-of-realtor-held-after-scuffle-with-cops-101620772875148.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Black marketing: Court rap for no price cap, shoddy probe||A Delhi court on Tuesday questioned the authorities for arresting people importing and selling oxygen concentrators at a rate higher than the MRP, saying that the government had itself not capped the prices of these products.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Arun Kumar Garg, while hearing the bail pleas of Matrix Cellular’s CEO Gaurav Khanna and its vice president Gaurav Suri, also came down heavily on the police for arresting the accused without any evidence.“Why should the forces of demand-supply not apply where the government has left it... government has not regulated. Is doing business an offence?” the court remarked. The magistrate said the maximum charge that can be levelled was of unfair trade practices.Also read | HC: Take steps to stop hoarding, black marketingThe judge said that arrests should not be made to appease the high court, which ordered action. He noted that the “state has yet not regulated” the price despite a direction by the high court to cap the prices.The court pulled up police for “a pathetic” investigation. “First you (police) arrest and then start investigation. It’s a pathetic situation…We will not be instrumental in harassing somebody,” it remarked.Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava, appearing for the state, told the court that the accused “hatched a conspiracy” to illegally make money. The accused’s counsels, meanwhile , argued that the prices were fixed after considering costs incurred. They said that all duties were paid in the import of the concentrators. The court reserved its order for Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/black-marketing-court-rap-for-no-price-cap-shoddy-probe-101620772156236.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||No court relief for Khan market restaurateur caught in black marketing case||A Delhi court on Tuesday refused to grant interim relief from arrest — the second time in as many days — to businessman and restaurateur Navneet Kalra, who is accused of hoarding and black marketing oxygen concentrators.The matter, which was to be taken up on Monday, was pushed back by a day because the police said they did not get a copy of the bail application.Kalra’s counsel Vineet Malhotra urged that coercive action not be taken against his client, a relief that the court refused to grant. Additional sessions judge Sumit Dass said that Kalra’s anticipatory bail will be placed before the district and sessions judge who will decide which court will hear the plea.“Bail application placed before the district judge south east at 10am tomorrow; they will send it to the concerned court. There is no interim relief or any sort of protection to the accused yet,” the judge said.Also read | Ensure controlled opening of city: HC to Delhi govtKalra has been on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants — Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju between Wednesday and Friday, according to investigators. He could not be tracked despite raids being conducted in Delhi and in adjoining states such as Uttarakhand, the police said.Investigators said that they have evidence which shows the oxygen concentrators were bought for ₹14,000-15,000 and sold at ₹70,000-75,000During the course of proceedings, public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava said since the matter was transferred to the crime branch after registration of FIR, the court has no jurisdiction.“On May 7, the court had the power but now since the case has been transferred, it has no jurisdiction over the matter,” Shrivastava argued.However, advocate Vineet Malhotra, representing Kalra, told the court that the court’s jurisdiction applied because the case was registered at Lodhi Colony police station on May 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-court-relief-for-khan-market-restaurateur-caught-in-black-marketing-case-101620771860485.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Of 91 held for cyber frauds, most from outside Delhi||A grocer from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur, an unemployed man from Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi, and a cellphone dealer from West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas were among 91 people arrested by Delhi Police for allegedly duping Delhi-NCR residents by promising to supply Covid-19 medicines or medical essentials such as oxygen cylinders and concentrators.The Delhi Police on Tuesday said several cyber fraudsters from outside Delhi were involved in duping city residents online, taking advantage of the panic triggered by the rise in cases and the shortage of medical essentials.At a press conference on Tuesday, police said that they found that some of the SIM cards used by the alleged fraudsters to receive payments were registered in states other than Delhi.In most cases, such fraudsters contacted their intended victims after seeing SOS messages on social media for medicines and other supplies. Promising to deliver these essentials, the fraudsters would demand an online payment, and once the money was transferred, would switch off their phones, police said.Police have so far blocked 810 SIM cards used in such crimes.Also read | Covid-19 in Delhi: Dip in cases continues, deaths cross 20,000Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said most of the SIM cards were registered in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Rajasthan, and Bihar.Separately, police have also frozen 214 bank accounts, a majority of them in the states mentioned above, which collectively had ₹53.6 lakh in them. Through a tie-up with caller identification app, True Caller, police also identified 168 cellphones numbers and tagged them as “Covid spam numbers”.“Till date, we received 910 such complaints on our helpline, email and the national cyber crime portal. A total of 372 FIRs have been registered and 91 people arrested. The analysis of the cases indicated that the frauds were being committed by people from different states. The police chiefs of those states were contacted and the cyber teams have started work. Our investigation has revealed that while a SIM card is registered in one state, the fraud is being perpetrated in another state. The bank accounts of these fraudsters are also spread across the country,” said Biswal.Police officers,who were part of cases in which the arrests were made, said that while cyber criminals are seeking out people who seek help on social media, some of the fraudsters are out-of-job con men who have found a lucrative way to exploit people.One officer said most of the people in whose names the bank accounts were opened had no idea about the frauds.“The complaints on our helpline have reduced of late. There are 20 teams on the ground in several states, and a substantial number of arrests are likely in the coming days,” Biswal said.Records seen by HT show that in the last few days, police have received fewer than 20 calls reporting such frauds.On Monday, the control room received six calls, while on Sunday, there were 17. Distress calls peaked in the first four days of May -- 59 on May 1, 104 on May 2, 85 on May 3, and 69 on May 4.“We have also released an advisory on our social media handles, urging people not to fall victim to such fraudsters... We urge people to call on 112, 011-23469900 or 155260 in case any such person approaches them with promises of help,” Biswal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/of-91-held-for-cyber-frauds-most-from-outside-delhi-101620771550852.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Out of Covaxin, 125 Delhi government jab centres for 18-44 age group to be shut||Around 125 centres of the Delhi government that administer the Covaxin vaccine to beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group have run out of stock and will resume the inoculation drive only after stocks are replenished, the government said on Tuesday.“So far, we received around 550,000 vaccine doses – 150,000 Covaxin and 400,000 Covishield – for the 18-44 age group. Of the total doses received, 330,000 doses have been used. Currently, we have around 219,000 doses in stock and all of them are Covishield. Going by the current rate of beneficiary turnout, the Covishield stock should last three more days. Also, 266,690 doses of Covishield are likely to arrive in Delhi today (Tuesday). That should last for another six days,” said AAP MLA Atishi, in the government’s live-streamed bulletin on vaccination, adding: “However, more than 125 centres that offer Covaxin will be closed now. They are out of stock.”Also read | Allow more pharma firms to make vaccines: Delhi CM Kejriwal to CentreIt was not clear if the vaccine deliveries she mentioned included those to private hospitals or also overlapped with the quota for 45-plus -- Centre typically ships doses only for the older age groups with remaining being procured directly.By Tuesday evening, 18 government-run centres in the city that offered Covaxin were already fully booked for Wednesday, as per the government’s CoWin system. Delhi government officials on Tuesday could not specifically say when the next batch of Covaxin would arrive for the 18-44 age group.Atishi further said for the health-care workers, frontline workers and people aged 45 years and above, the Covaxin stock should last for another five days and Covishield’s for 4 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/out-of-covaxin-125-delhi-government-jab-centres-for-18-44-age-group-to-be-shut-101620771147525.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Ensure controlled opening of city: HC to Delhi govt||Observing that the government encouraged people to lower their guard by holding “elections and melas”, the Delhi high court on Tuesday said there should be a “controlled opening” of the lockdown in the national capital whenever it happens so that the state is in a position to deal with the rising number of Covid cases.“We can’t open up only to let people die due to lack of facilities,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli suggested.“The state has also encouraged it (letting down of guard by citizens). We have had elections..We have had melas,” the bench remarked after advocate Gautam Narayan, additional public prosecutor for the Delhi government, said that state (in general) is equally responsible for the current situation as they let their guard down.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with many hospitals, had sought directions to the Centre and Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in hospitals and nursing homes.The observation ensued from the submission of senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for the Delhi government, who said that he cannot imagine a situation when lockdown restrictions are lifted and the city returns to normal.The number of infections and positivity rate has been declining for 10 days now, with Delhi reporting 12,481 cases on Tuesday. This is the lowest daily tally the city has recorded in almost a month since April 12, Delhi government data shows.Also read | Govt strengthens 1031 helpline with more staffDuring the hearing, the court expressed its displeasure over the Delhi government’s incorrect statement on May 10 that 250 beds in the new dedicated Covid facility in Dwarka -- Indira Gandhi Hospital -- were already operational. “It was not fair...to give incorrect facts,” the bench said, adding that “the newspapers of Saturday said 250 beds in the hospital were operationalised, “but not a single bed has been occupied till date”.The remarks were made after the Delhi government apologised for making an incorrect statement on May 10 about the Covid facility in the hospital.The bench was informed by senior advocate Mehra that for want of oxygen cylinders and concentrators the beds have not yet been operationalised. He submitted that 150 beds will be operationalised during the day and another 100 will be ready by Wednesday.During the hearing, the court also suggested augmenting the plasma bank and said that the Delhi government should encourage people to donate.Mehra said that time and again requests have been made by the highest level but people have been apprehensive.Amicus curiae senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao informed the court that the response from the plasma registration sometimes takes hours.He also alleged that sometimes phone numbers get leaked and the person gets fake messages.The matter will be heard on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ensure-controlled-opening-of-city-hc-to-delhi-govt-101620770776010.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||IGI airport’s terminal 2 to shut from May 17||The Delhi airport’s Terminal 2, or T2, will be shut for flight operations from May 18 in the wake of falling passenger footfall and fewer flights due to the ongoing second national wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials aware of the development said on Tuesday.All flight operations will now shift to Terminal 3 (T3), which will remain the only operational terminal at Delhi’s airport, the officials said.The recent suspension of international flights between India and some countries has also led to a fall in the number of passengers at the airport, forcing the authorities to take the decision, the officials added.After last year’s lockdown, when the Indira Gandhi International airport resumed operations after two months of complete closure between March 25 and May 25, passenger footfall at the airport gradually began rising, and went up to more than 100,000 per day by the end of March 2021. Before the pandemic broke out, the average footfall was 150,000, officials said.“However, as cases of coronavirus rapidly rose in the country, a drastic fall in passenger footfall was noticed. Some countries have also suspended international flights to India, leading to an overall drop in the number of passengers by 65% to 70%. In the past one week, the passenger footfall has been as low as 32,000 to 35,000 per day,” said a senior airport official who asked not to be named.The officer said T2 will be closed starting midnight on May 17.“All the flights scheduled from T2 beyond May 18 will be shifted to T3. The airlines have been informed to alert flyers,” the officer said.An official from the Delhi air traffic control (ATC) said the air traffic movements (ATM) in the country recovered to almost 1,000 per day since last year from being as low as 300.“Recently, there has been a fall in the number of flights. The daily ATM has once again slipped to approximately 250-300 flights a day. Before Covid-19 struck, the daily ATM was around 1,300. With such low ATMs, T3 should be sufficient to handle the operations,” the officer said.After the two months of a complete ban on air traffic in India last year, while Terminal 3 started functioning May 25 onwards, Terminal 2 resumed operations on October 1.Terminal 1 has remained shut since March 25 due to expansion work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/igi-airport-s-terminal-2-to-shut-from-may-17-101620766895830.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Dip in cases continues, deaths cross 20,000||Delhi on Tuesday continued to witness a dip in new Covid-19 cases, with 12,481 fresh infections recorded in the last 24 hours, which was the lowest since April 12. The positivity rate also came down to 17.76%, the lowest since April 14 this year when it was 15.92%. On April 22, a positivity rate of 36.2%, the highest so far, was recorded.The Capital reported 12,651 cases of the infection on Monday, 13,336 on Sunday and 17,364 cases on Saturday, according to the government’s daily bulletin.“The positivity rate has been reducing from the highest 36%... this is a positive sign but we cannot get comfortable. We can’t rest till the positivity rate drops below 5% and the number of new cases below three or four thousand. The reversal of the trend began in April last week, but now it is confirm that Delhi has crossed the peak,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a press briefing on Tuesday.Also read | Will float global tenders for vaccines soon: Manish Sisodia“At the moment, there is no problem relating to oxygen and the demand for oxygen is also slowly going down. However, the demand for hospital beds is still quite high; nearly 20,000 people are admitted in the hospitals. At the peak, it was about 22 thousand hospitalisation. In comparison, the highest number of hospitalisation during November was 9,500,” said Jain.With 347 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported on Tuesday, Delhi’s total toll crossed 20,000 mark. With the sharp spike in the number of cases in the city in April, the number of deaths has also shot up with the last 5,000 fatalities being recorded within 14 days. The previous 5,000 deaths in the city were reported over 135 days, according to the daily health bulletin shared by the Delhi government.Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, professor of medicine and neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College, said the hospitals have been running full as people need oxygen or ventilator support for longer duration. “The variants in circulation in Delhi – the UK B1.117 and Indian B1.617 – have not only resulted in more infections but also severe symptoms. During this wave, we have seen that people have fever for about 10 to 14 days and requiring respiratory support for about two to three weeks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-dip-in-cases-continues-deaths-cross-20000-101620762084676.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Will float global tenders for vaccines soon: Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government will float global tenders for Covid-19 vaccines soon, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday, even as he criticised the Centre for exporting vaccines to other countries and “pitting states against each other” for procurement of doses in the international market due to a shortage of doses.The Delhi government has repeatedly flagged dwindling stocks of vaccine doses in the Capital, saying that manufacturers were not supplying enough stocks to meet the target of inoculating the city’s entire adult population in the next three months.Addressing a news briefing, Sisodia said the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled central government was “forcing” state governments to invite global tenders for vaccine procurement. He said Delhi was faced with a situation where people aged between 18 and 44 were eager to get their Covid-19 vaccine jabs, but they were unable to do so because of a shortage of vaccines.“We will also float global tenders for vaccines. If state governments only have to fight with each other in the international market for vaccines and that is the only way left, then the Delhi government will also go that way. But, why is it that states have to buy vaccines from outside India? It was the Centre’s job to procure Covid-19 vaccines well in time from the international market and give it to states. Instead, the Centre was busy exporting vaccines for image-building exercise. Scores of lives could have been saved in our country had the central government not distributed 6.5 crore doses to other countries, and given it to its own citizens,” the deputy CM said.He gave the examples of how the US and the European nations focused on ensuring the vaccination of all their citizens first.A BJP spokesperson was unavailable for comment, despite repeated attempts. Earlier on Monday, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had accused AAP of playing politics over the vaccine issue.Also read | Allow more pharma firms to make vaccines: Delhi CM Kejriwal to CentreSisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management, blamed the central government for the “mess” created over the stocks of vaccinations.He said the Centre was “shirking from its responsibility” by asking states to directly procure vaccines through global tenders – a step which he said should have been taken by the Centre in March this year.He said it had never happened in the last 70 years that a central government left the states to fend for themselves at the global stage.The deputy chief minister said that if states were asked to purchase vaccines internationally through global tenders, then the state with the largest coffers would unfairly procure the most doses.“This will lead to fights among states, and further bashing and criticism of the country in international communities,” he said.Sisodia’s remarks came on a day the Delhi government said it will have to temporarily shut around 125 of its vaccine centres meant for those from the 18-44 age group due to the shortage of Covaxin vaccine doses.Sisodia reiterated that Delhi needed 300,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines every day, of which 150,000 were for those below 45 years of age.“I appeal to the central government to take cognisance of the crisis at hand and immediately begin a vaccine programme along the lines of the Pulse Polio Programme. If Delhi receives sufficient number of vaccines from the central government, we will ensure that all are vaccinated in a matter of three months,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-float-global-tenders-for-vaccines-soon-manish-sisodia-101620761668371.html
