13-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: People in 18-44 age group ‘anxious’ as Delhi sees shortage of Covaxin||The news of Covaxin stocks running dry in Delhi has left people in the 18-44 age group worried, with many saying on Twitter that they would be "left in a lurch" if their wait for the second dose gets "infinitely delayed".Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday announced that people under the age of 45 will not be able to get Covaxin shots from Thursday, saying its manufacturer Bharat Biotech has refused to provide "additional" vaccine doses to the city government.With covaxin's stock finished, the Delhi government temporarily closed down around 100 centres administering the vaccine on Wednesday. "I got my first dose of Covaxin day before yesterday now I am concern how I will get my second dose as you know Covaxin have stopped the supply to Delhi(sic)," tweeted Abdul Basit."I got covaxin in Delhi a week ago. I'm worried thinking if there is a plan or data maintained how many covaxin or covishield ll be required when we all become eligible for the second dose. Scared to think we might miss the window due to non availability of the required one then," tweeted Baba TJ.Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi wrote: "Big issue as Delhi has already run out of Covaxin. What about people who got their first doses, is their second dose indefinitely delayed? What is the Centre/ State's take on it??".As per the protocols, there should be 28-days gap between the two doses of Covaxin. Around 90 lakh people are eligible for the inoculation under the 18-44 age group in the national capital.Twenty eight-year-old Nisha Siaini, who till Wednesday thought of herself and her husband as "extremely lucky" to have successfully found a slot for vaccination, is now worried about the availability of the second dose.She is afraid that the shortage of vaccines will "create doubt among those who want to take Covaxin in the future"."Those who have taken Covaxin have been left in lurch. There is no surety that we will be able to get the 2nd dose on time. Also, we cannot even take any other vaccine. This will create doubt among those who want to take Covaxin in the future," said Nisha, a professional banker, who got her first jab along with her husband on May 5. "The only answer to this problem is that the Centre help the company ramp up production or ask other companies to manufacture Covaxin," she suggested.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday had suggested that the Centre share the anti-COVID-19 vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other companies in the country to scale up production.The situation is more grave for those who are already due for the second dose of Covaxin and are running from pillar to post for vaccination. "#Kejriwal I got my first dose of covaxin on 5th of April at Bhagwati hospital sec.13 Rohini. My second dose is due now they are saying We have no vaccine. Now where to get vaccine," tweeted Ashwani Rampal."Dear Mr. Kejriwal, Please help us to get 2nd doss of Covaxin for my Parents. From last three days we are visiting centres even with the appointment slip of Cowin. However, they respond that Vaccine is finished. 1/2 @ArvindKejriwal @PMOIndia @AamAadmiParty @msisodia," tweeted Hardik Arora."My mom and grandma got first dose covaxin a month ago, My booking of second dose got automatically cancelled 2 times and now they are no slots left. What do we do now? wouldn't this waste millions of vaccines if someone is unable to get the 2nd dose on time? - Delhi Resident," tweeted Kumar Gaurav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-people-in-18-44-age-group-anxious-as-delhi-sees-shortage-of-covaxin-101620915800297.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools go the extra mile for students who lost parents to Covid||From organising online prayer meets for students who lost their parents to Covid to ensuring constant communication with them, schools in the national capital are taking various steps to ensure emotional and mental support for these children to process their grief.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said at least six students in her school have lost one of their parents this month. “These deaths can weigh heavily on the minds of children and there has to be a specialised approach because every situation is different. We have asked teachers to be in touch with these students and their families. Many families are still in shock and we will encourage them to opt for counselling when they are ready,” she said.The surge in Covid fatalities is reflected in official figures shared by the Delhi government which show that 5,120 people died in April while the number has reached 3,197 between May 1 and 9 this year.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales Pusa Road, said the school tries to be the first contact for the child after they receive information of a parent’s death. “We have created WhatsApp groups where teachers inform us if there has been a death of a parent. We first call the immediate relatives of the parent to get stock of the situation there, ask about the child, and assure the family of any assistance they need,” she said.The school then gets in touch with the classmates and their parents to find out the child’s closest friends and establish a peer group. The peer group is then instructed to keep the child engaged and busy through conversation, activities and group phone calls as it is easier for them to talk to someone their age. The school also organises virtual prayer meetings for children and is planning on a “concert of hope”.Also Read | Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases fall to 10,489; positivity rate below 15%“We will share photographs of those who have lost their lives to Covid and bring the children together on a platform so that they can share their grief. The death of a parent involves more than mental health issues. Their entire lives will change because of this,” she said.Psychologist Manveen Kaur, who is the counsellor at Amity International School in Saket, said that dealing with death is more difficult with children as they often don’t understand their emotions or are unable to identify or communicate it, leading to behavioural changes.“If grief counselling is not done in the right way, it would have long-term adverse effects like longstanding depression and anxiety in children, trust issues in life and can become a part of their personality,” she said, adding that they are doing family therapy with such children and their immediate family members.“The family members are the immediate contact of the children and need to be counselled on how to behave with them and involve them in daily activities or look for changes in their behaviour,” she said.Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, said the school is planning voluntary group therapy sessions where children can share their grief together.Also Watch | ‘Delhi’s oxygen demand down to 582MT, divert surplus to others’: Manish SisodiaSchools are also helping students with other necessities during the pandemic. “From providing cooked meals for the families who tested positive to arranging for medicines, oxygen or cremation facilities, we have a dedicated cell looking into the various needs which came up during the pandemic,” said Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh.Government schools in the capital have also asked their teachers to maintain communication with children and parents despite the ongoing summer vacation. Sarita Batra, principal at Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Shalimar Bagh, said the school management committee has also been active in keeping tabs on the children to see if they need any help.“We have been recording motivational stories on fighting these challenging times and sending them to children. Sometimes, we also discuss stories on video conferencing platforms with each section and turn this into a storytelling session, allowing children to express themselves. Our teachers also record voice messages for the children on WhatsApp and motivate them to not lose hope,” she said.The Central Board of Secondary Education also launched a mobile application for students of classes 9 to 12 on Monday to look at the psychosocial wellness of students. The app offers counselling sessions, educational material on social, emotional and behavioural issues such as depression, anxiety over exams and internet addiction disorder, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-go-the-extra-mile-for-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101620908691229.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases fall to 10,489; positivity rate below 15%||Delhi on Thursday witnessed a sharp fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 10,489 new cases were reported, taking the caseload to 1,372,475, according to the health department's bulletin. The death toll rose to 20,618 after 308 people succumbed to the disease on Thursday while 15,189 more discharges took the total recoveries to 1,274,140, the bulletin showed.On Wednesday, 13,287 new cases were reported while on Tuesday 12,481 patients tested positive for the Covid-19 disease.The active cases in the national capital have declined to 77,717 and the positivity rate dropped below 15 per cent (14.24 per cent to be exact), the lowest since April 14. Since last week, the positivity rate has been declining in Delhi. The major reason for this decline is the imposition of complete lockdown which has also led to a decrease in the number of new cases. Currently, the lockdown is in force till May 17.Also Read| Covid cases dip, Delhi’s daily oxygen demand down to 582MT, says SisodiaA total number of 73,675 tests were conducted on Thursday of which 14,966 are rapid antigen tests while the remaining 58,709 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests, the bulletin added. The numbers of containment zones in Delhi are nearing 58,000 whereas 48,340 patients continue to remain in home isolation.Delhi’s daily requirement of medical oxygen dropped to 582 metric tonnes from 700 MT earlier, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday and asked the Centre to allot the surplus supplies to other states that are in need of the live saving gas. He added at present the oxygen situation in Delhi has improved and more beds are available for the infected patients.However, in April, the health infrastructure of Delhi was stretched to the limit as hospitals as the number of Covid-19 cases rose at a fast pace. The Delhi government had the urged the Centre to increase its daily quota of oxygen and also sought help from other states.Also Read| Delhi’s Covid positivity rate declining, but we can’t be at ease: Satyendar JainMeanwhile, more than 4,222,308 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in Delhi till now. Amid an acute shortage of doses, the Aam Aadmi Party-led government temporarily closed 100 vaccination centres across Delhi meant for beneficiaries between 18-44 years due to lack of Covaxin doses which are produced by Bharat Biotech.Deputy CM Sisodia on Wednesday cited a letter from Bharat Biotech which stated it will not be available to provide vaccine doses to Delhi due to unavailability, under the orders of government officials. Sisodia said this meant that the Centre is controlling the supply of doses meant for states. He accused the Centre of mismanaging the vaccination process and said the export of 65 million doses to foreign nations was the biggest mistake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-10-489-new-covid-cases-308-more-deaths-positivity-rate-below-15-101620899499136.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Covid cases dip, Delhi’s daily oxygen demand down to 582MT, says Sisodia||The Delhi government on Thursday said it has scaled down its requirement of medical oxygen from 700MT to 582MT in view of the declining daily Covid-19 cases in the national Capital. “As of today, the positivity rate has come down to 14% and around 10,400 new Covid-19 cases were reported. Now that cases are reducing, we are seeing a decrease in demand for beds and medical oxygen. When daily cases were peaking around 15 days ago, our calculations, factoring in bed occupancy and active cases, showed Delhi required 700MT of oxygen. But today, after assessment of the Covid-19 situation, Delhi’s oxygen need has been revised to 582MT per day. As a responsible government, we will give the surplus oxygen to the states who need it,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in a press briefing on Thursday. On an average, Delhi is now getting 579.25MT oxygen on a daily basis, of which 42% is being supplied by the railways and 58% is coming through roadways, data showed. Until last week, the share was 29% through railways and 71% through roadways. Also Read | Kejriwal asks ‘where is India’ as states float global tenders for Covid vaccinesThe hospital bed occupancy in the city is fluctuating between 19,000-20,000, records showed. Sisodia said the Delhi government has also written to the Centre about the revised oxygen demand for the city. He thanked the Centre, the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court for coming to the aid of the people of Delhi in times of distress.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20, soon after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal expanded the night and weekend curfew protocols into a lockdown. That protocol has now been renewed several times, and will stay at least till May 17 in order to further flatten the curve.The reduction in the oxygen demand for Delhi comes days after the Supreme Court on May 8 ordered an audit of supply, distribution and utilisation of oxygen supply in the national Capital. The SC set up a panel comprising AIIMS director Rnadeep Guleria, Max hospital’s Sandeep Budhiraja and an IAS officer each from the Central and Delhi governments to conduct the audit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-cases-dip-delhi-s-daily-oxygen-demand-down-to-582mt-says-sisodia-101620894770064.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi's oxygen requirement down, told Centre to redirect surplus quota to other states: Manish Sisodia||Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the city's requirement of oxygen has gone down from 700 metric tonnes to 582 metric tonnes per day and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has written to the Centre asking it to give the surplus quota to other states. "Delhi needs an average of 582 metric tonnes of oxygen now, as against the 700 MT it needed when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases had peaked. We have told Centre to give the extra oxygen from Delhi's quota to other states," he said, according to news agency PTI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageExpressing gratitude to the Centre and the Delhi High Court for coming to the aid of the people of Delhi when they struggled to meet their oxygen demand, the minister said that the city was now reporting a lower positivity rate."There has been a sharp reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases in city. On Thursday, the city recorded 10,400 fresh infections and the positivity rate went down to 14 per cent. More beds are now available in hospitals and the oxygen situation has improved," Sisodia said, according to news agency PTI.According to a release issued by the Centre on Monday, oxygen supply to all over the country was enhanced by setting up thousands of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, importing liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from overseas, and procurement of oxygen concentrators. Also Read: Delhi HC seeks info of patients admitted, discharged at hospitals since April 1 to review 'malpractice' allegationsOxygen production increased from 5700 MT per day in August last year to 9,446 MT per day in May this year, the government said.Meanwhile, the Delhi high court, in an attempt to restrict hoarding and black marketing of equipment used for the treatment of Covid-19, told the Centre on Wednesday that it was “high time” to fix the maximum retail prices (MRP) of oxygen concentrators.In a session earlier this month, the court looked into allegations of hospital beds not being vacated in Delhi and directed the government to update its portal with the numbers of patients discharged and admitted on a daily basis. During its judgement, the court also directed the Centre to ensure that Delhi gets its allocated 490 MT oxygen supply and said 'contempt action' will be initiated in case the Centre fails to comply with the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-oxygen-requirement-down-told-centre-to-redirect-surplus-quota-sisodia-101620889717030.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||No Covaxin for 18-44 age group in Delhi from today, limited stock for 45+||No centre in the national capital will be able to administer Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' to the age group of 18-44 years due to unavailability of its stock, said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi Marlena on Wednesday."Despite the number of vaccination centres being increased extensively, the stock for Covaxin is absolutely finished, and due to this, nearly 100 centres administering Covaxin have been forced to temporarily shut down. So, from Thursday, Delhi will not be able to administer Covaxin to the 18-44 age group, due to the shortage of vaccines. Bharat Biotech has refused to deliver any additional doses of Covaxin to Delhi," Atishi said.Also Read | Bharat Biotech refused to send Covaxin for Delhi, cited govt directive: AAP"We are hoping that the Central government intervenes in the matter and supplies sufficient Covaxin vials to Delhi. In the next few days, those who have got their first doses will be ready for the second dose," she added.The AAP MLA informed that for those above 45 years and healthcare/frontline workers, Covaxin's stock is left only for four days and Covishield's stock for three days. Meanwhile, for Covishield, nine days' stock left for those between the 18-44 age group.Atishi said Delhi received a total of 43,20,490 doses of Covidvaccines for those above 45 years and healthcare/frontline workers till date. Out of these, 40,00,970 doses have already been used and 3,19,520 doses are left for this category.The AAP MLA further explained that Delhi received only 1.5 lakh doses for Covaxin and 6,67,690 doses of Covishield for the age group of 18-44 years. For this, a fresh consignment arrived on Tuesday evening, which had 2,67,690 doses of Covishield for those between 18-44 years of age. With this, the total number of vaccines received for the 18-44 age group now has increased to 8,17,000. Out of these, 3,82,000 vaccine doses have been utilised and 4,35,000 vials are left for the vaccination drive of next few days."We are sincerely hoping that the Centre will make sufficient doses available both for Covaxin and Covishield in the next few days. Delhi has probably faced the most Covid induced hardships ever since the start of the pandemic. Hence, I reiterate that we are hoping that the Central government supplies enough vaccines for the people of Delhi at the earliest," stated Atishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covaxin-for-18-44-age-group-in-delhi-from-today-limited-stock-for-45-101620880677647.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to light rain; thunderstorm likely today: IMD||Delhi woke up to light rain on Thursday. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and wind speed would occur over isolated places of Delhi and adjoining areas including Noida, Meerut Rohtak, Panipat and few other places.“Thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain with a wind speed of 30-50 kmph would occur over isolated places of Entire Delhi, Rohtak, Panipat, Kaithal, Jhajjar, Bhadra, Adampur, Hissar, Gurugram, Sohana, Nuh, Hansi, Manesar, Kharkhoda, Gulothi, Siyana, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Sikandrabad, Bulandshahar, Khurja, Jhangirabad, Garhmukteswar, Bijnor, Chapaurala, Hastinapur, Chandpur, Amroha and adjoining areas during the next 2 hours,” the IMD said in a tweet.Also Read | Delhi DMs told to set up 186 more jab centresThe minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be at 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36°C.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 23°C, and the maximum temperature was 37°C -- two degrees above normal.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 129. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 115.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-in-delhi-todayimd-101620874968745.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi DMs told to set up 186 more jab centres||Even as Delhi shut over 100 vaccination centres, meant for people in 18-44 age group for want of Covaxin doses, the government on Wednesday ordered the scaling up of immunisation centres in schools for all categories of beneficiaries. District magistrates have been directed to create an additional 186 vaccination centres, with about 10 vaccination sites at each, officials in the know of the matter said.The government has also increased the number of shots administered per site per day from 150 to 200, according to a latest order.“Opening up of 186 more vaccination centres with approx 10 vaccination centres (sites) in addition to existing centres…” read the order by special secretary (health) SM Ali.Not all the additional sites will be used for immunising those between the ages of 18 to 44 years; the vaccination drive for others (45+ age group, frontline workers, health workers etc) will also be moved to schools as per the order.“A majority of the existing government centres for the 45+ age group are in Delhi government hospitals and Delhi government dispensaries, and these may be considered for shifting to centres in schools,” the order said.The immunisation drive for the 18 to 44 age group had started in schools on May 3, instead of hospitals and dispensaries, with a view to avoid beneficiaries coming in contact with those who might have Covid-19.Currently, there are 374 centres -- with 470 vaccination sites -- for those above the age of 45 in Delhi. There are 101 centres, totalling 354 vaccination sites, for those between the ages of 18 and 44 years. There were only 16,900 doses of Covaxin left in Delhi as on Wednesday morning, which were administered to beneficiaries across 44 centres and will be exhausted by the end of the day, health officials said.“Thursday onwards, there will be no centre administering Covaxin -- the government has had to shut 100 centres for want of Covaxin. Bharat Biotech has refused to provide any more doses to Delhi. In a few days, those who have received the first dose of the vaccine will be ready for their second dose. We hope that the Centre will intervene and get us more (Covaxin) doses from Bharat Biotech,” said AAP MLA Atishi while releasing the daily vaccination bulletin on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dms-told-to-set-up-186-more-jab-centres-101620865117443.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Forest dept ups vigil as demand for wood spikes in crematoriums||As the city grapples with a rising demand of wood for cremations of Covid-19 victims, the Delhi forest department is now on its guard to control cases of illegal cutting of trees in the capital.Senior forest department officials said that instances of illegal felling of trees have started coming to their notice and said it could have been prompted by the sudden surge in demand for wood for cremations. The forest officials, along with Delhi Police, are keeping a close watch on the black-marketing and sale of wood for funeral pyres, officials said.For instance, on May 2, a case of the illegal cutting of four fully grown trees was reported from south Delhi’s Dera Mandi. While the south division of the forest department sealed the area and is conducting an inquiry into the felling, officials have not been able to retrieve the timber.A similar instance of trees being felled was also reported by environment activists on April 9 from Sundar Nagar, where forest department confirmed that no permissions to cut trees were given to any construction agency or individual.Forest officials suspect that limited availability has fuelled instances of illegal wood trade in different parts of Delhi and NCR, which needs to be checked to control long-term damage.“While we are providing permissions to the municipalities for the cutting of dead and dried trees, we are keeping a close watch to ensure only the municipal agencies are cutting the trees and that too in the required number. But we are also stressing that civic agencies should come up with a long term solution for this high number of cremations because this pandemic is not going to get over in a day or in a week. We need to come up with more sustainable solutions such as electric and CNG-fuelled cremation facilities so that damage to trees can be minimised,” said a senior forest official.Forest department records show that the south division has granted permissions for the felling of 400 dead and dried trees to the municipality, while the north division has granted early cutting permissions to the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) for the construction of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) at Ashok Nagar, so that the wood can be sent to the local crematoriums. The north division is also in the process of identifying fallen trees in the Bonta Park, Kamla Nehru Ridge, so that these can be used for funeral pyres if required.“We are only giving permissions to government agencies and not entertaining any private requests now,” said Navneet Srivastava, deputy conservator forests (west division).When the death toll in the national capital started rising exponentially under the second wave of coronavirus, the three municipalities (east, north and south Delhi municipal corporations) had written separate letters to the forest department to make arrangements of wood, as the municipal-run funeral homes were running out of wood for pyres.Residents living in the Capital’s outskirts said that while the focus of the government and the municipal agencies are on the big crematoriums, there are smaller facilities which have become massively starved of resources, which is also leading to instances of families having to buy wood at high rates.“Every village here has a crematorium but because of the pandemic, these facilities claim to have run out of supplies. Grieving families are often asked to get wood. Each pile of wood, which is some 200-300 kg, is sold at ₹20,000 or so. Not just Covid deaths, families of people who are dying of other causes also have to arrange resources,” said Karamveer Singh, a resident of Najafgarh’s Ghummenhera Village.While the forest rules stress that only government-approved suppliers can arrange wood to crematoriums -- to ensure the prevention of illegal cutting and trade of wood -- another resident of Tikri Kalan, bordering Haryana, said that wood dealers ensure that the piles are supplied to cremation facilities after the payment is received.“We bought wood for my cousin’s cremation. He died of cardiac arrest and we could not get him tested for Covid. The city is facing a crisis; we had no other option but to arrange for resources ourselves. What should we have done? We could not have waited endlessly for the crematorium to get wood,” said Rahul Chaudhury, from Tikri Kalan, who paid ₹9,500 for the wood.A caretaker of the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium, which is among the largest cremation facilities in the city, explained that since the municipal facilities are managed by NGOs, the wood here is supplied by government suppliers.“By April-end and beginning of May, the death count was so high that we were facing a severe shortage of wood. Even though this is a big facility, we had to cut the wood for funeral pyres from the usual 500-600 kg per body, to around 450 kg, to save wood. The situation of smaller cremation facilities is worse,” the caretaker said, requesting anonymity.The municipalities said that they were experimenting with alternative and sustainable technologies to meet the Covid crisis.“We (north corporation) have very recently started making logs of dried cow dung, and shredded crop stubble, which is a farm waste. The east corporation has also issued directions to use cow dung so that the consumption of wood is less,” said north Delhi mayor Jai Prakash.Meanwhile, BK Singh, former principal chief conservator forests in Karnataka, said that the temporary shortage of wood may not result in any long-term damage, but added that it is important that the forest department keep a close watch on illegal traders. “The shortage might be solved in a few days but it is imperative that this market for illegal wood is not encouraged because demand is often man-made. In these circumstances, the forest department should in fact press agencies to plant more trees in lieu of what is being cut,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/forest-dept-ups-vigil-as-demand-for-wood-spikes-in-crematoriums-101620864317986.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||‘What’s the offence?’: 4 get bail in O2 device case; order on Kalra’s bail today||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to four people, including the CEO and vice-president of Matrix Cellular, for their alleged role in hoarding and selling oxygen concentrators, saying it was unable to understand the offence they had committed. Meanwhile, another city court reserved its order on the anticipatory bail plea by co-accused Navneet Kalra till Thursday.While Kalra has allegedly been on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular last week, the police arrested five people, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, Hitesh, and four senior officials of Matrix Cellular – Gourav Khanna, the chief executive officer (CEO), Gaurav, who is the business head, Sathish Sethi, the manager, and Vikrant, a sales executive. Khanna was the last person to be arrested from Gurugram on Friday.The court granted bail to Khanna, Gaurav, Vikrant and Sethi on Wednesday.According to Delhi Police, Matrix Cellular received a consignment of 650 oxygen concentrators from China, of which 524 have been recovered. The concentrators were being sold for ₹70,000 each. The court, however, wanted to know if there was any illegality in this.“It may be noted that the gravamen of the case of prosecution is the alleged black marketing and hoarding of concentrators by the accused, however, the aforesaid terms are not defined in any of the Acts under consideration before this court,” chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Arun Kumar Garg said, while granting bail to the four accused.He said “no prima facie case under section 420 IPC is made out against the accused, at least from the contents of the FIR”.“The court is unable to comprehend as to why the provisions of Prevention of Black Marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of the Essential Commodities Act, 1980 are not being invoked by the state, if the state wants to stop black marketing,” the magistrate added.Kalra plea order reservedMeanwhile, additional sessions judge Sandeep Garg reserved the order on the pre-arrest bail plea by Kalra for Thursday at 10am, after hearing the arguments of the prosecution and defence.Public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava told the court that Kalra’s custodial interrogation was required and that bail should not be granted as he was an influential person.“His intention was to cheat the public at large and wrongfully gain. Had Delhi Police not busted the racket, many people would have been cheated,” he alleged.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, representing Kalra, asked the court how can his client be accused of selling the oxygen concentrators at exorbitant prices, if there is no ceiling price fixed by the government.“There is no MRP fixed by the government till date. How will you decide if the prices are exorbitant?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whats-the-offence-4-get-bail-in-o2-device-case-order-on-kalra-s-bail-today-101620864058156.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||HC asks govt to cap cost of Covid treatment at pvt facilities in Delhi||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the Delhi government to cap prices for treatment of Covid-19 patients at private hospitals and nursing homes in the city, saying the administration cannot turn a blind eye to overcharging by hospitals merely because there were no complaints.“We want this taken up on top priority,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said, and directed the health secretary, Delhi government, to convene a meeting with the administration of several hospitals and decide on the rationalisation of the charges. The bench asked the Delhi government to issue appropriate orders after the meeting.“Merely because there were no complaints, the situation on the ground cannot be ignored. We agree [with the petitioner] that you cannot turn a blind eye to it. We had asked you to again speak to all stakeholders. That exercise should have been done. You could have seen the condition on the ground, spoken to all the stakeholders and then arrived at a reasonable figure so that people are not fleeced,” the bench said.The directions came after the lawyer, Abhay Gupta, representing one of the intervenors in the main petition by Rakesh Malhotra, raised the issue of alleged overcharging by private hospitals. Gupta placed on record a hospital bill in which the ICU package price was ₹30,000, but the charges for bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) machine, oxygen, monitors, etc, were additional and to the tune of thousands of rupees per day.The court said that the government can have different slabs based on services offered so that there is transparency.“There should be some transparency. It shouldn’t be like someone is charging a lakh or someone’s charging ₹50,000,” the bench said.Senior advocate and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao told the court that, according to his research, several private hospitals were refusing to admit patients even if they had cashless insurance cover, unless they deposited ₹50,000.The court also questioned the state government for not making over 1,000-bed Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka fully operational till date.Justices Sanghi and Palli said the Delhi government should learn from the “bitter experiences” it had during the current infection wave. “If a third wave comes, as many experts are warning it might, and your facility is not up and running (to full capacity), then again we would be back to this situation,” the bench said after senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for Delhi government, said completion of the hospital was not a pressing issue as around 4,500 beds were currently available in the national capital.“Though the situation may have somewhat improved with regard to availability of Covid beds, one cannot forget the situation that existed till just a couple of days ago when serious patients in need of hospitalisation with oxygen support, those requiring ICU with ventilators, were not able to get admission and many of them died without getting any chance to get treated appropriately,” the court noted in its oral order.Advocate YP Singh for the petitioner, Dwarka Bar Association, told the court that 80 beds were operational in the Indira Gandhi Hospital, and only eight were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-asks-govt-to-cap-cost-of-covid-treatment-at-pvt-facilities-in-delhi-101620863163525.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM Sisodia hits out at Centre over vaccine supply cap||The Capital has shut over 100 vaccination centres meant for people in the 18-44 age group for lack of Covaxin doses, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday, while hitting out at the Union government for capping the number of doses that states can acquire even when they are procuring shots directly.The deputy CM cited a letter by Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director Krishna Ella, who wrote back to Delhi’s principal secretary (health) expressing the company’s inability to send more doses since the supplies were capped by the Union government.“It is the Centre, which introduced the policy of letting every state government procure doses directly from the manufacturers. Then why is the central government controlling even the stocks that state governments are directly procuring from the manufacturers? From exporting vaccines to controlling supplies to states, the Centre is regulating everything,” Sisodia, the nodal minister for Covid-19, said at the press conference.“Delhi sought 13.4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to inoculate every adult in the city. Of this, we sought 6.7 million doses each of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech and Covishield from Serum Institute of India. Yesterday (Tuesday), the Covaxin manufacturer sent us a letter stating clearly that it will not be able to send vaccine doses to us. As of date, we have zero stock of Covaxin and only those centres having Covishield doses are open for vaccination,” he added.In his letter to the Delhi government, Ella said there has been an unprecedented demand for vaccines, and in spite of increasing production every month, they are unable to meet the requirements.“Further, we are making dispatches as per the directives of the concerned government officials. We, therefore, sincerely regret that we cannot make any additional supplies as required by you,” said the letter, a copy of which has HT seen, dated May 11.Representatives of the Union government and Bharat Biotech declined to comment on the matter after Sisodia’s press conference.According to a formula shared by the Centre with the Supreme Court over the weekend, state governments will altogether be given 20 million doses to inoculate their 18-44 age group population from the roughly 85 million vaccines doses expected to be produced this month.The Union government has said it has fixed quotas even for doses that states need to directly procure from vaccine makers in the interest of equitable distribution, and the quotas have been fixed based on the number of people in the 18-44 age group in each state.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the Kejriwal government did not ask for fresh stocks until May 7. “No vaccine was ordered by the Delhi government, and it only wrote a letter of interest seeking a rate quotation from the manufacturer, that too as late as May 7, to which the company immediately replied. Firstly, despite having ample time, the Kejriwal government did not reserve oxygen cylinders. Now again, they missed the opportunity to order and procure vaccine on time and are therefore, engaging in blame game,” Gupta said.HT has asked the Delhi government for a copy of the letter it sent to the company on May 7. A reply from the government is awaited.Sisodia said Bharat Biotech’s letter clearly indicates that the central government is deciding which state should get how much stock of vaccines and said that if India had not exported 65 million doses of vaccines, it could have vaccinated the entire population of Mumbai and Delhi together.The deputy CM asked the central government to temporarily suspend all exports of Covid-19 vaccines, rope in more pharmaceutical companies to scale up production, and float a global tender for vaccine procurement and give it to states to inoculate every person in three months.At least 10 states, including Delhi, have said they will float global tenders for procurement -- an approach Sisodia said will only lead states to compete against each other.“The Centre should understand the gravity of the pandemic in the country and play the role of the national government. Instead of asking states to fight for vaccines in the international market, the Centre should buy these globally and give them to the states after which it should direct every state government to complete vaccination in three months,” he said.The Delhi government said it received 150,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech to administer to those between 18-44 and, since the drive began for this age group on May 1, the doses have been completely used up.“So far, we received around 817,690 vaccine doses – 150,000 Covaxin and 667,690 Covishield – for the 18-44 age group. Of the total doses received, 382,620 doses have been used. Currently, we have around 435,070 doses in stock and all of them are Covishield. Going by the current rate of beneficiary turnout, the Covishield stock should last nine more days,” said the ruling Aam Aadmi Party’s lawmaker Atishi in the government’s live-streamed bulletin on vaccination on Wednesday.These numbers are for the 18-44 years group. For the 45 and above age group, the administration has 4 days of Covaxin stock and 3 days of Covishield, but more may be expected from the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-deputy-cm-sisodia-hits-out-at-centre-over-vaccine-supply-cap-101620861455405.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Lost album regained||The cover is black. The album’s hundreds of photos are in black-and-white. The back label says — Made in England.This photo album was discovered one afternoon at the Sunday Book Bazaar, in Delhi’s Mahila Haat. It was buried under a pile of Sidney Sheldon paperbacks. The album was purchased for a mere ₹100.Inside is the documentation of one man’s life. Most photos cover India and England from the 1920s to the early 1940s, when we were still colonised by the British. The earliest pictures were taken in a family mansion in Ahmedabad, year 1925. Each page is extensively annotated in a clear, beautiful handwriting, with a pencil whose grey glossy shade shines out of the album’s black pages. The opening page shows a boy in various poses. Some pages later, the scenes shift to 1940, with a page marked, “Our ship to UK.” The boy has grown into a young man — he is standing in a sunlit corridor, dressed in a suit, with a woman in sari standing a few steps behind. The next page fixes the setting in Cambridge. The successive photos depict him as a law student in the university town.One does occasionally fish out precious books from the city’s famous book bazaar. But it is rare to discover something so valuable, containing such extensive photographic details of a privileged individual’s life — that too from a period so rich in history. A great many books in the market are obtained by the sellers from so-called kabadi-wallas, who collect them from households getting rid of their collections, or parts of it. This album must have been given away by mistake.Its middle section is most curious, with many pictures of a white woman; in each she is intensely gazing towards the camera, or perhaps the person holding it. The handwritten notes are missing here. She disappears abruptly, with later pages shifting back to India. Now our protagonist is in a huge mansion in Ahmedabad. He is wearing kurta pyjama. In one picture, he is sitting cross-legged on the floor, his dinner plate a large banana leaf. The album concludes with our Cambridge-returned hero posing in front of various Delhi monuments. Who was this man? What became of his life? The answers might be in other albums — hopefully they are lying safe with him, or his inheritors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-lost-album-regained-101620849848397.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Over 4,000 ward beds, 98 ICU beds free in Delhi for first time in four weeks||The Capital on Wednesday evening had over 4,000 ward beds and 98 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, earmarked for Covid-19 patients, vacant for the first time since the second week of April when coronavirus cases had started rising rapidly. To be sure, the city has added over 7,000 beds for Covid-19 patients since then, of which nearly 2,000 were ICU beds, according to the data on the government’s Delhi Corona app. Of the total 23,345 hospital beds in Delhi, 4,682 were vacant as on Wednesday evening, putting the occupancy rate at 79.9%. Of the 5,911 ICU beds, 98 were vacant, putting the occupancy at 98.3%. In comparison, on the evening of April 16, only 443 of the 3,989 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were vacant, putting the vacancy at 87.9%. About 10 days later, on April 26, the city had completely run out of ICU beds -- the app showed just 12 empty beds that day, and 11 of them were for pregnant women with Covid-19 and the other remaining bed, at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, was already taken. Doctors see this as a sign of the Covid-19 situation gradually easing in Delhi. “The situation is definitely improving; now, there are oxygen beds available in the hospital and we do not have to refuse any patient. We have restarted all admissions. The ICUs are still full because patients, once admitted, need nearly three weeks to recover from Covid-19,” said a doctor from one of Delhi’s large private hospitals, asking not to be named. On Wednesday, Delhi reported 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, up from Tuesday’s 12,481, according to the state health bulletin. But even that figure was far less than what was reported during the last two weeks of April, when an average of 23,000 new cases were reported daily. Another doctor from the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital, said on condition of anonymity, “The rush of patients in need of admissions has reduced over the past two or three days. Earlier, we were getting 150 to 170 patients each day; that has gone down to about 80 to 100 daily.” This also means that the oxygen requirement of hospitals has also reduced. “Not only has the supply of oxygen been streamlined, the requirement itself has gone down,” said a doctor from Burari hospital, asking not to be named. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a press briefing on Tuesday said, “At the moment, there is no problem with beds in relation to oxygen. The demand for oxygen is decreasing now that the cases are going down, but we should keep getting the oxygen; otherwise there will be problems. We need 700MT of oxygen daily, and we are getting a little less than that (currently).” There was acute pressure on Delhi hospitals between April 27 and May 3, according to a senior administrator from Delhi government-run Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. “There are fewer people coming to the hospital now that cases have gone down and beds are available. The situation was critical between April 27 and May 3,” the administrator said, adding that the extensions set up by the government also helped ease the burden on the hospital. At its peak, the hospitalisations in Delhi had touched 22,000 at any given point during the current wave of the pandemic, according to Jain. “The demand for beds is still there, there are still 20,000 people admitted to hospitals. But the maximum occupancy during the previous wave was 9,500 ( in November), while during the current one, it is around 22,000. That is a huge number,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-4-000-ward-beds-98-icu-beds-free-in-delhi-for-first-time-in-four-weeks-101620849465936.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 testing centre set up at DU’s Hansraj College||Delhi University’s (DU) Hansraj College on Wednesday set up a Covid-19 testing centre on its premises for the university community, days after college principal Rama Sharma wrote to various authorities offering the campus for the setting up of a Covid care centre, vaccination centre, and a testing centre.Sharma had last week written to the lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and health minister Satyendar Jain, among others, offering up the Hansraj College campus for Covid-19 related activities.In her letter dated May 9, Sharma said, “We are all going through a bad phase and the pandemic is posing many challenges. It is increasingly being understood that each one of us must come forward and lend our hands, resources, and logistics to fight the pandemic... Hansraj College has a hostel that caters to 200 residents. We are ready to offer the space and with your support that can be converted into a 100-bed ICU facility as the Covid patients are not getting hospital beds and that is causing anxiety. University employees and their families are also facing challenges as facilities are scattered and infected people are increasing every day.”She had also requested a vaccination centre and a testing centre on the campus. “We also request you to set up a vaccination centre (Covishield) (currently there is no vaccination centre in the North Campus) and testing centre in the college for the university teaching and non-teaching staff,” she wrote.“We have opened this RT-PCR testing centre in collaboration with a private company. There was no testing centre on the DU’s North Campus until now. The centre also provides home collection service to the university staff and test reports will be given within 24 hours,” Sharma said.“We also want to start a vaccination centre and a 100-bed covid care facility on the college campus as soon as possible. We are ready with 100 beds and if the government provides us with the resources we can set up a proper Covid-19 care centre,” the principal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-testing-centre-set-up-at-du-s-hansraj-college-101620849346481.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||As infections ease Covid-19 beds free up in Delhi hospitals||The Capital on Wednesday evening had over 4,000 vacant ward beds and 98 vacant intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients for the first time since the second week of April, when coronavirus cases started rising rapidly. To be sure, the city has added over 7,000 beds for Covid patients since then, of which nearly 2,000 are ICU beds, according to the Delhi Corona app.Of the 23,345 hospital beds in Delhi, 4,682 were vacant as on Wednesday evening, putting the occupancy rate at 79.9%. Of the 5,911 ICU beds, 98 were vacant, putting the occupancy at 98.3%.In comparison, on the evening of April 16, only 443 of the 3,989 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were vacant, putting the vacancy at 87.9%. About 10 days later, on April 26, the city had completely run out of ICU beds -- the app showed just 12 empty beds that day, and 11 of them were for pregnant women infected with Covid-19; the other remaining bed, at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, was already taken.Doctors see this as a sign of the Covid-19 situation gradually easing in Delhi. “The situation is improving; now, there are oxygen beds available in the hospital and we do not have to refuse any patient. We have restarted all admissions. The ICUs are still full because patients, once admitted, need nearly three weeks to recover from Covid-19,” said a doctor from one of Delhi’s large private hospitals, asking not to be named.On Wednesday, Delhi reported 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, marginally up from Tuesday’s 12,481, according to the state health bulletin. These figures are far less than what was from the average 23,000 new cases reported daily during the last two weeks of April.The Covid-19 test positivity rate has dropped slowly, but steadily over the past three weeks, since it peaked at 36.24% on April 22. It has dropped every day for the past five days, and fell to 17.03% on Wednesday.Another doctor from the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital said on condition of anonymity: “The rush of patients in need of admissions has reduced over the past two or three days. Earlier, we were getting 150 to 170 patients each day; that has gone down to about 80 to 100 daily.”A doctor from Burari hospital said the oxygen demand has also stabilised. “Not only has the supply of oxygen been streamlined, the requirement itself has gone down a little,” he said.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, in a press briefing on Tuesday, said, “At the moment, there is no problem with beds in relation to oxygen. The demand for oxygen is decreasing now that the cases are going down, but we should keep getting the oxygen; otherwise there will be problems. We need 700 MT of oxygen daily, and we are getting a little less than that currently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-infections-ease-covid-19-beds-free-up-in-delhi-hospitals-101620849178918.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||4 men, trained by Jamtara gangs, held for duping Covid-19 patients||The police have arrested four men who were allegedly trained in cyber crime by gangs of Jamtara, Jharkhand, and used to cheat Covid-19 patients and/or relatives in Delhi-NCR of money after promising them oxygen cylinders. Delhi Police said while six cases that were reported from Delhi have been solved.The accused have been identified as 19-year-old Ritik Singh, Yogesh Singh, 23-year-old Mohammad Arzoo and 24-year-old Ravish Abiram. Police have recovered six mobile phones, 14 SIM cards, a laptop, three two-wheelers, and multiple ATM cards, PAN cards and credit cards from these men.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said on May 3, police received a complaint from a Karol Bagh resident, Kshitij Mehra, who said he had contacted on a phone number to enquire about an oxygen cylinder for his friend who was a Covid-19 patient.“Mishra said the man who answered the call introduced himself as Ritik Singh and demanded payment for the cylinder. Mishra paid him ₹47, 500 in several online payments after which the man was not reachable on phone. Once we got the complaint, we investigated the money trail, found the bank accounts and SIM cards used in the fraud and zeroed in on Ritik Singh. Subsequently, a search was conducted in Farrukhabad, Uttar Pradesh, and the suspect was arrested last Friday,” the DCP said.Singh said following Ritik’s arrest, his accomplices Yogesh, Arzoo and mastermind Ravish were all arrested on Monday.“During further investigation, Ravish told police that he had undergone training in cyber fraud in Jamtara, Jharkhand, and he had learnt different techniques to dupe people. He admitted that they used to get innocent men and women to open bank accounts by offering them a fixed salary every month. The mobile phone used to cheat people and the credit and debit cards used to withdraw the amount from the said accounts were also recovered from the possession of the arrested men,” the DCP said.He said police have so far worked out six cases of cheating reported from Karol Bagh, Hauz Khas, Najafgarh, Kalkaji, Uttam Nagar and Kotla Mubarakpur in Delhi. “Further probe to nab the remaining members of the gang is underway,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-cybercrime-trained-con-men-held-for-online-fraud-in-guise-of-supplying-oxygen-cylinders-101620849286553.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt partially opens the 500-bed ICU facility at Ramilia Grounds in east Delhi||The Delhi government on Wednesday partially opened a new 500-bed intensive care facility near Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital in east Delhi. “Today (Wednesday), nearly five patients were admitted to the ICU facility created at the Ramlila ground near GTB hospital. All 500 ICU beds have not been opened yet. We have started with nearly 100 beds for now since the requirement has marginally declined in recent days,” said a senior official, asking not to be named. Explaining the admission process, a second health official said patients cannot approach the facility directly to get an admission. “Since this is a critical care centre or an ICU centre, admissions will be permitted only if the patient is referred here by the GTB hospital, to which this centre is attached. So, a person requiring treatment need to first go to the GTB hospital and doctors there will have to send them here,” the official said. The temporary facility is fully air-conditioned, has oxygen generation plants and free Wi-Fi for patients. A senior official of the public works department (PWD), which built the facility, said the centre was created in a record time of 10 days. A similar facility is being created at the main Ramlila Ground near Lok Nayak hospital. This will also have 500 ICU beds and will be ready in a day or two, the first official quoted above said. On April 27, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced the setting up of these two intensive care facilities at the Ramlila grounds in central Delhi and east Delhi as well as adding 200 ICU beds at the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre. He had said the state would have an additional 1,200 beds for Covid treatment by May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-partially-opens-the-500-bed-icu-facility-at-ramilia-grounds-in-east-delhi-101620849285908.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi government likely to announce cap on prices of oxygen cylinders||The Delhi government is planning to cap the prices of oxygen cylinders in the Capital and has increased the number of procurement points for the public from 14 to at least 94, senior officials said on Wednesday.“We are actively considering capping the prices of oxygen cylinders. On Tuesday, we held a meeting with all dealers, refillers and district magistrates to discuss the issue. A decision will be taken soon,” said Ashish Kundra, Delhi transport commissioner and officer-on-special duty (health).A senior official on condition, who asked not to be named, said that during Tuesday’s meeting, retailers said the rate for D-type cylinders should be capped at around ₹700 a unit, while the rate for re-fillers should be ₹350. The cost of a B-type cylinder, retailers said, should be around ₹250. The final rates are yet to be fixed, the official said.Oxygen cylinders are categorised as types A to H, depending on their size and capacity, with A being the smallest. The B-type cylinders are usually used by individual patients, while D-type cylinders are used by hospitals in manifold rooms connected to the hospital’s main gas pipeline.On average, Delhi has been receiving 579.25 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen a day from the Centre, of which 42% is being supplied by the railways and 58% is coming through roadways, state government data showed.The decentralised pool of refill points should also ease the city’s oxygen bottlenecks, said officials.Until recently, officials said, small hospitals, ambulances, as well as families of Covid-19 patients in home isolation, were queueing at these 14 refill points, resulting in waits of eight or 10 hours in many instances.“This has been decentralised to some extent now with the central pool of cylinders, to which we have given all district magistrates access. To make cylinders more accessible to patients, we have also identified at least 80 dealers or retailers who will be issued licenses to sell cylinders. So, with these 80 dealers along and 14 refillers, we will have a network of at least 94 authorised points where people can get oxygen cylinders,” Kundra said.All these 94 points have been linked to the government’s online oxygen portal.A Bawana-based dealer whose name and number were recently linked to the government portal said, “On May 10, we got permission to refill oxygen cylinders. We are asking for the IDs of the patient and the person who has come to refill the cylinder, along with a doctor’s prescription.”Another dealer, who asked not to be named, said, “We have been getting calls from people for oxygen supply ever since our name was put up on the website, but we can’t help them, because we are not getting oxygen supply.”But V Ashok, another dealer listed on the portal, said, “We are providing empty oxygen cylinders to people right now, because we do not have clarity about oxygen supply. So, we are guiding those who come to us to the nearest oxygen refilling plant. I hope the government gives some clarity on whether these dealers are allowed to refill cylinders and sell them in their stores.”The senior official quoted above said the government is getting in touch with all dealers, giving them the licenses and clearances necessary and explaining the process to them.“The dealers will have to get cylinders, refill them and sell them. They can include the transportation costs and minor profit margin. The government will soon cap the prices of these medical goods,” said the official.Residents on Wednesday pointed out that the oxygen cylinder booking portal that was announced by the Delhi government a week ago has not yet been made fully operational.The “online booking for refilling of oxygen cylinder-Delhi government-corona relief” link, which was put up on the Delhi government’s portal on May 6, was replaced with “Oxygen cylinder near you” a few days back, which provides the list of 94 oxygen dealers/depots along with their address and contact numbers.Satyajit Vaish, President of Manav Vikas Society and a resident of Panchsheel Park who has been helping people in home isolation arrange oxygen cylinders, said, “Most of these dealers don’t answer the phone. They can’t provide or refill an oxygen cylinder. One has to go to the authorised refilling plants. The government must provide at least one dealer in each assembly constituency where people can get the cylinders refilled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-government-likely-to-announce-cap-on-prices-of-oxygen-cylinders-101620849225938.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools get nod to upload Class 10 marks by June 20||The education department on Tuesday allowed Delhi government schools to upload the tabulated marks of Class 10 students, based on internal assessments, by June 20 if their teachers are engaged in Covid duties. Earlier this month, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had said the results will be declared by June 20.The education department’s decision comes a week after the Delhi government schools asked the CBSE to review its timeline for the declaration of Class 10 results. In a notification released on May 1, the CBSE said schools will have to conduct pending assessments, if any, by May 15 through telephone calls or other modes, finalize results by May 25, check and moderate marks by May 28 and submit marks to the CBSE by June 5.On May 4, HT had reported how teachers and principals of various Delhi government schools said it may be difficult to adhere to the CBSE timeline since teachers were engaged in Covid duties such as door-to-door survey in hotspots, assistance in contact tracing and testing, screening at the airport and in vaccination-related activities.Last week, the Delhi government had written to the national board asking them to review the timeline. A senior official of the education department said, “The board informed us we can have internal flexibility. This is why we asked schools to upload the marks by June 20. Based on their situation and available resources, schools can decide when to carry out the particular tasks within the stipulated time-frame.”On Tuesday, additional director of education (exam) Rita Sharma asked government schools to stick to the CBSE schedule “as far as possible”, allowing an extension to only those schools which are struggling with resources. Sharma asked schools to submit marks by June 20 and gave them the autonomy to manage the timeline as per their “conditions and circumstances.”“Keeping in view the high number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the lockdown that has restricted the movement of teachers, and deployment of teachers for various Covid duties, the last date for uploading the marks of internal assessment (out of 20 marks) and year-end exam (out of 80 marks) on the CBSE portal may be relaxed up to 20th June, 2021,” read the circular from Sharma.Schools requiring further extension beyond June 20 can also reach out to the education department. “For such special cases for further extension of time schedule, the concerned Head of School may put up their case to Exam Branch through Deputy Director Education (District) by 18 June, 2021. The Exam branch will take up the case of such schools with CBSE for its results to be either withheld or to be declared separately by CBSE,” read the circular.Out of the 100 marks for each subject, 20 marks are for internal assessment, which has already been tabulated by the schools as per existing policy, and the remaining 80 marks are for the year-end board examinations. Due to the cancellation of exams, the board has announced that this 80-mark component will be calculated on the basis of different internal exams including unit tests, mid-terms and pre-board exams.However, the director of education on Tuesday has asked schools to calculate the 80-mark component on the basis of pre-board exams as many schools were not able to complete mid-term tests.“If any student has not appeared in any one or more than one subject(s) of the Pre Board Examinations 2021…the school may conduct one-to-one assessment of such students telephonically as per guidelines of the CBSE,” the circular read.CBSE officials did not respond to calls and messages for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-schools-get-nod-to-upload-class-10-marks-by-june-20-101620849165885.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||At least 29 ‘black fungus’ cases in AIIMS, Ganga Ram spark worry||Hospitals are recording a spike in cases of mucormycosis, a potentially deadly fungal infection, as the surge in Covid-19 cases has led to several people being prescribed steroids and immunomodulators that leave some people vulnerable to other pathogens.Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, has been seen among those who have uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised or those who are given excessive steroids or immune-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab, doctors said.They added that, if left untreated, it’s fatality rate can be up to 80%. If not detected early, it can affect the orbit of the eyes and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or use of their jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from infections or wounds.At least 10 patients suspected to have contracted mucormycosis are currently admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Doctors said the centre used to see only two such cases a month previously.“We have 10 patients admitted in the ENT department who, we suspect, have mucormycosis. Now, we are seeing reports of opportunistic infections like mucormycosis from Gujarat and other areas where it (tocilizumab) was used a lot. Many Covid-19 patients either have underlying diabetes or their blood sugar levels became uncontrollable because of the steroids given for treatment. Some of them receive medicines, such as tocilizumab and itolizumab, which further the aggressive decline in the immune system. All this leads to a very high chance of opportunistic infections,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, in a webinar.Dr Alok Thakar, head of the ENT department at AIIMS, said, “We are seeing a surge over the last week or so. The last time we saw a surge in mucormycosis cases was when Covid-19 cases increased but this time, the number of cases is greater. Since last year, we are treating probably three to four patients a month and now, we are treating four patients a day at times. For the last three days, we have been getting four to five patients a day.”He added: “It generally occurs a couple of weeks after the onset of Covid-19 infections. However, it is still rare even among Covid-19 patients ; very few who have recovered will get it.”Thakar said people should maintain basic hygiene after recovering from Covid-19 to ensure that they do not get any infections, stay away from soil, and also regularly test their blood sugar levels.Another 19 people with mucormycosis are admitted at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said Dr Ajay Swaroop, head of the ENT department at the hospital.“Before Covid-19, I would have seen as many cases probably in five years. We get one patient with the fungal infection in three to four months; that too because we are a big tertiary care facility. Now, we are hearing of patients in other city hospitals who have contracted mucormycosis and who want to move in here for treatment.”The sudden increase has also resulted in a shortage of anti-fungal medicines used for treating the infection. “The anti-fungal drugs are not freely available and there is a shortage because the demand has gone up,” said Dr Guleria.Dr Swaroop said, “I don’t know the current situation about the drugs, it stands to reason that if 35 people need it instead of the usual five, there will be a shortage. The lypholised (freeze-dried) drug that is slightly better and less toxic to other organs was anyway difficult to get.”Black fungus infection numbers went up 2.5 times last year between September and December across 16 centres in the country, said Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the department of microbiology at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. He is part of the Fungal Infection Study Forum and is one of the members who drafted the government advisory on mucormycosis. “It is likely to go up further this time; we are planning to conduct another study,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-least-29-black-fungus-cases-in-aiims-ganga-ram-spark-worry-101620848253658.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||‘High time’ to fix rates of O2 machines: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Wednesday told the Centre it was “high time” to fix the maximum retail prices (MRP) of oxygen concentrators and other equipment used for the treatment of Covid-19 to stem out alleged malpractices such as hoarding and black marketing.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also issued contempt notice to every person, including businessman Navneet Kalra, named in over 50 FIRs lodged between May 2 to May 8 in cases of alleged hoarding and black marketing, and directed them to appear before the court virtually on May 19.The bench said the notices will be served to the people named in the FIRs through the station house officers (SHOs) of the police stations where the cases are registered.The court directed the notices be sent to individuals whose name were added to the FIR during the course of investigation.“We direct issuance of court notice to all accused in said cases...This should be served to SHO of local police stations concerned where cases are registered… Issue notice to accused name in FIR and those added as accused in course of investigation…,” the court said in its oral order.The discussion on the price of the oxygen concentrators began after advocate Sanjeev Sagar, counsel for one of the petitioners, Manish Chauhan, said public prosecutors and judicial officers were unaware of the May 2 order of the bench. Chauhan, a resident of Delhi, was seeking court’s directions to the government to declare medicines and medical equipment meant for Covid treatment as essential items under the Essential Commodities Act.Sagar told the court that a trial court has said that offences cannot be “made up” against such individuals and the option was to book them for contempt of court if they are selling medicines or equipment at exorbitant rates.The bench was shown media reports which said that the concerned trial court, while hearing the anticipatory bail filed by restaurateur Kalra, in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his restaurants, said that first a law has to be made to regulate prices, and people cannot be penalised in a hurry because the high court wanted steps to be taken.Amicus curiae and senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao said the trial court cannot be blamed since a price cap has not yet been fixed for a majority of the imported equipment, and the central government has to inform the high court what steps it has taken.Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan told the court the issue was under consideration, and sought time to inform the bench on the decision taken. He assured that a decision will be taken soon.The court asked Sagar to prepare a note on fixing prices, for informing public prosecutors and judicial officers in the subordinate courts, and said it will be circulated by the Delhi government.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who, along with several hospitals, sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in hospitals and nursing homes.The notices to those named in the FIR were issued in accordance with a May 2 order of the bench in which it warned of contempt action against all those indulging in hoarding of medical equipment or medicines, or selling them at prices above MRP.The matter will now be heard on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-time-to-fix-rates-of-o2-machines-delhi-hc-101620847629084.html
