14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 8,506 Covid-19 cases as testing declines, death toll at 289||Delhi on Friday reported fewer than 10,000 Covid-19 cases after it recorded 8,506 new cases, pushing the tally to 13,80,981. The national capital had recorded 10,489 cases on Thursday and 13,287 cases on Wednesday. Friday's numbers marked a steady decline in the daily tally for the third consecutive day. This was the lowest number of cases reported in the capital since April 7, when 7,897 cases were reported.As many as 289 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, marking a significant fall from the 308 deaths that were recorded on Thursday. The death toll now stands at 20,907.Delhi logged a positivity rate of 12.40%, witnessing a steady decline from the 14.24% reported on Thursday, and 17.03% recorded on Wednesday. Covid-19 testing has been on the decline. A total of 68,575 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours whereas 73,675 tests were conducted on Thursday and 78,035 tests were carried out on Wednesday.Data released by the health department showed 14,140 individuals made a recovery from the infection on Friday, a slight decline from the 15,189 reported on Thursday. A total of 12,88,280 have recovered from Covid-19 in the national capital till date.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a press conference that Delhi’s infection rate was on the decline and Delhi had recorded less than 10k cases in the last 24 hours, calling it a “good news”.Delhi has vaccinated 1,23,517 beneficiaries in the last 24 hours, 82,943 of whom were inoculated with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 40,574 with the second. Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain told reporters earlier today that Covaxin stock is almost out and the remaining Covishield doses will last only 2-3 days. He urged the Centre to cap the price of vaccines at ₹150.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-8-506-covid-19-cases-as-testing-declines-death-toll-at-289-101620998715661.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||City folks join hands to feed strays amid Covid lockdown||It’s not only strangers on the Internet lending a helping hand and delivering meals to Covid-hit families but a few good Samaritans in the city are also ensuring stray dogs remain well-fed during the lockdown. With the thought that being compassionate to animals is just as important to being kind to their own pets, city folks are going the extra mile — juggling between work schedules and volunteer work during Covid-19 times to feed and take care of the strays.“Ever since we started the service of providing no-cost meals to Covid-19 patients, my inbox has been full of food requests for strays, especially around Greater Kailash 1, CR Park and Safdarjung Enclave. These areas are near hospitals and people are afraid to step out and feed,” says Majid Khan, a resident of Zakir Nagar. Apart from the localities close to hospital, strays near eateries, offices and shopping complexes are most affected as well. A pet parent to two dogs, and a volunteer Parul Taneja from Faridabad says, “The restaurants and markets were shut suddenly, the strays that used to rely on leftover or waste are now either starving or scavenging for food.”Feeders need to be careful about the human-animal conflict and create a safe environment not only for the strays but also folks living nearby. Taneja adds, “Some people who are new to feeding place the food bowls anywhere but it’s advisable to feed them in the particular spots as also recommended recently by Delhi High Court.” Another animal lover, Anuradha Dogra from Animal Hospital and Shelter, NOIDA also highlights that the strays can be territorial of their space. She says, “There can be three packs at one place. Feed them in their designated territory, else it will end up in a clash.”City individuals were further motivated to step up their initiatives with the news of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik sanctioning ₹60lakh to feed stray animals during the lockdown, a police officer, Chiranjeev Sinha, being conferred the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India Award for feeding stray dogs, monkeys and cows during the lockdown, and a video of Subramaniyan Potty S, another police officer, feeding street dogs even during a busy day at work.Dr Vivek Arora, a veterinary surgeon, says one needs to consider the weather before preparing meals for the strays. He suggest, “The next few months are going to be hot, and food should not go stale before the animals eat it. Paneer and curd are better substitute as they take longer to go bad. But if larger groups are to be fed or the strays are far away from the residential complex – buy animal food in bulk from manufacturers as they also have a longer shelf life.” He also advises feeding cucumbers, carrots and frozen watermelon slices that high in water content to bear the scorching heat. Dr Arora also recommends an inexpensive way to help dogs cool down during summer months. He says, “There can be possibilities of heat stroke and non-availability of water, so one can put cloth or jute bags sprinkled with water to provide some comfort.”Dogra also advises placing earthen bowls filled with water and mentions that feeding time should be either early morning or during sunset as the animals stay hidden or burrowed when the temperature peaks.Experts also suggest volunteers to fix a schedule to be able to feed maximum number of dogs and share the responsibility so that not one individual needs to step out during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-folks-join-hands-to-feed-strays-amid-covid-lockdown-101620987243231.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Hoarding of oxygen concentrators case: Delhi HC declines interim relief to Khan Market restaurateur Navneet Kalra||The Delhi high court on Friday refused to provide interim protection from arrest to Navneet Kalra, the owner of Khan Chacha restaurant in Delhi, in the case regarding the alleged black marketing of oxygen concentrators. The single-judge bench of Justice Subramonium Prasad also posted the matter for further hearing on Tuesday (May 18) after Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju appearing for the Delhi police sought time to file reply and argue in the case.“I am persuaded by the reasons given by the trial court which is a valid ground for me not to grant any interim protection now,” Justice Subramonium Prasad said. Previously on Thursday, restaurateur Navneet Kalra moved the Delhi HC for an anticipatory bail in the case after a trial court dismissed it earlier on the same day.ASG Raju opposed any interim relief to Kalra at this stage in the case and said that this is not a case where such protection could be given. He also sought for more time till Tuesday from the court.Also read | Oxygen concentrator case: Delhi court rejects bail plea of Navneet KalraSenior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Kalra, said that the case is a harassment and also noted that the punishment can’t be given as the fixation of price has not been done for oxygen concentrators as essential commodities.Singhvi also said that the police are visiting relatives of Kalra regarding the case. “They are visiting the house of the brother-in -law of the accused. His father in law is separately being paid courtesy calls. The job of the police, influenced by the press, is not this. Today morning SI goes there, Mr. Raju is now asking for time,” Singhvi said.Delhi police on May 7 (Friday) raided two restaurants in the city’s Khan Market area -- Khan Chacha and Town Hall restaurants -- from where 105 oxygen concentrator devices were recovered. Previously, 419 oxygen concentrators were also found at Nege & Ju restaurant in Lodhi Colony and a godown in Chattarpur that belonged to a private company named Matrix Cellular. Navneet Kalra owns the three restaurants that were raided.Demand for oxygen concentrators swelled during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital as many hospitals ran out of medical oxygen. It was also a crucial part of the medical supplies and aids provided by many foreign countries to help India’s efforts against the pandemic.Kalra has been on the run since the equipment were seized from his restaurants, according to the police. Also, investigators have said that they possess evidence to prove that oxygen concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold for prices upwards of ₹75,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hoarding-of-oxygen-concentrators-case-delhi-hc-declines-interim-relief-to-khan-market-restaurateur-navneet-kalra-101620984800124.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Free education for kids who lost parents to Covid: Delhi CM||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government will provide free education to children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 and financial assistance to all those, especially senior citizens, who have lost the only earning member of their family. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said after a long time, daily Covid-19 cases have fallen below the 10,000 mark with nearly 8,500 cases being recorded in the past 24 hours and the positivity rate further declining to 12%. He said in the past 10 days, nearly 3,000 Covid-19 beds have become vacant, but ICU beds continue to be nearly full. To provide adequate beds and timely treatment to serious Covid-19 patients, he said, about 1,200 ICU beds are nearly ready -- 1,000 at the two Ramlila grounds and the rest at the Radha Saomi campus. Also Read | Covaxin stock has almost ended, Covishield to last for 3 days in Delhi: Jain“In the past few days, despite all our efforts we could not save many Delhi people. In many families, there have been more than one deaths. I know several children who have lost both their parents. I am there, Delhi government will bear all the expenses of their education and living. There are also several senior citizens who have lost their children who used to earn. Do not worry, your son is still alive. Delhi government will provide financial assistance to all those families who have lost their sole earning member to Covid-19,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister also hinted that the lockdown is likely to be extended by another week yet again. The current lockdown is supposed to end at 5am on Monday. “Even today, 8,500 fresh Covid cases have come. We have to bring this down to 0 and hence, we cannot lower our guard at this moment at any cost. If we become lax, then cases might spike again. So, we have to strictly follow the ongoing lockdown and adhere to all the Covid-19 protocols,” he said.Delhi government said it is also ramping up the number of oxygen beds to prepare for any potential surge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-education-for-kids-who-lost-parents-to-covid-delhi-cm-101620981418392.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Covaxin stock has almost ended, Covishield to last for 3 days in Delhi: Health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday called on the central government to cap the prices of all vaccines in India at ₹150 per dose. He also said that the vaccination drive in government schools for people over 45 years of age would begin soon in the national capital.“Central govt is a partner in Covaxin's manufacturing so they can share the formula with others. Centre should cap prices of all vaccines and it should not be more than ₹150 per dose. We will start vaccination for 45 years and above age group in government schools soon,” news agency ANI quoted Jain as saying.Briefing on the vaccine availability in Delhi, the health minister said that the city currently has stocks enough for two or three days to vaccinate beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 years age group. “Covaxin stock has almost ended. We only have 2-3 days of stock for Covidshield vaccines for 18- 44 years of age group. We can't mix already assigned centres for Covaxin & Covishield vaccines,” ANI quoted Jain as saying.Also read | Delhi registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours: Arvind KejriwalJain also said that the central government should procure the Covid-19 vaccines through a global tender and mentioned that only three vaccines, namely Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V, could be procured using such tenders. Earlier on Thursday too, the minister made similar comments saying “I suggested the Health Ministry if the vaccine has to be purchased from foreign countries, then instead of different states floating different global tenders, the Centre should purchase these vaccines on behalf of the states,” according to a report by ANI.The health minister also said that the national capital is seeing a decline in the number of daily new Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate has fallen by half from its previous highest. “Yesterday [on Thursday] we reported 10,489 positive cases and the positivity rate was 14.24%. The highest positivity rate was 36% in Delhi so now it is less than half of it. We're seeing a decline in trends from April 24,” Jain said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a press conference on Friday afternoon said that the case positivity rate in Delhi has come down to 12 per cent in the last 24 hours and around 8,500 new infections of the coronavirus disease have been reported in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covaxin-stock-has-almost-ended-covishield-to-last-for-3-days-in-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-101620980631546.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the national capital has registered less than 10,000 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. "I want to share a good news with you all. In the last 24 hours, Delhi has registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases," he added."The infection rate has decreased now. It is 12% today. On April 22, it had reached 36%. This means, less number of people in Delhi are now falling ill. In the last 10 days, 3,000 hospital beds in Delhi have become vacant," Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said that nearly 1,200 ICU beds have been readied in the national capital for the Covid-19 patients. "The people of Delhi have got respite because of this," he added.Earlier in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said Covaxin stock has almost ended and the government is now left with only 2-3 days of stock for Covishield vaccines for 18- 44 years of age group. "We can't mix already assigned centers for Covaxin & Covishield vaccines," he added.Meanwhile, the Delhi government has decided to allow walk-in vaccination for people above 45 years. "Now citizens aged 45 years and above will be able to walk-in to get vaccine jabs without hassle of online registration," said Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. "We will administer 1.5 lakh doses to those aged 45 years and above and 1.5 lakh doses to 18-45 years age group cumulatively," he added.He also urged the Centre to redirect adequate doses of Covid-19 vaccines as Delhi government wants to vaccinate 3 lakh people daily in the national capital.Sisodia said out of 57 lakh citizens above 45 years of age, 22 lakh have been given vaccine so far.Delhi on Thursday registered 10,489 new Covid-19 cases and 308 more fatalities, while the positivity rate came down to 14.24%, according to the Delhi health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-registered-less-than-10k-cases-in-last-24-hours-arvind-kejriwal-101620976809832.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Jarnail Singh will be remembered for his contributions to society: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday condoled the demise of former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Jarnail Singh and said he will be fondly rememebred for his contributions to the society."Deeply saddened by the untimely demise of former Delhi MLA Sh Jarnail Singh ji. May God bless his soul. He will always be fondly remembered for his contributions to society," Kejriwal said in a tweet.Singh was suspended from the AAP last year after he posted a blasphemous post disrespecting Hindu Gods on Facebook.He later deleted the post after facing backlash on social media. Singh said it was not him but his son who had put the post using his phone."Aam Aadmi Party is a secular party and has no place in the party of anyone who disrespects any religion. The Sikh community is also very sad with his statement because such misfortune against any community is also against the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev Ji (sic)," the AAP had said in a statement.The decision to suspend Singh was taken in the meeting of the party's Political Affairs Committee (PAC).Singh was elected to the Delhi assembly from Rajouri Garden in 2014. He resigned in 2017 to contest the Punjab assembly elections against former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal.A former journalist, Singh had first come into limelight in 2009 for throwing shoes at then cabinet minister P Chidambaram during a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jarnail-singh-will-be-remembered-for-his-contributions-to-society-kejriwal-101620962790676.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Cloudy sky today, Delhi could see light rain as well||Delhi is likely to see a cloudy sky and light rain on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be at 22 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37°C.The minimum temperature on Thursday was 21.3°C, four notches below normal and the maximum temperature was 35.3°C, again four notches below the normal.Also Read | DDA to allot vacant plots to pvt hospitals, medical facilities for Covid-19 careDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 100. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 121.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-sky-today-delhi-could-see-light-rain-as-well-101620960956643.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||DDA to allot vacant plots to pvt hospitals, medical facilities for Covid-19 care||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will allot vacant land to hospitals and medical institutions to set up Covid care infrastructure on a temporary basis, a decision it took after receiving requests from several facilities, officials of the land-owning agency said.A proposal, which was approved by Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, was sent to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs last week to relax the allotment rules, a decision that was accepted with some conditions, officials said.A senior DDA official said, “Requests have been received from government institutions and private hospitals. They want land near their facility to be handed over for Covid-related infrastructure. The land can be given to government institutions as per the current policy. However, to allot land to private hospitals or institutions, we need a change or relaxation in the rules.”The plots, officials said, will be licensed for six months on subsidised charges.The agency recently decided to hand over community halls and vacant land parcels to set up Covid care infrastructure. These halls are open to government organisations, non-government organisations, institutions, resident welfare associations, among others.A senior DDA official said, “We have been getting requests for allotment of community halls from various authorities. Now, we have identified 46 community halls across Delhi that are to be allotted on request.”As per a policy drafted by DDA, community centres can be used as Covid wards or care centres, outpatient departments, isolation facilities, medical storage facilities, or others.DDA officials said that while the allotment will be done on a first-come first-served basis, priority will be given to government and local bodies in the event of multiple requests for a site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-to-allot-vacant-plots-to-pvt-hospitals-medical-facilities-for-covid-19-care-101620949016892.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Centre, not states, should import vaccines: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Centre should procure Covid-19 vaccines from foreign companies rather than each state government bidding against each other, which portrays a “bad image of India”.Reiterating the Delhi government’s demand for “one nation, one tender” policy on Covid-19 vaccine procurement, Kejriwal tweeted, “Indian states have been left to compete/fight with each other in the international market. UP fighting Maharashtra, Maharashtra fighting Odisha, Odisha fighting Delhi. Where is “India”? Portrays such a bad image of India.”He added: “Also when we approach vaccine manufacturers and their countries as India rather than individual states, our bargaining power is much more, Indian government has much more diplomatic space to negotiate with their countries. I urge the Centre to directly procure vaccines from foreign companies rather than each state bidding against each other in the international market.”The chief minister welcomed top government advisor Dr VK Paul’s statement that the central government and Bharat Biotech, which manufactures Covaxin, are willing to invite other companies that want to produce it. “A very welcome step by the central government. It will help in ramping up production (of vaccines),” Kejriwal tweeted.Meanwhile, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said he requested Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan during a video meeting on Thursday to reduce the prices of Covaxin and Covishield.The minister also said Delhi has neither been informed about nor supplied any doses of the Sputnik V so far.Jain claimed that the makers of Covaxin and Covishield (Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India) were earning a profit of ₹16,000 crore per billion doses.“The manufacturers of Covaxin and Covishield have taken this crisis as an opportunity to generate high profits. Covishield is being supplied to the Centre at ₹150, and the company’s chairman has stated on-record that they are incurring profits. It is manufacturing 60 million vaccines every month. Even if we go by a profit of ₹10 per dose, and they give half of the vaccines to the Centre, which is 30 million, the estimated profit comes out to be ₹30 crore. Now, the same vaccine is being sold to the state governments at ₹300, which means the profit doubles, while the cost of production remains the same. Not only that, the same vaccine is being sold at ₹400 to private entities, and the profit incurred goes up to ₹260 per dose (considering that their cost of production would be ₹140). By this entire estimation, the company generates a profit of ₹960 crore in just one month,” Jain said.“Now, coming to Covaxin, which is supplying vaccines at an even higher rate. Their rate to supply the Centre is the same ( ₹150), but it is selling to states and private entities at an even higher cost than Covishield. So, their profit will be even higher than what the manufacturers of Covishield are making. The request that we have put to the Centre is that a uniform rate of ₹150 to the Centre, should be kept for others as well,” he said.Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute did not comment on Jain’s claims.Reacting to the Supreme Court’s suggestion to do away with differential pricing for Covid-19 vaccines between the Centre and states, the central government on Sunday said there was “little room for judicial interference” in these matters at the time of a pandemic.In an affidavit submitted before the Supreme Court on Sunday night, the Centre maintained that the vaccination drive for those between 18 and 44 was approved after requests by states and that the Centre persuaded manufacturers to supply vaccines to states at uniform prices.“It is pertinent to note that the Central government by nature of its large vaccination programme, places large purchase orders for vaccines as opposed to the state governments and/or private hospitals and therefore, this reality has some reflection in the prices negotiated,” the Centre said in the affidavit.The Union health ministry declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-not-states-should-import-vaccines-kejriwal-101620939757814.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi O2 demand down to 582 MT as Covid-19 cases drop||The Delhi government on Thursday said it has scaled down its requirement of medical oxygen from 700 metric tonne (MT) to 582 MT in view of the receding Covid-19 trajectory in the city, with cases and positivity rates seeing a steady drop over the past two weeks, and consequently easing pressure on the Capital’s health care system.The positivity rate – the proportion of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19 – continued its sharp decline and touched 14.24% on Thursday, the lowest in a single day in a month, or since April 13. A total of 10,489 new cases were reported on Thursday, the lowest daily tally since April 10, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin.“As of today, the positivity rate has come down to 14% and around 10,400 new Covid-19 cases were reported. Now that cases are reducing, we are seeing a decrease in demand for beds and medical oxygen. When daily cases were peaking around 15 days ago, our calculations, factoring in bed occupancy and active cases, showed Delhi required 700MT of oxygen. But today, after assessment of the Covid-19 situation, Delhi’s oxygen need has been revised to 582MT per day,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in a press briefing on Thursday.“As a responsible government, we will give the surplus oxygen to the states that need it,” he said.The development comes as the number of active cases in the city dropped to 77,717 on Thursday, the lowest in 24 days. Just 15 days ago, active cases in the city were hovering close to 100,000 mark – the number peaked at 99,752 on April 28, the highest ever recorded in the city. Active cases – those Covid-19 patients under treatment – is a crucial metric representing the region’s battle against the disease because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system.With active cases soaring, the Capital’s raging fourth wave had sparked a massive health crisis in the city with reports emerging of hospitals running out of ICU beds, and crucial supplies such as oxygen cylinders with the Centre not supplying the demanded quota of 700 MT. Burdened by the massive caseload from mid-April onwards, several hospitals across Delhi sent out distress calls, resorting even to making appeals on social media websites, as their stocks of medical oxygen dwindled rapidly.At the worst of this crisis, only 13.6% of Delhi’s Covid-19 beds were empty (16,942 occupied and 2,666 vacant) on April 20, while six days after that the city had completely run out of ICU beds for general public, according to government data. Currently, of the total 24,418 beds across the Capital, 18,005 are occupied and 6,413 vacant.This led to the Supreme Court initiating suo motu proceedings starting April 22 in order to deal with the Covid-19 emergency, including the shortages of oxygen in regions such as Delhi. During the proceedings over the course of the past few weeks, the apex court directed the Union government to ensure 700 MT of medical oxygen is supplied to Delhi every day. The Centre had consistently claimed that it cannot supply as much oxygen as Delhi wants. But after days of repeated warnings and prodding by the high court as well as the apex court, Centre managed to eventually increase Delhi’s supply – on May 5, Delhi received over 700 MT for the first time.In between, on April 29, the Delhi government had also revised its demand to 976 MT based on future projections as per its bed augmentation plan, but soon reverted to its old demand of 700 MT after the Supreme Court directions.With the situation improving, Sisodia said on Thursday the Delhi government has also written to the Centre about the city’s revised oxygen demand. He thanked the Centre, the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court for coming to the aid of the people of Delhi in times of distress.On an average, Delhi is now getting 579.25 MT oxygen on a daily basis between May 4 and May 11, data showed.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20, soon after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal expanded the night and weekend curfew protocols into a lockdown. That protocol has now been renewed several times and will stay at least till May 17 in order to further flatten the curve.In the past two weeks, however, the situation in Delhi appears to be consistently turning a corner with the positivity rate and new cases dropping at a steady rate. Average positivity rate has dropped more than 10 percentage points in the past 15 days – from 32.9% for the week ending April 28 to 19.7% in the past week. The rate of new infections, meanwhile, has dropped 44% from peak levels – the seven-day day average of new cases have dropped to 14,206 infections a day in the past week against a peak of 25,294 for the week ending April 23.The reduction in the oxygen demand for Delhi also comes days after the Supreme Court on May 8 ordered an audit of supply, distribution and utilisation of oxygen supply in the national capital. The top court set up a panel comprising All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria, Max Hospital’s Sandeep Budhiraja and an IAS officer each from the central and Delhi governments to conduct the audit.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said the oxygen crisis should be taken as a lesson learnt and preparations should continue to face potential future waves of Covid-19, particularly by vaccinating as many people as possible.“Oxygen supply and distribution has fairly been sorted for now. Administrations now know the drill about what is to be done when the demand spikes again. But preparations to face the third wave will largely depend on increasing vaccination coverage. The central government should urgently ramp up vaccine production and imports,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-o2-demand-down-to-582-mt-as-cases-drop-101620938857857.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A tree in the temple||This small Hanuman temple stands in a sprawling yard here in south Delhi. A peepal tree’s sharp-tipped leaves make a jungle of shadows on the temple’s back wall.But the compound has another peepal, a larger one, and more luscious, in the front. Its branches soar above the fourth floor windows of adjacent buildings. It would take at least three people to embrace the trunk completely.This morning the yard is empty. A woman enters. She is wearing a green sari, and an orange mask. Her head is modestly covered by the sari’s pallu. The woman takes off her slippers and, instead of heading inside the temple, she turns towards the front yard peepal. She climbs on to the small cement platform built around the tree. The woman is carrying a small kamandal (cup), filled with water, in one hand, and two agarbattis (incense sticks) in the other. She brings her palms together, bows her head, and murmurs an inaudible prayer. Now she reverently pours the water out of the kamandal by the trunk, lights the agarbattis and tucks them at the base of the tree.“I’m a housewife,” the woman says. Introducing herself as Sunita, she talks of her husband, a priest in a temple nearby. Turning her gaze towards the tree, she cranes her head upwards, as if surveying the thicket of leaves. “Peepal is sacred... I come here every morning for pooja (prayer).” She gestures towards the several red kaleva threads wound about the trunk. Falling quiet for a few moments, she speaks again: “Trees give oxygen.” The fact that so many people in the city have died of Covid due to the shortage of oxygen in the hospitals goes unsaid, but it seems to lurk in the very air.The woman now enters the temple.Meanwhile, the sun’s rays shoot through the tree, get entangled in the dense foliage, and break into several zigzagging streams of light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-tree-in-the-temple-101620934098569.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||As kids process grief, Delhi schools lend a hand||From organising online prayer meets for students who lost their parents to Covid to ensuring constant communication with them, schools in the national capital are taking various steps to ensure emotional and mental support for these children to process their grief.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said at least six students in her school have lost one of their parents this month. “These deaths can weigh heavily on the minds of children and there has to be a specialised approach because every situation is different. We have asked teachers to be in touch with these students and their families. Many families are still in shock and we will encourage them to opt for counselling when they are ready,” she said.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales Pusa Road, said the school tries to be the first contact for the child after they receive information of a parent’s death. “We have created WhatsApp groups where teachers inform us if there has been a death of a parent. We first call the immediate relatives of the parent to get stock of the situation there, ask about the child, and assure the family of any assistance they need,” she said.The school then gets in touch with the classmates and their parents to find out the child’s closest friends and establish a peer group. The peer group is then instructed to keep the child engaged and busy through conversation, activities and group phone calls as it is easier for them to talk to someone their age. The school also organises virtual prayer meetings for children and is planning on a “concert of hope”.“We will share photographs of those who have lost their lives to Covid and bring the children together on a platform so that they can share their grief. The death of a parent involves more than mental health issues. Their entire lives will change because of this,” she said.Psychologist Manveen Kaur, who is the counsellor at Amity International School in Saket, said that dealing with death is more difficult with children as they often don’t understand their emotions or are unable to identify or communicate it, leading to behavioural changes.“If grief counselling is not done in the right way, it would have long-term adverse effects like longstanding depression and anxiety in children, trust issues in life and can become a part of their personality,” she said, adding that they are doing family therapy with such children and their immediate family members.“The family members are the immediate contact of the children and need to be counselled on how to behave with them and involve them in daily activities or look for changes in their behaviour,” she said.Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, said the school is planning voluntary group therapy sessions where children can share their grief together.Schools are also helping students with other necessities during the pandemic. “From providing cooked meals for the families who tested positive to arranging for medicines, oxygen or cremation facilities, we have a dedicated cell looking into the various needs which came up during the pandemic,” said Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh.Government schools in the capital have also asked their teachers to maintain communication with children and parents despite the ongoing summer vacation. Sarita Batra, principal at Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Shalimar Bagh, said the school management committee has also been active in keeping tabs on the children to see if they need any help.“We have been recording motivational stories on fighting these challenging times and sending them to children. Sometimes, we also discuss stories on video conferencing platforms with each section and turn this into a storytelling session, allowing children to express themselves. Our teachers also record voice messages for the children on WhatsApp and motivate them to not lose hope,” she said.The Central Board of Secondary Education also launched a mobile application for students of classes 9 to 12 on Monday to look at the psychosocial wellness of students. The app offers counselling sessions, educational material on social, emotional and behavioural issues such as depression, anxiety over exams and internet addiction disorder, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/from-counselling-to-prayer-meets-schools-in-delhi-go-the-extra-mile-to-ensure-emotional-support-for-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101620932092393.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt opens two quarantine centres for unattended, rescued children||The Delhi government’s department of women and child development (WCD) has set up two quarantine centres, especially for children who are either found unattended or rescued by NGOs or police, before sending them to designated child care institutions (CCIs) or children homes.The centres are also catering to children, aged between six and 18 years, whose entire family are down with Covid-19 or are have been hospitalised. The quarantine centre for girls has been set up in a child care home run by an NGO, Butterflies, in south-west Delhi’s village Jaunapur. For boys, the quarantine centre has been set up at the government-operated children home in Lajpat Nagar. Both the quarantine centres became functional this week.Delhi minister for women and child development Rajendra Pal Gautam said the department decided to set up such centres to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among children residing in children’s homes or CCIs across the Capital. “Normally, children found unattended or rescued are directly sent to child care institutions or children’s homes after producing them before district child welfare committees. In the current circumstances, we cannot let new admissions mingle with the children who are already there in the CCIs. Therefore, it was decided to set up these two quarantine centres for children aged between six and 18 years,” he said.The children brought to the quarantine centres will be isolated here for 14 days, following which the department willl conducts their Covid-19 test before transferring them to children’s homes or CCIs. There are 101 children’s homes in Delhi.The two centres are providing all the basic facilities to these children, as any other CCI, and also have a full-time nurse to monitor them. They also have television and indoor games facilities for the residents. The WCD has also roped in doctors to regularly check the children for any symptoms.Currently, there are 11 boys and 13 girls living in the quarantine centres. Yogesh Mishra, in-charge at the Lajpat Nagar centre, said 10 of the boys were rescued by childline workers from railway stations and bus-stands. “Any new child has to undergo an RT-PCR test. We keep them in a separate room till the report comes. In case any child is found Covid positive, he or she is sent to district Covid care facilities. If the report returns negative, they live with other children staying at the facility,” he said.The department has constituted a district task force for Covid-19 positive children, who are in CCIs or whose parents have died due to the virus. Mishra said he also got one such case through the task force wherein an autistic child was found with his unconscious Covid-positive mother in Uttam Nagar last week. “The mother was rushed to a hospital and the child brought here. However, after realizing that he has autism, we had to send him to Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences. His mother passed away at the hospital on Wednesday night,” he said.Officials at the Butterflies child care center in Jaunapur said a majority of girls staying with them have been rescued either by police or the district task force. “Most of these are cases of elopement. They were found unattended either at the railway station or bus stand. We have been maintaining social distancing within the centre as well,” said Mohit Pal, in charge of the facility.The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), which is also monitoring these centres, said that it’s also exploring the possibility of setting up full-fledged Covid care centres for children. “We are trying to get at least some beds reserved for children in the existing government Covid care facilities so that in case the situation worsens, the children do not suffer. We are also closely monitoring these two centres and ensuring that they provide all possible facilities so that children do not go through any trauma during isolation,” said Ranjana Prasad, DCPCR member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-opens-two-quarantine-centres-for-unattended-rescued-children-101620932091840.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Process to decongest Tihar prison set off with release of 300 inmates||Delhi’s Tihar jail officials on Thursday started the process of releasing prisoners on interim bail as a measure to decongest the prison complex that is currently at almost double its capacity with over 19,500 prisoners as against sanctioned room for 10,026.The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel, confirmed that the process to release 1,133 prisoners started on Thursday. HT spoke to different jail officers and confirmed that at least 300 prisoners had already been released by 10 pm. The prison authorities are also awaiting the state government’s order to release around 1,000 convicts on emergency parole.“Following a Supreme Court order, the high-powered committee (HPC) has now ordered immediate release of those 1,133 UTPs who were released on interim bail last time (in 2020), and later surrendered with no adverse report. They will be released on the strength of their previous interim bail orders which will be deemed valid again for an interim bail of 90 days. This process is starting today,” Goel said.In March last year, as one of the first measures to decongest the jail in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, around 6,000 prisoners were released on emergency bail and interim parole, and were later directed to surrender on dates decided by HPC, which includes members of the state government, courts, and prison authorities. With cases declining after Delhi’s third wave of the infection in October-November last year, and the prisoners already out of jail for more than nine months, the Delhi High Court in December asked the prisoners to surrender in a phased manner between February and March.Of the prisoners who were released, around 2,300 undertrial prisoners are yet to surrender. Their names have been shared with Delhi Police.“Only those prisoners who surrendered on time and also did not indulge in any unlawful activity have been selected. There are some 350 prisoners who were released last year, but were again arrested for street crimes. They will not be eligible. For the convicted prisoners, we are awaiting the home department’s order for their release. In their case too, only whose who surrendered on time will be eligible,” a prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said.For release on interim bail, HPC has laid down 11 categories of undertrial prisoners -- such as those in civil imprisonment, senior citizens facing trial for offences with a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail, those suffering serious illnesses and are facing trial for offences with punishment ranging from 10 years to life -- who are eligible for grant of 90 days interim bail on furnishing a personal bond.The spread of the infection inside Tihar has been more severe this time compared to the spread during the first three waves of the infection. In February, there was not a single case of Covid-19 among prisoners or jail officials. Even until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners. But in the past one month, Tihar has reported over 300 Covid-19 cases among prisoners. Six prisoners have died of the infection in April and May.Prison officers said the cases are again going down inside the prison. Currently, there are about 100 cases of infection. Underworld gangster Chhota Rajan, who was admitted to AIIMS last month, returned to Tihar on Tuesday after testing negative. Student-activist Umar Khalid, who was kept in isolation after testing positive last month, too, returned to his cell after recovering from the disease.Advocate Ajay Verma, former convenor of National Forum for Prison Reforms, said, “ We had approached the Supreme Court to direct the high-powered committee to decongest the jail by releasing prisoners on interim bail. Only those prisoners who surrendered well on time are entitled. This is a good move by jail officers to immediately release the prisoners . From a safety point of view, it is better for both jail officers and prisoners. The jail has no space for social distancing. We also request the Delhi government to issue orders to immediately release the eligible convicted prisoners on parole. These are prisoners who surrendered on time and did not indulge in any unlawful activity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/process-to-decongest-tihar-prison-set-off-with-release-of-300-inmates-101620932032664.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Mosques shut on an Eid without festivity||When Syed Ahmed Bukhari, the shahi imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid, will deliver his Khutbah (sermon) after Eid prayers on Friday, only a handful of people would be listening, unlike the pre-corona times when at least 15,000-18,000 people gathered to offer the namaz in one of the country’s largest mosques.The Jama Masjid will stay shut to avoid crowding in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and only the Imam and the mosque staff will offer namaz inside the Mughal-era monument. Imam Bukhari urged people to stay home and not crowd mosques and markets on Eid-ul Fitr -- the festival that is celebrated on the culmination of the fasting month of Ramzan.“We pray for the well-being of our country and our fellow countrymen. But this time, there will be special prayers for the people who died of Covid-19 and their grieving families and those who are still struggling with this deadly virus. Some of them are from our own families and acquaintances. The situation this time is even worse than last year. The virus is not even sparing youngsters and children… I urge people to stay home and pray for the welfare of our country,” Bukhari said.Similarly, all other big mosques in the city will remain shut on Eid as a lockdown continues to remain in effect to contain the spread of the virus. Only the mosque staff living inside the building will offer the prayer on the premises.This year, for the second time in a row, Muslims will observe the festival at homes with no public prayers, hugs, and dawats (get-togethers).Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the Shahi Imam of Masjid Fatehpuri, said, “In view of the extent of loss around us, this year’s Eid is not about celebration and festivities. It should be observed by helping those in need and praying for those suffering due to this deadly virus. We cannot forget things happening around us and indulge in celebrations. We will also be praying for Palestine (In the backdrop of recent clashes in Gaza).”Several people said that this year, Eid is actually not about celebrations but prayers and atonement. Anas Tanvir, an advocate and founder of the Indian Civil Liberties Union (ICLU), said, “There is nothing to celebrate this year when so many people we know have lost their parents and family members to Covid-19.”Many people also shared their pain of losing their loved ones amid the pandemic and not having them around on Eid, on social media. “My Eid would start with receiving eidi (gifts) from abba and amma, no matter where I was. Now that I have lost both of them, it will never be the same,” Siddiqui Fariqa wrote on Twitter.Several Delhiites have decided to celebrate Eid by helping those in need amid the lockdown. Abu Sufiyan, an old Delhi-based entrepreneur, said he along with a team of volunteers have donated 500 eid kits, containing regular ration and items to prepare Eid delicacies such as sewaiyan, to the poor between Wednesday and Thursday. “We are distributing these kits among those from marginalised sections irrespective of their religion since Eid is for everyone,” he said.Meanwhile, several doctors will spend their Eid while working in Covid wards in hospitals. Dr Kashifa Majeed, 24, an intern at Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences & Research said her parents in Jodhpur (Rajasthan) have motivated her to choose duty over festivities this year. “I will be doing night shifts on both Thursday and Friday. My parents said that I am more required here at the hospital right now and we can celebrate Eid next year...There are so many patients at the hospital who would not be able to be with their loved ones on this Eid. At least we can be there for them and cheer them on,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mosques-to-stay-shut-muslims-say-they-will-pray-for-those-affected-by-pandemic-this-eid-101620932033293.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Central Vista: Lack of labour slows office complex work||The construction of two office complexes that were being built at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue in central Delhi to shift offices from the Central Vista for the ongoing revamp project has been delayed due to a shortage of workers and changes to the buildings’ plans, a senior Central Public Works Department (CPWD) official said on Thursday.CPWD officials said a revised deadline for the two complexes is yet to be finalised.The two complexes, which will house 29 departments, mostly defence agencies, were to be completed by March this year.A senior CPWD official aware of the development said, “There were some changes in the floor plans requested by departments that will shift there, because of which we had to rework the drawings. We were hoping to complete the work by June, but the pace of work has been affected due to a shortage of workers. A large number of labourers have left due to the Covid-19 situation in the Capital and the lockdown.”The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs did not respond to requests for a comment.The lockdown in the city, which was imposed on April 20 to arrest an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths, has seen several migrant workers leave the Capital for their home towns and villages, leading to delays in several infrastructure projects, including the Pragati Maidan revamp, and construction of the Dwarka expressway.The CPWD is building the two office complexes to relocate offices, especially from the hutments around the North and South blocks, to make way for the construction of the Vice President and Prime Minister’s residences, Special Protection Group (SPG) office building, and others, as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project.HT on May 4 reported that the V-P, and PM’s new residences are scheduled to be completed by May and December 2022, respectively, according to the CPWD, the nodal agency for the Vista project, as the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has granted the necessary clearance for the rest of the buildings under the plan.There was no clarity if the delay in the construction of the two complexes will impact work on the PM, VP’s residences.While the office complex at KG Marg will have three blocks of nine-storeyed buildings (ground plus eight), the one at Africa Avenue will have four blocks of eight-storey buildings.“Work on the buildings is around 65% complete. We were hoping to complete it by June, but it looks difficult now, since we don’t have sufficient labour available. The structures are almost ready. We have to complete the floor-wise work as per the revised plan. Another reason for the delay is trouble getting in the construction material due to the partial lockdowns and labour shortages in other parts of the country,” said the official.A senior CPWD official said a review meeting was held on Wednesday regarding all the agency’s ongoing projects in the country.“We are facing a shortage of workers at all our projects. The shortage varies from 20 to 80%, depending on the site. The problem is less acute at sites where we have on-site labour.”Meanwhile, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), where the three buildings of the new common central secretariat are proposed to be built, is yet to be completely moved to Janpath hotel, its temporary home for next three years. The arts and culture centre was to complete the shifting process by mid-May.“The process got stalled due to the lockdown,” said an IGNCA official. The deadline for completing the shifting process will be revised depending on when the lockdown is lifted, said the official.As for the work related to Central Vista, the CPWD official said that no decision has been taken to revise the deadline of various project components.The entire Vista project is slated to be completed by September 2026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/central-vista-labour-shortages-delay-work-on-two-new-office-complexes-on-kg-marg-africa-avenue-101620931972480.html
