15-05-2021||Delhi||As Covid deaths go up, Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan crematorium will add 150 more pyres||Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan crematorium will soon be extended an additional 1,000 meters on its east side to create space for 150 more pyres and 10 electric crematorium facilities. Construction will begin once the ongoing lockdown ends, crematorium officials told news agency ANI on Saturday.Crematoriums in the national capital have been inundated with a massive number of bodies amid the raging second wave of the pandemic. In the face of this increased pressure, crematorium authorities had to turn the family members of the deceased away and people had to run pillar to post and wait for up to 20 hours to get their loved ones cremated. Delhi has recorded a total of 21,244 deaths since the pandemic began last year.Crematoriums have also been dealing with the issue of ashes piling up as family members are unable to collect them either because they are themselves infected or they fear getting infected. Delhi’s Nigam Bodh Ghat and Ghazipur crematorium have huge amount of ashes uncollected. As per Hindu tradition, the ashes of the deceased need to be immersed in the Ganga after the last rites have been carried out.South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s sanitary superintendent KC Bhardwaj who looks after the operation of eight crematoriums told news agency ANI that currently, the Sarai Kale Khan crematorium is operating on 3,000 meters of land and that the planned extension will be near the Yamuna river."At present, we are operating on 3,000 meters. However, the proposal of increasing another 1,000 meters has been granted. Space won't be a problem at all because a repetition of the scenario that Delhi witnessed is unthinkable." said Bhardwaj"Extension at the eastern side has been well calculated as it will be near the Yamuna River," he added.Delhi has been witnessing a decline in the daily tally of cases, as the number of tests conducted daily has also been decreasing. On Saturday, the national capital recorded 6,430 new Covid-19 cases and 337 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-covid-deaths-go-up-delhi-s-sarai-kale-khan-crematorium-will-add-150-more-pyres-101621089035343.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt fixes rate of hearse service for deceased Covid-19 patients||The Delhi government has fixed the rates for hearse services provided for deceased Covid-19 patients, according to an official order on Saturday.A committee was constituted under the chairmanship of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner, which recommended the rates for hearse/mortuary services to be provided to deceased coronavirus patients, it said.On the recommendations of the committee, the rates have been fixed, the order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said."The rates of hearse van facility for deceased Covid-19 patients has been fixed at ₹1,300 per trip for initial 10 kilometres and ₹100 per kilometre thereafter,"“This will include the cost of transportation with driver and one attendant wearing PPE kits," it said.If the family members of the deceased patient desire to avail "dead body-wrapping" facility as per corona protocol, they would have to pay an additional ₹700, the order said."In case the services of an additional person is required by the family of the deceased patients to handle the body/wrapping etc the charges would be ₹500 which includes charges of safety gear to be worn by the additional person. No extra charge for sanitisation will be charged by the vendor," it said.Mortuary services for coronavirus patients are provided free of cost in private as well as government facilities, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-fixes-rate-of-hearse-service-for-deceased-covid-19-patients-101621078554626.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Covid: Delhi govt to start oxygen concentrator bank, announces CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Saturday that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government will start an oxygen concentrator bank (OCB) in the national capital and added that 200 such units will be set up in each district.Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said, “From today we will be starting an oxygen concentrator bank. We have often seen that oxygen levels of people have dropped after being infected with Covid-19. If they are provided oxygen immediately, their condition may not worsen. If the lifesaving gas is not provided on time, they have to be admitted in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and sometimes they succumb to Covid-19.”Kejriwal added the Delhi government officials will deliver the oxygen concentrator within two hours to those patients which are under home isolation. A technical person will accompany the officials and will educate the family members on how to use the machine, the chief minister said.Also Read| Delhi's daily Covid cases down to 6,500; CM announces oxygen concentrator banksThe government will also provide the concentrator to the hospitalised patients who recovered from Covid-19 and have come back home but need oxygen for a few days, as per the advice of the doctors, Kejriwal said during the briefing.“Our doctors will be in constant touch with patients who have been given an oxygen concentrator. These patients will be hospitalised if the need arises. And when they recover, the concentrator will be taken back, sanitised and provided to some other patient.” the CM added.The infected patients which are not a part of the government’s isolation program can dial 1031 and be a part of it and request for a concentrator, Kejriwal said but the doctors will first make sure whether the patient needs it or not.Also Read| Free education, financial aid for Covid orphans: KejriwalIn April, Delhi witnessed the worst health crisis during the pandemic as hospitals ran short of oxygen supplies on a daily basis and were unable to procure them on time. Many critical patients of the Covid-19 disease lost their lives due to the shortage of the lifesaving gas.However, there has been slight improvement in the situation as Delhi’s daily requirement of medical oxygen dropped to 582 metric tonnes (MT) from 700 MT, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday and urged the Centre to allot the surplus supplies of the gas to other states which are in need of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-to-start-oxygen-concentrator-bank-announces-cm-kejriwal-101621061953664.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up panel to monitor use of tocilizumab||The Delhi government has set up a three-member technical expert committee to ensure that the immune-modulator medicine tocilizumab, used to control the hyperactive immune response in the later stages of severe Covid-19, is not indiscriminately used.The committee consists of three doctors from the departments of pulmonology, anaesthesiology, and medicine from Maulana Azad Medical College (attached to Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital).“To prevent indiscriminate use of this injection (tocilizumab) and to establish a transparent, efficient, and time-bound system of distribution on clinically approved evidence-based grounds, the competent authority has approved the constitution of a three-member technical expert committee,” reads the order by special secretary (health) Raj Kumar.To get the medicine, hospitals — government and private — have to apply to the technical expert committee, which will meet twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening, to take decision on the requests. If a request is refused, the reason will be conveyed to the hospital by email.On recommendation of the committee, tocilizumab will be issued by the DGHS to the hospital representative, on payment for the same for the private ones. The DGHS has been directed to ensure that the drug is issued on the same day. It will be the responsibility of the hospital to ensure that there is no pilferage, as per the order.The order also states that the drug will be distributed in this manner till stock remains; no waiting list shall be maintained. Fresh applications will be called in when the next stock arrives.State health minister Satyendar Jain added, “For remdesivir and tocilizumab, all the management and control is in the hands of the central government which is supplied to the hospitals through a website managed by the centre... So, we have passed the order and formed the expert committee to streamline the supply effectively and mobilise it.” The government has an online portal from where hospitals can requisition it after submitting the patient’s details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sets-up-panel-to-monitor-use-of-tocilizumab-101621034470698.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Lawyers’ group sets up Covid field hospital with 50 O2 beds||After observing a lack of resources and scarcity of beds amid the fourth wave of the pandemic, a group of lawyers in the national capital have joined hands to set up a Covid care facility or field hospital with 50 oxygen beds in order to help boost Delhi’s heath infrastructure.The facility, which has oxygen beds, oxygen concentrators and other medical support, has already been set up in a private school in southeast Delhi’s Jamia Nagar. While the facility is yet to receive an approval from the Delhi government, the lawyers — Vaibhav Kakkar, Karan Chandiok, Pooja Mahajan, and Akshay Jain — said it will become operational in “4-5 days”.Chandiok said that he had struggled for 16 hours to get an ICU bed for his uncle who tested positive for Covid-19 last month, and attributed this delay to the relative’s death. “Even as we were helping people in verifying leads for oxygen cylinders, concentrators, beds and medicines, we realised that there was a dearth of medical resources for Covid-19 patients. We decided to pool funds to augment oxygen supply and import oxygen contractors,” he said.The group started working with Aster DM Healthcare, an organisation that runs several hospitals in India and abroad, and Al-Shifa hospital in Delhi.“The field hospital will be managed by Al-Shifa, which will provide doctors and nursing staff. We are looking at a staggered approach in terms of opening. We have placed orders for BiPaP ventilator machines as well. We are waiting for all the required stuff to arrive before approaching the Delhi government for final approval. We might be able to start it in four-five days,” Chandiok said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lawyers-group-sets-up-covid-field-hospital-with-50-o2-beds-101621034240491.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Former AAP MLA Jarnail Singh dies of Covid-19 complications||Former Aam Aadmi Party MLA Jarnail Singh died on Friday at 47 after battling Covid-19 for nearly two weeks. The former Rajouri Garden legislator was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital and was being treated in the ICU.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal condoled his death and tweeted: “Deeply saddened by the untimely demise of former Delhi MLA Sh Jarnail Singh ji. May God bless his soul. He will always be fondly remembered for his contributions to society.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia remembered Singh as someone who fought for justice for the victims of 1984 anti-Sikh riots. “The death of our former colleague at the Delhi assembly, Jarnail Singh, is saddening for us all. We have lost a strong voice that fought for justice for the families of those who were killed in the 1984 massacre,” he tweeted.A former journalist, Singh first came into the limelight in 2009 for hurling a shoe at the then Union cabinet minister P Chidambaram during a press conference.Singh contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from West Delhi, but lost. A year later, he was elected to the Delhi assembly from the Rajouri Garden seat on an AAP ticket. He resigned in 2017 to contest the Punjab assembly elections from the Lambi seat against now state chief minister Amarinder Singh and former chief minister Prakash Singh Badal. Badal won the seat.Singh was suspended from the AAP last year over a post about Hindu deities on Facebook. He later deleted the post after backlash, and said his son had put up the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/former-aap-mla-jarnail-singh-dies-of-covid-19-complications-101621033926707.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Hobby classes in schools to utilise summer break||With schools in the national capital closed for an early summer break, children are now pursuing their hobbies, engaging in extra-curricular activities, taking up entrepreneurial activities, and even volunteering for Covid relief using digital platforms.Taking lessons from her entrepreneurship classes, Nisha Yadav (15), a Class 11 student of a government school in Shakarpur, is now working on her own website by following YouTube tutorials. “I am trying to design an e-commerce platform for people living in villages so that they can get groceries and basic necessities at their doorstep,” said Yadav.On April 19, the Delhi government ordered public and private schools in the Capital to begin their summer vacation three weeks earlier than planned, amid the rising Covid cases. The vacation started on April 20 and will continue till June 6, during which period there will be no online classes, except activity lessons.Recognising the need to maintain connection with children, several top private schools in the city, such as The Indian School, Springdales in Pusa Road, Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, and Tagore International School in Vasant Vihar, are organising experiential activities and hobby classes online.For instance, Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh has tied up with various private firms and alumni associations to offer online summer internships to its students of classes 9 to 12 on various topics. Class 12 student Bhavidhi Malhotra, who had enrolled for an internship last year, opted for two this time. “One is on astrophysics and the other is on psychology. Since the workshops are online, I can easily attend them and keep myself engaged,” she said.Several cultural centres are also offering language courses. For instance, Korean Cultural Centre, India, (KCCI) has offered a Korean Language program as a hobby class in eight schools. “Due to the increasing popularity of K-pop and K-drama, Korean language has been gaining global popularity in recent years, specially in India,” Hwang IL Yong, Director, KCCI, said.For primary classes, schools are using innovative approaches to keep them engaged. Vandana Tiwari, a teacher at The Indian School, said, “Children in classes 1 to 5 are being engaged in lessons involving experiments that can be done at home.”Several senior students are also engaging in Covid relief work by collating resources, arranging for food and ration for the marginalised. “We started a helpline number last year during the lockdown. So we are continuing with it this year and are arranging for meals, ration, or medicines based on the needs of the people who call,” said Asees Kandhari, a Class 12 student.Schools have also offered counselling services for children unable to cope with the stress of the pandemic. For instance, Mount Abu Public School has started a helpline for its students and teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hobby-classes-in-schools-to-utilise-summer-break-101621028097419.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Free education, financial aid for Covid orphans: Kejriwal||The Delhi government will provide free education to children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 and financial assistance to all those, especially senior citizens, who have lost the only earning member of their family to the disease, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said that after some time, the Capital’s daily tally of Covid-19 cases has fallen below the 10,000 mark, with around 8,500 cases being recorded in the past 24 hours and the positivity rate further declining to 12%. At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20. On April 22, the positivity rate touched 36%.The CM added that in the past 10 days, nearly 3,000 Covid-19 beds have become vacant, although he admitted that the occupancy of ICU beds remains almost 100%.To provide adequate beds and timely treatment to serious Covid-19 patients, he said, about 1,200 ICU beds are nearly ready -- 1,000 at the two Ramlila grounds and the rest at the Radha Saomi Satsang, Beas campus in Chattarpur.“In the past few days, despite all our efforts, we could not save many Delhi people. In many families, there have been more than one death. I know several children who have lost both their parents... Delhi government will bear all the expenses of their education and living. There are also several senior citizens who have lost their children who used to earn. Do not worry, your son is still alive. Delhi government will provide financial assistance to all those families who have lost their sole earning member to Covid-19,” Kejriwal said.Since April 14 (till May 14) Delhi has recorded 9,471 deaths on account of Covid-19, as the surging second wave of the pandemic overwhelmed the Union Territory’s health care system.The Kejriwal government announced a week-end lockdown from April 17 and then extended it on April 19. Delhi remains under the lockdown currently.On Friday, the Delhi cabinet approved the disbursal of financial assistance of ₹5,000 to all auto rickshaw and taxi drivers registered with the state transport department. On May 4, Kejriwal announced the revival of this scheme, which benefited 156,000 drivers having a public service badge or a permit for such vehicles during the lockdown last year. The amount will be directly disbursed to their Aadhaar-linked bank accounts.While the lockdown is supposed to end at 5 am on Monday, the chief minister hinted at retaining the restrictions. “Even today, 8,500 fresh Covid cases have come. We have to bring this down to 0 and hence, we cannot lower our guard at this moment at any cost. If we become lax, then cases might spike again. So, we have to strictly follow the ongoing lockdown and adhere to all the Covid-19 protocols,” he said.The Delhi government said it is ramping up the number of oxygen beds to prepare for any potential surge in cases.A total of 8,506 new cases were reported on Friday, the lowest daily tally since April 10, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin. The positivity rate – the proportion of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19 – continued its sharp decline and touched 12.4% on Friday, the lowest since April 12.On Friday, Kejriwal also visited the makeshift Covid-19 treatment facility at Ramlila ground which is attached to the Lok Nayak hospital.The 500 ICU-bed facility, which was readied in 15 days, will be operational from Saturday, he said.“From tomorrow, 250 ICU beds, linked to Lok Nayak hospital, will start, and another 250 beds will be operational in 1-2 days. I also visited GTB hospital in east Delhi the day before yesterday (Wednesday), where another 500 ICU beds have been set up. This makes it a total of 1,000 ICU beds added to the bed count in Delhi. Another 200 ICU beds are being arranged at the Radha Soami Covid facility in Chhatarpur, which means that a total of 1,200 ICU beds will be added in Delhi in the next 1-2 days,” he said.At the peak of the fourth wave, in late April, there were no beds to be had in Delhi, and hospitals were running short of oxygen. The situation with respect to both has improved significantly since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-education-financial-aid-for-covid-orphans-kejriwal-101621026891453.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi cases below 10k first time since April 10||Delhi recorded 8,506 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the lowest since April 10, with a nearly four-week long lockdown in the Capital finally bringing its overburdened health infrastructure some breathing room , although ICUs remain mostly full.The city’s test positivity rate too fell to 12.4%, the lowest since April 11, suggesting that the outbreak is receding after a punishing surge that began in mid-April and abated only in recent days.There were 289 more deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, the government’s health bulletin showed.“Delhi has recorded fewer than 10,000 cases in the last 24 hours. This has been possible only due to a strict lockdown and the discipline of the people in Delhi. For now, we must remember not to let our guard down,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday. The current lockdown ends on May 17, but it will likely be extended.Kejriwal added that in the past 10 days, 3,000 beds have been freed, “but, ICU beds are still full”.Average daily cases have now fallen by roughly 40% compared to two weeks before, with the test positivity rate reducing by roughly 12.74 percentage points. At its worst, the outbreak led to 28,395 new cases on April 20 and the positivity rate touched a record 36% on April 22.Kejriwal announced a lockdown on April 19 (after announcing a weekend lockdown on April 17) , and the protocol has now been renewed several times and will stay at least till May 17 in order to further flatten the curve.As on Friday, there were 71,794 active cases in the Capital, the lowest since April 19. Roughly a fortnight ago, active cases in the city were hovering close to the 100,000 mark – the number peaked at 99,752 on April 28 -- the highest ever recorded.The crisis stretched the city’s hospitals to breaking point, and triggered a severe shortage for medical oxygen that came into focus on April 22 and would not be resolved until at least May 5, when the Capital finally received over 700MT of stocks in a day after a long-drawn battle between the state and the Centre, which also played out in the high court and the Supreme Court.“There has been a consistent decline in the number of cases and positivity rate for a few days now; Delhi has certainly crossed the peak. Now, even if the government does remove the lockdown, I do not think that the numbers will go up drastically. This is because the infection is following its natural course, with a large chunk of the population already having been exposed to it,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.The government, he added, must now focus on strengthening its own systems rather than creating makeshift facilities.Concerns over reopening are also in focus due to new clues surrounding the B.1.617 variant, which has led experts in western countries such as the UK to urge the government there to defer plans to lift the lockdown.Experts have identified surge vaccinations as one of the few ways the threat from the variant can be tackled without having to stay locked down, but Delhi – as well as large parts of India – have faced a shortage of doses, slowing down the pace of vaccinations. The Capital has so far delivered 4.4 million doses -- 1 million people have received have received both doses --- to its roughly 15 million people over the age of 18.Kishore added that the government must now focus its vaccine strategy on the vulnerable. “The people who have had an infection now are more or less protected from a second one for now. So, we should target those who haven’t had an infection and immunise them first,” he said.Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and a part of Lancet’s Covid-19 task force said: “Right now, we need to focus on breaking the chain of transmission by following Covid appropriate behaviour, testing, and isolating positive cases rigorously”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cases-below-10k-first-time-since-april-10-101621026914142.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: An anthology of our feelings||It is perhaps the first time that the entire Delhi, with all its diverse complexities, has come around to a singular theme—of grief and fear about the ongoing surge of the coronavirus pandemic. While everybody is in isolation, we bring together the Capital’s citizens by offering raw voices from a spectrum of neighbourhoods.Shivam Sharma in Mayur Vihar Phase 1“My family’s WhatsApp group comprises of memes, obnoxious jokes, gossips, images of Gods wishing ‘Goodmorning’, and some bogus home remedies for coronavirus. Today I offered condolences as my first contribution to it.”Sumit Chauhan in Narela“When I was Covid positive, my mother told me, ‘Ho jayega thik tu, mein hu na (you’ll get fine, I’m here).’ Now she is not there for me.”Kavita Jaiswal in Chattarpur“In these times, my selfish mind also thinks of the business venture I been have building for some years. But there’s no space (emotionally and mentally) to discuss economic consequences, loans and our dreams.”Tridib Ray in Lodhi Colony“I’ve been sleeping here in my father’s room since he shifted to the hospital. My father could turn any place into an atmosphere of liveliness. I knew that silence would follow, but now there’s an echo as well.”Devadarshini Shandilya in Dwarka“For people who have had to stay away from parents, family, partners and for those who are all by themselves—we don’t know where we are headed, even as we sit with all the luxuries by our side, alone.”Avarna Ojha in Vasant Kunj“Ever since my grandmother passed away last April, I have been visiting Sanjay Van to cry for two hours almost everyday. But then that day also came when I went to just be there. It is possible to learn to live with loss.”Utkarsha Bansal in Pitampura“God, if you’re there, please keep him alive. Soon I’ll report negative too. And we’ll all be alright.”Nomita Rana in Keshav Puram“Mumma told me yesterday that she and papa don’t care if I get lower marks this semester, or if this leads to my career not accelerating as fast as we would want it to. That my health and life are more important.”Baneet Kaur in Rajouri Garden“This is my second time with Covid. Not feeling well. This apartment, where I am isolated. Last year, my father attempted suicide here because of the pandemic and his mental illness. We almost lost him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhiwale-an-anthology-of-our-feelings-101621021358526.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||PIL on hoarding: Delhi Police question Youth Cong chief BV Srinivas||The Delhi Police’s crime branch visited the office of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Friday and questioned its president, BV Srinivas, over the source of oxygen cylinders and other life-saving drugs with which he was helping Covid-19 patients and their families, at a time when the Capital is struggling with a shortage of both resources and essential drugs amid the fourth wave of Covid-19.The police’s action invited the criticism from the Congress, although Delhi Police has questioned politicians across the spectrum delivering such aid on the direction of the Delhi High Court.Videos of the police team inside the IYC headquarters made the rounds on social media, after which many people, including senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, tweeted with the trending hashtag #IstandwithIYC.Over the past few weeks, Srinivas has emerged as the humanitarian face of the crisis that gripped many parts of India and especially the national capital, delivering oxygen cylinders and concentrators, and finding hospital beds for those that needed them.Government officials aware of the matter said Srinivas was questioned as part of their ongoing probe into the alleged black marketing and hoarding of medical supplies. A pubic interest litigation was filed in the Delhi high court alleging that some politicians were hoarding and distributing essential medicines required in the treatment of Covid-19.The crime branch, in the last five days, has questioned people from other political parties too. Police have recorded statements of Aam Aadmi Party MLA Dilip Pandey, BJP Delhi spokesperson Harish Khurana, former Congress MLA Mukesh Sharma, among others.Khurana confirmed that he too was contacted by the crime branch. “The police investigation is based on court’s direction. They are asking all those, including people from BJP, who provided help to others. It is wrong to say that this is being done on the directions of the Centre,” he said.Srinivas said: “Somebody filed a PIL asking how we were getting Covid-19 medicines while there is a shortage. The police team came to find the source of our supply. They said they have to submit a reply to the high court. They took the statement of people from other parties too. We have done nothing wrong. We will continue to help people.”Commenting on Srinivas’ questioning by the Delhi police, Randeep Singh Surjewala, general secretary of the Congress, tweeted, “People of this country must decide if helping people with oxygen or providing medicines… is a crime. Is it a crime to help people in getting beds at the hospital? Maybe this is a crime, so Delhi police is questioning our youth Congress president BV Srinivas.”Though Delhi police did not issue any statement on Friday spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, said they had already issued a clarification on Wednesday. “On a writ petition filed by a person identified as Dr Deepak Singh about politicians involved in illegal distribution of Covid-19 medicines etc, the honourable high court of Delhi has directed the Delhi Police to conduct an enquiry. In compliance to the directions of the high court, an enquiry is being conducted and we are questioning several people.”Singh did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment.When contacted, senior AAP leader Dilip Pandey said, “People like us have some form of political backing, but think about those hundreds and thousands of individuals who are selflessly helping others. In the coming days, if we see a third wave, fewer people will come out to help fearing they will be questioned by the police. As for people like us, we will continue to help people in whatever way we can.”Pandey added the timing and manner in which these investigations are being carried out is wrong.“They must do it in a considerate way. It should not be that they waste all their time going after innocent people while the actual culprits roam free,” he said.BJP MP from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir put out a tweet on Friday saying that the opposition should not indulge in needless politicization of due process. “Delhi Police has asked for a reply from us & we’ve provided all details. I will keep serving Delhi & its people to the best of my abilities always!” he tweeted. Gambhir did not respond to requests for comment.(With inputs from Umar Sofi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pil-on-hoarding-delhi-police-question-youth-cong-chief-bv-srinivas-101621017241213.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Low-quality health gear has flooded city markets: Delhi police||The skyrocketing demand for masks, PPE kits, hand sanitisers and gloves, fuelled by the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, has led to the mushrooming of unauthorised manufacturing units that are producing these essentials using substandard material, the Delhi Police’s intelligence unit has said in its report submitted to the police brass.According to the report, these unauthorised units are being run out of local markets and industrial areas around Delhi-NCR. In most units, apart from the quality of materials used in the production, cleanliness and health hygiene are grossly compromised, officers privy to the intelligence report has said.Also, the units are defying labour regulations by employing children, and unskilled and semi-skilled women for low wages and then putting them to work in unhygienic conditions, posing a threat to their health, the officers said.Parallel to the action continuing against people involved in cheating, hoarding and black-marketing of medicines, injections and medical equipment used for treating Covid patients, the Delhi Police has now planned a crackdown on manufacturing units involved in producing spurious sanitisers and substandard PPE kits, masks and gloves, a senior police officer said, not wishing to be named.The police have also urged the public to dial the Covid helpline -- 011-23469900 -- and share information if they come across adulterated sanitisers or low-grade medical gear, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said.“We have been receiving information that people have started selling/supplying low-quality masks, PPE Kits, gloves and sanitisers. The Delhi Police has zero tolerance to people who, by resorting to such malpractices, are risking the lives of innocent persons. If anyone has any information about such people, (s)he should inform us on our helpline,” said Biswal.Apart from the 15 police districts and other units, the city police has also written to the civic agencies, Delhi government’s health, drugs control, labour, and home departments for taking steps to counter such spurious trade.A senior police officer, in the know of the report, said on condition of anonymity, “Employing children in these units is not only illegal but also dangerous -- they are exposed to the infection as there is no social distancing protocols in these units. Adulterated sanitisers can cause skin ailments in people and also lead to fire incidents, as sanitisers are inflammable by composition. In local production units, any and every kind of fabric is being used to make face masks and PPE kits. The production in these units is totally unregulated.”Health and medical experts also believe that use of substandard sanitisers, PPE kits, masks, gloves and other medical gear may put the lives of people at risk, especially doctors and medical personnel looking after Covid patients.“Masks, PPE kits, gloves, and sanitisers are life-saving gear that are used by a person to avoid contracting the infection. Sale and use of substandard items means that we are playing with the lives of people. It’s a heinous crime and the police as well as other agencies should take strict action against people involved in such illegal activities. People must make it a point to buy products that are genuine and have all necessary standard compliance marks and labels,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department, community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-plan-crackdown-on-units-manufacturing-low-quality-medical-gear-sanitisers-101621017179953.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Unclaimed ashes pile up at crematoriums||Twenty-two-year-old Rahul straps on his mask, pulls up his gloves, and gets ready with a scoop every evening to collect the remains of Covid-19 dead bodies that have turned to ashes at the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium, one of the largest funeral facilities in the city. He bags the ashes, and stores them in lockers on the cremation ground premises, waiting for families to come and collect the remains.While the remains from each of the pyres are stored inside the facility’s lockers, there are some bags where the ashes and remains from different bodies are mixed together and stored separately.Pointing at these abandoned bags kept on the side of the lockers, Rahul, who goes by one name said, “These are the ashes of people whose families have not come forward to collect them. Maybe they fear infection. We wait for a month, and then move the ashes into these sacks, because there isn’t enough space in the lockers considering the high number of deaths we are seeing these days because of Covid-19.”Caretakers and volunteers at crematoriums across the Capital say that, since the second national wave of Covid-19 cases hit the city, several families of the infected dead chose to not come forward to collect their remains. They say that possible reasons could be fear of contracting the disease, or that the family members are already infected.Suman Gupta, general secretary of the Nigambodh Ghat Sanchalan Samiti (coordination committee), the organisation that manages the crematorium for the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said if the families of the dead do not come to collect the remains for one or two months, or if they remain unreachable, the ashes are kept aside. The coordination committee plans to take the ashes to Haridwar and immerse them on the behalf of the families.Also Read | At Delhi crematoriums, corpses wait in 20-hour queues to burn“Our organisation has been doing this even before Covid-19 hit the country, for poor people who could not afford to conduct the last rites of their dead family members. But now, of course, the volume of the abandoned remains that we are getting is much higher. We believe that unless the last rites of the dead are not conducted, the soul doesn’t depart,” said Gupta.In some cases, he said, the all immediate family members are either admitted to hospitals or are in home isolation, and are unable to perform the last rites of their dead relatives.Delhi government data shows that over the last seven days, the city has recorded a total of 2,168 Covid deaths, of which 289 were recorded on Friday.Surendra Rana, a resident of west Delhi’s Janakpuri, lost his brother to Covid-19 on April 26. At the time, his entire immediate family was infected, and only six friends and neighbours could attend the funeral.“The situation was such that none of us could be there to set fire to his pyre, and it was only after 15 days that we could collect his remains from the crematorium,” Rana said.Since the second wave hit the national capital, the crematoriums are lined with dead bodies waiting their turn. In the first week of May, when cases were at its peak, the waiting time at these facilities was anywhere between 16-36 hours. Many instances of good samaritans, including NGO volunteers, policemen and regular citizens helping with cremations of abandoned Covid infected bodies have been reportedOther cremation facilities said that they, too, were facing increased instances of abandoned remains lying with them.Mukesh Singh, a caretaker at the Ghazipur cremation ground, said that while the crematorium does not provide storage facilities for the Covid infected bodies, there are NGOs and citizens’ group who step in.“Most people prefer collecting the remains of their loved ones themselves, but where families don’t turn up, there are NGO volunteers who pick the remains, and then immerse them as per ritual,” Singh said.Madhukar Trehan, chairperson of the Shiv Shakti Sangathan, a volunteer group helping collect the abandoned remains of Covid infected bodies at the Ghazipur and Mulla Colony crematoriums, said “Picking ashes is a very important part of the last rites of the dead. Every day our volunteers assist the crematorium staff in collecting the ashes of bodies, whose families have not turned up for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abandoned-remains-of-covid-dead-bodies-pile-up-at-crematoriums-in-delhi-as-families-fear-infection-101621017060734.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||After several days of delay, Delhi govt to begin distributing free rations||The Delhi government on Friday told its officers to start distributing fully subsidised rations for May and June to the city’s 7.2 million ration beneficiaries, a programme that has been delayed due to the Covid-19 surge in the Capital, adding to the hardships of thousands of families amid a lockdown that has deprived several of their daily incomes.The government said in a statement on Friday: “Food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain today convened a high-level meeting to review the distribution of free ration to all Public Distribution System (PDS) cardholders of Delhi under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) 2013 and under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna (PMGKAY) for May 2021 and June 2021… During the meeting, the minister directed officers to ensure that ration distribution is carried out in a smooth, convenient and transparent manner.A senior government official said the distribution of free ration for two months allotted under NFSA is likely to start from Saturday, and the additional ration allotted under PMGKAY is scheduled to be distributed from Monday.Approximately 1.78 million households in Delhi hold ration cards, which cater to 7.2 million beneficiaries. Rations are distributed through a network of 2,000-odd shops.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 4 said the state will give free ration for two months to card holders in the light of the ongoing lockdown. A similar scheme was announced during the lockdown last year as well.Ration in Delhi is usually distributed in a week-long window between 27th of the previous month and 3rd of the concerned month – which means the distribution of rations for May have been delayed by more than 11 days, which a senior government official attributed to the unprecedented fourth wave of the pandemic.“The decreasing number of cases and the fall in positivity rate suggest that the situation is slowly getting stable. However, while collecting ration, people will still have to take utmost precautions,” said the official, who asked not to be named.“We are struggling for food. For the last few days, we have been going to a nearby shelter where meals are distributed for free. But that entails an immense amount of risk in terms of getting infected by the virus. We have two children,” said Ramesh Prajapati, a 45-year-old factory worker in west Delhi’s Mayapuri industrial area, who along with his wife Anita, a domestic worker, have been without any stable income for around three weeks now.Right to Food campaign member Anjali Bhardwaj said, “Lockdown was imposed in Delhi nearly a month ago, which has resulted in cessation of income earning opportunities for the working poor. They have been struggling to afford two square meals a day for themselves and their children. In such a situation, it is shocking and absolutely unacceptable that the Delhi government has delayed the distribution of ration for the month of May, forcing people to buy grains in the open market.”Shailendra Kumar, president of Delhi public distribution system welfare association, said “Distribution of ration for May has witnessed immense delay causing hardships to large number of people. Now that ration will finally be distributed, the government has to ensure that all protocols are in place for safety and security of beneficiaries and ration shop owners and managers. Ration shops should be given PPE and safety gears too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-several-days-of-delay-delhi-govt-to-begin-distributing-free-rations-101621017059985.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Oxygen concentrator case: High court refuses interim relief to Navneet Kalra||The Delhi high court on Friday refused to grant interim protection from arrest to Khan Chacha owner Navneet Kalra in connection with the alleged black marketing and hoarding of oxygen concentrators.“I am persuaded by the reasons given by the trial court which is a valid ground for me not to grant any interim protection now,” said the single-judge bench of justice Subramonium Prasad.He posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday (May 18), after additional solicitor general SV Raju, appearing for the police, sought more time to file a reply and argue the case.Raju also opposed any interim relief to Kalra by arguing that the present case was not one where such a protection can be given.In recent searches by the Delhi Police, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra.Demand for oxygen concentrators had swelled during the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital as many hospitals had ran out of medical oxygen as the number of critically ill patients rose. Such concentrators, which can derive 80-90% pure oxygen from ambient air, was also a crucial part of the medical supplies and aids provided by many foreign countries to help India’s efforts against the pandemic.Also, investigators said they possess evidence to prove that the oxygen concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold for prices upwards of ₹75,000.Kalra has been on the run since the equipment were seized from his restaurants, according to the police. The police said he could not be traced despite searches being conducted in Delhi and adjoining states such as Uttarakhand.On Thursday, a city court had denied him anticipatory bail observing that the allegations against him were serious and his custody is required to “unearth the entire conspiracy”. Subsequently, he moved an anticipatory bail plea before the high court, which heard the matter late Thursday evening and had posted the matter to Friday for further proceedings.On Friday, senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa, who appeared for Kalra, sought interim relief for their client till the matter was heard on Tuesday (May 18). Singhvi argued that this was a case of harassment and punishment cannot be given to a person before fixation of price of an essential commodity.He also contended that the prosecution’s claim that the oxygen concentrators were of substandard quality. He referred to the police’s reply in another case, where they had told the court that the seized equipment had been given to Covid care centres.On Thursday, Singhvi had said that his client bought the concentrators from Matrix Cellular after paying GST and the payment was made via credit card, therefore, there was nothing clandestine about the purchase of the equipment. He had said that Kalra sold the equipment within the labelled price that Matrix, which imported the concentrators, had fixedFollowing arguments, the court posted the matter to May 18 for further hearing..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-concentrator-case-high-court-refuses-interim-relief-to-navneet-kalra-101621016999973.html
