16-05-2021||Delhi||40-year-old man refuses to pay back ₹100, stabbed by couple in Delhi||A couple allegedly stabbed a 40-year-old man to death following a quarrel over ₹100 in Delhi, police said on Sunday.The police have arrested Reshma in connection with the incident, while her husband Jitender is on the run.The deceased has been identified as Ajeet, a resident of Mangolpuri, they said.On Sunday at 2:45 pm, police received information regarding the incident.Police reached Sanjay Gandhi Hospital where on enquiry, it was found that Ajeet was brought to the hospital by his father. He was declared brought dead, having one stab injury behind his right knee, a senior police officer said.During preliminary investigation, it was revealed that Jitender asked Ajeet to repay him ₹100 on Sunday. On the issue, a heated argument ensued between them which led to a quarrel. Ajeet beat the accused on the spot and refused to pay money, police said.Thereafter, Jitender went to his home, brought a knife and his wife also accompanied him. They attacked Ajeet with the knife and fled from the spot thereafter, the police said.Ajeet succumbed to his injury due to excessive bleeding the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/40yearold-man-refuses-to-pay-back-rs-100-stabbed-by-couple-in-delhi-101621183663349.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||AAP leader behind 'PM Modi why did you send vaccines of our children' posters: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Sunday said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Gautam was behind the posters criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the reports of shortage in Covid-19 vaccination doses in the country that emerged in Mangolpuri area. This comes a day after the police arrested 25 peope for allegedly pasting these posters on walls across the city. Delhi police said AAP leader Gautam is absconding. "Police while patrolling to enforce lockdown announced by DDMA, created by GNCTD, noticed walls in several areas being defaced by pasting posters. Accused persons on questioning told an AAP member & President of Ward 47, Arvind Gautam was behind it in Mangolpuri. He is absconding," tweeted the Delhi Police, which comes under the Union Home Ministry.The police alleged that AAP leaders were involved in pasting the posters in other parts of the national capital as well.The police have registered 25 FIRs and arrested as many people for allegedly pasting the posters, reading "Modiji humare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (PM why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)", in several parts of the city.Police registered the FIRs under sections of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act. The number of first information reports (FIRs) and arrests could increase in the coming days as more posters reading “Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya? (Why did Modi send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries?)” are being found across the city, senior police officers privy to the development said.Since the legal sections mentioned in the FIRs were all bailable, a majority of those arrested till Saturday afternoon were released on bail from the concerned police stations itself. Those arrested after Saturday afternoon were likely to be released by late in the night after completing the legal formalities, the officers said.The police are trying to ascertain if all the posters were printed at one printing press and whether the order for the same was given by an individual or any political party. However, the initial investigations in most of the registered cases and interrogation of the arrested people have not yielded much of a result.A few of the arrested persons claimed that they were given money for pasting the posters. The police are now trying to identify the people who paid the money. Their questioning may lead to the key players behind the critical posters, the officers said.The first such posters, nearly 1,800 in number and not bearing any logo or mention of any political party or organisation, were found in east Delhi’s Kalyanpuri between Wednesday and Thursday, after which a case was registered and four persons were arrested. Their interrogation pointed towards the involvement of a local politician.“We are probing the role of the politician. Our investigation is still on. It’s too early to comment on any individual’s involvement,” said a police officer, who did not want to be identified.As similar posters were found in other parts of the city from Thursday onwards, more FIRs were registered. Till Saturday evening, the number of FIRs reached 25 in 13 different police districts.All the cases were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other sections including section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act across various districts. In total, 25 people were arrested till Saturday evening.As per details obtained from the police, except New Delhi and outer-north, all other 13 districts registered between one and four cases each. In four cases registered by the north-west district, two people were arrested while the outer, west and north-east districts filed three cases each.Two cases each were registered in the south, central and Rohini districts while the remaining six districts – Shahdara, Dwarka, North, south-East, south-west, and east – registered one case each. West district police made five arrests, while in the east and central districts, four people each were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-leader-behind-pm-modi-why-did-you-send-vaccines-of-our-children-posters-delhi-police-101621180303545.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Covaxin for those above 45 years to last only one day, says Delhi govt||Delhi has only one day of Covaxin stock left for those aged above 45, healthcare and frontline workers, while Covishield doses for this category can last up to five days, AAP MLA Atishi said on Sunday.She said 1.18 lakh beneficiaries received the jabs on May 15. Around 10.50 lakh people have got both the doses since the inoculation drive began on January 16.Delhi has so far received 44.94 lakh vaccine doses for this age group, of which 41.68 lakh have been administered, Atishi said.“After Sunday evening, the city will have only one day of Covaxin stock and five days of Covishield doses left. We appeal to the central government to make more vaccines available for this category immediately,” she said.The capital has received 8.17 lakh doses for the 18-44 age group so far, of which 5.25 lakh have been used till Sunday morning.“Since there are no Covaxin doses left for this category, all such vaccination centres have been shut. We have six days of Covishield stock left,” she said.“We appeal to the Centre to provide more doses of Covaxin and Covishield. If Covaxin cannot be arranged, more doses of Covishield should be given to keep the inoculation drive going at this pace,” she said.A total of 44.90 lakh doses have been administered in Delhi so far, according to the latest “vaccination bulletin” released by the government.The Delhi government had received over 1.73 lakh doses of Covishield on Saturday.A government panel has recommended increasing the gap between two doses of Covishield Covid-19 vaccine to 12-16 weeks.Those whose vaccination is due this month will not be administered the vaccine and will only be given the dose according to the new guidelines, a government official said.Healthcare workers, frontline staff and those aged above 45 are being vaccinated at 470 centres, whereas beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group are being inoculated at 353 centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covaxin-for-those-above-45-years-to-last-only-one-day-says-delhi-govt-101621174818640.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown extended till May 24: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the ongoing lockdown in Delhi has been extended till May 24 morning. It was earlier supposed to end at 5 am on Monday, May 17.On April 19, a weekend curfew in Delhi was turned into a full lockdown from the next day in the light of an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the capital which left the city’s health infrastructure creaking. Since then, this is the fourth time the lockdown has been extended.Also Read | Delhi Covid-19 cases dip to 6,430, CM urges caution“The lockdown has been extended till 5 am next Monday,” the chief minister said during his visit to a Covid-19 health facility set up outside the government’s GTB hospital.For the past few days, Delhi has been witnessing a steady decline in Covid-19 infections. However, the positivity rate still remains well above 5% -- a level considered relatively safe by the WHO.Also Read | Delhi sets rates for hearse vans for Covid-19 victims“The recovery rate is going up. And the positivity rate is going down. In the last 24 hours, around 6,500 new cases have been recorded in Delhi and the positivity rate has dropped to 10% -- down from 11% the previous day. We cannot let our guards down now,” Kejriwal said and added it was hoped that the situation would get further better in another week.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued the official order regarding the lockdown extension around 12.30 pm. “The situation of Covid-19 in Delhi has again been reviewed and [it has been] observed that Covid-19 positive cases and positivity rate is still high and [the] bed occupancy (oxygen beds/ICU beds) in the dedicated Covid-19 government and private hospitals and nursing homes is also on [the] higher side,” said the order explaining the rationale for extending the lockdown.Also Read | Covid: Delhi govt to start oxygen concentrator bank, announces CM KejriwalDr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: "Delhi is still facing a shortage of hospital beds, ICUs, ventilators. The government has to implement policies to ensure minimum interaction of people and make sure that there are no gatherings. So the lockdown is essential. We cannot let guards down at this point."As on Sunday noon, 15,340 (66%) of 23,213 total oxygen beds in the city's Covid-19 wards were occupied. Of the 6,415 total ICU beds, 5,728 (89%) were occupied, the government's app on hospital beds showed.While no new restriction has been imposed this week, no existing restriction has been lifted too. General movement of people and economic activities are prohibited in the lockdown with exemptions for those engaged in essential services and the supply chain of essential goods. Metro services are suspended and public buses have been asked to cater only to essential service providers. When asked if Delhi metro service would resume, the chief minister said: “Restrictions will remain as it is this week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-extended-till-may-24-arvind-kejriwal-101621149966714.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 lockdown extended till May 24; metro services to remain shut||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced extension of Covid-19 lockdown in the national capital till May 24. "We are extending the lockdown for one more week. Instead of tomorrow, lockdown is extended till next Monday, 5am in Delhi," Kejriwal said while speaking to reporters.Kejriwal said that the lockdown is being extended as the gains made so far in combating Covid-19 cannot be lost due to relaxations now."The recovery rate is going up and the positivity rate is going down. In the last 24 hours, around 6,500 new cases have been recorded in Delhi and the positivity rate has dropped to 10% -- down from 11% the previous day. We cannot let our guards down now," the Delhi CM said.When asked if Delhi metro service would resume, the chief minister said,"Restrictions will remain as it is this week."Movement of people and economic activities are prohibited in the lockdown with exemptions for those engaged in essential services and the supply chain of essential goods. Metro services will continue to remain suspended and public buses have been asked to cater only to essential service providers.#WATCH | Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal says, "We are extending the lockdown for one more week. Instead of tomorrow, lockdown is extended till next Monday, 5 am in Delhi." pic.twitter.com/Z7cO361LlRThe is the fourth time that the lockdown, which was first imposed on April 19, has been extended in the national capital. It was scheduled to end at 5am on Monday.Talking about the Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Kejriwal earlier on Saturday said that the national capital has recorded less than 10,000 cases in the last 24 hours which is the first time this month.In a virtual press conference on Saturday, Kejriwal said that the lockdown has played an important role in checking the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi and asserted that people must take all necessary precautions to ensure that cases do not rise.Delhi on Saturday recorded 6,430 fresh Covid-19 cases and 337 more fatalities, while the positivity rate dipped to 11.32 per cent, authorities said. The national capital had recorded 8,506 new cases on Friday.Kejriwal had also talked about starting an oxygen concentrator bank. "Essential to provide oxygen to Covid patients, on time. We have started this for such patients. 200 such banks set up in every districts. Our team will provide the concentrator at doorstep of patients in home isolation, if needed," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-may-24-says-arvind-kejriwal-101621147111068.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi sets rates for hearse vans for Covid-19 victims||The Delhi government has fixed the rates for booking hearse vans and related services for deceased Covid-19 patients, an order issued by the state disaster management authority on Saturday showed.“The rates of hearse van facility for deceased Covid-19 patients has been fixed at ₹1,300 per trip for initial 10 kilometres and ₹100 per kilometre thereafter. This will include the cost of transportation with a driver and one attendant wearing PPE kits,” stated the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The order further stated that the family members of the deceased will have to pay additional ₹700 to avail the “body wrapping” facility as per Covid protocols. “In case the services of an additional person is required by the family of the deceased patients to handle the body/wrapping etc, the charges would be ₹500, which includes charges of safety gear to be worn by the additional person. No extra charge for sanitisation will be charged by the vendor,” it said.Mortuary services for coronavirus patients are provided free of cost in private as well as government facilities, the order said.The order, which comes on the direction of the Delhi high court, is going to give a major relief to people as there were several cases of overcharging.The Delhi Police have arrested at least four hearse van drivers in the city for charging exorbitant amounts to transfer bodies from hospitals to crematoriums and burial grounds, including one who charged ₹14,000 for driving six kilometres from Mukherjee Nagar to Nigambodh Ghat on May 2.A committee, constituted under the chairmanship of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner, had recommended the rates for hearse/mortuary services to be provided to deceased coronavirus patients, the DDMA order said.Last week, the government also capped rates charged by private ambulance services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sets-rates-for-hearse-vans-for-covid-19-victims-101621115379302.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Govt sets up O2 device banks for patients in home isolation||The Delhi government is setting up oxygen concentrator banks across the city to ensure Covid-19 patients being treated at home get access to oxygen therapy should they need it, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday.Addressing a digital press briefing, Kejriwal said, “It has been often observed that whenever a person gets infected with the virus, their oxygen levels drop suddenly. If they are given oxygen immediately, their health can be prevented from deteriorating further. If they do not get oxygen on time, things then tend to get worse. Therefore, it is imperative that Covid-19 patients get oxygen when they need,” he said.These banks will be set up in each district, Kejriwal added.A senior Delhi government official said each district will have at least 200 oxygen concentrators, to be given to patients on the advice of a doctor.If a Covid-19 patient is not enrolled for Delhi government’s home isolation programme, they may dial 1031 to get themselves enrolled, and avail oxygen concentrators from the bank.However, the district administration’s team of doctors will first ensure whether the person needs an oxygen concentrator or not. After their affirmation, the oxygen concentrator will be delivered to the patients’ home.“If patients under home isolation require oxygen, our team will ensure the concentrator reaches their home within two hours. A technician will also accompany the team and explain how the oxygen concentrator is to be used. Apart from this, several people in recovery too are often advised to take oxygen at home for a few days, and such patients too, can get concentrators from these banks,” Kejriwal said.Delhi government’s doctors will stay in touch with all those who are given oxygen concentrators from these banks.Once the patients recover, the oxygen concentrators will be taken back from them, sanitised, and handed to another patient for use, the government said in a statement.“Organisations such as OLA Foundation and GiveIndia are helping us deliver oxygen concentrators to every house. We are very grateful for their support,” it said.Atul Satija, GiveIndia’s CEO said, “Through this initiative, we will provide oxygen concentrators to those who are in home-isolation or in recovery right at their doorstep. We hope this will give easy access to patients in need and help combat the acute shortage of medical oxygen.”“Infections are reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope they diminish completely and do not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent. On Friday, we prepared 500 additional ICU beds, and 500 similar beds were prepared four days ago. Within 15 days, our doctors, engineers and workers have prepared 1,000 ICU beds,” Kejriwal said.Dr Nikhil Modi, senior consultant, respiratory critical care and sleep medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals in Delhi, said the establishment of a bank of oxygen concentrators is a good move to ensure supply for everyone.“I feel that this is an important step as many people are getting moderate to severe disease and are not able to get beds on time. A back-up of oxygen can go a long way in stabilising such patients and hence we will save many lives. But, it is a step taken a little late as cases are now settling and most people will now be able to get a bed in hospitals. It was needed a month earlier when people were facing shortage of oxygen,” Dr Modi said.Lockdown likely to be extendedThe Delhi government is also likely to extend the ongoing lockdown in the Capital by a week, said state officials aware of the matter.Kejriwal announced a lockdown on April 19 (after a weekend curfew on April 17 and 18),. The protocol has now been renewed several times and is currently scheduled to be in place till at least 10am on May 17. The order for the likely extension till May 24, will be issued on Sunday, officials said.The crisis stretched the city’s hospitals and triggered a severe shortage of medical oxygen that did not get resolved until at least May 5, when the Capital finally received over 700MT of oxygen stock in a day after a long-drawn battle between the state and the Centre, which also played out in the high court and the Supreme Court.Integrated centre for Covid-19 managementThe Delhi government on Saturday also opened an integrated common command and control centre (ICCC) for Covid-19 management.This centre has been opened at the already existing ICCC of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) at its headquarters - Palika Kendra, Parliament street.“The Delhi government has started an Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC). Data related to hospitals, oxygen, vaccination and other aspects of Covid management are collected, collated and analysed on a real-time basis. It will help us in making informed decisions,” Kejriwal said after launching the centre on Saturday along with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and senior government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-sets-up-o2-device-banks-for-patients-in-home-isolation-101621114942611.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 cases dip to 6,430, CM urges caution||Delhi on Saturday reported 6,430 fresh Covid-19 cases, and the positivity rate dipped to 11.32%, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that infections were “slowly and steadily” reducing in the national capital, where the health care system was overrun by spiralling cases amid a raging fourth wave of the pandemic.The Capital has been under a lockdown for about four weeks, a “last resort” measure taken by the Delhi government to arrest the alarming spread of the infectious disease, which led to hospitals being overburdened and medical supplies running short. While the current lockdown is supposed to end on May 17, there are indications that it could be extended.There were 337 more deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, according to the government’s health bulletin on data from the previous 24 hours.Saturday was the second consecutive day when Delhi recorded fewer than 10,000 cases in recent weeks. On Friday, the Capital recorded 8,506 cases, the lowest since April 10. The city conducted only 56,811 tests, according to Saturday’s bulletin, as compared to almost 70,400 tests conducted on average daily over the last seven days.Earlier in the day, Kejriwal said: “The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway.”At the peak of the positivity rate in the fourth wave, more than one in three people in Delhi who got tested were found to have the infection.Experts urged caution over the dip in the cases, saying that Delhi needed to keep its guard up until the burden on the health care system reduced and the positivity rate came under control.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said: “Delhi has a large floating population, there are children, and there is the threat of new variants so spikes can happen. We need to keep following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and the government should remain prepared to tackle a surge in cases.”The number of cumulative cases on Saturday stood at 1,387,411. Over 1.2 million patients have recovered from the infection, which began spreading in the country in March last year. Saturday’s cases were the lowest in 38 days since April 7, when the city reported 5,506 new cases.The number of cases of the viral infection spiralled in the city in recent weeks, reaching a high of 28,395 cases reported on April 20.Experts also warned that a third surge in infections could be in children. “If a third wave does come, children would be the most vulnerable as many adults have either had the infection or are being immunised. We need to prepare for management of cases in children; all the treatment protocols and SOPs will have to be made afresh,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Dr Anupam Sibal, a paediatric liver specialist and group medical director Apollo Hospitals, said: “…If we do have a third wave a few months down the line and a lot of adults are vaccinated, those below the age of 18 years will remain vulnerable and infections in that age group will become more common. So, even if a small percentage of them fall ill and need hospitalisation, given a large number of infections, the numbers will be significant. So, it stands to reason that we plan ahead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-dip-to-6-430-cm-urges-caution-101621114437285.html
