17-05-2021||Delhi||Cancel FIRs for posters against vaccine export, says Delhi lawyer in SC plea||A Delhi-based lawyer has filed public interest litigation in the Supreme Court to quash over two dozen criminal cases lodged against people alleged to have put up posters in Delhi criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the country.Lawyer Pradeep Kumar Yadav said the arrests were “illegal” and asked the top court to direct the police chiefs of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh not to register any more first information reports (FIRs) and produce the records relating to the FIRs already registered.Most of the FIRS invoke section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life), section 34 (common intention) besides provisions of other laws such as Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, Delhi Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act.Yadav’s petition said at least 25 FIRs have been registered in connection with posters that surfaced across the national capital “questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the vaccination policy in a sarcastic tone.” It said most people persons arrested by the Delhi Police were daily wagers or jobless youth who were hired to put up posters and banners across the city that said, “Modiji hamare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (PM Modi, why did you send the vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)”.The arrest had triggered a sharp attack on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre and the Delhi Police from opposition parties. On Sunday, the Delhi Police said their probe revealed that Aam Aadmi Party workers printed and pasted the posters in south, west and east Delhi. Durgesh Pathak of the Aam Aadmi Party dared the Centre to arrest him, saying that he and his party had posted the posters across the city. Leaders of the rival Congress also challenged the government to arrest them. Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a digital copy of the poster on his Twitter account and said: “Arrest me too”. Rahul Gandhi’s party called the police action an attempt by the Modi government to muzzle criticism. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said the Congress will ask the question on behalf of the lakhs of people who died before their time or were living in “worry, tensions and sorrow”.The petition filed in the Supreme Court said the police action was contrary to the Supreme Court’s recent direction restraining the police from registering criminal cases against people for seeking medical help over social media. Police said most of the people arrested in cases related to the posters had been released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cancel-firs-for-posters-against-vaccine-export-says-delhi-lawyer-in-sc-plea-101621258150580.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Covid second wave: Sex workers get help from Good Samaritans||Even before they could recover from the impact of last year’s lockdown, the second wave of Covid and the subsequent lockdown have dealt another blow to most of the sex workers in the Capital; who were already struggling to make ends meet. In the narrow bylanes of Garston Bastion (GB) Road, a team of volunteers comprising students and young professionals can be found, distributing food and dry ration to families of over 800 sex workers! “Since we are aware of the problems faced by the women in the area, we collected funds and even conducted a food drive to distribute the packets that contain ration (for 15 days), including dal, rice, flour, basic spices as well as soaps and sanitisers,” says Shankar Singh, founder of the NGO, Vrikshit Foundation. He adds that the group will soon return with reusable sanitary napkins for the women in the area. “For sex workers, getting help from authorities is a challenge since they do not have ration cards... Around 2,000 plus sex workers reside in the 100 brothels who have lost their only means of livelihood because of the lockdown,” explains Awadhesh Yadav, founder of Society Participatory Integrated Development (SPID), an NGO working in the Capital for women and child development. Along with food, the society is focussing on pregnant and lactating mothers, who are provided with milk for their kids.“Our goal is to prevent the second generation from prostitution. At our 24-hour shelter in GB road area, we take care of kids of sex workers, which includes their boarding, food and education. We are also distributing ration to the hundreds of families here, and families of the Perna tribe, residing in Najafgarh,” says Yadav, adding, “Many women came to us asking for help during the second wave, and we are trying our best to help everyone, and raise awareness about their plight.” Efforts are being made by some, who are providing emotional support, literacy and life skills to women engaged in prostitution. “During the pandemic, under our HeARTshala initiative, we have taught women how to stitch cotton masks and bags, to provide them an alternate source of livelihood. In the second wave, these women have been given machines so that they can work at home, since we do not want to risk calling them to the centres,” says Aarzoo Jolly, program lead at Kat-Katha, adding, “We are also teaching them about finance and entrepreneurship through online classes, to allow them to have an alternate source of livelihood.” Jolly says that the organisation is also taking care of around 30 children of the sex workers, who are being taught via online classes at the moment. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-second-wave-sex-workers-get-help-from-good-samaritans-101621243992051.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Hoarding case: Delhi HC dissatisfied with police clean chit to BV Srinivas, others||The Delhi high court on Monday expressed dissatisfaction with the police for giving clean chit to nine politicians, including Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president BV Srinivas, in connection with the alleged oxygen cylinder hoarding case.“We are not accepting this position. We mean business. The pandemic is now. This is completely unacceptable. Political parties cannot make this pandemic a selling point. How could they purchase it without prescription?Also Read | Clean chit to BV Srinivas, 8 others in hoarding case“You have to act with responsibility. They have no business to buy medicines and hoarding them to earn some goodwill. Now it seems that you are not interested in getting out the truth,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.“Just because some political figures are involved, this is no reason to not investigate. Your force should stand up, you have a duty towards the people. You have to understand this. People all over are suffering,” Justice Vipin Sanghi said, pulling up the Delhi Police, asking if the force realises just how many people have died due to lack of medicines, which, allegedly, were being hoarded by some people.Justice Sanghi further said, “Medicines were being hoarded by a certain doctor. Since it is being projected that the medicines are held for public charity, we expect that as responsible citizens, people will not procure these medicines for political gains.”Also Read | PIL on hoarding: Delhi Police question Youth Cong chief BV SrinivasThe court further said that it expects the medicines to be surrendered to the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) for poor and needy public. It further directed the Delhi Police to conduct a “proper investigation” in the matter and do the needful if a case is made out to register an First information Report (FIR).“We want a complete status report. We would expect that whatever stocks are being held by the political parties is surrendered to the Directorate of Health Services (DGHS) as good samaritans. In case they want to do public good that would be the best way it can be done. We find it difficult prima facie to believe…..We are appealing in good sense that this should not go and they should go and surrender it with the DGHS,” the bench said.The observations and directions come while perusing the Delhi police’s status report in the high court where nine politicians including Srinivas, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Gautam Gambhir and party leader Harish Khurana, as well Dilip Pandey of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders, as well as other essential medicines, were given clean chit by the probe agency.The police in their report had said that they were actually helping people without charging money and no one was defrauded.The case pertains to questioning by the police of nine people for alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders, as well as other essential medicines, at a time when several hospitals in the Capital reported a shortage of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) resulting in several cases in which people infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lost their lives. While the oxygen cylinders were provided to those in need, it was alleged that this was done for “political gains.”However, it was the questioning of Srinivas which triggered a major political storm as he has been at the forefront of helping people with oxygen cylinders.The Delhi Police was investigating the case on the directions of the high court which directed it to do so after a petition was filed in the court seeking a probe into the matter.The high court will next hear the case on May 24, by when it has directed the Delhi Police to file a status report showing how medicines were procured in “such large numbers by a few persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hoarding-case-delhi-hc-dissatisfied-with-police-clean-chit-to-bv-srinivas-others-101621238651478.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi today; there may be thunder, lightning||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Monday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast with a possibility of thunder and lightning. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 21.7°C – five degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 39.6°C– one degree below normal. Also Read | 5th phase of lockdown begins in Delhi as positivity rate down to 10.4%Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 157. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 166, which is in the higher end of the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are north-easterly and moderate. A slight decrease in wind speed and ventilation are forecasted. Hence, AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and stay in the high end of moderate for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-today-there-may-be-thunder-lightning-101621221969483.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Fifth phase of lockdown begins in Delhi as positivity rate down to 10.4%||Delhi on Monday began the fifth phase of a complete lockdown, which was announced last month to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The announcement that the lockdown is being extended was made by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday during his visit to a Covid-19 health facility set up outside the government-run Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital in the Capital.Also Read | Lockdown for 1 more week, says CM; Metro to stay shut“The lockdown is being extended till 5am next Monday,” Kejriwal announced while interacting with the media. The complete shutdown was initially announced by the chief minister on April 19, and came into effect at 10pm on the same night. The city was to exit the lockdown at 5am on April 26; however, the restrictions were subsequently extended till May 3, May 10 May 17, and, for now, till May 24.Last month’s lockdown announcement came on the back of a weekend curfew which was imposed in Delhi as the city-state began witnessing a sharp rise in its daily Covid-19 cases, as well as deaths per day due to the viral disease.Hours after Kejriwal announced that the lockdown is being extended, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted that Metro services shall remain suspended “till further notice,” adding that “any change in services will be notified.” The Metro services were suspended during the fourth phase of the lockdown, on the instructions of CM Kejriwal.In the wake of extension of curfew in Delhi for the containment of Covid-19 by the Govt. of NCT of Delhi, the Delhi Metro services on all its Lines shall also remain suspended till further notice. Any change in services will be notified. pic.twitter.com/cML76L6pd5Later in the day on Sunday, the latest medical bulletin from the health department showed that Delhi registered 6,456 fresh infections from the preceding 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 10.40%. In the same period, 262 lives were lost to the disease, the bulletin showed, while 9,706 people were discharged after recovering. The cumulative infection tally stands at 1,393,867, including 1,309,578 recoveries, 62,783 active cases and 21,506 related deaths.Also Read | Covid-19 in Delhi: 10.4% test positive as rate continues to dipThis was for the third straight day that Delhi saw less than 10,000 cases and second straight day that there were less than 7,000 infections. On Friday and Saturday, the Capital’s Covid-19 tally rose by 8,506 and 6,430 cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-fifth-phase-of-lockdown-begins-in-delhi-as-positivity-rate-down-to-104-101621215676088.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Demand for cancelling exams grows as students process grief||A 17-year-old who lost both his parents to Covid-19, another boy whose hospitalised mother does not know her husband has passed away; an 18-year-old who lost her mother two days ago, and a top performer who tested positive for the infection — these are just some of the students expected to write the CBSE Class 12 exams amid the fourth wave of the pandemic in the national capital.On April 14, the Centre cancelled the Class 10 exams and postponed the Class 12 tests, and said it will review the situation on June 1 before deciding on the fate of the exams. Students and teachers are concerned about the ramifications the exams may have, with just 15 days left for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to decide on the Class 12 exams. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ is due to chair a virtual meeting with all state education secretaries to discuss the impact of the pandemic on education.However, with the country continuing to record over 350,000 new Covid-19 infections and nearly 4,000 deaths every day, stakeholders have questioned the feasibility of conducting exams in-person. Students have started social media campaigns demanding the cancellation of Class 12 exams amid the pandemic. A plea has been also filed in the Supreme Court asking for directions to the Centre, CBSE and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) to cancel the Class 12 examinations.Officials at several schools in Delhi said many of their students had seen loss at close quarters, and that it will be challenging for them to take tests in such a situation. For instance, at Amity International School in Saket, a Class 12 student lost both his parents to Covid-19 during the ongoing surge, while another student’s father died, while the mother continues to fight the infection in hospital.Psychologist Manveen Kaur, the school counsellor, said asking students to appear for exams at this moment will “push them beyond breaking point.”“We are talking about teenagers here. They need time, focus, and energy to heal. They don’t need to stress about their academics right now. Authorities need to realise that children in the cycle of grief and despair need to get over this uncertainty because prolonged exposure to it will lead to stress and behavioural changes... Children who have lost their parents a week or a month or even five months ago, cannot be expected to write their papers,” said Kaur.The situation is identical at schools run by the government.At The Indian School, a Class 12 student of commerce lost his mother to the infection a couple of days ago, officials said. Two siblings enrolled in classes 10 and 12 at Springdales School on Pusa Road also lost their parents to Covid-19 recently. At least two students of Class 12 of MM Public School in Pitampura have lost their fathers to Covid-19.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School, said, “Two siblings studying in class 10 and 12 in our school lost their parents to Covid recently. When their relatives from outside Delhi wanted to take the children to a different city, the Class 12 student’s first concern was — what about my boards?... We have to come out with some kind of decision on this soon,” she said.Several Class 12 students have themselves tested positive for Covid-19. For instance, Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Surajmal Vihar had to stop all remedial and preparatory classes later last month when one of their top performers tested positive for the infection. School principal RP Singh said, “We held an online meeting with students and asked them not to worry about their exams and to focus on themselves and their families… The board can conduct exams by addressing the administrative aspects, but the way students and teachers have been hit emotionally in the last month cannot be addressed,” he said.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, said, “Conducting exams is just a part of the process. It will be followed by rigorous evaluation, after which results will be prepared. It will be equally challenging to do that at a time when several teachers have died across schools in Delhi, so many have tested positive, while several have had deaths in their families.”Several students echoed these views. Aman Sharma (17), a student of Class 12 at Modern School in Vasant Vihar, said at least four of his classmates lost their parents between April and May and the pressure of board exams has left them feeling abandoned. “Exams cannot get preference over the lives and health of students. CBSE should not make us wait till June for clarity and leave us feeling anxious when we all know that there is a possibility of a third wave as well. This is not a conducive environment for us to sit and study when the world around us is collapsing,” he said.Education experts suggested alternative evaluation methods.Renu Malaviya, associate professor at the department of education at Lady Irwin College who has been working on alternative assessment methods for students with disabilities, said, “Online assessments could be an option for those with access to the internet and an alternate mode can be developed for those who don’t have digital access. The assessment pattern could be a combination of a variety of objective-type questions, including short answers. The assessments could be continuous and comprehensive. Most higher education institutes are already conducting entrance tests and with Central Universities Common Entrance Test, Class 12 grades will not be the only deciding factor for admission to colleges and universities.”Educationist Meeta Sengupta said several universities across the world have dropped SATs and school marks as deciding factors for admissions amid the pandemic.“Colleges in India can also follow other options for admissions this year in case the exams don’t take place. For instance, they can carry out United States-style applications with a history of the last three or four years, marks, awards, special achievements, and a ‘statement of purpose’ (SoP). They can even ask for an essay or journal note instead of the SoP. These can be submitted by post,” she said.Despite several attempts, CBSE controller of exams Sanyam Bhardwaj did not respond to calls and texts requesting comment. The board in a statement on Saturday said “no decision has been taken regarding the Class 12 exams yet”.A senior official from the Union education ministry on Sunday said no decision has been taken so far even as the government is “closely monitoring” the situation. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” will conduct a virtual meeting with all state education secretaries on Monday to discuss the impact of Covid-19 on education. “The matter of CBSE class 12 exams is likely to be discussed there,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/demand-for-cancelling-exams-grows-as-students-process-grief-101621205908574.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||‘1 day of Covaxin jabs in stock for city’s 45+ group’: Delhi govt||State government-run vaccine centres inoculating health care workers, frontline workers and those aged 45 and above only have Covaxin doses left for another day, the Delhi government said in its vaccine bulletin on Sunday.Centres offering Covaxin to those aged between 18 and 44 have already run out of stocks of the jab, and around 140 centres had to temporarily shut down last week because of this.“We are facing difficulties getting Covaxin, and it has become a hurdle to widen the vaccination drive. The matter is more concerning for beneficiaries who have their second dose scheduled now. We request the central government to intervene in this regard at the earliest,” said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi, during an online briefing.However, the government-run centres have five days’ Covishield left for those aged above 45, and six days of the jab left for the 18-44 age group, the government’s vaccine bulletin said.There are 470 government-run vaccine centres in the city for the former group and 353 for the latter.Covishield is produced by the Serum Institute of India (SII), while Covaxin is manufactured by Bharat Biotech.To be sure, the above mentioned stocks exclude those centres under the Centre as well private facilities, which have their independent stocks.While vaccine doses are free for the public in all government sites, private facilities charge ₹250 a dose for either vaccine for the 45-plus age group. For the 18-44 age group, private hospitals in Delhi charge ₹1,250 for Covaxin and ₹900 for Covishield.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the central government was capping the number of vaccine doses even though states are allowed to procure vaccines on their own for the 18-44 age group beneficiaries, citing a letter by Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director Krishna Ella, who wrote back to Delhi’s principal secretary (health) expressing the company’s inability to send more doses since the supplies were capped by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1-day-of-covaxin-jabs-in-stock-for-city-s-45-group-delhi-govt-101621205726368.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Lockdown for 1 more week, says CM; Metro to stay shut||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the ongoing lockdown in Delhi has been extended till May 24 morning. It was earlier supposed to end at 5 am on Monday, May 17.On April 19, a weekend curfew in Delhi was turned into a full lockdown from the next day in the light of an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the capital which left the city’s health infrastructure creaking. Since then, this is the fourth time the lockdown has been extended.“The lockdown has been extended till 5 am next Monday,” the chief minister said during his visit to a Covid-19 health facility set up outside the government’s GTB hospital.For the past few days, Delhi has been witnessing a steady decline in Covid-19 infections. However, the positivity rate still remains well above 5% -- a level considered relatively safe by the World Health Organization (WHO).“The recovery rate is going up, and the positivity rate is going down. In the last 24 hours, around 6,500 new cases have been recorded in Delhi and the positivity rate has dropped to 10% -- down from 11% the previous day. We cannot let our guards down now,” Kejriwal said and added that he hoped the situation will get better in another week.Delhi recorded 6,456 new infections, Sunday’s health bulletin showed, on the back of 62,059 tests.The test positivity rate also continued to fall, dropping to 10.40% on Sunday, from 11.32% a day earlierThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued the official order regarding the lockdown extension around 12.30 pm.“The situation of Covid-19 in Delhi has again been reviewed and [it has been] observed that Covid-19 positive cases and positivity rate is still high and [the] bed occupancy (oxygen beds/ICU beds) in the dedicated Covid-19 government and private hospitals and nursing homes is also on higher side,” said the order explaining the rationale for extending the lockdown.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “Delhi is still facing a shortage of hospital beds, ICUs, ventilators. The government has to implement policies to ensure minimum interaction of people and make sure that there are no gatherings. So the lockdown is essential. We cannot let guards down at this point.”As on Sunday noon, 15,340 (66%) of 23,213 total oxygen beds in the city’s Covid-19 wards were occupied. Of the 6,415 total ICU beds, 5,728 (89%) were occupied, the government’s app on hospital beds showed.While no new restriction has been imposed this week, no existing restriction has been lifted too.General movement of people and economic activities are prohibited in the lockdown with exemptions for those engaged in essential services and the supply chain of essential goods. Metro services are suspended and public buses have been asked to cater only to essential service providers. When asked if Delhi metro service would resume, the chief minister said: “Restrictions will remain as it is this week.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “The overall Covid-19 curve is declining in Delhi. There is no doubt in that. This is the time to boost the vaccination drive. The government has to resolve the shortage issue at the earliest either by increasing production of vaccines in India or buying from other countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-for-1-more-week-says-cm-metro-to-stay-shut-101621204508092.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: 10.4% test positive as rate continues to dip||The Covid-19 test positivity rate continued to wind downwards in the national capital, falling to 10.40% on Sunday, from 11.32% a day earlier, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal signalling that the infection may be steadying in the city, even as he extended the ongoing lockdown by a week.Delhi recorded 6,456 new infections, Sunday’s health bulletin showed, on the back of 62,059 tests. The city has added an average of 10,043 new cases a day over the past seven days — the lowest in 33 days, since it added 9,299 cases in the seven days ending April 13.Sunday’s bulletin showed that 262 more people died of the infection in 24 hours. While this number is the lowest in 25 days, it must be noted that this number is still double the death count during the third wave of cases, when Delhi saw a one-day high of 131 deaths on November 18.All major parameters concerning the pandemic have seen a downward trend over the past week, indicating that the fourth wave of infections may be receding. The seven-day average test positivity rate for instance, has dropped from 25.27% as on May 9, to 14.61% on Sunday. Active cases too, have fallen from 86,232 a week ago to 62,783 on Sunday.To be sure, the test positivity rate in Delhi is still far higher than the 5% threshold recommended by health experts, including the World Health Organization, for an infection to be considered under control in a region.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases in a day on April 20. And on April 22, the Capital recorded a positivity rate of more than 36%. Single-day deaths hit a high on May 3, when 448 people succumbed to the infection.Experts urged caution over the dip in the cases and stressed on boosting vaccination and starting preparations for any more potential waves in future.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “The case trajectory and positivity rate are going down in Delhi, which is a good sign. This is the time the government should scale up genome sequencing and integrate that with epidemiological data for advanced study...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-10-4-test-positive-as-rate-continues-to-dip-101621204161042.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Navneet Kalra held in O2 concentrator case||Businessman Navneet Kalra who has been charged with hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices was arrested late Sunday evening from a farmhouse in Gurugram, police officers aware of his arrest said.However, no senior police officer authorised to speak to the media confirmed Kalra’s arrest or disclosed where he was taken into custody from.Kalra was allegedly on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular on May 7. A Delhi court on Thursday refused to grant protection from arrest to Kalra, following which he moved the Delhi high court. The high court on Friday also declined to grant any interim relief to him.“I am persuaded by the reasons given by the trial court which is a valid ground for me not to grant any interim protection now,” said the single-judge bench of justice Subramonium Prasad.He posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday (May 18), after additional solicitor general SV Raju, appearing for the police, sought more time to file a reply and argue the case.Raju also opposed any interim relief to Kalra by arguing that the present case was not one where such a protection can be given.Investigators said they possess evidence to prove that the oxygen concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold for prices upwards of ₹75,000.Demand for oxygen concentrators had swelled during the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital with many hospitals running out of medical oxygen as the number of critically ill patients rose. Such concentrators, which can derive 80-90% pure oxygen from ambient air, was also a crucial part of the medical supplies and aids provided by many foreign countries to help India’s efforts against the pandemic.On Friday, senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa, who appeared for Kalra, sought interim relief for their client till the matter was heard on Tuesday (May 18). Singhvi argued that this was a case of harassment and punishment cannot be given to a person before fixation of price of an essential commodity.On Thursday, Singhvi had said that his client bought the concentrators from Matrix Cellular after paying GST and the payment was made via credit card, therefore, there was nothing clandestine about the purchase of the equipment. He had said that Kalra sold the equipment within the labelled price that Matrix, which imported the concentrators, had fixed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/navneet-kalra-held-in-o2-concentrator-case-101621201871448.html
