18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt forms teams to identify migrant workers who want to return home||The state government has formed multiple teams across Delhi’s 11 districts to identify migrant workers who want to return to their home towns or villages due to the ongoing lockdown in order to make necessary arrangements for their travel, a senior Delhi government official said. The move comes after the Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to provide dry ration and meals to labourers in the National Capital Region (NCR), as well as to ensure they have transportation if they wish to return home. The Delhi government has, to this effect, now directed districts to compile a list of workers who wish to go back home. “Each team comprises a revenue official, labour inspector and a police official. We have formed three to four teams in each district. The teams are visiting spots like construction sites to speak to migrant workers. We are asking people to register if they want to return home,” said a senior revenue department official aware of the matter . In south-west Delhi, officials are surveying all construction sites and clusters where a large population of migrant workers is present. “The labour department is telling us where the surveys should be conducted. So far, we have not come across anyone who wants to return home. Those who wanted to leave have already gone, since the railways and buses were operational during this lockdown,” said a senior revenue official. With the lockdown in Delhi gradually being extended, this time till May 24, migrant workers said they fear that the curbs may continue for a while. “Some people we met at the construction site didn’t want to go immediately but they said they might leave if the curbs are extended for a longer period,” said an official. Apart from the survey, the teams are also telling migrant workers about hunger relief centres made in each district to provide food to people. In East Delhi district too, officials said none of the workers they have spoken to said they want to return. “Our teams are going to construction sites, pockets where migrant labourers are staying. So far, no one has come forward. We will continue this exercise till the time lockdown is in place,” said a senior official. Officials managing the government’s helpline for migrant workers, which was made operational last year, said the number of calls increased after the Delhi lockdown was announced on April 19. “But a majority of callers are asking about financial assistance, renewal of their membership [for the construction workers board], and for such things,” said a helpline operator. The Delhi government has also asked those who have employed migrant workers in the past year to register with the labour department. “Every inter-state migrant worker will be issued a passbook by the contractor, which shall have details of employment and shall be provided other benefits as provided in the Inter-state Migrant Workmen (regulation of employment and condition of service) Act, 1979,” read the public notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-forms-teams-to-identify-migrant-workers-who-want-to-return-home-101621358054681.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination for youth to halt from next week due to shortage: Delhi govt||Delhi government on Tuesday said Covid-19 vaccination for adults in the age bracket of 18-44 years will be halted from next week due to the shortage of shots in the national capital. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Atishi announced that the vaccination process for the youth would have to be paused starting next week as the city is left with Covishield's stock for only three more days while Covaxin is already out of stock. Centres administering vaccines to the youth will be temporarily shut from next week, she added.Also read| Vaccines to be ‘at least partially’ protective against variant from India: Fauci"For the 18-44 age bracket, we have been reiterating a number of times in the past few days that Covaxin’s stock is almost over, and Covishield’s stock is left only for 3 days. We can vaccinate those between 18-44 only for the next 3 days, that is until this week only. Starting the next week, vaccination for the youth will be halted due to shortage of vaccines," Atishi said while presenting the vaccination bulletin during the video address.She appealed to the Centre to provide sufficient vaccine doses for the people in the age bracket of 18-44 years citing the critical impact of the second wave of the pandemic on the younger generation.Atishi also praised the Centre for supplying a fresh stock of 60,240 doses of Covaxin on Tuesday for people aged above 45 years, healthcare and frontline workersAlso read: Will my Covid-19 vaccine first dose effect last for 6 months? Experts say yesAtishi made a humble appeal to the centre to supply sufficient vaccines for those between the 18-44 age group as the second wave saw a lot of young people getting critical, and their vaccination is imperative to protect people. After the new supply, Covaxin's stock for people over the age of 45 years and healthcare and frontline workers is left for two days, while Covishield's stock will last for four days."A meagre population of 7 lakh youth between 18-44 have been inoculated with the first dose. Hence, it is a humble request to the centre to supply sufficient vaccines for the 18-44 segment as well at the earliest," she said.Also read| UP CM Yogi Adityanath's approach to battle second wave of Covid-19: Key pointsRegarding the Delhi government's efforts to boost the vaccination drive in the national capital Atishi said that walk-ins for those over the age of 45 years have commenced on Monday in nearly 100 government schools, and more such centres will take walk-ins. The initiative has been taken since a lot of people do not have smartphones or are not equipped to do the online registration process.113,142 vaccine doses were administered on May 17, of which over 67,000 were administered to people in the age group of 18-44 years and 45,655 doses were given to people over 45, health care workers and frontline workers. A total of 4,694,970 have received a vaccine dose in Delhi so far, of which more than 1 million are fully vaccinated with both shots and over 3.6 million have received their first dose of the vaccine, the AAP leader informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-vaccination-for-youth-to-halt-from-next-week-due-to-shortage-delhi-govt-101621348789919.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives over 60,000 Covaxin doses for people above 45, key workers: AAP MLA||Delhi on Tuesday received over 60,000 Covaxin doses for key workers and those aged above 45, AAP MLA Atishi said.Still, the city has only two days of Covaxin stock left for this category, while Covishield doses for the group can last up to four days, she said.She also said that 1.13 lakh beneficiaries received jabs on May 17. Around 10.75 lakh people have got both the doses since the inoculation drive began on January 16."After Tuesday evening, the city will have only three days of Covishield stock left for the 18-44 age group. We appeal to the central government to make more vaccines available for this category immediately," she said, adding the city government might have to stop vaccination for them from next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-receives-over-60-000-covaxin-doses-for-people-above-45-key-workers-aap-mla-101621346812869.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Prisons Department begins Covid vaccination of inmates in 18-45 age group||The Delhi Prisons Department on Tuesday started vaccination of the inmates in the 18-45 age group against the coronavirus, officials said."Hundred inmates in the 18 to 45 age group have been vaccinated on Tuesday in the central jail number 5 at Tihar. A total of 1,472 inmates above 45 years of age have been vaccinated across the three jails since the vaccination drive started," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.The government allowed vaccination for everyone above the age of 18 from May 1.Jail officials said that in order to arrest the spread of Covid-19, the process of decongestion of prisons has been initiated.So far, around 1,000 under-trial prisoners have been released on interim bail. Around 600 convicts have been released on emergency parole after the prisons department received the city government's nod."There are more than 19,500 inmates in the three jails. Of them, around 2,500 inmates are above 45 years," an official had said.The vaccination drive for the inmates started on March 18.According to data shared by the Prisons Department, 375 cases of the coronavirus have been reported among the inmates since March 2021. Of them, 318 have recovered and there are 51 active cases. Six inmates died of Covid-19 so far.Similarly, 213 staff members have tested positive for the virus since March, 2021. Of them, 186 have recovered and 27 are still under treatment, the data said.In view of the spiralling coronavirus cases in the national capital, the officials said they had taken several measures to contain its spread inside the prisons."We have sensitised the inmates about the virus and they have been told to maintain social distancing norms,” an official had said.The first coronavirus case was reported in Rohini Jail on May 13, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-prisons-department-begins-covid-vaccination-of-inmates-in-18-45-age-group-101621346597423.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||'God bless this country': On Covid-19 situation, Delhi high court says officers living in ivory towers||Covid-19 has not spared even a single family and still central government's officers are living in "ivory towers" oblivious of ground realities, observed the Delhi High Court which on Tuesday was of the view that manufacturing of Sputnik V vaccine in India is giving an opportunity to the nation staring at shortage of vaccines.“God bless this country”, was another remark of a bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla which castigated the Centre for not being alive to the pandemic situation that is taking so many lives.The bench said the collaboration of Panacea Biotec with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for manufacturing of Sputnik V vaccine should be seen as an opportunity to ensure its usage here and in such matters instructions are to be taken from the highest authorities that too within 30 minutes.It said "no one is applying its mind" when there is an opportunity for the government to get millions of vaccines and it should use this as a window.“Otherwise, deaths will continue to happen. Every day you are castigated by each and every court and still you are not awake.“Which bureaucrat is giving you instructions. Is he not alive to the situation? God bless this country. That is why we are facing this situation. In such matters instructions are to be taken from the highest authorities that too within 30 minutes,” the bench said.It added, “Does your officer not see so many deaths are taking place in the country and we are short of vaccines. Your client is not alive to the situation.”The bench, which was critical of the Centre's stand on the issue, said “You (government) are so short of vaccines and you are not taking it through. May be it is an opportunity for you. Don’t be so negative. It is like a raging fire and nobody is bothered. You people don’t understand the larger picture or what.“Tell your officers it is an opportunity for you, don’t lose it. No one is applying its mind. The virus has not spared any single family. Your officers are living in ivory towers,” the bench said.The high court’s observations came while hearing a plea of Delhi-based Panacea Biotec seeking to modify a July 2020 order, by which the firm had undertaken not to prosecute further the execution proceedings instituted by them in relation to an arbitral award, running into crores of rupees, passed in its favour and against the Centre.The company, in its fresh application, sought release of the arbitral award saying it needs funds at the earliest in the larger interest of humanity as it has already manufactured trial batches of Covid vaccine Sputnik V in collaboration with RDIF and the process of manufacturing scale-up batches is on.The bench said “This court is of the view that in today’s time there is acute shortage of vaccines in India and the collaboration of applicant (Panacea Biotec) with RDIF gives India an opportunity to ensure that the vaccine manufactured by the applicant is used for sale in India.”The court issued notice to the Centre and asked it to examine the plea and file a reply within a week and listed it for hearing on May 31.The company, represented through senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, said, “If the awarded amount is not released…, the whole process of manufacture of vaccine at the fastest pace may get derailed and delayed which will not be in the larger interest of humanity.”Additional Solicitor General Balbir Singh, representing the Centre, submitted that the manufacturing of Sputnik V will not benefit the country as it will be for global supply by RDIF.He claimed that certain misleading statements were made in the plea and there was no urgency as the vaccines are to be sold outside India.The Centre was also represented through advocates Rajesh Ranjan and B S Shukla.Sethi, however, responded that no manufactured vaccines can be exported without the government’s consent.He said these vaccines are meant only for Indian use and it will benefit the government as the firm is one of the largest manufacturers of vaccines which supplies domestic and international markets.On the Centre’s objection to the plea, the bench said the government is short of vaccines and this company says they are willing to manufacture and deposit 20 per cent of sale proceeds in the court, so it should be taken as an opportunity.The application was filed in a pending appeal of the Centre challenging a single judge’s order dismissing its petition on a limited point of limitation period.Before the single judge, the Centre had challenged the arbitral tribunal’s award which was in the favour of Panacea Biotec and Bharat Biotech International Ltd and Serum Institute of India relating to an earlier agreement for pandemic H1N1 influenza vaccines in 2010.In its plea before the division bench, Panacea Biotec mentioned that Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech are also exporting Covid-19 vaccines to various countries and now there is huge shortage of vaccines which is not readily available for citizens of the age of 18 years and above, though officially it has been declared that they are eligible for vaccination since May 1.“It is one of the greatest challenge the humanity is facing which can only be overcome by vaccination and by following other protocols. Unless timely steps for manufacture of Covid-19 vaccine are taken, the death toll can go up to astronomical figures,” it said while maintaining that 100 million doses per year of Sputnik V vaccine for the global market would be manufactured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/god-bless-this-country-on-covid-19-situation-delhi-high-court-says-officers-living-in-ivory-towers-101621341981948.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal announces free education, aid for children orphaned by pandemic||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced ₹50,000 relief for families of people, who have died of Covid-19, free education, and ₹2,500 monthly for those orphaned because of the pandemic till the age of 25. Announcing a series of relief measures, Kejriwal said the families that have lost their primary breadwinner will also get ₹2,500 monthly.Kejriwal said the poor, who do not have ration cards at this point and need subsidised food grains, will be entitled to get them and that a system will be put in place in two days to enable that. He added the relief measures await a formal Cabinet approval and can be notified for implementation only after that.“Common people have been facing a lot of difficulties because of the pandemic. Many of them have lost their loved ones. Several children have lost their parents. Several elderly people have lost their children on whom they were dependent. We cannot replace these lives or reduce their grief. We are only trying to help them, for which we have four announcements,” said Kejriwal at an online briefing.“First, Delhi has a large number of people who are poor but still do not have ration cards. They too will be eligible for free ration being distributed by the Delhi government.” He said people won’t have to show income certificates to avail ration. “Second, families who lost relatives because of Covid-19 will get ₹50,000 ex-gratia. Third, families which have lost their breadwinners to Covid-19 will be entitled to an ex-gratia pension of ₹2,500 per month over and above the ₹50,000 ex gratia.”Also Read | Black marketing of Covid drugs: Here’s what 9 politicians told the Delhi PoliceKejriwal said the money will be credited to the accounts of the spouses in the cases where those who have died were married and that of parents of those who were unmarried. “Fourth announcement is for children who have been orphaned. It includes those who lost both parents to Covid-19 as well as children who lost their only surviving parent to Covid-19. Such children will be entitled to ex-gratia assistance of ₹2,500 per month till the age of 25 and their education will be free – taken care of by the government.”Kejriwal said his ministers have been discussing the measures for the last few days and the finance management to enable these schemes. “People must be wondering where the money will come from. Six years ago, you voted for an honest government. With our anticorruption model and efficient management of resources, we have saved money on many fronts. We have drawn a proper model considering all aspects where money can be saved. All our ministers have been working on it over the last few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-announces-free-education-aid-for-children-orphaned-by-pandemic-101621341133751.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Stop Singapore flights, Kejriwal tells Centre amid concerns of new Covid strain||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested the Centre to suspend flights to and from Singapore with immediate effect in the wake of a new strain detected in that country which is suspected to affect more children. Kejriwal said this new Singapore strain could mark the advent of the third wave of Covid-19 in the country and urged the Centre to give priority to identifying vaccines for children to fight the virus.Also Read | 270 doctors have died of Covid-19 in second wave of pandemic: IMAKejriwal’s comments came in the wake of a new strain of Covid-19 detected in Singapore, forcing it to shut schools from Wednesday as it is suspected to affect more children, like the Indian strain of the virus.सिंगापुर में आया कोरोना का नया रूप बच्चों के लिए बेहद ख़तरनाक बताया जा रहा है, भारत में ये तीसरी लहर के रूप में आ सकता है।केंद्र सरकार से मेरी अपील:1. सिंगापुर के साथ हवाई सेवाएं तत्काल प्रभाव से रद्द हों2. बच्चों के लिए भी वैक्सीन के विकल्पों पर प्राथमिकता के आधार पर काम हो“The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too,” the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi.Singapore warned on Sunday that the new coronavirus variants, such as the one first detected in India, were affecting more children, as the city-state prepared to shut most schools from this week and drew up plans to vaccinate youngsters.All primary, secondary and junior colleges will shift to full home-based learning from Wednesday until the end of the school term on May 28."Some of these (virus) mutations are much more virulent, and they seem to attack the younger children," said education minister Chan Chun Sing.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stop-singapore-flights-kejriwal-tells-centre-amid-concerns-of-new-covid-strain-101621331713611.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Hospitalisations drop, over 700 ICU beds in Delhi vacant: Govt’s Corona app||Over 700 or 11.5% of intensive care unit (ICU) beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in the national Capital were vacant as of Monday evening, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app. This is the highest vacancy in the city since the second week of April when the infections were surging, and largely because of the creation of additional beds. Hospitals are still reporting full ICUs as Delhi reported over 20,000 cases daily for 16 consecutive days during the current surge in infections in April.The number of hospitalisations in the city reduced to 15,500 on Monday as per the government’s daily health bulletin.“With fewer new cases being reported now, overall, the situation in hospitals has improved. The wards, oxygen beds, and emergency department are freeing up. However, the ICUs continue to be full. And this is because the duration of hospital stays for those who enter the ICU once is about three weeks. The ICU occupancy is likely to start going down in another 10 days or so,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent, Holy Family Hospital. He added the higher mortality during the second wave was mainly because hospitals were overwhelmed.Also Read | 270 doctors have died of Covid-19 in second wave of pandemic: IMAThe ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients went up from just over 3,000 on April 12 to 6,376 as of Monday evening. There were 5,150 ICU beds on May 3, when the highest number of hospitalisations were reported.There has been an increase in the CU beds in Delhi government-run hospitals such as Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, where the number of beds had to be reduced at the peak of the wave because of the shortage of oxygen. GTB Hospital increased its beds from 750 on May 12 to 1,150 on Monday evening. They include 800 ICU beds. The Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital had 350 beds in the May first week. The number went up to 475, including 325 ICU beds, on Monday. Beds have also been added to the extensions of Lok Nayak Hospital and GTB Hospital.Several private hospitals have also increased the number of ICU beds. The government has also added 250 oxygen beds to its Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka.Dr SCL Gupta, medical superintendent, Batra Hospital, said for the last four to five days, the occupancy at the hospital has gone down by around 20%. “However, the ICU situation is still bad; most of the patients continue to need extensive care.”A doctor at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital said they only have the most critical patients admitted to the hospital ICU. “...most of the others have been discharged.”The number of beds for Covid-19 patients has also increased from just over 21,000 at the beginning of the month to 27,610 on Monday evening. The additional beds are mostly in Covid Care Centres that can manage mild to moderate cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-700-icu-beds-in-delhi-vacant-hospitalisations-also-drop-govt-s-corona-app-101621323673271.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Wrestler murder case: ₹1 lakh reward announced for info on Sushil Kumar||Around two weeks after a former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Rana was murdered outside the parking lot of Chhatrasal stadium here, the Delhi Police has announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for any information that leads to the arrest of wrestler Sushil Kumar, who is on the run in connection with the case.Also, a reward of ₹50,000 has been announced for Ajay, who is also absconding in the same case, Delhi Police officials said.Earlier, a Delhi court had issued a non-bailable warrant against the accused in the connection with the murder of 23-year-old Sagar Rana at Chhatrasal Stadium, including Kumar.An incident of a brawl among wrestlers was reported May 4 in which some wrestlers were injured and they had to be admitted to a hospital and one of them died during treatment.However, wrestler Sushil on May 5 had denied the allegation saying that his wrestlers were not involved in the fight that took place inside Chhatrasal Stadium.Sushil is seen as one of the most successful athletes in the country as he won a silver medal in the 2012 London Olympics, and four years earlier, he had taken home a bronze medal in Beijing Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wrestler-murder-case-rs-1-lakh-reward-announced-for-info-on-sushil-kumar-101621309151011.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Cloudy sky, light rain in Delhi today; AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a cloudy sky accompanied by light rain or drizzle on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Thunderstorm along with rain is likely on Wednesday and Thursday as well, said IMD’s weekly forecast. As per IMD officials, as Cyclone Tauktae crosses Gujarat, it is likely to weaken gradually into a depression over south Rajasthan. Under its influence, light rainfall is expected in parts of the city on Tuesday.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 33°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 23.6°C and the maximum temperature was 37.8°C. Also Read | Major township project in Great Nicobar to impact turtle nesting sites, coralsDelhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 136. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 191 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category on Tuesday and Wednesday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category over the next five days.On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are south southwesterly and moderate. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and stay in the high end of moderate for Tuesday and likely to improve their after towards the lower end of moderate category 19th and 20th May.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-sky-light-rain-in-delhi-today-aqi-in-moderate-category-101621309032477.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Florence Nightingale’s street||Delhi has all sorts of lanes, all over the place.And then there’s Florence Nightingale Lane in Green Park—reminding us of the need for nurses in these grim days of pandemic.The street suitably houses the Trained Nurses’ Association of India; the sprawling building features an outdoor painting depicting Nightingale—walking past a row of filled hospital beds carrying a lamp.The other side of the road sports expensive private homes, some of them with three stories. Many have huge glass windows through which the afternoon sun shines so brilliantly that you might well imagine a getaway resort. Some of these rooms on the upper floors have no curtains, and clearly reveal the furniture inside. One house has a gigantic frangipani tree peeping out of its gate. Another is decked with tall, handsome Ashokas. Then there’s a mansion with the national flag at the top. Many homes also cultivate lush little plants streaming along their length. The shadows of their leaves along border walls tremble gently in the breeze. It’s akin to watching some silent film filled with hidden meaning.Do the residents of these splendid dwellings feel secure enough not to worry that much about their livelihoods during the lockdown? Can they afford to live in self-isolation far into the future?There’s no one to immediately ask. The only folk you find on this street are smartly uniformed guards stationed outside residences. On the porch of one particular house the young guard chit-chats with a stray dog.Towards the end of this enchanted road is the sudden sight of a blooming amaltas tree generously covered with golden flowers. You’re reminded of that fairy tale where anything the king touches turns into gold. The scene is even more glorious because the sky is deep blue and the street is empty (lockdown!). And now appears a man with a cylinder on his back. He is a “mosquito terminator”. The man stands by a drain under the tree and starts spraying the insecticide into it, oblivious to the tree’s noisy beauty.Outside the nurses’ building is a large plaque commemorating 2020 as the “year of the nurse & midwife”. But history will mark it more as the time as when coronavirus entered our lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-florence-nightingale-s-street-101621298198101.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Court reserves order on plea to halt Vista work||Richa Bankaricha.banka@htlive.comNew Delhi The central government on Monday told the Delhi high court that the petition seeking stoppage of the partial redevelopment work on the Central Vista is an attempt to halt the project with oblique motives.Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, on the other hand said the Centre was trying to shoot the messenger instead of focusing on the message of health, life and safety. Terming the project as the “central fortress of death” instead of the Central Vista, Luthra said its deadline could be pushed to December 30 instead of November 30.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh reserved its judgment on the petition seeking a stay on the ongoing construction at Central Vista Avenue amid the Covid pandemic.The Central Vista project envisages constructing a new Parliament House, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the Vice-President, as well as several new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate ministry offices.The court was hearing a plea by Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, seeking to halt the ongoing partial redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue which includes both sides of Rajpath where Republic Day celebrations are held.While solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the plea was nothing but a “ facade of PIL created to disguise something which they wanted to stop under one pretext or the other”, Luthra said the construction does not fall in the essential category.Luthra said exceptions were made for this project and permission was also sought to ferry workers during the peak of the pandemic in April. He said 180 vehicles were given the green signal to transport workers, which has also been admitted by the Centre, but documents have not been given to the court.“They accept that it is a limited challenge but chooses to attack the messenger and the message is health, life, and safety, not only ours or theirs but everybody’s…,” he submitted.Luthra clarified that the petitioners do not intend to halt the project but it is for the current phase of the pandemic.He argued that no document of willingness by the workers was produced even when the Centre submitted that certain workers expressed willingness to stay put on the worksite. Luthra showed a photograph of April 24 to the court highlighting there is no bed, no bedding and no person in the tents.He referred to a media report and said that seven workers were shoved in one room, adding that if there are residential accommodations for the workers, then the same have to be shown.Rebutting the arguments, SG Mehta said the workers are staying on site and the petitioner had suppressed facts. He submitted that there is a medical facility at the site and workers will have access to something that will otherwise not be available to them.Senior advocate Maninder Singh, for Shapoorji Pallonji, agreed with the submissions of the Centre and said that all facilities are being provided to the workers. After lengthy arguments, the court reserved its judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-reserves-order-on-plea-to-halt-vista-work-101621295943009.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||5 rescued from fire at Dwarka building||Five members of a family were rescued from the first floor of a two-storey building in Dwarka after a fire broke out in its basement in the early hours on Monday. The family was trapped as some vehicles parked in the basement caught fire, blocking their escape route.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that while a detailed inspection is awaited, a preliminary investigation suggested a short circuit may have sparked the fire.Officials aware of the matter said the DFS control room received a call around 1.30am, reporting that some people were trapped in a house due to a fire in Dwarka Mor; four fire tenders were rushed to the spot initially, and two more were sent later. “Our team found that the fire had sparked from the basement of the residential building. Since there was only one entry and exit point, they could not leave the building,” said Garg.He added that one group of firefighters focused on containing the blaze, while another team tried to rescue the trapped family.“Wearing hazmat suits, our men tried to enter the building through stairs but it was not possible. We then set up a ladder up to the balcony of the first floor and our men climbed up to assist the family and bring them down. All five of them were brought down one by one safely using the ladder. None of them were hurt,”said Garg.In August last year, three members of a family, including a 12-year-old boy, had to be rescued from their east Delhi flat after a fire broke out on the ground floor. The vehicles had caught fire, blocking the only escape route. “People must ensure that vehicles are not parked near electricity meters, particularly in buildings that do not have an alternate escape route. People must also get the wiring of electricity meters checked by qualified professionals every year,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-rescued-from-fire-at-dwarka-building-101621295850265.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: As hospital beds free up, Delhi goes easy on plan to create more temporary facilities||The Delhi government has eased up on creating more temporary Covid care centres (CCCs) across the national capital, as new cases continued to decline on Monday, resulting in more hospital beds freeing up for those in need of them.Delhi on Monday recorded less than 5,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time in nearly 42 days. A total of 4,524 new cases were recorded in the national capital in the past 24 hours, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,398,391, the health bulletin said.The positivity rate -- the proportion of samples returning positive among the total tested -- dropped further to 8.42% on Monday, which further underscores the trend that the outbreak is receding.A day earlier, Delhi’s positivity rate was 10.4%. Last month, the positivity rate at one point crossed 35%. The daily death toll, however, rose from 262 recorded on Sunday to 340 on Monday, as per the health bulletin.Going by the steep spike in Covid-19 cases in the city during the two-week period between April 18 and May 1, when cases had averaged over 23,000 daily, the Delhi government chalked out a mega bed augmentation plan to create an additional 10,500 beds (including 1,000 ICU beds) for Covid-19 treatment.Of these planned 10,500 beds, nearly 4,340 have either been made operational or were to be set up as on Monday.But the occupancy in these temporary CCCs has fallen sharply because of increased bed availability in hospitals.At the peak of the crisis, only 13.6% of Delhi’s Covid-19 beds were empty (16,942 occupied and 2,666 vacant) on April 20, according to figures -- in reality, most people said they were unable to find beds. Six days later, the city completely ran out of ICU beds, data showed.On Monday, however, Delhi had 11,696 Covid-19 beds vacant of the total of 27,560 beds. The city also had 877 of 6,575 ICU beds available, as per the Delhi government’s Corona app.“A 1,000-bed facility was being built on war footing in north Delhi’s Burari area, on the campus of Sawan Kirpal Ruhani Mission. The facility will be ready by this week, but its opening has been put on hold for now. We are keeping everything ready so that in case there’s a new wave or a sudden spike in cases, we will just need to organise the medical staff and the facility will be ready overnight,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.The official clarified that this facility is separate from the other 1,000-bed Covid care centre that was opened on May 3 at the ashram of Sant Nirankari Samagam in Burari. As on Monday, 142 of the 1,000 beds were occupied in that facility.The Yamuna Sports Complex CCC, for example, has 800 operational Covid-19 beds of which only 65 were occupied as on Monday.“Until three to four weeks ago, this centre was jam-packed like all other facilities in the city. But, now there are barely three to five admissions daily. If cases surge again, we can expand this centre to 1,000 beds anytime; everything is ready,” said a senior official of the Shahdara district that manages the centre, asking not to be named.Similarly, the 460-bed CCC at Commonwealth Games Village has 460 operational beds of which only 63 were occupied as on Monday. This centre was also scheduled to increase its total beds to 1,000. The expansion has been put on hold for now.The Sardar Patel CCC, built in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur on the campus of Radha Saomi Satsang Beas, was planned to accommodate 5,000 beds, but that too has been put on hold for now. “At least 500 beds are operational now and we have another 500 ready. But the occupancy has decreased. If needed, we can scale up to 5,000 beds in phases. But that is not required at the moment,” said one of the managers of the facility, requesting not to be named.Around three weeks ago, people were queuing up for hours and even days outside this centre to get admitted. A few families had even said that their Covid-positive loved one had died while endlessly waiting to be admitted.Apart from the above mentioned CCCs, the 1,000 ICU beds at two centres built on Ramlila grounds in east and central Delhi have also been made operational.With the number of cases on decline and the pressure on hospitals reducing, doctors say that they are able to take better care of patients.“The mortality was very high in the initial phase of the current wave because hospitals were overwhelmed by the sheer number of patients. The doctors and nurses had no time to constantly monitor each patient. That has improved now,” said a senior doctor from a big private hospital, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-cases-decline-delhi-govt-puts-on-hold-move-to-add-more-covid-beds-101621297345775.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Oxygen concentrator case: Delhi Police get Navneet Kalra’s custody for 3 days||The Delhi Police on Monday said businessman Navneet Kalra, who has been charged with hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices, was hiding at a farmhouse owned by his in-laws in Gurugram, along with his family. He was arrested from there by a police team late on Sunday evening.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal on Monday said a team from Maidan Garhi police station caught Kalra and then handed him over to the crime branch, which is investigating the case. He was produced before the magistrate in the Saket court on Monday.Metropolitan magistrate Archana Beniwal sent Kalra for three days of custodial interrogation after the Delhi Police said his custody is required to unearth the whole nexus and conspiracy behind the black marketing and know the trail of money transaction. Kalra will now be produced before the court at the end of his police remand on May 20.Kalra’s lawyer Vineet Malhotra said his client’s bank details, mobile phone, laptop and gadgets were already available with police and that his custodial interrogation was not required. “Remand must be granted only in cases of real necessity. For what purpose do they need custody? They need to know the trail? They can get any information they want from me. Request for the police remand is absurd,” Malhotra said.Kalra was allegedly on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular between May 5 and May 7. A Delhi court on Thursday refused to grant protection from arrest to Kalra, following which he moved the Delhi high court. The high court on Friday also declined to grant any interim relief to him.Five persons, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO) and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were arrested since the recovery of the concentrators. All five were later released on bail while the case was transferred to the crime branch for further investigation, the police said.While granting bail to the accused on May 13, the court said “no prima facie case under section 420 IPC is made out against the accused, at least from the contents of the FIR”, adding it was unable to understand the offence they had committed.Investigators said multiple teams were conducting raids in Delhi, Haryana and Uttarakhand to arrest Kalra, who left his house in Chhatarpur along with his family members soon after the raids at his restaurants. They said he left without his driver and drove the car himself.A senior police officer associated with the probe said the south district police on Sunday received information that Kalra was at a farmhouse in Gurugram. The information was checked and the location of the farmhouse was established. Around 8pm, on Sunday, a team from Maidan Garhi police station raided the farmhouse and arrested Kalra. His two cars – a Range Rover and a Thar jeep – in which he and his family members had left their Delhi home were also found parked at the farmhouse, the officer said.“The farmhouse is owned by Kalra’s in-laws. We questioned Kalra and he told us that he had been there since May 5, the day 419 oxygen concentrators were seized in the first round of raids at his Nege & Ju restaurant and the office of Matrix Cellular. We are verifying Kalra’s claims regarding his presence at the farmhouse since May 5,” said the officer.Police also said they also recovered Kalra’s two mobile phones from the farmhouse. Both were switched off. Investigators said they will analyse the call records and may send the phones to a forensic lab to find out of any “important and crucial data related to the case”.Another police officer privy to the development said Kalra’s in-laws may also be asked to join the investigation and if required, they may be booked on charges of harbouring a fugitive.“Kalra has told us that he never stepped out of the farmhouse. Also, except him and his family members nobody else was staying there. We are now trying to find out how they were arranging their daily household needs. Was anybody helping them with such items is also a part of the probe,” the second officer added.Police have alleged that for each concentrator, Kalra and his partners made a profit of at least ₹55,000. The concentrators were bought for ₹14,000-15,000 each and sold at ₹70,000-75,000. Police said since October, they had bought nearly 7,500 concentrators and more than 2,000 concentrators were sold in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-concentrator-case-delhi-police-get-navneet-kalra-s-custody-for-3-days-101621293413870.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Fix formula for MRP of oxygen concentrators: Delhi HC to Centre||The Delhi high court on Monday sought to know why the Centre was not fixing a formula to decide the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of oxygen concentrators even as devices were being black marketed and sold at exorbitant prices.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said that the government can fix a principle to decide the MRP of the concentrators after the Centre’s counsel said it was not possible to fix prices because the devices come from various exporters who may stop supplying to India if the rates were fixed.The high court said it was not asking the government to fix a price in rupee or paisa, but to fix a principle on which oxygen concentrators will be charged. The government should understand that if this is not an extraordinary circumstance where it should intervene, then what will be, the high court added,The court suggested fixing a formula like the landed price of the product, plus duty charge, plus 15% profit margin.“There has to be some limit to it (the price). It cannot be limitless. Tomorrow some Chinese manufacturer will say he will sell it at 5X rate, it cannot be allowed…” the court said.It added: “As a government, it is your responsibility that people are actually able to afford the product and not have to pay through their nose. They can’t be taken for a ride. Shortage of a product cannot be taken advantage of. Should you not think of the consumer?”Central government’s counsel Kirtiman Singh and Amit Mahajan had said the landed price was ultimately determined by the exporter, and it was not possible for the government to fix the prices as there are different concentrators in the market with different prices, sizes, and names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fix-formula-for-mrp-of-oxygen-concentrators-delhi-hc-to-centre-101621290158304.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 pandemic not a selling point, says Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Monday said that political parties cannot make the ongoing Covid pandemic a “selling point” and that they have no business buying medicines and hoarding them to earn some goodwill while also slamming the city police for their shoddy probe into allegations against politicians from different parties that they were hoarding Covid medicines and oxygen cylinders.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh also said that political leaders are expected to surrender their stocks to the Director General of Health Services (DGHS), Delhi government, for use by the poor and needy persons at government hospitals. “Since it is being projected that the medicines are held for public charity, we expect that as responsible citizens, people (political leaders) will not procure these medicines for political gains,” the bench said.The court’s observations and directions came after the Delhi Police submitted its preliminary investigation report in which it had given a clean chit to nine politicians, including BJP MP Gautam Gambhir, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president BV Srinivas and Dilip Pandey of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) who faced allegations of hoarding oxygen cylinders and essential medicines.On May 7, the court directed the police to carry out an investigation in the alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders even as it refused a CBI probe, on a plea by Deepak Singh, who runs an NGO, Hrudya Foundation.Reacting to the clean chit to the accused by the police, justice Sanghi said, “We are not accepting this position….This is completely unacceptable. Political parties cannot make this pandemic a selling point. How could they purchase it without prescription? You have to act with responsibility. They have no business buying medicines and hoarding them to earn some goodwill. Now it seems that you are not interested in getting out the truth.”Expressing dissatisfaction over the police investigation, the court directed the city police to go into specifics of the case.“You had to go into specific allegations. If some political leader is advertising some medicine free of cost, where is he getting it from? There are reports of shortages in supply. Does he hold a licence to hoard and distribute? How can you be so slack about it?” the court remarked.“Just because some political figures are involved, this is no reason to not investigate. Your force should stand up, you have a duty towards the people. You have to understand this. People all over are suffering,” the court said, asking the police if they realise how many people have died due to lack of medicines, which, allegedly, were being hoarded by some people.Advocate Virag Gupta, appearing for the petitioner, said that no action has been taken against any of the politicians and cited the example of Gambhir who had distributed Fabiflu tablets. Fabiflu is an anti-viral drug which is used to manage the symptoms of Covid-19.During Monday’s hearing, advocate Sanjay Lao, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), for the Delhi police, sought further time from the court to complete the investigation. Highlighting BJP MP Gambhir’s reply to the police, Lao said that the lawmaker procured the medicine through his foundation which is attached to the Garg Hospital in east Delhi’s AGCR Enclave. Citing Gambhir’s reply, the lawyer said the medicines were procured by a doctor of the hospital.Justice Sanghi intervened saying, it was prima facie difficult to believe that a doctor was getting the medicines in bulk when there was an overall shortage in the market and people were paying high price for the drug.“We find it difficult prima facie to believe… How can a chemist give it to a doctor? It’s not the monetary factor. It’s not about seizure. If a case is made out, you can seize. We will not direct seizure as it’s a legal exercise. We are appealing in good sense and as good Samaritans that this should not go and they should go and surrender it with the DGHS,” the bench said.The court further directed the Delhi Police to conduct a “proper investigation” in the matter and do the needful if a case is made out to register an First information Report (FIR). It asked the police to file a status report showing how medicines were procured in “such large numbers by a few persons”.The matter will now be heard on May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-pandemic-not-a-selling-point-says-delhi-hc-101621289531342.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Lowest Covid-19 cases in Delhi since April 5, but deaths still high||With 4,524 new cases, Delhi added the lowest numbers to its Covid-19 tally since April 5 as the outbreak continued to recede, a trend also borne out by a sustained fall in the test positivity rate.According to the government’s daily health bulletin, the new cases were 8.42% of the total samples tested over Sunday. There were also 340 more fatalities due to the disease in the 24-hour period.In all, 53,700 tests were conducted and while these were lower than weekday testing as they typically are, this was still the lowest positivity rate in five Sundays. In the last fortnight alone, the test positivity rate has fallen by 18.27 percentage points while the number of new cases on average has shrunk by 62%.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,895 on April 20, a day after the city went into a lockdown. The restrictions were extended several times and tightened to halt Metro rail services on May 9. It was extended again on May 17 and will now remain in place till at least the morning of May 25.Experts warn that as the infection numbers fall, fatalities are likely to rise as people currently in hospital either recover or succumb. “There is likely to be another sudden increase in the number of deaths in the city before it starts going down as was the case of Maharashtra. This is because the very sick patients continue to be in the intensive care unit and some of them will die in the coming days,” said Dr Sumit Ray, critical care specialist and medical superintendent, Holy Family Hospital.“The mortality in the initial phase of the second wave was higher because the hospitals were overwhelmed by the sheer number of patients. The doctors, nurses and staff did not have the time to monitor each of the patients throughout as there were patients crashing all the time,” he added.On April 5, the last time new cases were at this level, 64,003 tests were conducted but most of the deficit between the testing on that Sunday and the latest is in the number of antigen tests that are typically less accurate.The positivity rate in the city rose to a peak of over 36% on April 22, which meant one in every third person who got a test was found to be infected. Soon, this translated into an unprecedented rush at hospitals, where many succumbed without help reaching to them on time.The crush of patients also led to a surge in oxygen demand, for which citizens, hospitals and even ministers took to social media to appeal for help.“The positivity rate has been reducing from the highest 36%, this is a positive sign but we cannot get comfortable. We can’t rest till the positivity rate drops below 5% and the number of new cases below three or four thousand. The reversal of the trend began in April last week,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said last week.The decrease in the number of new cases in Delhi has meant the case fatality ratio (CFR) – the proportion of deaths among those who test positive for the infection -- has started increasing. The seven-day rolling average CFR on Monday crossed the 3% mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lowest-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-since-april-5-but-deaths-still-high-101621288994674.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Covid in Delhi: 160 oxygen concentrators given in 2 days, says health minister||A total of 160 oxygen concentrators were provided by district administrations to Covid-19 patients in the national capital in the past two days under an oxygen bank scheme announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday, with an aim to enhance oxygen support for patients in their residences, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said.The highest number of concentrators were distributed by the north district (28), followed by south-west (26) and west (25). In the south-east, south, New Delhi, central and north-east districts, 10, 11, 21, 15 and 14 oxygen concentrators were distributed respectively. The fewest so far – two, three and five – were distributed by north-west, east and Shahdara districts, showed the data shared by Jain in a tweet.“All 11 districts have 200 oxygen concentrators ready under the scheme. But they can only be given on the prescription of a doctor of a Covid-19 hospital under the currently applicable protocols,” said a senior official, who asked not to be named.In April, Delhi witnessed its worst health crisis during the pandemic as hospitals ran short on oxygen on a daily basis, and were unable to procure the lifesaving gas on time amid limited supply. Some critical Covid-19 patients lost their lives for want of oxygen, according to doctors.Also Read| Delhi: As vaccine stock runs low, Sisodia calls for transparency in allocationBut the oxygen situation has eased considerably over the past week, with fresh Covid-19 cases declining in recent days, more beds freeing up in hospitals, and the Centre increasing the daily oxygen supply to the state.On Monday, Delhi had 35,141 Covid-19 patients in home isolation, while 10,918 fresh discharges were made by hospitals. New cases continued to decline, reporting 4,524 infections and a test positivity rate of 8.42%.Kejriwal said oxygen concentrators under the scheme can be availed of by both patients in home isolation, and also those discharged from hospital who have been advised oxygen support for a few more days, by calling on the government’s central Covid helpline number 1031.Under the new scheme, Delhi government doctors are supposed to stay in touch with all those who are given oxygen concentrators from these banks. Once the patient recovers, the concentrators will be taken back, sanitised, and handed over to the next patient.Also Read| Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 for first time after April 5Once a concentrator is assigned, teams are meant to deliver the machine in two hours, and a technician is also supposed to accompany the team and explain to the patient and caregiver how the machine is to be used.The scheme was launched in collaboration with Ola Foundation and GiveIndia.“We are expanding our O2forIndia Initiative in partnership with Ola Foundation and launching it in Delhi this week. Through this initiative, we are creating a bank of oxygen concentrators that will be available for free, on demand and home delivered to the citizens of Delhi-NCR,” said Atul Satija, CEO and founder of GiveIndia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-in-delhi-160-oxygen-concentrators-given-in-2-days-says-health-minister-101621281962856.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: As vaccine stock runs low, Sisodia calls for transparency in allocation||As vaccine stocks in the city for all beneficiary groups continued to dwindle on Monday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged the central government to ensure supply of more doses for the 18-44 age group, make the statewise vaccine allocation system more transparent, and give advance estimates of supply for the months of June and July so that appropriate vaccination strategies can be drafted by the city government.On Monday evening, according to the government’s vaccine bulletin, the city had less than one day’s stock of Covaxin and five days’ stock of Covishield left for the group that comprises health care workers, frontline workers and individuals aged 45 and above.For the 18-44 years category, the government has already run out of Covaxin stock – leading to temporary suspension of around 140 centres last week – and had about four days’ stock of Covishield doses left.While the Delhi government is scheduled to receive 283,970 doses of Covishield and 98,890 doses of Covaxin between May 21 and 29 for health care workers, frontline workers and individuals aged 45 years and above, no vaccines are expected to arrive for the 18-44 years group till May 29, shows a separate set of government documents seen by HT.Also Read| Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 for first time after April 5In a press briefing on Monday, Sisodia said: “We have limited vaccine doses for beneficiaries belonging to the 18-44 years group. We may have to shut our centres. The central government is unable to provide us with adequate doses for this age group.”In a statement issued later, the deputy CM said, “In a letter addressed to the Delhi government, the central government has committed to distribute 3.83 lakh doses for 45+ age group, however the same provision has not been extended to the 18-44 age group. This is a grave issue that requires immediate attention of the Centre. At the very least, they should match the doses for 45+ citizens and distribute 3.83 lakh doses for the 18-44 age group as well.”The statement added” “I have written a letter to the central government today requesting their support on three key matters. First, to make vaccine doses available for citizens between 18-44 years, just like they have given us doses for citizens above 45 years… My second request is to make allocation data of vaccines transparent and open to the public… Allocation data on how many vaccine doses have been administered to which state and for which age group, should be open to the public. We also need to know how many vaccine doses are being sent to private and government centres. (The) central government should be transparent in its vaccine allocation data, just like it has increasingly shown transparency in oxygen allocation in every state.”Central government officials did not respond.According to a formula shared by the Centre with the Supreme Court on May 9, state governments will altogether have access to 25% of the total vaccines produced in a month for vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group. By that system, states collectively will be given 20 million doses to inoculate their 18-44 age group population from the roughly 80 million vaccines doses expected to be produced this month, which essentially leads to fixing of quotas on a pro-rata fashion for states based on their population size in the 18-44 age group.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todaySisodia further said in the statement: “The third request pertains to communicating information on (the) number of vaccine doses that will be administered to us in the months of June and July, just like how we have received information for the month of May. This will help us in planning our vaccination programme, so that we can make a streamlined system of how many centres will be equipped with vaccines and how centres will be managed.”On Monday, Delhi also opened its government schools for vaccination of people aged over 45 years – which was so far happening only at dispensaries and hospital premises – with an on-site registration facility.“We began vaccination drive for 18-44 and 45+ citizens in a rapid manner and from today, we have started moving vaccination centres from hospitals and dispensaries to Delhi government schools with the introduction of walk-in facility for citizens above 45 years. As of now, this programme is working successfully and we hope that we can expect support from the Centre on this,” he said.Also Read| Covid-19: 5th phase of lockdown begins in Delhi as positivity rate down to 10.4%According to Monday’s vaccine bulletin, the government said that more than 4.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in Delhi since the roll-out of the drive on January 16 – of which around 1.06 million were second doses.Delhi, by electoral roll data, has a total adult population of around 15 million. The shortage of vaccines adds up to concerns for people who have their second doses due in the coming days.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “People should take the second dose in time. Even if there is a delay, they should still take it at the earliest. But delay in taking the second dose would lead to compromise with the potential immunity provided against Covid-19 by the concerned vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-as-vaccine-stock-runs-low-sisodia-calls-for-transparency-in-allocation-101621280696037.html
